beta-Amyloid peptide (Abeta), a major component of senile plaques, the formation of which is characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is believed to induce inflammation in the brain leading to cell loss and cognitive decline. Accumulating evidence shows Abeta activates microglia, which play the role of the brain's immune system, and mediates inflammatory responses in the brain. Thus, a compound inhibiting Abeta-induced activation of microglia may lead to a novel therapy for AD. However, the compound should not inhibit natural immune responses during events such as bacterial infections. We investigated the effect of a synthesized compound, 7,8-dihydro-5-methyl-8-(1-phenylethyl)-6H-pyrrolo [3,2-e] [1,2,4] triazolo [1,5-a] pyrimidine (RS-1178) on macrophage activation induced by various stimulants. The activation of macrophages was determined by nitric oxide or tumor necrosis factor alpha production. RS-1178 inhibited Abeta-induced macrophage activation but did not inhibit zymosan A- nor lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced macrophage activation. Moreover, RS-1178 attenuated neurotoxicity due to Abeta-induced macrophage activation in neuron-macrophage co-cultures but not neurotoxicity due to zymosan A- or LPS-induced macrophage activation. In conclusion, RS-1178 showed a specific inhibitory effect on Abeta-induced macrophage activation. Although the exact mechanisms of this effect remain unknown, RS-1178 may provide a novel therapy for AD.
Activation of kappa-opioid receptors (KOR) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) modulates excitatory transmission, which may involve interactions with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors. We investigated possible anatomical correlates of this modulation by using dual labeling electron microscopy to examine the cellular distributions of antibodies raised against KOR and the R1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (NR1). KOR immunoreactivity primarily was localized to plasma and vesicular membranes of axons and axon terminals that were morphologically heterogeneous. A small proportion of KOR immunoreactivity was associated with cytosolic compartments of dendrites and membranes of glial processes. NR1 labeling was mainly postsynaptic, associated most often with membranes of cytoplasmic organelles in cell bodies and large dendrites and plasmalemmal surfaces of distal dendrites. The remaining NR1-labeled profiles were axonal profiles and glial processes. Of all cellular associations between labeled profiles, the majority were KOR-labeled axons that contacted NR1-immunoreactive dendrites or cell bodies. Occasionally the two antigens were colocalized in axon terminals that formed either asymmetric synapses or displayed varicose morphology. KOR and NR1 also were colocalized within dendrites, and rarely were observed in the same cell bodies. Occasionally glial processes coursing adjacent to axo-spinous appositions expressed both KOR and NR1 immunoreactivity. These results indicate that ligand activation of KOR or NMDA receptors differentially modulates excitatory transmission in the mPFC through pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms, respectively. The data also suggest more minor roles for colocalized KOR and NMDA receptors in shared regulation of presynaptic transmitter release, postsynaptic responsivity, and glial function.
The cocaine-induced reinstatement (priming) of cocaine self-administration occurs when the cumulative concentration of cocaine reaches a threshold level that we have previously termed the cocaine priming threshold. The present studies used a modified procedure to measure the cocaine priming threshold over 4-8-month periods in individual rats. The values for the priming threshold varied between days but there was no evidence of a systematic change in the priming threshold over time, indicating that neither tolerance nor sensitization occurred. The frequency distribution of the priming threshold was significantly different from a normal distribution but was not significantly different from a log-normal distribution. Therefore, the geometric mean with its associated variance estimates, but not the arithmetic mean, appropriately describe the distribution of the cocaine priming threshold. The estimate of the geometric mean value of the priming threshold for this group of Sprague-Dawley rats was 284 (CI(95): 234-344) microg/kg of cocaine. The log-normal distribution of equieffective doses of cocaine is typical of agonist-induced pharmacological responses. In the presence of the D(1) dopamine receptor-selective antagonist SCH23390, the geometric means of the cocaine priming threshold were significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner, implying a role for D(1) dopamine receptors in the priming response. This technique provides a quantitative method for the measurement of antagonist-induced increases in the cocaine priming threshold.
This study examined the relationship between dialysate levels of serotonin (5HT), and its major metabolite 5HIIAA within the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARC) and serum gonadotropin levels under two different in vivo paradigms. Experiment 1 evaluated the relationship between dialysate levels of 5HT and 5HIAA within the ARC and circulating prolactin (PRL) and lutenizing hormone (LH) levels under long- and short-day photoperiod conditions. In experiment 2, the profile of 5HT and 5HIAA dialysate levels within the ARC on the afternoon of proestrous was investigated to determine if changes in serotonergic neurotransmission are correlated with preovulatory surges in LH and PRL. Adult male and female Siberian hamsters were housed either in long-day (16L:8D) or short-day (10L:14D) photoperiods for 8 weeks. Dialysis samples were collected every hour for 5 h (12.00-17.00 h) and blood samples were collected via a jugular cannula every hour for analysis of LH and PRL levels. ARC 5HT and 5HIAA dialysate levels were significantly higher in short-day exposed female hamsters, correlating with suppressed basal LH and PRL secretion when compared to their long-day counterparts. Short-day housed male hamsters displayed significantly higher dialysate levels of 5HIAA than males exposed to a long-day photoperiod-5HT was below the lower limit of detection regardless of photoperiod exposure. Long-day females in proestrus showed no change in dialysate levels of 5HT or 5HIAA within the ARC just prior to the onset of the afternoon surge of LH and PRL. Our results indicate that elevated 5HT and 5HIAA dialysate levels within the ARC may regulate photoperiod effects upon LH and PRL secretion, but not the preovulatory surges of LH and PRL.
Peripherin is a type III intermediate filament predominantly expressed in neurons having direct axonal projections toward peripheral structures. Here, we report that brain injuries can trigger expression of peripherin and the formation of peripherin accumulations in neurons that are normally silent for this gene. Stab lesions made with nitrocellulose implants induced within 4 days the formation of peripherin accumulations, devoid of neurofilament proteins, in thalamic neurites at the site of the lesion. The local administration of interleukin-6 or leukemia inhibitory factor at the site of the stab lesion extended the expression pattern of peripherin to other neuronal subsets in areas of the cortex and/or of the hippocampus adjacent to injury. We also show that transient focal ischemia in mice, a model of stroke, can trigger within 72 h the formation of neuronal peripherin accumulations in neurons of the cortex, thalamus and hippocampus. This new type of potentially noxious intermediate filament protein accumulations, composed of peripherin, may be of relevance to many brain degenerative disorders with occurrence of proinflammatory cytokines.
A novel, potent nonpeptide oxytocin receptor antagonist (1-(1-(2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)-4-(1-methylsulfonyl-4-piperidinyloxy) phenylacetyl)-4-piperidinyl)-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone) has been identified that can be labeled to high specific activity with [35S]. In binding studies, this compound exhibits sub-nanomolar affinity and a high degree of selectivity (900-1800-fold) for human oxytocin receptors compared to human vasopressin receptors. This compound appears suitable for studying the pharmacology of oxytocin receptors in human and nonhuman primate tissues, for which there is currently a paucity of highly selective tools. It may also be useful as a nonlabeled competitor or as a radioligand in autoradiographic studies of oxytocin receptor localization in these tissues.
Lipid messengers and amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides generated by cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mediate pro-inflammatory signaling and neural degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. This study provides data showing that the COX-2 and PS1 genes each transcribe rare, highly labile RNA species that display early response gene behavior in human neural (HN) cells in primary culture, down-regulation during human neural development, and up-regulation in AD neocortex and hippocampal CA1. Together, interleukin-1beta and amyloid beta42 peptide [IL-1beta+Abeta42] synergistically activated COX-2 and PS1 gene expression preceded by increases in AP1-, STAT1alpha-, and in particular NF-kappaBp50/p65- and HIF-1alpha-DNA binding. These events were markedly potentiated by hypoxia and blocked by the antioxidant alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone. Broad transcription profiling further indicated that hypoxia-induced, [IL-1beta+Abeta42]-treated HN cells display robust induction of COX-2 and PS1 as well as a pro-inflammatory gene family that includes NF-kappaBp50/p105, IL-1beta precursor, and cytosolic phospholipase A2 genes. These findings indicate a novel [IL-1beta+Abeta42]-mediated, hypoxia-enhanced, free radical-triggered gene program that drives inflammatory gene signaling and suggest a mechanism by which hypoxia during aging contributes episodically to amyloidogenesis, inflammation, and AD pathophysiology.
A growing body of evidence suggests that impaired mitochondrial energy production and increased oxidative radical damage to the mitochondria could be causally involved in motor neuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and in familial ALS associated with mutations of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). For example, morphologically abnormal mitochondria and impaired mitochondrial histoenzymatic respiratory chain activities have been described in motor neurons of patients with sporadic ALS. To investigate further the role of mitochondrial alterations in the pathogenesis of ALS, we studied mitochondria from transgenic mice expressing wild type and G93A mutated hSOD1. We found that a significant proportion of enzymatically active SOD1 was localized in the intermembrane space of mitochondria. Mitochondrial respiration, electron transfer chain, and ATP synthesis were severely defective in G93A mice at the time of onset of the disease. We also found evidence of oxidative damage to mitochondrial proteins and lipids. On the other hand, presymptomatic G93A transgenic mice and mice expressing the wild type form of hSOD1 did not show significant mitochondrial abnormalities. Our findings suggest that G93A-mutated hSOD1 in mitochondria may cause mitochondrial defects, which contribute to precipitating the neurodegenerative process in motor neurons.
We have established a novel method, in situ phage screening (ISPS), to identify proteins in tissue microstructures. The method is based on the selection of repertoires of phage-displayed antibody fragments with small samples of tissues microdissected using a laser. Using a human muscle frozen section with an area of 4800 microm2 as a model target, we successfully selected monoclonal antibody fragments directed against three major (myosin heavy chain, actin, and tropomyosin-alpha) and one minor (alpha-actinin 2) muscle constituent proteins. These proteins were present in the sample in amounts less than one nanogram, and the antibodies were used to visualize the proteins in situ. This shows that the use of ISPS can obtain monoclonal antibodies for histochemical and biochemical purposes against minute amounts of proteins from microstructures with no requirement for large amounts of samples or biochemical efforts.
In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus function as the major biological clock. SCN-dependent rhythms of physiology and behavior are regulated by changes in the environmental light cycle. Currently, the second messenger signaling events that couple photic input to clock entrainment have yet to be well characterized. Recent work has revealed that photic stimulation during the night triggers rapid activation of the p42/44 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in the SCN. The MAPK signal transduction pathway is a potent regulator of numerous classes of transcription factors and has been shown to play a role in certain forms of neuronal plasticity. These observations led us to examine the role of the MAPK pathway in clock entrainment. Here we report that pharmacological disruption of light-induced MAPK pathway activation in the SCN uncouples photic input from clock entrainment, as assessed by locomotor activity phase. In the absence of photic stimulation, transient disruption of MAPK signaling in the SCN did not alter clock-timing properties. We also report that signaling via the Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinase pathway functions upstream of the MAPK pathway, coupling light to activation of the MAPK pathway. Together these results delineate key intracellular signaling events that underlie light-induced clock entrainment.
Microglia surrounding A beta plaques in Alzheimer's disease and in the APPV717F transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease have enhanced immunoreactivity for the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (M-CSFR), encoded by the proto-oncogene c-fms. Increased expression of M-CSFR on cultured microglia results in proliferation and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and expression of inducible nitric-oxide synthase. We transfected mouse BV-2 and human SV-A3 microglia to overexpress M-CSFR and examined microglial phagocytosis of fluorescein-conjugated A beta. Flow cytometry and laser confocal microscopy showed accelerated phagocytosis of A beta in mouse and human microglia because of M-CSFR overexpression that was time- and concentration-dependent. In contrast, microglial uptake of 1-microm diameter polystyrene microspheres was not enhanced by M-CSFR overexpression. Microglial uptake of A beta was blocked by cytochalasin D, which inhibits phagocytosis. M-CSFR overexpression increased the mRNA for macrophage scavenger receptor A, and fucoidan blocking of macrophage scavenger receptors inhibited uptake of A beta. M-CSFR antibody blocking experiments demonstrated that increased A beta uptake depended on the interaction of the M-CSFR with its ligand. These results suggest that overexpression of M-CSFR in APPV717F mice may prime microglia for phagocytosis of A beta after immunization.
The in vivo effect of trazodone on the density of [(3)H]5-HT binding sites and 5-HT(1A) receptors and adenylyl cyclase (AC) response was studied in regions of rat brain. The chronic administration of trazodone (10 mg/Kg body wt, 40 days) resulted in a significant downregulation of [(3)H]5-HT binding sites and 5-HT(1A) receptors in cortex and hippocampus. Trazodone significantly (p &lt; 0.0001) decreased the density of [(3)H]5-HT binding sites in cortex (42.6 +/- 3.6 fmol/mg protein, 65%) and hippocampus (12.6 +/- 1.6 fmol/mg protein, 87%) when compared to control values of 121.9 +/- 5.4 and 99.3 +/- 7.5 fmol/mg protein in these regions, respectively. Similarly there was a significant (p &lt; 0.0001) decrease in the density of 5-HT(1A) receptors in both cortex (7.2 +/- 0.5 fmol/mg protein, 70%) and hippocampus (6.3 +/- 1.2 fmol/mg protein, 79%) when compared to control values of 24.2 +/- 2.1 and 30.6 +/- 3.7 fmol/mg protein, in these regions respectively. However, the affinity of [(3)H]5-HT to 5-HT binding sites (1.83 +/- 0.26 nM, p &lt; 0.0001) and [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT to 5-HT(1A) receptors (0.60 +/- 0.06 nM, p &lt; 0.05) was significantly decreased only in cortex when compared to the control K(d) values of 0.88 +/- 0.04 nM and 0.47 +/- 0.02 nM in these regions, respectively. The basal AC activity did not alter in treated rats, where as, the inhibition of forskolin-stimulated AC activity by 5-HT (10 microM) was significantly (p &lt; 0.0001) decreased both in cortex (43%) and hippocampus (40%) when compared to control levels. In conclusion, chronic treatment with trazodone results in downregulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors in cortex and hippocampus along with concomitant increased AC response, suggesting the involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated AC response in the mechanism of action of trazodone.
The objective of the present study was to investigate interactions between odor hedonic tone, perceived odor intensity, olfactory judgments and stimulated nostril laterality. Subjects were stimulated in the right and the left nostril separately, with two odors: vanillin (pleasant); and indole (unpleasant). They had two tasks to perform: an intensity judgment; and an affective judgment. Two concentrations (one strong and one weak) of each odor were presented. Odors were presented for a short period corresponding to one inhalation (about 1 s). The inter-stimulus interval was always 30 s. The nostril stimulated and task presentation order were counterbalanced according to a Latin square. Odor presentation order was randomized for each subject. Results indicated that response times for unpleasant odors were significantly shorter than for pleasant odors during affective judgment and right nostril stimulation, indicating greater right hemisphere efficiency for the decoding of unpleasant affects induced by odors.
MRL-lpr mice develop systemic lupus-like autoimmune disease associated with changes in emotional reactivity and spatial learning and memory. Although the major immunological deficit in MRL-lpr mice is uncontrolled lymphoproliferation associated with a Fas gene mutation, these mice have a marked deficit in interleukin-2 (IL-2) production which, when treated, can prevent the development of autoimmune disease. Moreover, both MRL-lpr and IL-2 knockout mice manifest alterations in hippocampal cytoarchitecture and cognitive behavior. We found previously that IL-2 knockout mice have alterations in prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of sensorimotor gating. Thus, the present study sought to test the hypothesis that that PPI would be altered in MRL-lpr mice. Compared to MRL(+/+) control mice, MRL-lpr mice exhibited different patterns of PPI during development. Whereas 7 and 12-week MRL-lpr mice with evidence of autoimmune disease (the onset and early stages, respectively) showed increased PPI, 5 week predisease MRL-lpr mice did not. MRL-lpr mice also exhibited increased acoustic startle reactivity that was independent of autoimmune disease. These behavioral changes were not associated with increased brain expression of the proinflammatory cytokines genes, IL-1alpha and IL-6, CD3, or c-myc-associated apoptosis.
The binding sites of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes were measured in the parietal cortex and hippocampus of transgenic mice carrying mutant human APPswe and presenilin 1 (PS1) genes (APPswe/PS1 mice) between the ages of 3 weeks and 17 months. Soluble and insoluble beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42) levels were investigated in parallel. No significant differences in binding sites of [(3)H]cytisine (alpha4beta2 nAChRs) and [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha7 nAChRs) were observed in APPswe/PS1 mice and wild-type control mice at any age studied. At three weeks of age, soluble Abeta1-40 was detectable in the parietal cortex and hippocampus of APPswe/PS1 mice, whereas Abeta1-42 was detectable from 12 months of age. A pronounced increase in insoluble Abeta1-42 was observed between 3 weeks and 17 months compared with that of insoluble Abeta1-40 in both brain regions, indicating a shift that favors accumulation of Abeta1-42 in older APPswe/PS1 mice. The findings indicate that elevated Abeta levels in the brains of APPswe/PS1 mice do not alter the number of alpha4beta2 and alpha7 receptors, the two major brain nAChR subtypes.
The tremor rat (tm/tm) is a genetic model of epilepsy that exhibits absence-like seizures characterized by 5-7 Hz spike-wave-like complexes in cortical and hippocampal electroencephalograms (EEGs). A deletion of the aspartoacylase (ASPA) gene and resultant high levels of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) in the brain have been found in tremor rats. We attempted to determine whether gene transfer of ASPA inhibited absence-like seizures in tremor rats using recombinant adenovirus. Recombinant adenovirus (5x10(7) pfu) carrying the rat ASPA gene (AxASPA) or beta-galactosidase gene (AxLacZ), as a control virus, was intracerebroventricularly administered to premature tremor rats aged 7 weeks. Cortical and hippocampal EEG were recorded with chronically implanted electrodes before and after viral administration. The absence-like seizures were increased in AxLacZ-administered control rats with age. However, the increase was significantly inhibited in AxASPA-administered rats at 1 week after treatment. These results suggest that gene transfer of ASPA is effective in inhibiting the generation of absence-like seizures, probably by reducing the NAA level.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases and stroke. However, the mechanism of MMP activation remains unclear. We report that MMP activation involves S-nitrosylation. During cerebral ischemia in vivo, MMP-9 colocalized with neuronal nitric oxide synthase. S-Nitrosylation activated MMP-9 in vitro and induced neuronal apoptosis. Mass spectrometry identified the active derivative of MMP-9, both in vitro and in vivo, as a stable sulfinic or sulfonic acid, whose formation was triggered by S-nitrosylation. These findings suggest a potential extracellular proteolysis pathway to neuronal cell death in which S-nitrosylation activates MMPs, and further oxidation results in a stable posttranslational modification with pathological activity.

Cannabis use may increase the risk of psychotic disorders and result in a poor prognosis for those with an established vulnerability to psychosis. A 3-year follow-up (1997-1999) is reported of a general population of 4,045 psychosis-free persons and of 59 subjects in the Netherlands with a baseline diagnosis of psychotic disorder. Substance use was assessed at baseline, 1-year follow-up, and 3-year follow-up. Baseline cannabis use predicted the presence at follow-up of any level of psychotic symptoms (adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 2.76, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.18, 6.47), as well as a severe level of psychotic symptoms (OR = 24.17, 95% CI: 5.44, 107.46), and clinician assessment of the need for care for psychotic symptoms (OR = 12.01, 95% CI: 2.24, 64.34). The effect of baseline cannabis use was stronger than the effect at 1-year and 3-year follow-up, and more than 50% of the psychosis diagnoses could be attributed to cannabis use. On the additive scale, the effect of cannabis use was much stronger in those with a baseline diagnosis of psychotic disorder (risk difference, 54.7%) than in those without (risk difference, 2.2%; p for interaction = 0.001). Results confirm previous suggestions that cannabis use increases the risk of both the incidence of psychosis in psychosis-free persons and a poor prognosis for those with an established vulnerability to psychotic disorder.

The mammalian RYK is an orphan receptor that contains a catalytically inactive tyrosine-kinase-related domain. Its Drosophila homolog, Lio/Drl, is required for axon pathfinding in developing brain. Our previous study suggested that RYK mRNA is expressed in nestin-positive progenitor cells and neurons. In the present study, immunohistochemistry has been used to further localize RYK in the central nervous system of rats to identify the lineage of the RYK-expressing cells. In the embryonic forebrain, RYK colocalized with nestin in the ventricular zone and with MAP2 in the cortical plate, suggesting that RYK is expressed in neural progenitor cells and neurons. Localization of RYK in embryonic spinal cord also suggested its expression in both cell types. In primary cultures of rat cerebrum, RYK expression was observed in all neurons, as well as in a significant population of oligodendrocytes, O-2A progenitor cells, and type-2 astrocytes. However, no RYK expression was detected in type-1 astrocytes or microglia. Multipotent neural stem cell line MNS-70 was also analyzed for expression of RYK, and most of the cells were positive for both RYK and nestin in the undifferentiated stage. In the differentiated stage, expression of RYK was detected in the neurons, but not in type-1 astrocytes. In conclusion, RYK is expressed in nestin-positive progenitor cells and neurons, and in a certain population of oligodendrocytes, O-2A progenitor cells, and type-2 astrocytes in developing CNS. These findings show that expression of RYK in rat CNS is tightly regulated in a cell-type-specific manner.


We present a new technique for studying the activation of semantic and phonological codes in speech planning using event-related brain potentials (ERPs) that extend a well-established behavioral procedure from speech production research. It combines a delayed picture-naming task with a priming procedure. While participants prepared the production of a depicted object's name, they heard an auditory target word. If the prepared picture name and the target word were semantically or phonologically related, the ERP waveform to the target word tended less towards the negative when compared to an unrelated control. These effects were widely distributed. By contrast, if participants performed a nonlinguistic task on the depicted object (natural size judgment), the semantic effect was still obtained while the phonological effect disappeared. This suggests that the former effect indexes semantic activation involved in object processing while the latter effect indexes word-form activation specific to lexical processing. The data are discussed in the context of models of lexical access in speech production.
Lesion and neuroimaging studies suggest the amygdala is important in the perception and production of negative emotion; however, the effects of emotion regulation on the amygdalar response to negative stimuli remain unknown. Using event-related fMRI, we tested the hypothesis that voluntary modulation of negative emotion is associated with changes in neural activity within the amygdala. Negative and neutral pictures were presented with instructions to either &quot;maintain&quot; the emotional response or &quot;passively view&quot; the picture without regulating the emotion. Each picture presentation was followed by a delay, after which subjects indicated how they currently felt via a response keypad. Consistent with previous reports, greater signal change was observed in the amygdala during the presentation of negative compared to neutral pictures. No significant effect of instruction was found during the picture presentation component of the trial. However, a prolonged increase in signal change was observed in the amygdala when subjects maintained the negative emotional response during the delay following negative picture offset. This increase in amygdalar signal due to the active maintenance of negative emotion was significantly correlated with subjects' self-reported dispositional levels of negative affect. These results suggest that consciously evoked cognitive mechanisms that alter the emotional response of the subject operate, at least in part, by altering the degree of neural activity within the amygdala.
Visual extinction after right parietal damage involves a loss of awareness for stimuli in the contralesional field when presented concurrently with ipsilesional stimuli, although contralesional stimuli are still perceived if presented alone. However, extinguished stimuli can still receive some residual on-line processing, without awareness. Here we examined whether such residual processing of extinguished stimuli can produce implicit and/or explicit memory traces lasting many minutes. We tested four patients with right parietal damage and left extinction on two sessions, each including distinct study and subsequent test phases. At study, pictures of objects were shown briefly in the right, left, or both fields. Patients were asked to name them without memory instructions (Session 1) or to make an indoor/outdoor categorization and memorize them (Session 2). They extinguished most left stimuli on bilateral presentation. During the test (up to 48 min later), fragmented pictures of the previously exposed objects (or novel objects) were presented alone in either field. Patients had to identify each object and then judge whether it had previously been exposed. Identification of fragmented pictures was better for previously exposed objects that had been consciously seen and critically also for objects that had been extinguished (as compared with novel objects), with no influence of the depth of processing during study. By contrast, explicit recollection occurred only for stimuli that were consciously seen at study and increased with depth of processing. These results suggest implicit but not explicit memory for extinguished visual stimuli in parietal patients.
Four experiments were undertaken to examine the effects of chronic hemiplegia on the ability to internally represent actions involving either the paralyzed (contralesional) or relatively unaffected (ipsilesional) limb. An experimental group of chronic, densely hemiplegic patients was compared with controls who experienced nearly full recovery from an initially dense hemiparesis. All participants suffered cerebral vascular accidents that spared sites in premotor and parietal areas directly involved in representing upper limb actions. Despite chronic limb immobility, hemiplegic patients performed all four tasks at a high level of accuracy and showed no differences in their ability to represent actions of the contralesional versus ipsilesional limbs. On tasks that involved representing actions of the hands and lower arms, hemiplegic patients were as accurate as recovered controls. Hemiplegic patients were, however, less accurate than controls on a task that involved representing actions of either upper arm. Overall, chronic hemiplegics performed more accurately for decisions based on their contralesional limbs: a &quot;hemiplegic advantage&quot; that may be related to an ongoing focus on planning and/or imagining currently impossible movements. These findings reveal a dissociation between the ability to internally &quot;represent&quot; versus &quot;produce&quot; manual actions. Further, they demonstrate that internal action representations can be robust to even years of limb disuse.
Functional brain imaging offers new opportunities for the study of that most pervasive of cognitive conditions, human consciousness. Since consciousness is attendant to so much of human cognitive life, its study requires secondary analysis of multiple experimental datasets. Here, four preprocessed datasets from the National fMRI Data Center are considered: Hazeltine et al., Neural activation during response competition; Ishai et al., The representation of objects in the human occipital and temporal cortex; Mechelli et al., The effects of presentation rate during word and pseudoword reading; and Postle et al., Activity in human frontal cortex associated with spatial working memory and saccadic behavior. The study of consciousness also draws from multiple disciplines. In this article, the philosophical subdiscipline of phenomenology provides initial characterization of phenomenal structures conceptually necessary for an analysis of consciousness. These structures include phenomenal intentionality, phenomenal superposition, and experienced temporality. The empirical predictions arising from these structures require new interpretive methods for their confirmation. These methods begin with single-subject (preprocessed) scan series, and consider the patterns of all voxels as potential multivariate encodings of phenomenal information. Twenty-seven subjects from the four studies were analyzed with multivariate methods, revealing analogues of phenomenal structures, particularly the structures of temporality. In a second interpretive approach, artificial neural networks were used to detect a more explicit prediction from phenomenology, namely, that present experience contains and is inflected by past states of awareness and anticipated events. In all of 21 subjects in this analysis, nets were successfully trained to extract aspects of relative past and future brain states, in comparison with statistically similar controls. This exploratory study thus concludes that the proposed methods for &quot;neurophenomenology&quot; warrant further application, including the exploration of individual differences, multivariate differences between cognitive task conditions, and exploration of specific brain regions possibly contributing to the observations. All of these attractive questions, however, must be reserved for future research.

A series of phenylcarbamate analogues of geneserine (8, 10, 12, 14) were synthesized from their counterparts, the phenylcarbamate analogues of physostigmine (2-5), by oxidation. The geneserine analogues can undergo tautomerism between N-oxide and 1,2-oxazine structures in a pH- and time-dependent manner. Assessment by (1)H NMR indicated that the N-oxide structure is adopted at neutral pH and that the compound exists in an equilibrium between several epimers. Evaluation of their biological action to inhibit human acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), ex vivo, demonstrated that the N-oxide (7, 9, 11, 13, 15) and 1,2-oxazine (6, 8, 10, 12, 14) structures possessed similar potencies against AChE, but the latter structures were more potent against BChE. With the exception of the BChE selective inhibitor, 12, none of the geneserine analogues were as potent or enzyme subtype selective as their physostigmine analogue counterparts.
A highly convergent synthesis was developed for the novel dopamine agonist dinapsoline (12) (Ghosh, D.; Snyder, S. E.; Watts, V. J.; Mailman, R. B.; Nichols, D. E. 8,9-Dihydroxy-2,3,7, 11b-tetrahydro-1H-naph[1,2,3-de]isoquinoline: A Potent Full Dopamine D(1) Agonist Containing a Rigid beta-Phenyldopamine Pharmacophore. J. Med. Chem. 1996, 39 (2), 549-555). The crucial step in the new synthesis was a free radical-initiated cyclization to give the complete dinapsoline framework. The improved synthesis required half as many steps as the original procedure (Nichols, D. E.; Mailman, R.; Ghosh, D. Preparation of novel naphtho[1,2,3-de]isoquinolines as dopamine receptor ligands. PCT Int. Appl. WO 9706799 A1, Feb 27, 1997). One of the late-stage intermediates (11) was resolved into a pair of enantiomers. From there, the (R)-(+)-12 (absolute configuration by X-ray) of dinapsoline was identified as the active enantiomer. In unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, (+)-dinapsoline showed robust rotational behavior comparable to that of an external benchmark, trans-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-2-propyl-benzo[f]thieno[2,3-c]quinoline-9,10-diol, hydrochloride 18 (Michaelides, M. R.; Hong, Y. Preparation of heterotetracyclic compounds as dopamine agonists. PCT Int. Appl. WO 9422858 A1, Oct 13, 1994).
Adenosine (ADO) is an extracellular signaling molecule within the central and peripheral nervous system. Its concentration is increased at sites of tissue injury and inflammation. One of the mechanisms by which antinociceptive and antiinflammatory effects of ADO can be enhanced consists of inhibition of adenosine kinase (AK), the primary metabolic enzyme for ADO. Novel nonnucleoside AK inhibitors based on 4-amino-6-alkynylpyrimidines were prepared, and the importance of the length of the linker at the 5-position for high affinity AK inhibition was demonstrated. Compounds with 2- and 3-atom linkers were the most potent AK inhibitors. Optimization of their physicochemical properties led to 31a and 37a that effectively reduced pain and inflammation in animal models.
The clinical and neuropathological features in the P301L tauopathy have been described in several kindreds. In this study, we present findings in two previously unreported patients, evaluated both genetically, neuropathologically, and with multiparametric confocal immunofluorescence. The patients were female, with age 65 and 75 years old, respectively. Both exhibited clinical symptoms of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Marked atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes with moderate atrophy of the remaining cerebral and brain stem structures was present. The substantia nigra was pale. The atrophic neocortical regions exhibited neuronal loss, marked gliosis, status spongiosus, and occasional ballooned neurons. By light microscopy, the most striking findings were argyrophilic perinuclear rings, frequently with an attached small inclusion (mini Pick-like body), especially prominent in dentate granule cells, entorhinal and temporal cortices, and to a lesser extent in CA1. These structures were immunopositive for tau protein (Tau-2, AT-8, PHF-1, MC-1). Numerous astrocytic plaques, tuft-shaped astrocytes, coiled bodies, and dystrophic neurites were also present. Confocal immunofluorescence with a P301L-specific antibody directly demonstrated the presence of the mutated protein in the PHF-1 positive aggregates. The mutated tau protein (4-repeat tau) was detected in the mini Pick-like bodies, indicating an important biochemical difference between these inclusions and classical Pick bodies (3-repeat tau). Additionally, since 4-repeat tau protein is not normally present in dentate granule cells, this result also suggests an abnormality in the mRNA splicing mechanisms. The structural features of the involvement of proteolytic systems in this tauopathy were assessed by immunohistochemistry for the active form of calpain II (C-27) and ubiquitin. Colocalization of PHF-1 positive aggregates with C-27 points to the possible involvement of calpain in tau protein hyperphosphorylation. Absence of immunostaining for ubiquitin indicates possible dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in this tauopathy.
Midkine (MK) is a heparin-binding growth factor that occurs as a product of the retinoic acid-inducible gene. Alteration of MK expression in ischemic brain lesions was examined in humans immunohistochemically in nine patients and in two control subjects without neurological disorders. Some neurons were MK-immunopositive, but no evident MK-immunoreactivity was observed in astrocytes in brains of control subjects. In the ischemic lesions, significant elevation of MK-immunoreactivity in the astrocytes and depletion of the reactivity in neurons were seen, especially in the early period, where edema and eosinophilic neurons were prominent. On the other hand, MK-immunoreactivity was not observed in hypertrophic and fibrillary astrocytes in the later period. These findings suggest that the MK in astrocytes play some role in the repair process in the early period of the ischemic brain lesions in humans.
Both the uterus and bladder contain cannabinoid (CB) receptors whose functions are poorly understood. Here, in urethane-anesthetized female rats in metestrus, we simultaneously compared the effects of close-arterial injections of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN2) on uterine contractions (amplitude and rate) and micturition thresholds (MT) assessed by cystometry. Five doses of WIN2 were delivered (0.01, 0.1, 0.5, 1, and 1.5 micromol/kg) in three groups: (1) controls; (2) after bladder inflammation with intravesicular turpentine; and (3) after bilateral hypogastric neurectomy (HYPX). In some rats, drugs were delivered via the tail vein. Regarding bladder, WIN2 dose-dependently reduced MTs in all groups. Both bladder inflammation and HYPX significantly increased this effect. Regarding uterus, WIN2 dose-dependently increased uterine contraction amplitude. Bladder inflammation or HYPX significantly decreased this effect. Coinjection of the CB1 antagonist SR141716A (SR) (1.5 micromol/kg) and WIN2 (0.5 micromol/kg) abolished or reduced the effects of WIN2 in both organs. SR alone had significant effects only after HYPX, reducing both MT and uterine contraction amplitude. The vehicle (0.4% DMSO) and inactive enantiomer S(-)-WIN 55,212-3 were both ineffective. Close-arterial injections of WIN2 (0.5 micromol/kg) produced significantly larger effects in both organs than tail vein injections. These results indicate that, whereas WIN2 reduces bladder motility, it mainly increases uterine motility, likely via CB1 receptors located in the two organs. The opposing effects of bladder inflammation and HYPX on the potency of WIN in the two organs suggest a neurally mediated viscero-visceral interaction in which bladder inflammation influences uterine CB1 sensitivity, possibly by inhibiting adrenergic input to the uterus.
The different cerebellar phenotypes are generated according to a precise time schedule during embryonic and postnatal development. To assess whether the differentiative potential of cerebellar progenitors is progressively restricted in space and time we examined the fate of embryonic day 12 (E12) or postnatal day 4 (P4) cerebellar cells after heterotopic-heterochronic transplantation into the embryonic rat brain in utero or into organotypic CNS explants in vitro. Donor cells, isolated from transgenic mice overexpressing the enhanced-green fluorescent protein under the control of the beta-actin-promoter, engrafted throughout the host brainstem and diencephalon, whereas they rarely incorporated into specific telencephalic structures. In any recipient site, the vast majority of transplanted cells could be recognized as cerebellar phenotypes, and we did not obtain clear evidence that ectopically located cells adopted host-specific identities. Nevertheless, the two donor populations displayed different developmental potentialities. P4 progenitors exclusively generated granule cells and molecular layer interneurons, indicating that they are committed to late-generated cerebellar identities and not responsive to heterotopic-heterochronic environmental cues. In contrast, E12 precursors had the potential to produce all major cerebellar neurons, but the repertoire of adult phenotypes generated by these cells was different in distinct host regions, suggesting that they require instructive environmental information to acquire mature identities. Thus, cerebellar precursors are able to integrate into different foreign brain regions, where they develop mature phenotypes that survive long after transplantation, but they are committed to cerebellar fates at E12. Embryonic progenitors are initially capable, although likely not competent, to generate all cerebellar identities, but their potential is gradually restricted toward late-generated phenotypes.
Axons fail to regenerate after spinal cord injury (SCI) in adult mammals, leading to permanent loss of function. After SCI, ensheathing cells (ECs) promote recovery in animal models, whereas methylprednisolone (MP) promotes neurological recovery in humans. In this study, the effectiveness of combining ECs and MP after SCI was investigated for the first time. After lesioning the corticospinal tract in adult rats, ECs were transplanted into the lesion, and MP was administered for 24 hr. At 6 weeks after injury, functional recovery was assessed by measuring successful performance of directed forepaw reaching (DFR), expressed as percentages. Axonal regeneration was analyzed by counting the number of corticospinal axons, anterogradely labeled with biotin dextran tetramethylrhodamine, caudal to the lesion. Lesioned control rats, receiving either no treatment or vehicle, had abortive axonal regrowth (1 mm) and poor DFR success (38 and 42%, respectively). Compared with controls, MP-treated rats had significantly more axons 7 mm caudal to the lesion, and DFR performance was significantly improved (57%). Rats that received ECs in combination with MP had significantly more axons than all other lesioned rats up to 13 mm. Successful DFR performance was significantly higher in rats with EC transplants, both without (72%) and with (78%) MP, compared with other lesioned rats. These data confirm previous reports that ECs promote axonal regeneration and functional recovery after spinal cord lesions. In addition, this research provides evidence that, when used in combination, MP and ECs improve axonal regrowth up to 13 mm caudal to the lesion at 6 weeks after injury.
In response to retinal disease and injury, the axon terminals of rod photoreceptors demonstrate dramatic structural plasticity, including axonal retraction, neurite extension, and the development of presynaptic varicosities. Cone cell terminals, however, are relatively inactive. Similar events are observed in primary cultures of salamander photoreceptors. To investigate the mechanisms underlying these disparate presynaptic responses, antagonists to voltage-gated L-type and cGMP-gated channels, known to be present on rod and cone cell terminals, respectively, were used to block calcium influx during critical periods of plasticity in vitro. In rod cells, L-type channel antagonists nicardipine and verapamil inhibited not only the outgrowth of processes and the formation of varicosities, but also the synthesis of vesicle proteins, SV2 and synaptophysin. In contrast, the synthesis of opsin in rod cells was unaffected. In cone cells, L-type channel antagonists caused only modest changes. However, cobalt bromide, which blocks all calcium channels, and l-cis-diltiazem, a potent antagonist of cGMP-gated channels, significantly inhibited varicosity formation and synthesis of SV2 in cone cells. Moreover, the cGMP-gated channel agonist 8-bromo-cGMP caused a significant increase in varicosity formation by cone but not rod cells. Thus voltage-gated L-type channels in rod cells and cGMP-gated channels in cone cells are the primary calcium channels required for structural plasticity and the accompanying upregulation of synaptic vesicle synthesis. The differing responses of rod and cone terminals to injury and disease may be determined by these differences in the regulation of Ca2+ influx.
GABAergic interneurons can pace the activity of principal cells and are thus critically involved in the generation of oscillatory and synchronous network activity. The specific role of various GABAergic subpopulations, however, has remained elusive. This is in part attributable to the scarcity of certain GABAergic neurons and the difficulty of identifying them in slices obtained from brain regions in which anatomical structures are not readily recognizable in the live preparation. To facilitate the functional analysis of GABAergic interneurons, we generated transgenic mice in which the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) was specifically expressed in parvalbumin-positive neurons. The high fidelity of expression obtained using bacterial artificial chromosome transgenes resulted in EGFP-labeled neurons in nearly all brain regions known to contain parvalbumin-expressing neurons. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that EGFP expression was primarily restricted to parvalbumin-positive cells. In addition to cell body labeling, EGFP expression was high enough in many neurons to enable the visualization of dendritic structures. With the help of these mice, we investigated the presence of electrical coupling between parvalbumin-positive cells in brain slices obtained from young and adult animals. In dentate gyrus basket cells, electrical coupling was found in slices from young [postnatal day 14 (P14)] and adult (P28 and P42) animals, but both strength and incidence of coupling decreased during development. However, electrical coupling between parvalbumin-positive multipolar cells in layer II/III of the neocortex remains unaltered during development. Yet another developmental profile of electrical coupling was found between layer II/III parvalbumin-positive cells and excitatory principal cells. Between these neurons, electrical coupling was found at P14 but not at P28. The results indicate that the presence and strength of electrical coupling is developmentally regulated with respect to brain area and cell type.
We have studied Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) isoform distribution and activity in embryonic hippocampal neurons developing in culture. We have found a strong correlation between the expression of the alpha subunit of the enzyme and the ability to undergo depolarization-dependent phosphorylation, which in young neurons is limited to the somatodendritic pool of the kinase. The lack of responsiveness of the axons of young alphaCaMKII-positive neurons is not caused by a lower Ca2+ influx but rather by a differential balance between kinase and phosphatase activities in this compartment. After the establishment of synaptic contacts, the presynaptic pool of the kinase displays an increasing level of activity and acquires the parallel ability to phosphorylate synapsin I, which represents one of the major CaMKII presynaptic targets in mature nerve terminals. In contrast, the activity of the postsynaptic pool of the kinase remains constant throughout synaptogenesis. In the presence of a nearly homogeneous subcellular distribution, this highly regionalized regulation of activity may reflect the multifunctional roles of CaMKII in both developing and mature neurons.
Activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) can induce acute depression of excitatory synaptic transmission and long-term depression (LTD) in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus. The underlying mechanisms for both forms of depression are unknown. By measuring presynaptic calcium transients, we show that a reduction in the stimulation-induced presynaptic calcium rise that triggers vesicular release causes the acute depression of transmission by group I mGluRs. In contrast, the mechanism underlying mGluR-induced LTD does not involve a persistent change in stimulation-induced calcium influx. However, analysis of paired-pulse facilitation experiments suggests a presynaptic location for expression of this form of LTD. Furthermore, we show that mGluR-induced LTD can be completely blocked by a specific mGluR5 antagonist, whereas mGluR1 antagonists strongly attenuate the acute depression of transmission. These results support the hypothesis that the acute depression of transmission caused by activation of group I mGluRs involves regulation of stimulation-induced presynaptic calcium transients, whereas mGluR-induced LTD involves a distinct presynaptic modulation downstream of calcium influx.
Gonadal androgens exert a wide variety of effects on several neuromuscular systems, including controlling the developmental fate of motoneurons and neuromuscular synapses and promoting the growth of adult dendrites and axons. Paramount in understanding the molecular mechanisms behind androgen action is determining where androgen acts; does androgen act directly or indirectly on cells to change their fate and function? One step toward answering this question has been to determine which cells express androgen receptors (ARs). Motoneurons and skeletal muscles both have ARs and are, therefore, potential sites of androgen action. Recent evidence indicates that the sciatic nerve in rats also contains AR mRNA (Magnaghi et al. [1999] Brain Res. Mol. Brain Res. 70:36-44), although which cell type expresses ARs remains unanswered. In this study, we explored the question of which cell populations in the rat sciatic nerve express ARs. Using immunocytochemistry and reverse transcriptase-PCR, we confirmed the presence of AR protein and mRNA in sciatic nerve from adult rats and found a sex difference, favoring males, in the number of cell nuclei immunopositive for AR. This difference was not due to a sex difference in the overall number of cell nuclei. We also found a difference favoring males in AR mRNA, evidence also suggesting that AR expression is higher in males than in females. Results from double-immmunolabeling experiments in sciatic nerve from adult males suggest that, within the endoneurial compartment, endoneurial fibroblasts stain prominently for AR, with some endothelial cells also AR(+). Although Schwann cells showed light AR immunostaining, this staining is apparently nonspecific. We conclude that cells within peripheral nerve have ARs and may, therefore, mediate some of the effects of androgens on neuromuscular systems.
Oligodendrocyte progenitors originate in the subventricular zone, proliferate, migrate to their final destinations, differentiate, and interact with axons to produce multilamellar myelin sheaths. These processes are regulated by a variety of environmental signals, including growth factors, the extracellular matrix, and adhesion molecules. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans are premier candidates as participants in this regulation by virtue of their structural diversity and their capacity to function as coreceptors for both growth factors and extracellular matrix molecules. Consistently with this, we have previously shown that oligodendrocyte progenitors are unable to proliferate in response to fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) in the absence of sulfated heparan sulfate proteoglycan. Here we show that members of three families of heparan sulfate proteoglycans, syndecan, perlecan, and glypican, are developmentally and posttranscriptionally regulated during oligodendrocyte-lineage progression: Syndecan-3 is synthesized by oligodendrocyte progenitors (but not terminally differentiated oligodendrocytes) and is up-regulated by FGF-2; perlecan synthesis increases as oligodendrocytes undergo terminal differentiation; glypican-1 is expressed by both progenitors and differentiated oligodendrocytes. Astrocytes express glypican-1 and perlecan but not syndecan-3. All three of these heparan sulfate proteoglycans are shed from the cell surface and bind to specific substrates. The developmentally regulated expression of these heparan sulfate proteoglycans is indicative of their participation in events involving growth factor receptors and the extracellular matrix that may regulate oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation, migration, and adhesion phenomena.
Although the biophysical principles of how the ear operates are reasonably well understood, little is known about the specific genes that confer normal function to the inner ear. Nevertheless, the recent implementation of genomic tools has led to extraordinary progress in the identification of mutated genes that cause non-syndromic and syndromic forms of deafness. Part of this success is directly related to the sequencing of the human and mouse genomes and improved gene annotation methods. This review discusses how physiological genomic tools, such as genomic databases, expressed sequence tag databases and DNA arrays have been applied to find candidate genes for important molecular processes in the inner ear. It also illustrates, using the discovery of genes encoding essential components of cochlear K+ homeostasis as an example, how the combination of physiological genomic tools with physiological and morphological information has led to an in-depth understanding of cochlear ion homeostasis. Finally, it discusses how the use of applied genomic tools, such as gene arrays, will further advance our knowledge of how the inner ear works, develops, ages and regenerates.
Much is known about the anatomy of Limulus retinal efferent neurons and the structural and functional consequences of their activation. Retinal efferent axons arise from cell bodies located in the cheliceral ganglia of the brain, and they project out all of the optic nerves. Their unique neurosecretory-like terminals contact all cell types in lateral eye ommatidia, the retinular cells of the median eye, and the internal rhabdom of ventral photoreceptors. Lateral and median rudimentary photoreceptors are also innervated. The activity of the efferents is circadian. They are active during the subjective night and inactive during the subjective day. Activation of the efferents drives dramatic and diverse changes in the structure and function of Limulus eyes and causes the sensitivity and responsiveness of the eyes to light to increase at night. Relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms that produce these structural and functional changes, but one efferent-activated biochemical cascade has been identified. The biogenic amine octopamine is released from efferent terminals, and an octopamine-stimulated rise in cAMP in photoreceptors, with a subsequent activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, mediates many of the known effects of efferent input. A photoreceptor-specific protein, myosin III, is phosphorylated in response to efferent input; this protein may play a role in the efferent stimulated changes in photoreceptor structure and function. Anatomical, biophysical, biochemical, and molecular approaches are now being effectively combined in studies of Limulus eyes; thus, this preparation should be particularly useful for further detailed investigations of mechanisms underlying the modulation of primary sensory cells by efferent input.
Caffeine has been imbibed since ancient times in tea and coffee, and more recently in colas. Caffeine owes its psychostimulant action to a blockade of adenosine A(2A) receptors, but little is known about its intracellular mechanism of action. Here we show that the stimulatory effect of caffeine on motor activity in mice was greatly reduced following genetic deletion of DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of relative molecular mass 32,000). Results virtually identical to those seen with caffeine were obtained with the selective A(2A) antagonist SCH 58261. The depressant effect of the A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS 21680, on motor activity was also greatly attenuated in DARPP-32 knockout mice. In support of a role for DARPP-32 in the action of caffeine, we found that, in striata of intact mice, caffeine increased the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr 75. Caffeine increased Thr 75 phosphorylation through inhibition of PP-2A-catalysed dephosphorylation, rather than through stimulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)-catalysed phosphorylation, of this residue. Together, these studies demonstrate the involvement of DARPP-32 and its phosphorylation/dephosphorylation in the stimulant action of caffeine.
Second-order neurons L1-3 of the locust ocellar pathway make inhibitory synapses with each other. Although the synapses transmit graded potentials, transmission depresses rapidly and completely so that a synapse only transmits when the presynaptic terminal depolarizes rapidly. The rate at which a presynaptic neuron depolarizes determines the rate at which a postsynaptic neuron hyperpolarizes, and neurotransmitter is only released during a fixed 2 ms long period. Consequently, the amplitude of a postsynaptic potential depends on the rate rather than the amplitude of a presynaptic depolarization. Following a postsynaptic potential, a synapse recovers from depression over about a second. The synapse recovers from depression even if the presynaptic terminal is held depolarized.
The capsaicin receptor, VR1 (also known as TRPV1), is a ligand-gated ion channel expressed on nociceptive sensory neurons that responds to noxious thermal and chemical stimuli. Capsaicin responses in sensory neurons exhibit robust potentiation by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). In this study, we demonstrate that PKA reduces VR1 desensitization and directly phosphorylates VR1. In vitro phosphorylation, phosphopeptide mapping, and protein sequencing of VR1 cytoplasmic domains delineate several candidate PKA phosphorylation sites. Electrophysiological analysis of phosphorylation site mutants clearly pinpoints Ser116 as the residue responsible for PKA-dependent modulation of VR1. Given the significant roles of VR1 and PKA in inflammatory pain hypersensitivity, VR1 phosphorylation at Ser116 by PKA may represent an important molecular mechanism involved in the regulation of VR1 function after tissue injury.
Finding one's way around an environment and remembering the events that occur within it are crucial cognitive abilities that have been linked to the hippocampus and medial temporal lobes. Our review of neuropsychological, behavioral, and neuroimaging studies of human hippocampal involvement in spatial memory concentrates on three important concepts in this field: spatial frameworks, dimensionality, and orientation and self-motion. We also compare variation in hippocampal structure and function across and within species. We discuss how its spatial role relates to its accepted role in episodic memory. Five related studies use virtual reality to examine these two types of memory in ecologically valid situations. While processing of spatial scenes involves the parahippocampus, the right hippocampus appears particularly involved in memory for locations within an environment, with the left hippocampus more involved in context-dependent episodic or autobiographical memory.
CREB and its close relatives are now widely accepted as prototypical stimulus-inducible transcription factors. In many cell types, these factors function as effector molecules that bring about cellular changes in response to discrete sets of instructions. In neurons, a wide range of extracellular stimuli are capable of activating CREB family members, and CREB-dependent gene expression has been implicated in complex and diverse processes ranging from development to plasticity to disease. In this review, we focus on the current level of understanding of where, when, and how CREB family members function in the nervous system.





The effects of muscimol, a GABA(A) agonist, and phaclofen, a GABA(B) antagonist, on serotonin (5HT) release in the mediobasal hypothalamus and lordosis behavior were studied in freely moving rats using in vivo microdialysis. Two days after implantation of bilateral guide cannulae directed towards the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH), ovariectomized rats were primed with estradiol (E(2)). The rats were implanted with microdialysis probes 24 h later. Following a pretest for lordosis, perfusate 5HT was measured at 20-min intervals until the baseline was stable. The rats were treated with 10, 30 or 100 microM muscimol or 30 and 100 microM phaclofen in artificial CSF delivered via reverse dialysis for 40 min. Control animals were continuously perfused with artificial CSF. Behavior was tested 20, 60 and 180 min after introduction of the drug. Decreased hypothalamic 5HT (40-60% of baseline) and marked facilitation of lordosis were present 20 min after administration of either drug. The effects of 10 and 30 microM muscimol and 30 microM phaclofen on both 5HT and lordosis were reversed after 180 min. Reversal of the behavioral and neurochemical effects were not evident in either the 100 microM muscimol or 100 microM phaclofen groups at the time-points tested. Proceptive responses were observed in phaclofen-treated rats but not in rats treated with muscimol. Levels of hypothalamic 5HT and lordosis quotients in control rats did not significantly differ from initial values. These results suggest that GABAergic effects on lordosis may be mediated through an interaction with 5HT in the mediobasal hypothalamus.
Following rabbit spinal cord ischemia we measured histology, neurological outcome and spinal cord blood flow to investigate relationships between these quantities over a range of ischemia durations. Rabbits underwent reversible spinal cord ischemia induced by temporary aortic artery occlusion for zero to 65 min. In one cohort, surviving spinal cord cells were counted after 4 days of reperfusion using computer image analysis (n=23). Neurological outcome (paraplegic or non-paraplegic) was assessed in another group (n=381) after 18 h of reperfusion. A third group (n=8) had spinal cord blood flow measured by radioactive tracer immediately after ischemia. Histological analysis showed fewer motor neurons and astrocytes surviving as ischemia duration increased. Following 13 min (95% confidence interval (CI), 6 to 27) of ischemia 50% of low lumbar cord motor neurons remained alive; 50% of rabbits were paraplegic following 28.4 (26.7 to 30.0) min of ischemia; 28% (17% to 48%) of low lumbar motor neurons survived at this duration; 5% of rabbits were permanently paraplegic following 13.6 (10.6 to 16.1) min of ischemia, although only 52% (30% to 87%) of lower spinal cord motor neurons survived. Low lumbar cord blood flow was reduced to 2% of flow in non-ischemic thoracic cord after 25 and 60 min of ischemia (0.52 and 0.59 ml/100 g/min, respectively). These data support a fundamental hypothesis on which experimental ischemia is based: that substantial neuronal death follows directly from reversible ischemia and leads to permanent neurological deficit.
A neurochemical basis for many of the epilepsies has long been suspected to result from an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter mechanisms. Data supporting changes in extrasynaptic amino acid levels during epileptogenesis, however, remain controversial. In the present study, we used in vivo microdialysis to measure the levels of extracellular GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) and glutamate during seizure development in rats with a genetic predisposition for (Fast), or against (Slow), amygdala kindling. Dialysates were collected from both amygdalae before, during, and up to 12 min after a threshold-triggered amygdala afterdischarge (AD). One hour later, samples were again collected from both amygdalae in response to a hippocampal threshold AD. Daily amygdala kindling commenced the next day but without dialysis. After the rats were fully kindled, the same protocol was again employed. Amino acid levels were not consistently increased above baseline with triggered seizures in either strain. Instead, before kindling, a focal seizure in the Slow rats was associated with a large decrease in GABA in the non-stimulated amygdala, while amino acid levels in the Fast rats remained near baseline in both amygdalae. Similar results were seen after kindling. By contrast, before and after kindling, hippocampal stimulation caused large decreases in all amino acid levels in both amygdalae in both strains. These data suggest that, in response to direct stimulation, extracellular amino acid concentrations remain stable in tissues associated with either greater natural (Fast) or induced (kindled Fast/Slow) excitability, but are lowered with indirect stimulation (hippocampus) and/or low excitability.
Neuromas are generally considered to be swollen uniform collections of uncontrolled aberrantly sprouting axons. In early experimental neuromas, there are substantial rises in local blood flow associated with their formation, but human studies of chronic lesions have suggested that neuromas develop ischemia and become impediments to regeneration. The issue is important because traumatically severed human nerves are frequently considered for repair some time after injury, when neuroma formation has occurred. In this work, we examined local perfusion, axon penetration and other characteristics of long-term (6 month) experimental neuromas created by sciatic nerve transection and resection of the distal sciatic nerve and its branches. The scenario was designed to model prior transection in a human nerve, where late surgical reconnection might be contemplated. Local blood flow in the extrinsic plexus of neuromas, examined using a laser Doppler flowmetry probe, declined in distal portions of the stump to values considerably lower than observed in intact nerves. Intrinsic blood flow near the stump tip, examined using microelectrode hydrogen clearance polarography was highly nonuniform and included zones with very low perfusion. Correlated with these findings were nonuniform histological features with zones of absent axons and blood vessels, progressive distal disorganization, marked declines in distal axon penetration, nonremodelled microfascicles and persistent expression of 'regenerative' axon and Schwann cell markers. Uncontrolled axon sprouting was not a feature. Longstanding neuromas include zones of relative ischemia and limited axon penetration that develop in the absence of nerve trunk reconnection. These features would limit their suitability for later repair.
Spinal cord oligodendrocytes originate in the ventricular zone and subsequently migrate to white matter, stop, proliferate, and differentiate. Here we demonstrate a role for the chemokine CXCL1 and its receptor CXCR2 in patterning the developing spinal cord. Signaling through CXCR2, CXCL1 inhibited oligodendrocyte precursor migration. The migrational arrest was rapid, reversible, concentration dependent, and reflected enhanced cell/substrate interactions. White matter expression of CXCL1 was temporo-spatially regulated. Developing CXCR2 null spinal cords contained reduced oligodendrocytes, abnormally concentrated at the periphery. In slice preparations, CXCL1 inhibited embryonic oligodendrocyte precursor migration, and widespread dispersal of postnatal precursors occurred in the absence of CXCR2 signaling. These data suggest that population of presumptive white matter by oligodendrocyte precursors is dependent on localized expression of CXCL1.
Pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS), one of the most abundantly produced neurosteroids in the mammalian brain, improves cognitive performance in rodents. The mechanism of this effect has been attributed to its allosteric modulatory actions on glutamate- and gamma-aminobutyric acid-gated ion channels. Here we report a novel effect of PREGS that could also mediate some of its actions in the nervous system. We found that PREGS induces a robust potentiation of the frequency but not the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors in cultured hippocampal neurons. PREGS also decreased paired pulse facilitation of autaptic EPSCs evoked by depolarization, indicating that it modulates glutamate release probability presynaptically. PREGS potentiation of mEPSCs was mimicked by dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and (+)-pentazocine but not by (-)-pentazocine, the synthetic (-)-enantiomer of PREGS or the inactive steroid isopregnanolone. The sigma receptor antagonists, haloperidol and BD-1063, blocked the effect of PREGS on mEPSCs, as did pertussis toxin and the membrane-permeable Ca2+ chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (acetoxymethyl) ester. These results suggest that PREGS increases spontaneous glutamate release via activation of a presynaptic G(i/o)-coupled sigma receptor and an elevation in intracellular Ca2+ levels. We postulate that presynaptic actions of neurosteroids have a role in the maturation and/or maintenance of synaptic networks and the processing of information in the central nervous system.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder having several pathological characteristics, namely senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Further, Hirano bodies (HBs), which are stained by hematoxylin-eosin, are also observed in the AD brain. Recently, we reported that an alternative splice variant that lacked exon 5 of the presenilin-2 (PS2) gene (PS2V) was expressed in sporadic AD (SAD) brains, and the PS2V-encoding proteins actually existed in these brains. Furthermore, electron microscopic experiments demonstrated that the PS2V proteins form cytosolic inclusion bodies in the pyramidal cells. In this report, we found that the PS2V-composed inclusion bodies differed obviously from the HBs. This observation suggests the possibility that PS2V-composed inclusions are a novel inclusion body, compared with other pathological characteristics previously reported in the SAD brain. We named this inclusion body the 'PS2V body'.
This is the study first attempting to evaluate distribution of neurons expressing serotonin 5-hydroxytriptamine 1B (5-HT(1B)) receptors in hypothalamus by using immunocytochemistry. The 5-HT(1B)-immunoreactive neurons were widely distributed in hypothalamus. Accumulations of 5-HT(1B) neurons occurred in magnocellular nuclei, supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus (dorsolateral part) and accessory perifornical, circular and retrochiasmatic nuclei. Magnocellular neurons manifested an intense immunostaining suggesting a high level of 5-HT(1B) receptors. Large and middle-sized neurons with different 5-HT(1B) staining patterns were scattered throughout lateral hypothalamus, periventricular nucleus and lateral preoptic area. Immunofluorescent double-labeling revealed a great overlapping of the distribution 5-HT(1B) neurons and dense network of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibers in paraventricular, supraoptic and arcuate nuclei. The potential functional significance of 5-HT(1B) receptors in the 5-HT control of endocrine functions and feeding are discussed.
Neurofilaments are key structural components of white matter axons. The effect of in vitro anoxia or oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) on the integrity of the 160 and 200 kDa neurofilament isoforms was studied by immunoblot, and correlated with physiological function. Adult rat optic nerves were exposed to 60 min of either anoxia or OGD. Compound action potential area recovered to 22+/-6% of control after 60 min of anoxia, and to 4+/-1% after 60 min of OGD. Ca(2+)-free (+EGTA) perfusate allowed complete recovery after OGD (108+/-42%). Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microM) was less protective (45+/-6%). Both anoxia and OGD induced breakdown of neurofilament 160 (NF160) and NF200 revealed by the appearance of multiple lower molecular weight bands mainly in the 75-100 kDa range. Zero-Ca(2+)/EGTA completely prevented NF breakdown. TTX only partially reduced NF160 degradation. Non-phosphorylated NF200 appeared after reperfusion post-anoxia or OGD, and was also greatly reduced by zero-Ca(2+) or TTX. Calpain inhibitors (10 microM calpain inhibitor I or 50 microM MDL 28,170) significantly reduced NF160 and NF200 breakdown/dephosphorylation, but did not improve electrophysiological recovery. Significant calpain-mediated breakdown of NF160 and NF200 indicates structural damage to the axonal cytoskeleton, which was completely Ca(2+)-dependent. While pharmacological inhibition of calpain alone greatly reduced NF proteolysis, there was no concomitant improvement in function. These results imply that calpain inhibition is necessary but not sufficient for white matter protection, and emphasize the existence of multiple Ca(2+)-dependent degradative pathways activated in injured white matter.
The F-box protein Skp2 regulates G1-S transition by controlling p27/Kip.1. The deregulated expression of p27/Kip.1 plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of many human tumors. Its cellular levels depend on ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Recently, Skp2 has been demonstrated to mediate p27/Kip.1 degradation and to have oncogenic properties. In a series of astrocytic gliomas, immunohistochemistry and Western blot of p27/Kip.1 and Skp2 have been compared. p27/Kip.1 decreased with anaplasia and almost disappeared in glioblastomas (GBM), whereas Skp2 was absent or poorly expressed in well differentiated astrocytomas and it was diffusely or focally expressed in most GBM. Since the expression of Skp2 increases during G1-S transition, the correlation of Skp2 levels with malignancy might simply reflect the highest percentage of proliferating cells in anaplastic gliomas or alternatively be instrumental to p27/Kip.1 degradation.
The neural correlates of the selection of grammatical gender during overt picture naming were investigated by event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging in the left hemisphere. Relative to simply naming a picture, the production of the definite determiner of the picture name (requiring gender selection) resulted exclusively in pronounced activation of a single region in the superior portion of Broca's area. This activation was not present in contrasts reflecting lexical access (naming a picture vs. saying &quot;jaja&quot; to a smiley) or articulation (saying &quot;jaja&quot; vs. rest). Rather, lexical access activated other inferior frontal regions, insula, fusiform and inferior temporal gyrus. Articulation involved insula, Rolandic operculum, motor and premotor cortex and superior temporal gyrus. The results are discussed with respect to data from studies investigating gender processing during language comprehension.
The present study investigated vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), optokinetic reflex (OKR) and postural function in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Compared with controls, no differences in gaze-holding, VOR gain or phase, OKR slow phase velocity (SPV) or quick phase amplitude, optokinetic afternystagmus SPV or duration, or latency to the illusion of circularvection, were found. RA patients did exhibit greater sway in the leftward direction (P&lt;0.01), however, this was no greater in the conditions of the Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction and Balance that increase reliance upon vestibular information. We conclude that RA patients do not exhibit substantial deficits in visual-vestibular function.
The transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta) family of cytokines, including Nodal, Activin and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), have essential roles in development and tumorigenesis. TGF beta molecules activate the Smad family of signal transducers, which form complexes with specific DNA-binding proteins to regulate gene expression. Two discrete Smad-dependent signalling pathways have been identified: TGF beta, Activin and Nodal signal via the Smad2 (or Smad3)-Smad4 complex, whereas BMP signals via the Smad1-Smad4 complex. How distinct Smad complexes regulate specific gene expression is not fully understood. Here we show that ARC105, a component of the activator-recruited co-factor (ARC) complex or the metazoan Mediator complex, is essential for TGF beta/Activin/Nodal/Smad2/3 signal transduction. Expression of ARC105 stimulates Activin/Nodal/Smad2 signalling in Xenopus laevis embryos, inducing axis duplication and mesendoderm differentiation, and enhances TGF beta response in human cells. Depletion of ARC105 inhibits TGF beta/Activin/Nodal/Smad2/3 signalling and Xenopus axis formation, but not BMP/Smad1 signalling. ARC105 protein binds to Smad2/3-Smad4 in response to TGF beta and is recruited to Activin/Nodal-responsive promoters in chromatin in a Smad2-dependent fashion. Thus ARC105 is a specific and key ARC/Mediator component linking TGF beta/Activin/Nodal/Smad2/3 signalling to transcriptional activation.
Vasopressin is synthesized by neurons in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus and its release is controlled by action potentials produced by specific subtypes of voltage-gated sodium channels expressed in these neurons. The hyperosmotic state associated with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus causes elevated levels of plasma vasopressin, which are thought to contribute to the pathologic changes of diabetic nephropathy. We demonstrate here that in the rodent streptozotocin model of diabetes there are increases in expression of mRNA and protein for two sodium channel alpha-subunits and two beta-subunits in the neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. Transient and persistent sodium currents show parallel increases in these diabetic neurons. In the setting of chronic uncontrolled diabetes, these changes in sodium channel expression in the supraoptic nucleus may be maladaptive, contributing to the development of secondary renal complications.
Expectations about future events are known to trigger neural mechanisms that affect both perception and action. Here we report that different and opposite expectations of bad and good motor performance modulate the therapeutic effects of subthalamic nucleus stimulation in Parkinsonian patients who had undergone chronic implantation of electrodes for deep brain stimulation. By analyzing the effects of subthalamic stimulation on the velocity of movement of the right hand, we found hand movement to be faster when the patients expected a good motor performance. The expectation of good performance was induced through a placebo-like procedure, thus indicating that placebo-induced expectations have influence on the treatment outcome. All these effects occurred within minutes, suggesting that expectations induce neural changes very quickly.

Huntington's disease (HD) is an untreatable neurological disorder caused by selective and progressive degeneration of the caudate nucleus and putamen of the basal ganglia. Although the etiology of HD pathology is not fully understood, the observed loss of neuronal cells is thought to occur primarily through apoptosis. Furthermore, there is evidence in HD that cell death is mediated through mitochondrial pathways, and mitochondrial deficits are commonly associated with HD. We have previously reported that treatment with tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), a hydrophilic bile acid, prevented neuropathology and associated behavioral deficits in the 3-nitropropionic acid rat model of HD. We therefore examined whether TUDCA would also be neuroprotective in a genetic mouse model of HD. Our results showed that systemically administered TUDCA led to a significant reduction in striatal neuropathology of the R6/2 transgenic HD mouse. Specifically, R6/2 mice began receiving TUDCA at 6 weeks of age and exhibited reduced striatal atrophy, decreased striatal apoptosis, as well as fewer and smaller size ubiquitinated neuronal intranuclear huntingtin inclusions. Moreover, locomotor and sensorimotor deficits were significantly improved in the TUDCA-treated mice. In conclusion, TUDCA is a nontoxic, endogenously produced hydrophilic bile acid that is neuroprotective in a transgenic mouse model of HD and, therefore, may provide a novel and effective treatment in patients with HD.
When multiple objects are simultaneously present in a scene, the visual system must properly integrate the features associated with each object. It has been proposed that this &quot;binding problem&quot; is solved by selective attention to the locations of the objects [Treisman, A.M. &amp; Gelade, E. (1980) Cogn. Psychol. 12, 97-136]. If spatial attention plays a role in feature integration, it should do so primarily when object location can serve as a binding cue. Using functional MRI (fMRI), we show that regions of the parietal cortex involved in spatial attention are more engaged in feature conjunction tasks than in single feature tasks when multiple objects are shown simultaneously at different locations but not when they are shown sequentially at the same location. These findings suggest that the spatial attention network of the parietal cortex is involved in feature binding but only when spatial information is available to resolve ambiguities about the relationships between object features.
The hippocampus has a critical role in several fundamental memory operations, including the conditioning of fear to contextual information. We show that the hippocampus is necessary also for unconditioned fear, and that the involved circuitry is at the ventral pole of the hippocampus. Rats with selective hippocampal lesions failed to avoid open arms in an elevated plus-maze and had decreased neuroendocrine stress responses during confinement to a brightly lit chamber. These effects were reproduced by lesions of the ventral half of the hippocampus, but not by damage to the dorsal three-quarters of the hippocampus or the amygdala. Ventral lesions failed to impair contextual fear conditioning or spatial navigation, suggesting that the ventral hippocampus may specifically influence some types of defensive fear-related behavior.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive loss of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons and the presence of cytoplasmic inclusions named Lewy bodies. Two missense mutations of the alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn; A30P and A53T) have been described in several families with an autosomal dominant form of PD. alpha-Syn also constitutes one of the main components of Lewy bodies in sporadic cases of PD. To develop an animal model of PD, lentiviral vectors expressing different human or rat forms of alpha-syn were injected into the substantia nigra of rats. In contrast to transgenic mice models, a selective loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons associated with a dopaminergic denervation of the striatum was observed in animals expressing either wild-type or mutant forms of human alpha-syn. This neuronal degeneration correlates with the appearance of abundant alpha-syn-positive inclusions and extensive neuritic pathology detected with both alpha-syn and silver staining. Lentiviral-mediated expression of wild-type or mutated forms of human alpha-syn recapitulates the essential neuropathological features of PD. Rat alpha-syn similarly leads to protein aggregation but without cell loss, suggesting that inclusions are not the primary cause of cell degeneration in PD. Viral-mediated genetic models may contribute to elucidate the mechanism of alpha-syn-induced cell death and allow the screening of candidate therapeutic molecules.
Structure-activity relationship studies on novel non-imidazole, D-amino acid containing ligands of histamine 3 receptors are presented. A-304121 is a D-alanine piperazine amide with high affinity at the rat H(3) receptor.
SAR studies for novel non-imidazole containing H(3) receptor antagonists with high potency and selectivity for rat H(3) receptors are described. A high throughput screening lead, A-923, was further elaborated in a systematic manner to clarify a pharmacophore for this class of aryloxyalkyl piperazine based compounds.
Caspase-independent death mechanisms have been shown to execute apoptosis in many types of neuronal injury. P53 has been identified as a key regulator of neuronal cell death after acute injury such as DNA damage, ischemia, and excitotoxicity. Here, we demonstrate that p53 can induce neuronal cell death via a caspase-mediated process activated by apoptotic activating factor-1 (Apaf1) and via a delayed onset caspase-independent mechanism. In contrast to wild-type cells, Apaf1-deficient neurons exhibit delayed DNA fragmentation and only peripheral chromatin condensation. More importantly, we demonstrate that apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) is an important factor involved in the regulation of this caspase-independent neuronal cell death. Immunofluorescence studies demonstrate that AIF is released from the mitochondria by a mechanism distinct from that of cytochrome-c in neurons undergoing p53-mediated cell death. The Bcl-2 family regulates this release of AIF and subsequent caspase-independent cell death. In addition, we show that enforced expression of AIF can induce neuronal cell death in a Bax- and caspase-independent manner. Microinjection of neutralizing antibodies against AIF significantly decreased injury-induced neuronal cell death in Apaf1-deficient neurons, indicating its importance in caspase-independent apoptosis. Taken together, our results suggest that AIF may be an important therapeutic target for the treatment of neuronal injury.
Using a sensitive immunohistochemical technique, the localization of neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1-receptor (Y1R)-like immunoreactivity (LI) was studied in various peripheral tissues of rat. Wild-type (WT) and Y1R-knockout (KO) mice were also analyzed. Y1R-LI was found in small arteries and arterioles in many tissues, with particularly high levels in the thyroid and parathyroid glands. In the thyroid gland, Y1R-LI was seen in blood vessel walls lacking alpha-smooth muscle actin, i.e., perhaps in endothelial cells of capillaries. Larger arteries lacked detectable Y1R-LI. A distinct Y1R-immunoreactive (IR) reticulum was seen in the WT mouse spleen, but not in Y1R-KO mouse or rat. In the gastrointestinal tract, Y1R-positive neurons were observed in the myenteric plexus, and a few enteroendocrine cells were Y1R-IR. Some cells in islets of Langerhans in the pancreas were Y1R-positive, and double immunostaining showed coexistence with somatostatin in D-cells. In the urogenital tract, Y1R-LI was observed in the collecting tubule cells of the renal papillae and in some epithelial cells of the seminal vesicle. Some chromaffin cells of adrenal medulla were positive for Y1R. The problem of the specificity of the Y1R-LI is evaluated using adsorption tests as well as comparisons among rat, WT mouse, and mouse with deleted Y1R. Our findings support many earlier studies based on other methodologies, showing that Y1Rs on smooth muscle cells of blood vessels mediate NPY-induced vasoconstriction in various organs. In addition, Y1Rs in other cells in parenchymal tissues of several organs suggest nonvascular effects of NPY via the Y1R.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) in rat spinal cord were activated by the reflex stimulation of bulbospinal sympathetic neuronal pathways after a nitroprusside-induced hypotension. Hypotension-sensitive SPN, identified by immunoreactivity (IR) to the product of the immediate early gene c-fos and to choline acetyltransferase, were localized in the intermediolateral cell column of thoracic and upper lumbar cord, particularly middle to lower thoracic cord. Putative neurotransmitters, or their markers, in varicose fiber networks around SPN were identified. Nearly all hypotension-sensitive (Fos-IR) SPN were apposed by varicose fibers immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, serotonin, substance P, or enkephalin. Neuropeptide Y (NPY)- or phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT)-IR varicose fibers apposed Fos-IR SPN in the upper and middle thoracic spinal cord, but in lower thoracic segments some Fos-IR SPN lacked these appositions. In thoracic segment 12, 51% +/- 5% of Fos-IR SPN (n = 9 rats) lacked PNMT contacts and 25% +/- 3% of Fos-IR SPN (n = 8 rats) lacked NPY contacts. In contrast to other chemically defined afferents, galanin-IR varicose fibers apposed fewer than half of the Fos-IR SPN in the middle to lower thoracic cord. Neurotransmitters/neuromodulators that might influence the activity of SPN acting in the baroreflex-mediated control of blood pressure have been identified. Uniformity in the neurochemistry of some fibers making connections with Fos-IR SPN, regardless of their segmental origin, suggests that common sets of neurons provide convergent inputs to all hypotension-sensitive SPN. Other fibers show topographic differences in their contacts with Fos-IR SPN, suggesting that subgroups of hypotension-sensitive SPN are targeted by particular neuron groups.

The biology of social phobia has been little studied, but a possible role for dopamine has been implicated in this disorder. The aim of this study was to examine central dopaminergic function in patients with generalised social phobia using the prolactin response to quinagolide, a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, and to compare responses with those of normal controls. The study included 14 patients with moderate or severe generalised social phobia and 14 healthy age- and gender-matched comparison subjects. Quinagolide (0.5 mg) was administered orally and prolactin responses were measured over 4 h. There was no significant difference between prolactin responses in patients and healthy controls, nor was there a correlation between prolactin response and age, sex, or severity of illness. This would suggest that tuberoinfundibular dopamine D2 receptor sensitivity is normal in this disorder.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a frequent, chronic, costly, and disabling disorder that presents in several medical settings, but is under-recognised and undertreated. For many years, obsessive-compulsive neurosis was seen as a disorder that provided an important window on the workings of the unconscious mind. Today, obsessive-compulsive disorder is viewed as a good example of a neuropsychiatric disorder, mediated by pathology in specific neuronal circuits, and responsive to specific pharmacotherapeutic and psychotherapeutic interventions. In the future we can expect more precise delineation of the origins of this disorder, with integration of data from neuroanatomical, neurochemical, neuroethological, neurogenetic, and neuroimmunological research.
Neuronal hyperactivity in essential tremor is accompanied by high energy demand in cerebellum, medulla and the thalamus. It has been suggested that brain regions that have increased metabolic demands are highly vulnerable to interruptions in glucose metabolism. In the present investigation attempt was made to study the effect of 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) a glycolytic pathway inhibitor on harmaline induced tremor in rats. Wistar rats of either sex weighing 100+/-3 g were given harmaline (10 mg/kg, i.p.) alone or along with 2DG (15 min before harmaline) in doses of 300, 600 and 900 mg/kg, respectively. The latency of onset, intensity and duration of tremor following harmaline administration were recorded. Neurobehavioral responses, electromyography (EMG) and levels of blood glucose and cerebellar serotonin (5HT) were determined after 40 min of harmaline administration. 2DG significantly and dose dependently attenuated severity of harmaline induced tremors and amplitude of EMG. Treatment of rats with 2DG alone reduced the locomotor activity, however, no significant change was observed in grip strength, landing foot splay, air righting reflex and response to tactile stimuli. Harmaline alone and along with 2DG had no effect on behavioral parameters except a decrease in landing foot splay. 2DG produced a dose-dependent hyperglycemia and attenuated harmaline induced increase in cerebellar 5HT levels. Our results clearly suggest the protective effect of 2DG in harmaline induced tremor. Further studies are warranted to assess the role of glucoprivation in the suppression of neuronal excitability in tremors.
Factors regulating the influence of melatonin on the hippocampal glutamergic system in mouse hippocampal slices were evaluated. The sensitivity of hippocampal pyramidal neurons to melatonin (Sigma) was highest at 2 h following slice preparation and then declined with time. This pattern of sensitivity to melatonin correlated well with a reduced binding of melatonin to its receptors. The slices obtained from older animals remained sensitive to melatonin through the entire incubation period. Most of the experiments evaluating the influence of melatonin on hippocampal evoked potentials were performed within 2 h following slice preparation. The effect of melatonin was biphasic: an initial depression of the potential was followed by a recovery/amplification phase. The recovery phase was not a result of melatonin decomposition. The effect of melatonin was similar in three different strains of mice tested: CD-1, C57J/B6, and Swiss Webster. While the melatonin from another vendor (Regis) gave similar results, it was effective at much lower concentrations. In slices obtained from CD-1 light-deprived mice, the sensitivity to melatonin was significantly reduced. Thus, it appears that melatonin may control the hippocampal glutamergic system in a complex manner, which may be regulated by the circadian rhythm. This may influence memory formation in the hippocampus.
N-[3-(1H-Imidazol-4-ylmethyl)phenyl]ethanesulfonamide, maleate (ABT-866) is a novel alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agent with mixed pharmacological properties in vitro. Compared to phenylephrine, ABT-866 demonstrates intrinsic activity at the alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor subtype present in the rabbit urethra (pD(2) = 6.22, with 80% of the phenylephrine response), reduced intrinsic activity at the alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor subtype in the rat spleen (pD(2)= 6.16, with 11% of the phenylephrine response), and no intrinsic activity at the rat aorta alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor subtype. ABT-866 also demonstrated antagonism at the rat spleen alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor (pA(2) = 5.39 +/- 0.08, slope = 1.20 +/- 0.12), and the rat aorta alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor (pA(2)= 6.18 +/- 0.09, slope = 0.96 +/- 0.13). This is in contrast to the weak non-selective activity seen with the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist, phenylpropanolamine (2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanol hydrochloride), and the alpha(1A/D)-adrenoceptor selective agonist 1-(2',5'-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminoethanol hydrochloride (ST-1059), the active metabolite of midodrine, that has been used clinically for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. This study identifies a unique agent that may prove to be a valuable in vivo tool in testing the hypothesis that the alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor can be stimulated to contract the smooth muscle present in the urethra without evoking blood pressure elevations presumably caused by alpha(1B)- and alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor subtype involvements in the vasculature.
The neuronal ELAV-like RNA-binding protein HuD binds to a regulatory element in the 3'-untranslated region of the growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) mRNA. Here we report that overexpression of HuD protein in PC12 cells stabilizes the GAP-43 mRNA by delaying the onset of mRNA degradation and that this process depends on the size of the poly(A) tail. Using a polysome-based in vitro mRNA decay assay, we found that addition of recombinant HuD protein to the system increased the half-life of full-length, capped, and polyadenylated GAP-43 mRNA and that this effect was caused in part by a decrease in the rate of deadenylation of the mRNA. This stabilization was specific for GAP-43 mRNA containing the HuD binding element in the 3'-untranslated region and a poly(A) tail of at least 150 A nucleotides. In correlation with the effect of HuD on GAP-43 mRNA stability, we found that HuD binds GAP-43 mRNAs with long tails (A150) with 10-fold higher affinity than to those with short tails (A30). We conclude that HuD stabilizes the GAP-43 mRNA through a mechanism that is dependent on the length of the poly(A) tail and involves changes in its affinity for the mRNA.
Nicastrin is an integral component of the high molecular weight presenilin complexes that control proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein and Notch. We report here that nicastrin is most probably a type 1 transmembrane glycoprotein that is expressed at moderate levels in the brain and in cultured neurons. Immunofluorescence studies demonstrate that nicastrin is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, and a discrete population of vesicles. Glycosidase analyses reveal that endogenous nicastrin undergoes a conventional, trafficking-dependent maturation process. However, when highly expressed in transfected cells, there is a disproportionate accumulation of the endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H-sensitive, immature form, with no significant increase in the levels of the fully mature species. Immunoprecipitation revealed that presenilin-1 interacts preferentially with mature nicastrin, suggesting that correct trafficking and co-localization of the presenilin complex components are essential for activity. These findings demonstrate that trafficking and post-translational modifications of nicastrin are tightly regulated processes that accompany the assembly of the active presenilin complexes that execute gamma-secretase cleavage. These results also underscore the caveat that simple overexpression of nicastrin in transfected cells may result in the accumulation of large amounts of the immature protein, which is apparently unable to assemble into the active complexes capable of processing amyloid precursor protein and Notch.
Previous studies showed that the dual serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) reuptake inhibitor, duloxetine, increases bladder capacity and urethral sphincter electromyographic (EMG) activity in a cat model of acetic acid-induced bladder irritation. The present study aimed to determine the relative importance of 5-HT versus NE reuptake inhibition for mediating these effects by examining drugs that are selective for either the 5-HT or NE system or both. Similar to duloxetine, venlafaxine (0.1 to 10 mg/kg), also a dual serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, produced marked increases in bladder capacity and EMG activity that were reversed by methiothepin (0.3 mg/kg). S-norfluoxetine (0.01 to 10 mg/kg), a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, produced small but significant increases in bladder capacity and EMG activity at doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg. Thionisoxetine (0.01 to 3.0 mg/kg), a NE selective reuptake inhibitor, produced no effects on bladder capacity or sphincter EMG activity. Surprisingly, co-administration of thionisoxetine and s-norfluoxetine up to doses of 1 mg/kg of each compound produced no effect on lower urinary tract function. These doses were the maximum that could be administered in combination due to drug-induced emergence of skeletal muscle activity in chloralose-anesthetized animals. These results indicate that there are unexplained pharmacological differences between the effects of single compounds that exhibit dual NE and 5-HT reuptake inhibition and a combination of compounds that exhibit selective NE and 5-HT reuptake inhibition on lower urinary tract function.
Prolactin (PRL) secretion from the anterior pituitary is tonically inhibited by tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. During late pregnancy, TIDA neuronal activity is reduced allowing the expression of an antepartum PRL surge. We show here that continuous infusion of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (10 mg/h) during the night preceding parturition completely abolished the antepartum PRL surge and significantly increased TIDA neuronal activity. These data indicate that endogenous opioid neurons facilitate PRL secretion at the end of pregnancy by suppressing TIDA neuronal activity.
Injection of the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate into the vitreous body of the rat eye resulted in a number of morphological changes in the retina. Most apparent was a dramatic reduction in the density and sizes of neurons accompanied by a decrease in amyloid precursor protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. Cell counts revealed that 81% of ganglion cells and 43% of non-ganglion cells were lost as a result of the treatment. However, in animals treated with the antioxidant ergothioneine, these figures dropped to 44 and 31%, respectively. Thus, ergothioneine appears to be neuroprotective in this system and the data suggest that antioxidants may provide a useful means of modulating glutamate-based toxicity.
Using young and aged rats, we investigated relationships between amyloid precursor protein (APP) and working or reference memory, as well as assessed whether cognitive testing altered APP levels. In young rats, higher APP levels were related to more working memory errors as a linear function. Aged rats exhibited a curvilinear relationship between APP and working memory, with moderate APP levels associated with better relative performance. A comparison of rats that received cognitive testing with those that did not showed that testing decreased APP levels in young, but not aged, rats. Collectively, the data suggest that young and aged rats exhibit different relationships between APP and working memory, and that aged rats do not maintain the capacity to decrease APP in response to cognitive testing.
We established the procedures for cryopreservation and primary culture of fetal cerebral neurons of cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). Three developmental stages of fetuses (80, 93, and 102 days of gestation) were compared to determine the optimal stage of cerebrum development for primary culture. Among the three fetuses, the 80-day-old fetus produced the most process-rich neurons with the highest survival. The number of total recovery cells from the cryopreserved 80-day-old fetus corresponded to 83.4% of that from fresh tissue. Besides, synchronous oscillations of intracellular calcium were first seen in primate cerebral neurons, which suggested the formation of synapse-networks. Cultured neurons expressed synaptophysin protein. Successful cryopreservation and subsequent cell culture of primate neurons would be useful tools for neuroscience research with species specificity.
This study demonstrated that expiratory resistive loading (ERL) induced an increase in force fluctuation during a unilateral, submaximal isometric contraction of the non-dominant left vastus lateralis (VL), but did not effect force fluctuation during complex bilateral contractions. The increase in force fluctuation in the unilateral left VL contraction during ERL was not accompanied by alterations of average force production, motor unit activation (median power frequency) or airflow rate when compared to the bilateral contraction. Inspiratory RL (IRL) did not significantly affect force fluctuation in unilateral or bilateral contractions. The results concur with previous reports of ERL, but not IRL, effecting VL function and suggest that patients with obstructive diseases may also be vulnerable to reduced fine motor control.


Myasthenia gravis (MG) is the prototypical neurological autoimmune disease. It is characterized by muscle weakness that progressively worsens on repetition but improves with rest. Muscle weakness and fatigability arise from defective or decreased acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junctions, where nerve signals from spinal motor neurons that innervate muscles cannot effectively induce muscle contraction. Several mechanisms of pathogenesis lead to the MG syndrome. The most prevalent cause of MG is an autoimmune disorder in which the patient produces antibodies that attack the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction. Anesthesia management of the patient with MG is challenging and requires specific management; however, safe and successful outcomes are achievable. This course emphasizes the autoimmune neuromuscular defect in MG, current treatments for this syndrome, contraindications of certain anesthetic drugs in this condition, and anesthetic management of a patient with MG in the operating room environment.
This qualitative study identifies and describes different ways in which newly graduated nurse anesthetists (NAs) experience and perceive nurse anesthesia. It explains different approaches to nurse anesthesia care and, thus, to clinical nursing care (in an anesthesia and surgical context), provided by new NAs. One month after graduation, all NAs who had completed an anesthesia nursing program responded to 4 open-ended questions. A phenomenographic method was used to analyze their responses. The results were divided into 3 categories, which describe nurse anesthesia from the perspectives of (1) maintaining physical well-being; (2) being protectors and advocates; and (3) ability to perform good nurse anesthesia given all the demands placed on the NAs. The results indicate that, for the new NAs, the nurse anesthesia care situation was largely influenced by context and generated feelings of inadequacy because the NAs could not provide the emotional support that they believed their patients required.
This report describes two cases of cortical dysplasia in patients with intractable epilepsy: the first case presents a 12-year-old male with a simple partial seizure of his left arm (case 1), while the second case presents an 8-year-old female with a complex partial seizure (case 2). Magnetic resonance images showed high signal intensity on T2-weighted and fluid attenuated inversion-recovery images in the cerebral cortex of right frontal convexity in case 1 and in the medial temporal lobe and anterior amygdala in case 2. The latter lesion showed focal contrast enhancement. Light microscopy revealed perivascular clustering of small round cells accompanied by dysplastic neurons in the second to sixth layers of the cerebral cortex. The perivascular small cells had uniformly round nuclei and plump, ground-glass-like cytoplasm. These cells closely apposed each other and were adhered to the capillaries. In case 2, a ganglioglioma was also found in the amygdala. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the perivascular small cells were vimentin and focally S-100 protein positive, but were negative for glial fibrillary acid protein, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, microtubule-associated protein 2, neuronal nuclei antigen, nestin, carbonic anhydrase II, myelin basic protein, CD68, factor VIII, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, alpha-smooth muscle actin, CD20, CD45 and CD45RO. These data suggest that this is a previously undescribed form of cortical dysplasia comprising dysplastic neurons and immature perivascular cells of possible oligodendroglial or meningothelial lineage. We suggest the term cortical perivascular satellitosis be used to describe this lesion.

Dopaminergic systems are thought to play important roles in the motivational effects of ethanol. In the present experiments, we examined the effects of U99194A, a putative dopamine D(3) receptor antagonist, on ethanol-induced conditioned place preference, locomotor stimulation, taste aversion, and self-administration. In two separate studies with the use of a place conditioning procedure, adult male Swiss-Webster mice received six pairings of a tactile stimulus with ethanol (1 or 3 g/kg, i.p.), U99194A (20 mg/kg, i.p.), or ethanol + U99194A. For determination of ethanol-stimulated activity, subjects received U99194A at a dose of 0, 10, 20, or 30 mg/kg 15 min before ethanol at 0, 1, or 2 g/kg immediately before a 30-min locomotor activity test. In a taste conditioning procedure, subjects received five 1-h access periods to 0.2 M NaCl. After the first four access periods, subjects received ethanol at 0, 2, or 4 g/kg and U99194A at 0, 10, or 20 mg/kg. In an oral self-administration procedure, male C57BL/6J mice received U99194A at 0, 10, or 20 mg/kg, followed by 30-min access to 10% (wt./vol.) sucrose or 10% (vol./vol.) ethanol in 10% sucrose. The acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference was enhanced by U99194A. However, U99194A did not produce significant preference alone. U99194A did not alter locomotor stimulation produced by an injection of ethanol at 2 g/kg. U99194A also did not alter the acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion and did not change oral ethanol self-administration. These results support the suggestion that dopamine D(3) receptors have specific involvement in ethanol reward, as measured by place conditioning, but are not important for ethanol-stimulated activity, ethanol taste aversion, or ethanol intake.
In this study, we investigated the association between risk factors, including use of sedatives or hypnotics or alcohol consumption, and injurious falls leading to hospitalization or death among 4023 subjects (1828 men and 2195 women) aged 20-89 years in Stockholm County, Sweden. Questionnaire data obtained from the 1984-1985 Stockholm Health of the Population Study (SHPS) were linked to official data registers on hospitalization and mortality. Of the 4023 subjects, 330 (121 men and 209 women) had been treated for or died of injurious falls during the 12-year follow-up period. High age was significantly associated with injurious falls among both men and women. Multivariate analyses showed that women who had used sedatives or hypnotics during the 2 weeks before an injurious fall were at increased risk [relative risk of 1.83 (95% confidence interval, 1.10-3.06)] for two or more injurious falls, but not for a single fall accident. High alcohol consumption and earlier self-reported injurious falls were significantly associated with injurious falls for women younger than 60 years of age and with earlier self-reported falls and living alone for men in the same age category. Among older women (&gt;60 years of age), high alcohol consumption and use of sedatives or hypnotics were significantly associated with injurious falls, whereas living alone and earlier self-reported accidents were significant predictors for men in the same age category. These results support a cautious prescribing policy for sedatives and hypnotics, as well as an awareness of high alcohol consumption and its association with injurious falls.
BACKGROUND Developmental events targeted by ethanol are cell proliferation, neuronal migration, and neurite outgrowth; the latter processes being mediated by neural cell adhesion molecule (nCAM). TGFbeta1 affects all three of these events. Therefore, the effects of ethanol on transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 mediated activities in neocortical neurons in vitro were examined. METHODS Primary cultures of cortical neurons were obtained from 16-day-old fetuses and were treated with TGFbeta1 (0 or 10 ng/ml) and ethanol (0 or 400 mg/dl) for 48 hr. The effects of these substances on cell numbers, [ H]thymidine incorporation, and the expression of nCAM were determined. RESULTS Both cell growth (the change in cell numbers over time) and cell proliferation were inhibited by TGFbeta1 and ethanol. The action of these two anti-mitogenic factors was additive. In contrast, TGFbeta1 also promoted the expression of three isoforms of nCAM. Likewise, ethanol also up-regulated nCAM expression. On the other hand, ethanol blocked TGFbeta1-mediated nCAM expression, particularly of the 120 and 180 kDa isoforms. CONCLUSIONS TGFbeta ligands inhibit neuronal proliferation and stimulate the expression of cell adhesion proteins that promote the movement of postmitotic neurons and process outgrowth. Ethanol alters these phenomena as well. Thus, in neurons, as in astrocytes, TGFbeta1 and ethanol may interact.




Fragile-X syndrome is a common form of mental retardation resulting from the inability to produce the fragile-X mental retardation protein. The specific function of this protein is unknown; however, it has been proposed to play a role in developmental synaptic plasticity. Examination of human brain autopsy material has shown that fragile-X patients exhibit abnormalities in dendritic spine structure and number, suggesting a failure of normal developmental dendritic spine maturation and pruning in this syndrome. Similar results using a knockout mouse model have previously been described; however, it was noted in retrospect that the mice used in that study may have carried a mutation for retinal degeneration, which may have affected cell morphology in the visual cortex of those animals. In this study, dendritic spines on layer V pyramidal cells of visual cortices, taken from fragile-X knockout and wild-type control mice without the retinal degeneration mutation and stained using the Golgi-Cox method, were investigated for comparison with the human condition. Quantitative analyses of the lengths, morphologies, and numbers of dendritic spines, as well as amount of dendritic arbor and dendritic branching complexity, were conducted. The fragile-X mice exhibited significantly more long dendritic spines and significantly fewer short dendritic spines than control mice. Similarly, fragile-X mice exhibited significantly more dendritic spines with an immature-like morphology and significantly fewer with a more mature type morphology. However, unlike the human condition, fragile-X mice did not exhibit statistically significant dendritic spine density differences from controls. Fragile-X mice also did not demonstrate any significant differences from controls in dendritic tree complexity or dendritic arbor. Long dendritic spines with immature morphologies are characteristic of early development or a lack of sensory experience. These results are similar to those found in the human condition and further support a role for the fragile-X mental retardation protein specifically in normal dendritic spine developmental processes. They also support the validity of these mice as a model of fragile-X syndrome.
Normative data on the in vivo size of the human brain and its major anatomically defined subdivisions are not readily available. In this study, high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure regional brain volumes in 46 normal, right-handed adults (23 men, 23 women) between the ages of 22-49 years. Parcellation of the brain was based on neuroanatomical landmarks. The following brain regions were measured: the cerebral hemispheres, frontal lobe, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, cingulate gyrus, insula, cerebellum, corpus callosum, and lateral ventricles. Males tend to be significantly larger than females, for the whole brain and for nearly all of its major subdivisions, including the corpus callosum. However, the proportional sizes of regions relative to total volume of the hemisphere are remarkably similar in males and females. Variation in size of region is always greater than variation in proportional representation. Asymmetries in brain regions are not profound, with the exception of the cingulate gyrus, which is larger in the left hemisphere. Brain regions are highly correlated in size, with the exception of the lateral ventricles. After controlling for hemisphere size, the volumes of the frontal and parietal lobes are significantly negatively correlated. The occipital lobe tends to be less sexually dimorphic than other major lobes, and less correlated with other brain regions for volume. These results have implications for understanding whether or not certain sectors of the brain have shown relative expansion over the course of hominid and hominoid evolution.
Volume-dependent ATP release and subsequent activation of purinergic P2Y receptors have been implicated as an autocrine mechanism triggering activation of volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) in hepatoma cells. In the brain ATP is released by both neurons and astrocytes and participates in intercellular communication. We explored whether ATP triggers or modulates the release of excitatory amino acid (EAAs) via VRACs in astrocytes in primary culture. Under basal conditions exogenous ATP (10 microM) activated a small EAA release in 70-80% of the cultures tested. In both moderately (5% reduction of medium osmolarity) and substantially (35% reduction of medium osmolarity) swollen astrocytes, exogenous ATP greatly potentiated EAA release. The effects of ATP were mimicked by P2Y agonists and eliminated by P2Y antagonists or the ATP scavenger apyrase. In contrast, the same pharmacological maneuvers did not inhibit volume-dependent EAA release in the absence of exogenous ATP, ruling out a requirement of autocrine ATP release for VRAC activation. The ATP effect in nonswollen and moderately swollen cells was eliminated by a 5-10% increase in medium osmolarity or by anion channel blockers but was insensitive to tetanus toxin pretreatment, further supporting VRAC involvement. Our data suggest that in astrocytes ATP does not trigger EAA release itself but acts synergistically with cell swelling. Moderate cell swelling and ATP may serve as two cooperative signals in bidirectional neuron-astrocyte communication in vivo.
Orexins regulate food intake, arousal, and the sleep-wake cycle. They are synthesized by neurons in the lateral hypothalamus and project to autonomic areas in the hindbrain. Orexin A applied to the dorsal surface of the medulla stimulates gastric acid secretion via a vagally mediated pathway. We tested the hypothesis that orexins in the dorsal motor nucleus (DMN) of the vagus regulate gastric motor function. Multibarelled micropipette assemblies were used to administer vehicle, L-glutamate, orexins A (1 and 10 pmol) and B (10 pmol), and a dye marker into this site in anesthetized rats. When the pipette was positioned in the DMN rostral to the obex (where excitation of neurons by L-glutamate evoked an increase in contractility), orexins A and B increased intragastric pressure and antral motility. In contrast, 10 pmol orexin A microinjected into the DMN caudal to the obex (where L-glutamate evokes gastric relaxation through a vagal inhibitory pathway) did not significantly alter gastric motor function. In separate immunocytochemical studies, orexin receptor 1 was highly expressed in neurons in the DMN. Specifically, it was present in retrogradely labeled preganglionic neurons in the DMN that innervate the stomach. These data are consistent with the idea that orexin A stimulates vagal excitatory motor neurons. These are the first data to suggest that orexins in the DMN have potent and long-lasting effects to increase gastric contractility.
Angiotensin II (ANG II) has complex actions on the cardiovascular system. ANG II may act to increase sympathetic vasomotor outflow, but acutely the sympathoexcitatory actions of exogenous ANG II may be opposed by ANG II-induced increases in arterial pressure (AP), evoking baroreceptor-mediated decreases in sympathetic nerve activity (SNA). To examine this hypothesis, the effect of ANG II infusion on lumbar SNA was measured in unanesthetized chronic sinoaortic-denervated rats. Chronic sinoaortic-denervated rats had no reflex heart rate (HR) responses to pharmacologically evoked increases or decreases in AP. Similarly, in these denervated rats, nitroprusside-induced hypotension had no effect on lumbar SNA; however, phenylephrine-induced increases in AP were still associated with transient decreases in SNA. In control rats, infusion of ANG II (100 ng x kg(-1) x min(-1) iv) increased AP and decreased HR and SNA. In contrast, ANG II infusion increased lumbar SNA and HR in sinoaortic-denervated rats. In rats that underwent sinoaortic denervation surgery but still had residual baroreceptor reflex-evoked changes in HR, the effect of ANG II on HR and SNA was variable and correlated to the extent of baroreceptor reflex impairment. The present data suggest that pressor concentrations of ANG II in rats act rapidly to increase lumbar SNA and HR, although baroreceptor reflexes normally mask these effects of ANG II. Furthermore, these studies highlight the importance of fully characterizing sinoaortic-denervated rats used in experiments examining the role of baroreceptor reflexes.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mediates responses to a variety of stressors. We subjected rats to a 1-h period of an acute stressor, physical restraint, and determined the impact on subsequent sleep-wake behavior. Restraint at the beginning of the light period, but not the dark period, increased waking and reduced rapid eye movement sleep without dramatically altering slow-wave sleep (SWS). Electroencephalogram (EEG) slow-wave activity during SWS and brain temperature were increased by this manipulation. Central administration of the CRH receptor antagonist astressin blocked the increase in waking after physical restraint, but not during the period of restraint itself. Blockade of CRH receptors with astressin attenuated the restraint-induced elevation of brain temperature, but not the increase of EEG slow-wave activity during subsequent SWS. Although corticosterone increased after restraint in naive animals, it was not altered by this manipulation in rats well habituated to handling and injection procedures. These results suggest that under these conditions central CRH, but not the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, is involved in the alterations in sleep-wake behavior and the modulation of brain temperature of rats exposed to physical restraint.


Recently, a homozygous single-nucleotide deletion in exon 2 of the deoxyguanosine kinase gene (DGUOK) was identified as the disease-causing mutation in 3 apparently unrelated Israeli-Druze families with depleted hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA. We have discovered a novel homozygous nonsense mutation in exon 3 of DGUOK (313C--&gt;T) from a patient born to nonconsanguineous German parents. This finding shows that mutations in DGUOK causing mitochondrial DNA depletion are not confined to a single ethnic group.
We used (15)O-labeled water and positron emission tomography to assess the effect of deep brain stimulation of the internal globus pallidus on motor sequence learning in Parkinson's disease. Seven right-handed patients were scanned on and off stimulation while they were performing a motor sequence learning task and a kinematically matched motor execution reference task. The scans were performed after a 12-hour medication washout. Stimulation parameters were adjusted for maximal motor improvement; experimental task parameters were held constant across stimulation conditions. Internal globus pallidus stimulation improved motor ratings by 37% (p &lt; 0.01). During the sequence learning task, stimulation improved performance as measured by several correct anticipatory movements (p &lt; 0.01) and by verbal report (p &lt; 0.001). Concurrent positron emission tomography imaging during learning demonstrated significant (p &lt; 0.01) increases in brain activation with stimulation in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, bilaterally in premotor cortex, and in posterior parietal and occipital association areas. Stimulation did not affect the activity of these regions during the performance of the motor execution reference task. These findings suggest that internal globus pallidus deep brain stimulation can enhance the activity of prefrontal cortico-striato-pallidothalamic loops and related transcortical pathways. Improved sequence learning with stimulation may be directly related to these functional changes.
The function of the human norepinephrine transporter (hNET) depends on its presence at the cell surface. A role for the hNET C-terminus in trafficking the transporter to the surface has been suggested by the report of a bovine NET C-terminal splice variant that accumulates within heterologous host cells, and a human variant homolog has also been reported. We examined the relevance of the C-terminus of hNET to trafficking and function using transfected LLC-PK1 cells. The intracellular and surface expression of NET proteins was evaluated by Western blots, and their functional capacities were assessed using transport assays. We found that the C-terminal residues encoded by hNET 1a enable the efficient maturation and surface expression of hNET and therefore critically impact transporter activity. Alternative splicing causes the retention of immature hNETs within the cell, whereas introduced C-terminal deletions result in significant degradation. The loss of the terminal isoleucine alone (Delta617-hNET) is sufficient to cause the degradation of hNET, an effect that can be mimicked by nonconservative point mutations at the terminal position. The phenotype of Delta617-hNET is recapitulated in neuronal SK-N-MC cells, but is significantly less severe in HEK-293 cells, suggesting a role for host cell factors in enabling the biosynthetic progression of wild-type hNET. Additional proximal residues may act at other steps to affect the expression of the fully mature protein on the cell surface (Q608A) and to more directly affect transporter activity (F609A). Together our studies document a critical contribution of the hNET C-terminus to transporter trafficking, stability, and function.






S. Berry and R. Thompson (1979) reported that electrolytic lesions of the medial septum significantly retard eyeblink conditioning. However, these electrolytic lesions were nonselective and may have also damaged the subcortical inputs to the hippocampus via the fimbria-fornix. In the present study, the medial septum was selectively lesioned with ibotenic acid in rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus), whose performance in a delay eyeblink conditioning paradigm was compared with that of intact controls. sham-operated controls, and intact controls given a systemic injection of scopolamine. Rabbits with selective medial septal lesions and rabbits receiving systemic scopolamine were significantly slower to condition than were intact and sham-lesioned rabbits. This finding demonstrates that the selective removal of the medial septum retards delay eyeblink conditioning in a manner similar to the disruption seen after systemic administration of scopolamine.
A discrete stimulus (flashing light) was paired with cocaine (20 mg/kg) to induce conditioned locomotion. To identify brain regions activated during this response, Fos was measured with immunohistochemistry. Although paired subjects displayed robust conditioned locomotion, Fos was not increased in any limbic brain regions analyzed. In contrast, pairing of cocaine with generalized contextual cues (whole room) produced conditioned locomotion and Fos activation in the prelimbic portion of prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens core. These results suggest that the pattern of neuronal activation during cocaine-conditioned activity differs depending on whether a discrete or contextual stimulus is used as a conditioned stimulus. The possibility that expectancy and frustrative nonreward contribute to Fos expression in rats conditioned to contextual cues is discussed.
CG 10-248 (3,4-dihydro-2,2 dimethyl-9-chloro-2H-naphtho[1,2b]pyran-5,6-dione), a beta-lapachone analogue, modified the ultrastructure of rat liver mitochondria in vitro, in the absence of added oxidizable substrates. The condensed mitochondrial state was replaced by the orthodox or swollen state to a significant degree. The number of modified mitochondria depended on incubation time and quinone concentration, in the 25-100 microM range. Under the same experimental conditions, mitochondrial respiration was uncoupled as indicated by the increase in the rate of succinate oxidation by controlled mitochondria in metabolic state &quot;4&quot; (not in state &quot;3&quot;), and by the activation of latent F0F1-ATP synthase. Taking into account structural similarities, the results reported here may be valid for other o-naphthoquinones, such as beta-lapachone.
Development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology appears to be causally related to age-dependent changes in the metabolism of the amyloid-beta peptide (A beta), leading to its enhanced aggregation and deposition. gamma-Secretase is a crucial enzyme for the generation of A beta from the amyloid-beta precursor protein and thus represents a valid potential therapeutic target for the treatment or prevention of AD. Enzyme activity has been shown to be dependent on the expression of presenilins and the identification of inhibitors containing transition-state analogue mimics, together with mutagenesis and knockout studies, confirms that presenilins may provide at least a component of the catalytic site for this putative aspartyl protease. Considerable effort has been expended to identify compounds which specifically reduce gamma-secretase activity in the central nervous system, and those with the appropriate properties are being utilized in on-going proof-of-concept studies in animals and humans, to determine the extent and duration of gamma-secretase inhibition required to elicit therapeutic benefits. gamma-Secretase-mediated substrate cleavage appears to fall into the category of 'regulated intramembrane proteolysis'. By virtue of its mechanistic similarities, the effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors on proteolysis and signalling through other substrates, such as Notch, has to be determined carefully, since this is likely to impact on the clinically safe dose of these compounds.
We present an extensive set of measurements of proton conduction through gramicidin A (gA), B (gB), and M (gM) homodimer channels which have 4, 3, or 0 Trp residues at each end of the channel, respectively. In gA we find a shoulder separating two domains of conductance increasing with concentration, confirming the results of Eisenman, G., B. Enos, J. Hagglund, and J. Sandblom. 1980. Ann. NY. Acad. Sci. 339:8-20. In gB, the shoulder is shifted by approximately 1/2 pH unit to higher H(+) concentrations and is very sharply defined. No shoulder appears in the gM data, but an associated transition from sublinear to superlinear I-V values occurs at a 100-fold higher [H(+)] in gM than in gA. The data in the low concentration domain are analyzed using a configuration space model of single-proton conduction, assuming that the difference in the proton potential of mean force (PMF) between gA and its analogs is constant, similar to the results of Anderson, D., R. B. Shirts, T. A. Cross, and D. D. Busath. 2001. Biophys. J. 81:1255-1264. Our results suggest that the average amplitudes of the calculated proton PMFs are nearly correct, but that the water reorientation barrier calculated for gA by molecular dynamics using the PM6 water model (Poms, R., and B. Roux. 1997. Biophys. J. 72:246a) must be reduced in amplitude by 1.5 kcal/mol or more, and is not rate-limiting for gA.
The regulation of biological networks relies significantly on convergent feedback signaling loops that render a global output locally accessible. Ideally, the recurrent connectivity within these systems is self-organized by a time-dependent phase-locking mechanism. This study analyzes recurrent fractal neural networks (RFNNs), which utilize a self-similar or fractal branching structure of dendrites and downstream networks for phase-locking of reciprocal feedback loops: output from outer branch nodes of the network tree enters inner branch nodes of the dendritic tree in single neurons. This structural organization enables RFNNs to amplify re-entrant input by over-the-threshold signal summation from feedback loops with equivalent signal traveling times. The columnar organization of pyramidal neurons in the neocortical layers V and III is discussed as the structural substrate for this network architecture. RFNNs self-organize spike trains and render the entire neural network output accessible to the dendritic tree of each neuron within this network. As the result of a contraction mapping operation, the local dendritic input pattern contains a downscaled version of the network output coding structure. RFNNs perform robust, fractal data compression, thus coping with a limited number of feedback loops for signal transport in convergent neural networks. This property is discussed as a significant step toward the solution of a fundamental problem in neuroscience: how is neuronal computation in separate neurons and remote brain areas unified as an instance of experience in consciousness? RFNNs are promising candidates for engaging neural networks into a coherent activity and provide a strategy for the exchange of global and local information processing in the human brain, thereby ensuring the completeness of a transformation from neuronal computation into conscious experience.

Many clinical trials have shown that the most important prognostic variable in patients with malignant glioma is advanced age. However, can some patients aged &gt;60 years still have relatively good outcomes with conventional surgical and radiotherapeutic treatment? A previous audit of practice (1983-89) suggested that functional status was an important prognostic variable in the elderly. We have reviewed a further cohort (1989-96) to evaluate changes in practice and outcomes given advances in neuroimaging, neurosurgery and radiotherapy. The major findings in this series of 80 patients aged over 60 years with a histological diagnosis of supratentorial malignant glioma were: (i) There was a relationship between management undertaken and clinical status of the patients (p &lt; 0.01), i.e. patients in good grade generally had tumour debulking and radiotherapy, whilst those in poor grade generally had only biopsy. (ii) There was a significant increase in survival of patients in the second period who received surgical debulking and post-operative radiotherapy (from a median of 23 to 41 weeks (p &lt; 0.05). (iii) It is likely that case selection accounted for much of this improvement since there was a direct relationship between median survival time and good clinical grade using the WHO performance scale. (iv) A shorter radiotherapy course (30 Gy in six fractions) was as efficacious as a conventional course (60 Gy in 30 fractions), and those patients having radiotherapy survived significantly longer than those not having this treatment (p = 0.001). This study has again demonstrated the importance of preoperative clinical grade and radiotherapy treatment in determining outcomes in patients &gt;60 years. To put these data in a societal context a recent prospective multicentre audit of patients with malignant glioma in Scotland, and another audit from our unit, showed that between 24 and 65% of patients aged &gt;60 years, with a CT diagnosis of malignant glioma do not undergo either surgery or radiotherapy. Advanced age per se should not be a bar to interventional treatment in patients aged &gt;60 years with suspected malignant glioma.
1 We investigated the effects of prolonged exposure to copper (Cu(2+)) on vascular functioning of isolated rat aorta. 2 Aortic rings were exposed to CuSO(4) (3-24 h) in Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium with or without 10% foetal bovine serum (FBS) and then challenged with vasoconstrictors or vasodilators in the absence of Cu(2+). 3 Exposure to 2 micro M Cu(2+) in the absence of FBS did not modify the response to phenylephrine (PE) or acetylcholine (ACh) in aortic rings incubated for 24 h. Identical exposure in the presence of FBS increased the contractile response to 1 micro M PE by 30% (P&lt;0.05) and impaired the relaxant response to 3 micro M ACh or 1 micro M A23187 (ACh, from 65.7+/-7.1 to 6.2+/-1.1%, n=8; A23187, from 74.6+/-8.2 to 12.0+/-0.8%, n=6; P&lt;0.01 for both). Cu(2+) exposure did not affect the relaxant response to NO-donors. 4 Impairment of vasorelaxation appeared 3 h after incubation with 2 micro M Cu(2+) and required 12 h to attain a steady state. Vasorelaxation to ACh was partially restored by 1 mM tiron (intracellular scavenger of superoxide ions; maximum relaxation 34.2+/-6.4%, n=10, P&lt;0.01 vs Cu(2+) alone), whereas catalase, superoxide dismutase or cycloheximide were ineffective. 5 Twenty-four hour-exposure to 2 micro M Cu(2+) did not affect endothelium integrity or eNOS expression, and increased the Cu content in arterial rings from 6.8+/-1.1 to 18.9+/-2.9 ng mg(-1) wet weight, n=8; P&lt;0.01. 6 Our results show that, in the presence of FBS, prolonged exposure to submicromolar concentrations of Cu(2+) impaired endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in aortic rings, probably through an intracellular generation of superoxide ions. British Journal of Pharmacology (2002) 136, 1185-1193
1 Acetylcholine release at the neuromuscular junction relies on rapid, local and transient calcium increase at presynaptic active zones, triggered by the ion influx through voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) clustered on the presynaptic membrane. Pharmacological investigation of the role of different VDCC subtypes (L-, N-, P/Q- and R-type) in spontaneous and evoked acetylcholine (ACh) release was carried out in adult mouse neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) under normal and pathological conditions. 2 omega-Agatoxin IVA (500 nM), a specific P/Q-type VDCC blocker, abolished end plate potentials (EPPs) in normal NMJs. However, when neurotransmitter release was potentiated by the presence of the K(+) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), an omega-agatoxin IVA- and omega-conotoxin MVIIC-resistant component was detected. This resistant component was only partially sensitive to 1 micro M omega-conotoxin GVIA (N-type VDCC blocker), but insensitive to any other known VDCC blockers. Spontaneous release was dependent only on P/Q-type VDCC in normal NMJs. However, in the presence of 4-AP, it relied on L-type VDCCs too. 3 ACh release from normal NMJs was compared with that of NMJs of mice passively injected with IgGs obtained from patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), a disorder characterized by a compromised neurotransmitter release. Differently from normal NMJs, in LEMS IgGs-treated NMJs an omega-agatoxin IVA-resistant EPP component was detected, which was only partially blocked by calciseptine (1 micro M), a specific L-type VDCC blocker. 4 Altogether, these data demonstrate that multiple VDCC subtypes are present at the mouse NMJ and that a resistant component can be identified under 'pharmacological' and/or 'pathological' conditions.
1 The aim of this study was to investigate the binding of a novel GABA(B) receptor radioligand, [(3)H]-CGP62349, to human post-mortem control and epileptic hippocampal sections using quantitative receptor autoradiography. Utilizing human control hippocampal sections it was shown that [(3)H]-CGP62349 bound with high affinity (K(D) 0.5 nM) to this tissue. 2 Hippocampal slices from surgical specimens obtained from patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) were compared with neurologically normal post-mortem control subjects for neuropathology and GABA(B) receptor density and affinity. Neuronal loss was observed in most of the hippocampal subregions, but in the subiculum no significant difference was detected. 3 The localization of GABA(B) receptors with the antagonist [(3)H]-CGP62349 in human control hippocampal sections supported and extended earlier studies using the agonist ligand [(3)H]-GABA. 4 The kinetics of binding to the GABA(B) receptor in human hippocampus using this novel compound was comparable to previous data obtained in rat hippocampal membranes. 5 GABA(B) receptor density (B(max)) was significantly reduced in CA3, hilus, and dentate gyrus (DG); the affinity was increased exclusively in DG. The trend is identical in all the hippocampal subregions with the agonist and the antagonist, although significant differences with the antagonist where recorded in CA3 and hilus, whereas with the agonist a significant reduction was reported in all of the hippocampal subfields. 6 GABA(B) receptor expression per remaining neuron appeared significantly increased in CA3 and hilus. These results suggest altered GABA(B) receptor function may occur in human TLE, possibly as a result of synaptic reorganization, and may contribute to epileptogenesis.
1: We examined the effects of PEPA, an allosteric potentiator of AMPA receptors, on AMPA receptor kinetics. 2: PEPA did not affect the deactivation of glutamate responses but potently attenuated the extent of receptor desensitization without slowing the onset of desensitization in most of the recombinant AMPA receptors (GluR1-flip, GluR1-flop, GluR3-flip, GluR3-flip+GluR2-flip, and GluR3-flop+GluR2-flop) expressed in Xenopus oocytes. For the GluR3-flop subunit, PEPA attenuated the extent of desensitization and only weakly prolonged deactivation (1.3 fold). 3: PEPA did not significantly affect recovery from desensitization in oocytes expressing GluR3-flip, GluR1-flop, and GluR1-flop, but weakly accelerated (2.6 fold) recovery from desensitization in oocytes expressing GluR3-flop. 4: PEPA's effect on desensitization of GluR3-flop-containing receptors is unique in that onset is very slow. 5: Simulation studies using simplified kinetic models for AMPA receptors are utilized to explore the differential effects of PEPA on GluR3-flip and -flop. It is possible to simulate the action on GluR3-flip by modulating two rate constants in a 12-state kinetic model. For simulation of the action on GluR3-flop, the 12-state kinetic model is not enough, and it is necessary to invoke a 13th state, a PEPA-bound receptor to which glutamate cannot bind. 6: These results suggest that attenuation of extent of desensitization represents the principal mechanism underlying the potentiation of AMPA receptors by PEPA, and that PEPA exhibits different mechanisms with respect to GluR3-flip and GluR3-flop.
1: The pharmacology of the stable cell line expressing human alpha(4)beta(3)delta GABA(A) receptor was investigated using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. 2: alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors exhibited increased sensitivity to GABA when compared to alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors, with EC(50)'s of 0.50 (0.46, 0.53) microM and 2.6 (2.5, 2.6) microM respectively. Additionally, the GABA partial agonists piperidine-4-sulphonate (P4S) and 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisothiazolo-[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP) displayed markedly higher efficacy at alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors, indeed THIP demonstrated greater efficacy than GABA at these receptors. 3: The delta subunit conferred slow desensitization to GABA, with rate constants of 4.8+/-0.5 s for alpha(4)beta(3)delta and 2.5+/-0.2 s for alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2). However, both P4S and THIP demonstrated similar levels of desensitization on both receptor subtypes suggesting this effect is agonist specific. 4: alpha(4)beta(3)delta and alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) demonstrated equal sensitivity to inhibition by the cation zinc (2-3 microM IC(50)). However, alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors demonstrated greater sensitivity to inhibition by lanthanum. The IC(50) for GABA antagonists SR-95531 and picrotoxin, was similar for alpha(4)beta(3)delta and alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2). Likewise, inhibition was observed on both subtypes at high and low pH. 5: alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors were insensitive to modulation by benzodiazepine ligands. In contrast Ro15-4513 and bretazenil potentiated GABA responses on alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) cells, and the inverse agonist DMCM showed allosteric inhibition of alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors. 6: The efficacy of neurosteroids at alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors was greatly enhanced over that observed at alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors. The greatest effect was observed using THDOC with 524+/-71.6% potentiation at alpha(4)beta(3)delta and 297.9+/-49.7% at alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors. Inhibition by the steroid pregnenolone sulphate however, showed no subtype selectivity. The efficacy of both pentobarbitone and propofol was slightly augmented and etomidate greatly enhanced at alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors versus alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors. 7: We show that the alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptor has a distinct pharmacology and kinetic profile. With its restricted distribution within the brain and unique pharmacology this receptor may play an important role in the action of neurosteroids and anaesthetics. British Journal of Pharmacology (2002) 136, 965-974
British Journal of Pharmacology (2000) 136, 957-959
We performed a long-term follow-up study of 11 patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) who received maintenance treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg). Patients were treated initially with one full course of IVIg (0.4 g/kg for 5 days) followed by one IVIg infusion (0.4 g/kg) every week. During follow-up, the frequency and dosage of IVIg infusions were determined for each patient and ranged from one infusion every 1 to 7 weeks and an average dose of 7 to 48 g per week. During the 4- to 8-year follow-up period, muscle strength was assessed by measuring the MRC (Medical Research Council) sumscore of 20 muscle groups and by performing hand-held dynamometry on a selection of weak muscle groups. Systematic electrophysiological studies were performed before treatment and each year during IVIg maintenance treatment. Disability was assessed with the upper limb and lower limb subscales of the Guy's Neurological Disability Scale before treatment, after the first full course of IVIg and at the last follow-up examination. Muscle strength improved significantly within 3 weeks of the start of IVIg treatment and was still significantly better at the last follow-up examination than before treatment, even though it decreased slightly and significantly during the follow-up period. Upper limb disability was significantly better after the first full course of IVIg than before treatment. Conduction block disappeared in six nerve segments but new conduction block appeared in eight nerve segments during the follow-up period. Changes consistent with improvement (remyelination or reinnervation) occurred in 13 nerves during follow-up and changes consistent with worsening (demyelination or axon loss) occurred in 14 nerves. Electrophysiological changes consistent with improvement were significantly associated with the presence of conduction block before IVIg treatment. In conclusion, IVIg maintenance treatment has a beneficial long-term effect on muscle strength and upper limb disability but may not prevent a slight decrease in muscle strength. The electrophysiological findings imply that IVIg treatment favourably influences the mechanisms of remyelination or reinnervation but that axon loss cannot be prevented.
Ten able adults with autism or Asperger syndrome and 10 normal volunteers were PET scanned while watching animated sequences. The animations depicted two triangles moving about on a screen in three different conditions: moving randomly, moving in a goal-directed fashion (chasing, fighting), and moving interactively with implied intentions (coaxing, tricking). The last condition frequently elicited descriptions in terms of mental states that viewers attributed to the triangles (mentalizing). The autism group gave fewer and less accurate descriptions of these latter animations, but equally accurate descriptions of the other animations compared with controls. While viewing animations that elicited mentalizing, in contrast to randomly moving shapes, the normal group showed increased activation in a previously identified mentalizing network (medial prefrontal cortex, superior temporal sulcus at the temporo-parietal junction and temporal poles). The autism group showed less activation than the normal group in all these regions. However, one additional region, extrastriate cortex, which was highly active when watching animations that elicited mentalizing, showed the same amount of increased activation in both groups. In the autism group this extrastriate region showed reduced functional connectivity with the superior temporal sulcus at the temporo-parietal junction, an area associated with the processing of biological motion as well as with mentalizing. This finding suggests a physiological cause for the mentalizing dysfunction in autism: a bottleneck in the interaction between higher order and lower order perceptual processes.
The aim of the present study was to investigate in vivo cortical excitability in the human brain. We studied 45 consecutive patients with refractory epilepsy in whom subdural or intracerebral electrodes were implanted for assessment prior to epilepsy surgery. We compared cortical responses to single pulse stimulation (up to 8 mA, 1 ms duration) in areas where seizure onset occurred, with responses recorded elsewhere. Two main types of responses were seen: (i) 'early responses', spikes and/or slow waves starting within 100 ms after the stimulus which were observed in most regions in all patients; and (ii) 'delayed responses', spikes or sharp waves occurring between 100 ms and 1 s after stimulation which were seen in some regions in 27 patients. The distributions of early and delayed responses were compared with the topography of seizure onset. Whereas early responses were seen in most regions and seem to be a normal response of the cortex to single pulse stimulation, the distributions of delayed responses were significantly associated with the regions where seizure onset occurred. We conclude that the presence of delayed responses can identify regions of hyperexcitable cortex in the human brain. The study of delayed responses may improve our understanding of the physiology and dynamics of neuronal circuits in epileptic tissue and may have an immediate clinical application in assessment of candidates for surgical treatment of epilepsy.
The aim of this investigation was to identify neural systems supporting the processing of intentional and unintentional transgressions of social norms. Using event-related fMRI, we addressed this question by comparing neural responses to stories describing normal behaviour, embarrassing situations or violations of social norms. Processing transgressions of social norms involved systems previously reported to play a role in representing the mental states of others, namely medial prefrontal and temporal regions. In addition, the processing of transgressions of social norms involved systems previously found to respond to aversive emotional expressions (in particular angry expressions); namely lateral orbitofrontal cortex (Brodmann area 47) and medial prefrontal cortex. The observed responses were similar for both intentional and unintentional social norm violations, albeit more pronounced for the intentional norm violations. These data suggest that social behavioural problems in patients with frontal lobe lesions or fronto-temporal dementia may be a consequence of dysfunction within the systems identified in light of their possible role in processing whether particular social behaviours are, or are not, appropriate.
Exposure to stressors often alters the subsequent responsiveness of many systems. The present study tested whether prior exposure to inescapable tailshock (IS) alters the interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, or IL-6 response to an injection of bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide; LPS). Rats were exposed to IS or remained as home cage controls (HCC); 24 h later animals were injected i.p. with either 10 microg/kg LPS or equilvolume sterile saline. IS significantly increased plasma TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and pituitary, hypothalamus, hippocampus, cerebellum IL-1beta 1 h, but not 2 h, after LPS, compared to controls. Additional animals were injected with LPS or saline 4, 10, or 21 days after exposure to IS and tail vein blood was collected and assayed for IL-1beta. An enhanced plasma IL-1beta response occurred 4 days after IS, but was gone by 10 days. These results suggest that exposure to IS sensitizes the innate immune response to LPS by resulting in either a larger or a more rapid induction of proinflammatory cytokines.
We examined three autopsy cases of globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) with different survival, using immunohistochemistry and in situ nick end labeling (ISEL). The white matter lesion was pronounced in the corona radiata, corpus callosum and cerebellar peduncles in three cases, where a spongy state developed, in addition to the neuronal loss in the thalamus, cerebellum and inferior olivary nucleus. Ramified microglia, being immunoreactive for ferritin and HLA-DR alpha, were scattered in the white matter, and some of them also had immunoreactivity for TNF-alpha. Both the small-sized and large-sized globoid cells showed immunoreactivity for ferritin KP-1 and NCAM, while some of the small-sized globoid cells were also immunoreactive for HLA-DR alpha and TNF-alpha. As the survival became longer, the occurrence of the globoid cells decreased, however, they were commonly observed in the corpus callosum and cerebellar peduncle in three cases. T lymphocytes immunoreactive for LCA, UCHL-1 and CD3 were increased around the vessels in the white matter. ISEL stained nuclei of mononuclear cells in the white matter in two cases with short survival, although the cell origin was not verified. ISEL also visualized a few nuclei of the small-sized globoid cells in one case. On the other hand, immunostainings against cell death proteins such as bcl-2 family members and p53 failed to identify any significant changes. These data suggest that the immunological step and to a lesser extent the apoptotic process may partly be involved in the myelin breakdown and glial pathology in GLD, as reported in the twitcher mouse, a murine model of GLD.
MRI imaging of the rodent brain is a rapidly growing field in the neurosciences. Relatively limited information is available for regional volume determination. The present paper describes a reliable method for the assessment of the hippocampus, the anterior cingulate cortex, the retrosplenial granular cortex and the ventricles in rats. MRI scans were acquired using a 7 T magnet. The anatomical sampling method was found to be highly reliable with an intra-rater reliability of greater than 0.93. The current protocol should facilitate future in vivo neuroimaging research using animal models of neurodegenerative diseases.
We describe an improved method to inject drug into deep brain structure of the macaque monkey. A Teflon-coated tungsten wire for extracellular recording was passed through a long-shanked (4-5 cm) glass micropipette, which was then attached to a microsyringe with dental impression material. The surface of the micropippete was coated with Teflon to reduce acoustic artifact in ultrasound imaging. Thereby, it was possible to identify the micropipette in the brain with B-mode ultrasonography. Extracellular recording combined with electrical stimulation in the input source of the target nucleus was also helpful to determine the location of the micropipette. Here, we demonstrate injection of a neuronal tracer, wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, into the medial mammillary nucleus of the Japanese monkey.
The meaning of a speech stream is communicated by more than the particular words used by the speaker. For example, speech melody, referred to as prosody, also contributes to meaning. In a cross-modal priming study we investigated the influence of emotional prosody on the processing of visually presented positive and negative target words. The results indicate that emotional prosody modulates word processing and that the time-course of this modulation differs for males and females. Women show behavioural and electrophysiological priming effects already with a small interval between the prosodic prime and the visual target word. In men, however, similar effects of emotional prosody on word processing occur only for a longer interval between prime and target. This indicates that women make an earlier use of emotional prosody during word processing as compared to men.
In this study, we tested whether in certain experimental conditions the distal and proximal motor components may dissociate in action imitation, and how the distal component and the object representation may interact. Experiments 1-3 were carried out using a dual task procedure in which an action span and a motor suppression were coupled. In Experiment 1, it was shown that action spans were affected more by a distal movement (e.g. distal motor suppression) than by a proximal movement (proximal motor suppression). In Experiment 2, it was demonstrated that the reduction of the action spans was not due to the distal motor suppression being more difficult than the proximal motor suppression. In Experiment 3, pantomimes were replaced with the corresponding objects and the participants were asked to mime the objects, reproducing the appropriate actions. During the presentation of the objects, the participants were engaged in a motor suppression that was performed either by the hand or by the arm. The distal motor suppression reduced the pantomime span more significantly than the proximal motor suppression. Experiment 4 showed that the spans of pantomimes of objects shown in Experiment 3 are longer when participants do not perform motor suppressions. Our results suggest that in normal subjects a difference between the distal and the proximal motor component can be observed under dual task conditions and that distal motor suppression seems to interfere both with the encoding of action and with pragmatic representation of objects.
The aim of the study was to explore cognitive distortions in recovered burn patients. Previous studies in trauma patients have shown trauma-specific attentional bias, long response latencies, and deficits in memory specificity. Eighteen former patients, burn injured 5-19 years ago and 18 matched controls performed the emotional Stroop task, including burn and general trauma-related words, and the autobiographical memory test (AMT). In addition, verbal fluency, life events, and current mood were assessed. Regarding the Stroop task, the recovered patients had longer response latencies to burn words than to neutral and trauma words, a difference not seen in the control subjects. Regarding the AMT, the memory specificity did not differ between the groups. Overall, the former patients had longer latencies than the controls and poorer verbal fluency. The present study showed that recovered burn patients display a moderate Stroop effect, i.e. an attentional bias, in spite of the fact that the injury occurred several years before the testing. This may imply that the recovered burn patients consider the burn an important issue in life. The post-burn patients also presented signs of a slight cognitive slowness as compared to the controls. This finding deserves further attention in the rehabilitation of burn patients.
Jules Bernard Luys was a highly industrious and dedicated French investigator who made important contributions to the fields of neuroanatomy and neuropsychiatry in the second half of the 19th century. His name is still eponymically attached to the subthalamic nucleus and the centre mdian nucleus, two structures that are at the center of our current thinking about the functional organization of the basal ganglia and the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. While developing a highly original view of the anatomical and functional organization of the human brain, Luys contributed significantly to our knowledge of the neuropathological and clinical aspects of mental illnesses. Luys devoted the last part of his career to hysteria and hypnosis, engaging himself in experiments as extravagant as the action of medication at distance. In doing so, he became perhaps the most highly caricatured example of the fascination that hysteria exerted upon various renowned neurologists at the end of the 19th century. This paper briefly summarizes the contribution of this remarkable figure of the history of neurology.


Although generalized tonic-clonic status epilepticus (SE) is frequently seen, an evidence-based approach to management is limited by a lack of randomized clinical studies. Clinical practice, therefore, relies on a combination of expert recommendations, local hospital guidelines and dogma based on individual preference and past successes. This review explores selected and controversial aspects of SE in adults and provides a critical appraisal of currently recommended management strategies.
The cytotoxic effect of the chemotherapeutic drug etoposide (VP-16) is thought to result from its ability to induce DNA damage and thereby to trigger apoptosis. Internucleosomal DNA fragmentation occurs late during apoptosis in many cell types. However, whereas human osteosarcoma cells undergo internucleosomal DNA fragmentation during staurosporine-induced apoptosis, they fail to do so in response to VP-16. Recently, we showed that these cells also do not express the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation-regulated Ca(2+)- and Mg(2+)-dependent endonuclease DNAS1L3. The possibility that this deficiency underlies the failure of these cells to undergo internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in response to VP-16 was investigated. The proteolytic processing and consequent activation of procaspase-3, cleavage of the inhibitory subunit of DNA fragmentation factor, and the degradation of DNA into 50-kb fragments occurred similarly in osteosarcoma cells exposed to either staurosporine or VP-16. However, the additional processing of the 50-kb DNA fragments to oligonucleosomal fragments was not apparent in the VP-16-treated cells. Ectopic expression of DNAS1L3 conferred on osteosarcoma cells the ability to undergo VP-16-induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation. Furthermore, expression of DNAS1L3 markedly potentiated the cytotoxic effect of VP-16 in these cells. Both DNAS1L3-mediated and staurosporine-induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation were Ca(2+) dependent, but only the DNAS1L3-mediated DNA cleavage was blocked by expression of a caspase-3-resistant mutant of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1. The present work results suggest a direct relation between the activity of a chemotherapeutic drug (VP-16) and a specific endonuclease (DNAS1L3). They also indicate that internucleosomal DNA fragmentation plays an active role in apoptosis and that the failure of cancer cells to undergo such DNA degradation may contribute to the development of resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs.
The establishment of the adult pattern of neocortical circuitry depends on various intrinsic and extrinsic factors, whose modification during development can lead to alterations in cortical organization and function. We report the effect of 16 days of spaceflight [Neurolab mission; from postnatal day 14 (P14) to P30] on the neocortical representation of the hindlimb synaptic circuitry in rats. As a result, we show, for the first time, that development in microgravity leads to changes in the number and morphology of cortical synapses in a laminar-specific manner. In the layers II/III and Va, the synaptic cross-sectional lengths were significantly larger in flight animals than in ground control animals. Flight animals also showed significantly lower synaptic densities in layers II/III, IV and Va. The greatest difference was found in layer II/III, where there was a difference of 344 million synapses per mm(3) (15.6% decrease). Furthermore, after a 4 month period of re-adaptation to terrestrial gravity, some changes disappeared (i.e. the alterations were transient), while conversely, some new differences also appeared. For example, significant differences in synaptic density in layers II/III and Va after re-adaptation were no longer observed, whereas in layer IV the density of synapses increased notably in flight animals (a difference of 185 million synapses per mm(3) or 13.4%). In addition, all the changes observed only affected asymmetrical synapses, which are known to be excitatory. These results indicates that terrestrial gravity is a necessary environmental parameter for normal cortical synaptogenesis. These findings are fundamental in planning future long-term spaceflights.
In studying brain activity during the behavior of living animals, it is not possible simultaneously to analyze all levels of control from molecular events to motor responses. To provide insights into how levels of control interact, we have carried out synthetic neural modeling using a brain-based real-world device. We describe here the design and performance of such a device, designated Darwin VII, which is guided by computer-simulated analogues of cortical and subcortical structures. All levels of Darwin VII's neural architecture can be examined simultaneously as the device behaves in a real environment. Analysis of its neural activity during perceptual categorization and conditioned behavior suggests neural mechanisms for invariant object recognition, experience-dependent perceptual categorization, first-order and second-order conditioning, and the effects of different learning rates on responses to appetitive and aversive events. While individual Darwin VII exemplars developed similar categorical responses that depended on exploration of the environment and sensorimotor adaptation, each showed highly individual patterns of changes in synaptic strengths. By allowing exhaustive analysis and manipulation of neuroanatomy and large-scale neural dynamics, such brain-based devices provide valuable heuristics for understanding cortical interactions. These devices also provide the groundwork for the development of intelligent machines that follow neurobiological rather than computational principles in their construction.
In recognition memory tasks, stimuli can be classified as &quot;old&quot; either on the basis of accurate memory or a bias to respond &quot;old&quot;, yet bias has received little attention in the cognitive neuroscience literature. Here we examined the pattern and timing of bias-related effects in event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to determine whether the bias is linked more to memory retrieval or to response verification processes. Participants were divided into a High Bias and a Low Bias group according to their bias to respond &quot;old&quot;. These groups did not differ in recognition accuracy or in the ERP pattern to items that actually were old versus new (Objective Old/New Effect). However, when the old/new distinction was based on each subject's perspective, i.e. when items judged &quot;old&quot; were compared with those judged &quot;new&quot; (Subjective Old/New Effect), significant group differences were observed over prefrontal sites with a timing (300-500 ms poststimulus) more consistent with bias acting early on memory retrieval processes than on post-retrieval response verification processes. In the standard old/new effect (Hits vs Correct Rejections), these group differences were intermediate to those for the Objective and the Subjective comparisons, indicating that such comparisons are confounded by response bias. We propose that these biases are top-down controlled processes mediated by prefrontal cortex areas.
Levodopa should generally be avoided early in the course of Parkinson disease; dopamine agonists, particularly second-generation agents such as ropinirole (Requip) and pramipexole (Mirapex), carry a smaller long-term risk of dyskinesia and should be used instead. Deep brain stimulation is remarkably effective in refractory cases and may well usher in a new era in the treatment of chronic neurologic disease.
The brain is subjected to multiple factors that result in damage to its cellular constituents, the neuron and supporting cells, and the neural networks that form the bases of cognitive ability. Like other systems, the brain has remarkable capacity to repair that damage and to adapt or compensate for the loss of neurons and the disruption of the neural architecture. Brain aging and dementia can be conceptualized as a balance between neuronal injury and repair. This balance can be affected not only by genetic and age-related factors but also by multiple environmental factors. The latter includes many factors, including education, nutrition, exercise, socialization, and stress. As individuals, we have the potential to modify these factors through lifestyle choices. Advances in neuroscience have led to the development of pharmacologic agents that can ameliorate the effects of even genetic (e.g., statins and antihypertensive agents) and age-related (e.g., antioxidants and estrogen replacement) factors. By altering the balance between neuronal injury and repair, we can delay the expression and progression of the neurodegenerative processes of brain aging, AD, and related dementias.






Novel data is presented from this electron-immunocytochemical study that demonstrates endothelin-containing cerebrovascular nerves in the human middle cerebral artery.


Ratings of stress and burden and mental symptoms which were screened by the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) caseness were collected from two types of primary caregivers either living with (n = 37) or separately from (n = 48) a patient with a chronic schizophrenic disorder. The stress levels and burden of caregivers living apart were similar to those who were living together with patients and around 25 percent of both groups met GHQ criterion for having a mental disorder. Multiple regression analyses of all subjects identified stress with the patient's disorder and strain in their own marital relationships as most predictive of their subjective global stress ratings. These results suggest that mental health services should aim to assist key caregivers of people with chronic schizophrenic disorders to manage stress whether or not the patient lives in the same household as the caregiver.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have been implicated in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, nicotine addiction, schizophrenia, and autonomic dysfunctions. Although nicotine may be used therapeutically either alone or in association with other drugs, its beneficial effects are limited by its addictive properties and a number of other side effects. A deeper understanding of nicotinic cholinergic mechanisms is necessary to develop nAChR ligands that are more selective, less toxic, and more therapeutically effective than nicotine. Although there has been significant progress identifying the nAChR subunits that form functional nAChRs, there is limited information associating the location and function of nAChR subtypes in the nervous system. Several groups have genetically engineered mice in which one or more genes encoding nAChR subunits has been deleted or altered. Mice with nAChR mutations targeted to subunits that are highly expressed in the CNS have brought insight into the nAChR mechanisms involved in nicotine addiction, analgesia, aging, and nicotine-induced behaviors. Mutations targeted to nAChR subunits that are highly expressed in the peripheral nervous system have opened a window on the complex mechanisms governing autonomic control of peripheral organs. This review examines nAChRs in the autonomic control of peripheral organ systems as gleaned from studies of nAChR mutant mice.

Positional cloning efforts of genes mutated in Batten disease and in the Finnish type of variant late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis resulted in the identification of two novel genes, CLN3 and CLN5, and corresponding gene products that proved to be residents of lysosomes. Although the clinical phenotype of these NCL subtypes differs in the age of onset, average life span and EEG findings, the major component of material accumulating in patients' lysosomes is subunit c of mitochondrial ATPase in both these diseases. The CLN3 and CLN5 genes show ubiquitous expression patterns and are targeted to lysosomes in vitro, but the observed synaptosomal localization of the CLN3 protein in neurons would suggest some cell specificity in targeting and function of these proteins. So far, 31 different mutations of the CLN3 gene have been described in Batten patients, with one deletion of 1.02 kb accounting for 75% of disease alleles worldwide. Four CLN5 mutations are known, with one premature stop representing the major founder mutation in the isolated Finnish population. Functional studies of the yeast homolog of CLN3 and increased pH in patients' lysosomes would suggest an involvement of this protein in lysosomal pH homeostasis. Knock-out mouse models for CLN3 have been produced and the histopathology bears a close resemblance to human counterparts with characteristic lysosomal accumulations. Both CLN3 and CLN5 mouse models will provide experimental tools to resolve the pathological cascade in these neurodegenerative diseases.
Application of positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging has provided several new insights into various olfactory functions. One is that sniffing and smelling engage separate subsystems in the human olfactory cortex. Another is that perception of odorous compounds (odorants) is mediated by a set of core regions, which are partly different for pure olfactory than for olfactory plus trigeminal odorants. Depending on the task associated with odor perception, the core regions are recruited together with other circuits, in a parallel and hierarchical manner. The sense of smell seems, therefore, to be organized similarly to other sensory modalities, and the specific psychophysical characteristics of olfaction should be attributed to an early involvement of the limbic system rather than to a conceptually different mode of processing.
Computational analyses have begun to elucidate which components of somatosensory cortical population activity may encode basic stimulus features. Recent results from rat barrel cortex suggest that the essence of this code is not synergistic spike patterns, but rather the precise timing of single neuron's first post-stimulus spikes. This may form the basis for a fast, robust population code.
Three complementary approaches demonstrate new types of organization in rodent, feline and primate auditory cortex, as well as differences in processing between auditory and visual cortex. First, connectional work reveals patterns of thalamocortical and corticocortical input unique to the auditory cortex. Second, physiological studies find multiple, interleaved auditory processing modules related to corticocortical connections and embedded in the isofrequency gradient. Third, functional analyses demonstrate independent processing streams for sound localization and identification analogous to the 'what' and 'where' streams in visual cortex, although the modular arrangements are modality-specific. Taken together, these data show that the auditory cortex has common and unique functional substrates.
Although the response properties of sensory neurons in the thalamus and cerebral cortex have been studied for decades, relatively few studies have examined how sensory information is processed at thalamocortical synapses. Recent studies now show that the strength of thalamocortical connections is very dynamic and spike timing plays an important role in determining whether action potentials will be transferred from thalamus to cortex.
The relay nuclei of the auditory brainstem contain some of the largest nerve terminals in the mammalian brain. Endbulb and calyceal synapses convey signals with a high degree of precision and reliability. However, recent studies reveal that these synapses possess numerous and remarkably diverse mechanisms for the modulation of transmitter release. The implication is that successful relay of signals in vivo may require the ability to fine-tune synaptic transmission.


Recording from neuronal cultures with multi-electrode arrays (MEAs) provides a powerful tool for studying neuronal activity with many neurons simultaneously in vitro. This unit describes the detailed steps necessary for growing organotypic cultures on MEAs and the typical neuronal activity that is obtained with this methodology.
The segmental heritage of all vertebrates is evident in the character of the vertebral column. And yet, the extent to which direct translation of pattern from the somitic mesoderm and de novo cell and tissue interactions pattern the vertebral column remains a fundamental, unresolved issue. The elements of vertebral column pattern under debate include both segmental pattern and anteroposterior regional specificity. Understanding how vertebral segmentation and anteroposterior positional identity are patterned requires understanding vertebral column cellular and developmental biology. In this study, we characterized alignment of somites and vertebrae, distribution of individual sclerotome progeny along the anteroposterior axis and development of the axial skeleton in zebrafish. Our clonal analysis of zebrafish sclerotome shows that anterior and posterior somite domains are not lineage-restricted compartments with respect to distribution along the anteroposterior axis but support a 'leaky' resegmentation in development from somite to vertebral column. Alignment of somites with vertebrae suggests that the first two somites do not contribute to the vertebral column. Characterization of vertebral column development allowed examination of the relationship between vertebral formula and expression patterns of zebrafish Hox genes. Our results support co-localization of the anterior expression boundaries of zebrafish hoxc6 homologs with a cervical/thoracic transition and also suggest Hox-independent patterning of regionally specific posterior vertebrae.
The segmentation of the vertebrate hindbrain into rhombomeres is highly conserved, but how early hindbrain patterning is established is not well understood. We show that rhombomere 4 (r4) functions as an early-differentiating signaling center in the zebrafish hindbrain. Time-lapse analyses of zebrafish hindbrain development show that r4 forms first and hindbrain neuronal differentiation occurs first in r4. Two signaling molecules, FGF3 and FGF8, which are both expressed early in r4, are together required for the development of rhombomeres adjacent to r4, particularly r5 and r6. Transplantation of r4 cells can induce expression of r5/r6 markers, as can misexpression of either FGF3 or FGF8. Genetic mosaic analyses also support a role for FGF signaling acting from r4. Taken together, our findings demonstrate a crucial role for FGF-mediated inter-rhombomere signaling in promoting early hindbrain patterning and underscore the significance of organizing centers in patterning the vertebrate neural plate.
This study demonstrates that innervation dependent on two different neurotrophin tyrosine kinase (trk) receptors can form the same types of sensory endings (Merkel endings) in the same target (Merkel cells of vibrissa follicles). Some endings transiently express trkA during their initial development, whereas others express trkC throughout their development. Consequently, elimination of kinase domains of either trkA or trkC each result in a partial loss of Merkel endings, whereas absence of kinase domains of both receptors results in a total loss. At the onset of Merkel ending development, at least one kinase-lacking trkC isoform is transiently expressed on all the follicle cells, while neurotrophin 3 is transiently expressed only in the cells at the middle third of the follicle where the Merkel endings and cells develop. This transient non-neuronal expression of truncated trkC is essential for development of any Merkel endings, whereas some Merkel endings and cells still begin to develop in the absence of neurotrophin 3. Therefore, truncated trkC plays a more important role in the development of this innervation than kinase forms of trkA or trkC or of NT3, the only known ligand for trkC receptors.

The purpose of the present study was to examine postprandial myoelectric activity of the stomach and gastric activity associated with space motion sickness using electrogastrography. Three crewmembers participated in this investigation. Preflight, subjects exhibited normal postprandial responses to the ingestion of a meal. Inflight, crewmembers exhibited an abnormal decrease in the power of the normal gastric slow wave after eating on flight day 1, but had a normal postprandial response by flight day 3. Prior to and during episodes of nausea and vomiting, the electrical activity of the stomach became dysrhythmic with 60-80% of the spectral power in the bradygastric and tachygastric frequency ranges. These findings indicate that gastric motility may be decreased during the first few days of space flight. In addition, changes in the frequency of the gastric slow wave associated with space motion sickness symptoms are consistent with those reported for laboratory-induced motion sickness.


The landscape of acute stroke care has changed dramatically in the last decade. Even before the approval of tissue plasminogen activator for acute stroke in 1996, organized acute stroke care was initiated at several hospitals and the pharmaceutical industry was deeply entrenched in the search for neuroprotective agents. In the year 2002, acute stroke care continues to demand the attention of neurologists as well emergency physicians. Despite the failures of many neuroprotective agents and the relative lack of use of tPA, the acute treatment of the stroke has gained increasing importance both at an individual and national level. This chapter reviews some of the advances in the acute treatment of stroke, future of acute stroke care and discusses the emerging role of the emergency physician in this area.
Annexin 1 (ANXA1) is an important mediator of glucocorticoid action in the neuroendocrine system. As the activity of this protein in other systems is modulated by phosphorylation of its N-terminal domain, we have explored the significance of this domain and its phosphorylation status to ANXA1 actions within the pituitary gland, using an established in vitro preparation. Two N-terminal peptides, ANXA1(Ac2-26) and ANXA1(Ac1-50), inhibited forskolin-evoked ACTH and prolactin release; however, they lacked the potency and full efficacy of the parent molecule (ANXA1(1-346)), whereas other shorter N-terminal sequences were without effect. A chimeric protein comprising ANXA1(1-44) and the C-terminal core of ANXA5 (ANXA5(20-320)) also produced a partial inhibition of peptide release. Protein kinase C (PKC) blockade (PKC(19-36)) abolished the inhibitory effects of dexamethasone on forskolin-evoked peptide release and attenuated the antisecretory actions of ANXA1(Ac2-26.) ANXA5, which sequesters PKC in other systems, produced similar effects. PKC(19-36) also blocked the dexamethasone- induced translocation of a serine phosphorylated species of ANXA1 from the cytoplasm to the outer cell surface. These results suggest that 1) the N-terminal domain plays a fundamental role in effecting the inhibitory actions of ANXA1 on pituitary peptide release; 2) PKC-dependent mechanisms are essential for both the cellular exportation and the biological activity of ANXA1; and 3) ANXA1 exported from the cells is serine phosphorylated.
Medical history has shown that clinical disease entities or syndromes are composed of many subgroups--each with its own cause and pathogenesis. Although we cannot be sure, we expect the same outcome for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), a medically unexplained condition characterized by disabling fatigue accompanied by infectious, rheumatological, and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Although the ailment clearly can occur after severe infection, no convincing data exist to support an infectious (or immunologic) process in disease maintenance. Instead, data point to several possible pathophysiological processes: a covert encephalopathy, impaired physiological capability to respond to physical and mental stressors, and psychological factors related to concerns about effort exacerbating symptoms. Each of these is under intense investigation. In addition, some data do exist to indicate that environmental agents also can elicit a state of chronic fatigue. We expect data to accumulate to support the belief that CFS has multiple causes.


In 1953, Landolt described a group of patients with poorly controlled epilepsy who had psychotic episodes associated with remission of their seizures and disappearance of epileptiform activity on their EEGs. He called this phenomenon &quot;forced normalization.&quot; Since then, neurologists and psychiatrists have been intrigued by this phenomenon, and although it has been also reported by others, its existence continues to be the source of much debate. In this article, we review the clinical characteristics and potential pathogenic mechanisms of forced normalization and illustrate the complexities inherent in reaching this diagnosis, as well as its differential diagnosis in two representative cases.
Status epilepticus is usually initially treated with a benzodiazepine such as diazepam. During prolonged seizures, however, patients often lose their sensitivity to benzodiazepines, thus developing pharmacoresistant seizures. In rats, administration of LiCl followed 20-24 h later by pilocarpine induces a continuous, self-sustained, and reproducible form of status epilepticus that can be terminated with diazepam when it is administered soon after the pilocarpine injection. However, when administered after a 45 min delay, diazepam is less effective. Previous findings have suggested that the development of pharmacoresistance is related to the stage of status epilepticus. In the present study, we characterized the seizure stage-dependence of diazepam pharmacoresistance. Following administration of different doses of diazepam at varying time intervals after specific behaviorally- and electrographically-defined seizure stages, stage-, time-, and dose-dependent pharmacoresistance to diazepam developed. We also studied two other antiepileptic drugs commonly used in the treatment of status epilepticus, phenobarbital and phenytoin. Consistent with previous studies, our results indicated a similar relationship between stage, time and dose for phenobarbital, but not for phenytoin. Our data are consistent with rapid modulation of GABA(A) receptors during status epilepticus that may result in pharmacoresistance to antiepileptic drugs that enhance GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition.
Serotonin transporters are key target sites for clinical drugs and psychostimulants, such as fluoxetine and cocaine. Molecular cloning of a serotonin transporter from the central nervous system of the insect Manduca sexta enabled us to define domains that affect antagonist action, particularly cocaine. This insect serotonin transporter transiently expressed in CV-1 monkey kidney cells exhibits saturable, high affinity Na+ and Cl- dependent serotonin uptake, with estimated Km and Vmax values of 436 +/- 19 nm and 3.8 +/- 0.6 x 10-18 mol.cell.min-1, respectively. The Manduca high affinity Na+/Cl- dependent transporter shares 53% and 74% amino acid identity with the human and fruit fly serotonin transporters, respectively. However, in contrast to serotonin transporters from these two latter species, the Manduca transporter is inhibited poorly by fluoxetine (IC50 = 1.23 micro m) and cocaine (IC50 = 12.89 micro m). To delineate domains and residues that could play a role in cocaine interaction, the human serotonin transporter was mutated to incorporate unique amino acid substitutions, detected in the Manduca homologue. We identified a domain in extracellular loop 2 (amino acids 148-152), which, when inserted into the human transporter, results in decreased cocaine sensitivity of the latter (IC50 = 1.54 micro m). We also constructed a number of chimeras between the human and Manduca serotonin transporters (hSERT and MasSERT, respectively). The chimera, hSERT1-146/MasSERT106-587, which involved N-terminal swaps including transmembrane domains (TMDs) 1 and 2, was remarkably insensitive to cocaine (IC50 = 180 micro m) compared to the human (IC50 = 0.431 micro m) and Manduca serotonin transporters. The chimera MasSERT1-67/hSERT109-630, which involved only the TMD1 swap, showed greater sensitivity to cocaine (IC50 = 0.225 micro m) than the human transporter. Both chimeras showed twofold higher serotonin transport affinity compared to human and Manduca serotonin transporters. Our results show TMD1 and TMD2 affect the apparent substrate transport and antagonist sensitivity by possibly providing unique conformations to the transporter. The availability of these chimeras facilitates elucidation of specific amino acids involved in interactions with cocaine.
Mice inoculated with transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) show behavioural abnormalities well before the appearance of clinical signs. TSE strains are obtained by serial re-infection of infectious brain homogenates in laboratory rodents. They are characterized by strain-typical brain lesion profiles, which implies that they might be differentiated behaviourally as well. Seventy female C57BL/6 mice were tested, 14 per group. Controls received no or sham inocula, two other groups received scrapie strains adapted to mice (139A, ME7) and one group a mouse-adapted BSE strain (301C). From week 7 until the end of the incubation period, 8 mice per group were subjected once every 2 weeks to open-field and hot-plate tests. Assessment of clinical signs, and measuring of body weight, food and water consumption were carried out weekly on the remaining animals kept in single cages. In addition, locomotor activity was recorded continuously in these mice by means of infrared detectors. Monitoring of circadian activity revealed early significant TSE strain differences, most pronounced during the nocturnal active phase. Behavioural changes in open-field tests also occurred before the appearance of clinical signs, and differences in rearing, wall rearing and sniffing were strain-specific, however, such differences varied according to the period of testing. Hind paw lick latencies increased equally in all groups after week 19, jump latencies also increased in the two scrapie groups but not in the BSE group. It was at this time that clinical signs first appeared consisting of ataxia, lack of balance, motor dyscoordination, and lordosis. These data imply that automated assessment of circadian activity in mice is a powerful and economical tool for early behavioural typing of TSE strains.
Serotonergic single-unit activity during glucoregulatory challenges was studied in the nuclei raphe obscurus (NRO) and raphe pallidus (NRP) of freely moving cats. Systemic insulin administration (2-4 IU/kg, i.v.) suppressed neuronal activity by approximately 40% in direct relationship to blood glucose levels and in inverse relationship to plasma catecholamine levels. NRO and NRP serotonergic neurons displayed a temporary recovery in unit activity in response to i.v. glucose administration (500 mg/kg), which temporarily reversed insulin-induced hypoglycemia. The neuronal responses to insulin and subsequent glucose administration were also directly related to changes in integrated nuchal electromyographic activity. Serotonergic unit activity remained unchanged after glucose loading (500 mg/kg, i.v.), which produced a four-fold increase in blood glucose. Thus, medullary serotonergic neurons appear to be sensitive to reductions, but not increases, in blood glucose. The observed inverse relationship between unit activity and plasma catecholamines does not support a postulated sympathoexcitatory role for these neurons. Instead, the parallel changes in single-unit activity and integrated muscle activity support the hypothesis that the activity of medullary serotonergic neurons is linked to motor output. These neurons may modulate autonomic outflow, but only in relationship to their primary role in motor control. Finally, medullary serotonergic neurons may play a protective role in maintaining glucose homeostasis by disfacilitating the output of the somatomotor system, and hence diminishing muscle energy demands, when peripheral glucose availability is low.
Metyrapone, a 11-beta steroid hydroxylase inhibitor that blocks stress-induced glucocorticoid release, is extensively used to study the physiological and behavioural roles of glucocorticoids. However, there is circumstantial evidence suggesting that metyrapone could act as a pharmacological stressor. Thus, the effects of various doses of metyrapone on two well-characterized stress markers (ACTH and glucose) were studied in male rats. Metyrapone administration, while exerting a modest effect on plasma corticosterone levels, dose-dependently increased plasma ACTH and glucose levels. Using the highest doses previously tested (200 mg/kg) we further observed, as evaluated by fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI), a strong activation of a wide range of brain areas, including the parvocellular region of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVNp), the origin of the main ACTH secretagogues. Metyrapone-induced FLI was observed in neocortical and allocortical areas, in several limbic, thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei and, to a lesser extent, in the brainstem. In a final experiment, a dose-response study of metyrapone-induced FLI was carried out focusing on selected brain areas. The study revealed that the paraventricular thalamic nucleus and central amygdala were the areas most sensitive to metyrapone as they responded even to the lowest dose of the drug. Most areas, among them the PVNp, only showed enhanced FLI with the two highest doses, i.e. when it was associated with ACTH and glucose responses. These data suggest that some of the effects of metyrapone could be due to its stressful properties rather than its ability to inhibit glucocorticoid synthesis. The exact mechanisms involved remain to be established.
This study was designed to provide evidence for elucidating the mechanisms of neurokinin-3 receptor (NK3) in spinal pain modulation. First, colocalization of NK3 with the micro -opioid receptor (MOR1) was studied in the spinal dorsal horn of the rat. Confocal microscopy showed that about 44% of NK3-expressing neurons in laminae I and II were immunoreactive for MOR1, which corresponded to about 93% of the total population of MOR1-containing neurons in these laminae. Second, the relationship between NK3/MOR1-coexpressing neurons and those that express nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was examined by using a triple immunofluorescent staining method. About 37% of NK3-immunoreactive neurons were also NOS-immunoreactive, which constituted about 82% of NOS-immunoreacitve neurons in the superficial laminae. However, no triple-labelled neurons were detected. The present results indicate that there are two major distinct subpopulations of NK3-expressing neurons in the superficial dorsal horn, which suggests that the involvement of NK3 receptor in spinal nociception could be mediated by two distinct mechanisms, i.e. opioid and nitric oxide.
Behavioural assessment of mice lacking adenosine A1 receptors (A1Rs) showed reduced activity in some phases of the light-dark cycle, reduced exploratory behaviour in the open-field and in the hole-board, increased anxiety in the plus maze and dark-light box and increased aggressiveness in the resident-intruder test. No differences were found in spatial reference and working memory in several Morris water maze tasks. Both mutant mice had reduced muscle strength and survival rate. These results confirm the involvement of adenosine in motor activity, exploratory behaviour, anxiety and aggressiveness. A1Rs also appear to play a critical role in ageing-related deterioration.
When people divide attention between two sensory modalities and respond rapidly to stimuli in either modality, the reaction times (RTs) are longer than when they selectively attend and respond to one sensory modality. There is a further increase in RT when subjects use different fingers to respond to stimuli from different modalities as compared to when they use the same finger for both modalities. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging to show that division of attention bilaterally activates the caudal prefrontal areas near the precentral sulcus and areas in the intraparietal sulcus. All RT tasks, whether different fingers for different modalities or one finger for both modalities was used, activated identical motor areas 4a, 4p, supplementary and cingulate, the basal ganglia and the ventral anterior thalami. The increased blood oxygen level-dependent signal from motor cortical areas was anatomically distinct from the prefrontal/parietal areas. These anatomically dissociable neural substrates of division of attention and motor control may be responsible for the different types of RT delays that we have found. In the brain, there were no differences in the BOLD signal irrespective of whether the effector was specified a priori or was specified only after the sensory signal was received.
Previously, it was reported that both norepinephrine transporter (NET) and dopamine transporter (DAT) knockout (KO) mice were sensitive to the reinforcing effects of cocaine. However, assessing the locomotor-stimulant effects of cocaine in these subjects has proven difficult due to significant differences in their baseline activity compared to wild-type controls. The present studies were designed to clarify the role of NET and DAT in the stimulant effects of acute and repeated cocaine utilizing these knockout mice, and thereby assess the role of these substrates in the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. Mice were habituated to the test environment for sufficient time to ensure equal baselines at the time of cocaine administration. Mice then received cocaine (3-25 mg/kg) intravenously according to a within-session cumulative dose-response design. Cocaine dosing was repeated at 48-h intervals for four sessions to assess behavioural sensitization. NET-KO mice exhibited a reduced response to acute cocaine administration compared to wild-type (WT) controls. However, comparable sensitization developed in NET-KO and WT mice. The DAT-KO and DAT-heterozygote (HT) mice displayed no locomotor activation following either acute or repeated cocaine administration. These data suggest a role for the NET in the acute response to cocaine, but no involvement in sensitization to cocaine. In contrast, DAT appears to be necessary for both the acute locomotor response to cocaine and the subsequent development of sensitization. In addition to existing data concerning the reinforcing effects of cocaine in DAT-KO mice, these data suggest a dissociation between the reinforcing and locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine.
The induction of cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) at the parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapse is selectively blocked in L7-PKCi transgenic mice, rendering these mice unable to adaptively modify their vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during visuo-vestibular training for a few hours. Despite this deficit, their eye movement performance as well as their general motor behaviour appears unaffected. This combination suggests that, in the long term, residual forms of plasticity in the vestibulo-cerebellar circuitry can compensate for the absence of cerebellar LTD. To investigate whether LTD-deficient mice exhibit motor learning in the long run, we subjected L7-PKCi transgenic mice to visuo-vestibular training paradigms that were aimed at either increasing or decreasing the VOR response in the course of eight consecutive days. During the increasing paradigm, the VOR gain of transgenic mice increased significantly, while VOR gain decreased and VOR phase-lead increased during the decreasing paradigm. The impact of these long training periods on the VOR was significantly smaller in LTD-deficient mice than in wild type littermates. Thus, while LTD may be necessary for short-term VOR adaptation, it facilitates but is not required for long-term adaptation of the VOR.
Instability in highly repetitive microsatellite DNA located in the regulatory regions of genes may be a major factor producing diversity in both region-specific gene expression and the resulting phenotypes. Polymorphisms in promoter regions affecting expression of genes involved in regulating behaviour may play a role in generating individual variation in behaviour, including psychopathologies in humans, and probably are also important for the evolution of behaviour. Here we discuss the prairie vole vasopressin V1a receptor gene as a model that may be useful for understanding the evolution of promoter sequences and the relationship between gene sequence, expression and behavioural phenotype.
Direct information on the distribution of a drug requires measurements in various tissues. Such data have until now been obtained in animals, or have indirectly been calculated from plasma measurements in humans using mathematical models. Here we suggest the use of positron emission tomography (PET) as a method to obtain direct measurements of drug distribution in the human body. The distribution in body and brain of vinpocetine, a neuroprotective drug widely used in the prevention and treatment of cerebrovascular diseases, was followed after oral administration. Vinpocetine was labelled with carbon-11 and radioactivity was measured by PET in stomach, liver, brain and kidney in six healthy volunteers. The radioactivity in blood and urine as well as the fractions of [(11)C]vinpocetine and labelled metabolites in plasma were also determined. After oral administration, [(11)C]vinpocetine appeared immediately in the stomach and within minutes in the liver and the blood. In the blood the level of radioactivity continuously increased until the end of the measurement period, whereas the fraction of the unchanged mother compound decreased. Radioactivity uptake and distribution in the brain were demonstrable from the tenth minute after the administration of the labelled drug. Brain distribution was heterogeneous, similar to the distribution previously reported after intravenous administration. These findings indicate that vinpocetine, administered orally in humans, readily enters the bloodstream from the stomach and gastrointestinal tract and, consequently, passes the blood-brain barrier and enters the brain. Radioactivity from [(11)C]vinpocetine was also demonstrated in the kidneys and in urine, indicating that at least a part of the radioactive drug and labelled metabolites is eliminated from the body through the kidneys. This study is the first to demonstrate that PET might be a useful, direct and non-invasive tool to study the distribution and pharmacokinetics of orally administered labelled CNS drugs in the living human body.
Serotonergic dysfunction has been postulated to play a role in the aetiology of social phobia. Buspirone, which is a partial agonist at 5HT1A receptors, increases prolactin release and may be used as a probe to examine serotonergic responses, dysfunction of which may be relevant to the pathophysiology of social phobia. We compared buspirone stimulated prolactin release in 14 patients with generalised social phobia and 14 healthy controls. Buspirone 30 mg was administered orally and prolactin release over 180 min was monitored. Overall, patients with generalised social phobia had greater prolactin release in response to buspirone challenge than healthy comparison subjects. There was no correlation between prolactin response and measures of severity of social phobia. Patients with generalised social phobia had enhanced central serotonergic responses, an abnormality shared with some other anxiety disorders and which may be of aetiological significance.
There is increasing evidence that the fasciculus retroflexus (FR) represents a 'weak link' following the continuous administration of drugs of abuse. A variety of drugs which predominantly potentiate dopamine, including D-amphetamine, methamphetamine, MDMA, cocaine, and cathinone, all induce degeneration in axons from lateral habenula, through the sheath of FR, to midbrain cells such as SN, VTA, and raphe. For some drugs, such as cocaine, this is virtually the only degeneration induced in brain. Continuous nicotine also selectively induces degeneration in FR, but in the other half of the tract, i.e. in axons from medial habenula through the core of the tract to interpeduncular nucleus. This phylogenetically primitive tract carries much of the negative feedback from forebrain back onto midbrain reward cells, and the finding that these descending control pathways are compromised following simulated drug binges has implications for theories of drug addiction but also psychosis in general.
Previous studies have shown that the retinal eccentricity of target stimuli has surprisingly little effect on the latency of visually driven saccades. But up until now researchers have addressed this issue by presenting saccadic targets in an unstructured visual field. This contrasts with everyday vision in which eye movements are initiated to stimuli within a cluttered environment. The present experiment compared latencies for target onsets in an empty visual field with a condition in which continuously illuminated location markers &quot;tagged&quot; the possible target locations. Previous reports of no effect of eccentricity on latencies in an unstructured field were replicated. However, a significant effect of eccentricity was found when location markers were used. Interestingly this did not reflect a lengthening of latencies as would be predicted by a reduction in target discriminability. Instead, latencies were relatively facilitated to near-visual onsets in the location marker condition. It is concluded that under more natural viewing conditions the latency of saccades is likely to be modulated by the eccentricity of target stimuli. This effect can be explained by competitive attentional interactions in saccade target selection processes.
Some neurotransmitters act consistently on the central pattern generator (CPG) for locomotion in a wide range of vertebrates. In contrast, acetylcholine (ACh) and noradrenaline (NA) have various effects on locomotion in different preparations. The roles of ACh and NA have not been studied in amphibian walking, so we examined their effects in an isolated spinal cord preparation of the mudpuppy ( Necturus maculatus). This preparation contains a CPG that produces locomotor activity when N-methyl- D-aspartic acid (NMDA), an excitatory amino acid agonist, is added to the bath. The addition of carbachol, a long acting ACh agonist, to the bath disrupted the walking rhythm induced by NMDA, while not changing the level of activity in flexor and extensor motoneurons. Adding clonidine, an alpha(2)-noradrenergic agonist, had no effect on the NMDA-induced walking rhythm. Physostigmine, an ACh-esterase inhibitor, disrupted the walking rhythm, presumably by potentiating the effects of endogenously released ACh. Atropine, an ACh antagonist that binds to muscarinic ACh receptors, blocked the effects of carbachol, indicating that the action is mediated, at least in part, by muscarinic receptors. In the absence of carbachol, atropine had no effect. Locomotion was not induced by carbachol, atropine or clonidine in a resting spinal cord preparation. Cholinergic actions do not seem to be essential to the CPG for walking in the mudpuppy, but ACh may convert a rhythmic walking state to a more tonic state with occasional bursts of EMG activity for postural adjustments.
We previously described significant relationships between amplitude variations in slow brain potentials and timed between-press intervals (2.5 s). We suggested that these variations are neural traces of timing mechanisms. To determine which time processing stage is concerned, the current study examines whether these variations result from trial-to-trial memory updating controlled by feedback or from memory consolidation. EEG surface Laplacians (SL) were computed from the first trial on, with feedback (condition 1) and after feedback suppression (condition 2). Performance-dependent variations were related to the individual memory traces revealed by condition 2. As in our previous data, they were restricted to a site overlying the supplementary motor area (SMA). The data suggest that the SMA subserves timing functions, involving memory consolidation and cumulative activation processes as described by current models.
Implantation of myoblasts is a strategy used to enhance the regeneration of skeletal muscle tissue in vivo. In mouse models, myogenic cell lines and primary cells have been employed with different yields of adult muscle tissue formed. The present work is a study of some developmental features of expanded primary mouse myoblasts (i28), which have been shown to form muscle tissue. i28 myoblasts were differentiated in vitro and the expression of acetylcholine receptor channels and maturation of the excitation-contraction coupling mechanism were investigated using patch clamp and videoimaging techniques. In all the developing cells the embryonic isoform of the acetylcholine receptors was present. Skeletal muscle-type excitation-contraction coupling (i.e., a mechanical link between voltage-dependent calcium channels and ryanodine receptor channels) was detected in about 75% of differentiating i28 myotubes. Only these cells showed spontaneous changes in cytosolic free calcium concentration associated with twitches. Our findings are the first description of the physiological properties of expanded primary myoblasts which are used for implantation and confirm that they are a heterogeneous cell population. In comparison to permanent cell lines, the Ca(2+) signaling is more similar to that described in mature nonexpanded muscle fibers. This suggests that cultured primary cells are, so far, the most suitable cell type for muscle regeneration.
Between 50% and 80% of individuals with alcohol use disorders experience mild to severe neurocognitive impairment. There is a strong clinical rationale that neurocognitive impairment is an important source of individual difference affecting many aspects of addiction treatment, but empirical tests of the direct influence of impairment on treatment outcome have yielded weak and inconsistent results. The authors address the schism between applied-theoretical perspectives and research evidence by suggesting alternative conceptual models of the relationship between neurocognitive impairment and addiction treatment outcome. Methods to promote neurocognitive recovery and ways in which addiction treatments may be modified to improve psychosocial adaptation are suggested. Specific suggestions for future research that may help clarify the complex relations between neurocognitive impairment and addiction treatment are outlined.
Previous electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) sodium channels contribute to action potential electrogenesis and conduction along non-myelinated PNS axons. Moreover, recent work has established that TTX-R sodium channels play a major role in the generation of action potentials in the terminals of non-myelinated nociceptive axons innervating the cornea. We have utilized subtype-specific antibodies to sodium channels Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 to examine the molecular identity of the TTX-R sodium channels that are present in these axons. Both Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 sodium channels are expressed diffusely along the entire lengths of non-myelinated corneal axons, from the nerve plexus at the corneoscleral limbus to the distal corneal leash fibers. Moreover, both Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 are localized at the bulb-like nerve terminals of the leash fibers within the superficial epithelial layers of the cornea. These observations suggest that both TTX-R sodium channels Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 contribute to the electrogenesis of non-myelinated axons of the cornea.

During early nervous system development axons grow toward the target tissue that they will innervate. As axons invade target tissue, growth slows and ceases. Neurons express high levels of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 during developmental axon growth, declining with maturation. It has been suggested that target contact provides a signal which down-regulates GAP-43 expression. To study this issue in more detail, we used in situ hybridization to quantify relative changes in GAP-43 mRNA in corticospinal tract neurons identified by Fast Blue retrograde labeling. We also used anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine to study the invasion of target by corticospinal axons. We find that GAP-43 mRNA is high during the first postnatal week and then declines in two phases. Approximately half of the initial level of GAP-43 expression in corticospinal neurons is lost by P12; then expression remains at a plateau until P21. Between P21 and P28, GAP-43 expression again declines by half and then remains steady at the adult level (one fourth of initial level). Corticospinal axons initially invade spinal gray matter during the first 2 postnatal weeks, in a rostrocaudal gradient. Varicosities suggestive of terminal boutons become numerous during the third and fourth week, and the morphology of corticospinal axon terminals achieves the mature form at the end of the fourth week. These data suggest that the first phase of down-regulation of GAP-43 in corticospinal neurons is coincident with initial target contact and that the second phase is coincident with final maturation of terminal arborization.
Motor axonal regeneration is compromised by chronic distal nerve stump denervation, induced by delayed repair or prolonged regeneration distance, suggesting that the pathway for regeneration is progressively impaired with time and/or distance. In the present experiments, we tested the impacts of (i) chronic distal sensory nerve stump denervation on axonal regeneration and (ii) sensory or motor innervation of a nerve graft on the ability of motoneurons to regenerate their axons from the opposite end of the graft. Using the motor and sensory branches of rat femoral nerve and application of neuroanatomical tracers, we evaluated the numbers of regenerated femoral motoneurons and nerve fibers when motoneurons regenerated (i) into freshly cut and 2-month chronically denervated distal sensory nerve stump, (ii) alone into a 4-cm-long distally ligated sensory autograft (MGL) and, (iii) concurrently as sensory (MGS) or motor (MGM) nerves regenerated into the same autograft from the opposite end. We found that all (315 +/- 24: mean +/- SE) the femoral motoneurons regenerated into a freshly cut distal sensory nerve stump as compared to 254 +/- 20 after 2 months of chronic denervation. Under the MGL condition, 151 +/- 5 motoneurons regenerated, which was not significantly different from the MGM group (134 +/- 13) but was significantly reduced to 99 +/- 2 in the MGS group (P &lt; 0.05). The number of regenerated nerve fibers was 1522 +/- 81 in the MGL group, 888 +/- 18 in the MGM group, and 516 +/- 44 in the MGS group, although the high number of nerve fibers in the MGL group was due partly to the elaboration of multiple sprouts. Nerve fiber number and myelination were reduced in the MGS group and increased in the MGM group. These results demonstrate that both chronic denervation and the presence of sensory nerve axons reduced desired motor axonal regeneration into sensory pathways. A common mechanism may involve reduced responsiveness of sensory Schwann cells within the nerve graft or chronically denervated distal nerve stump to regenerating motor axons. The findings confirm that motor regeneration is optimized by avoiding even short-term denervation. They also imply that repairing pure motor nerves (without their cutaneous sensory components) to distal nerve stumps should be considered clinically when motor recovery is the main desired outcome.
Evidence from both animals and humans supports a neuroprotective role of oestrogen. Epidemiological studies showing that oestrogen improves cognitive performance in postmenopausal women, clinical trials showing effects of oestrogen on cognition and data suggesting that oestrogen reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) led to the proposal that oestrogen may be effective for improving symptoms or slowing decline in women with AD. Studies evaluating oestrogen as a treatment for AD have been performed with mixed findings. While a few studies have found modest improvements, the results have largely been disappointing. However, many of the studies suffer from substantial methodological problems that leave the findings in question. The role of oestrogen for the prevention or treatment of AD is not yet clear, but large, well-controlled, ongoing trials should provide definitive answers to many questions in the near future.

Apo E, and its respective isoforms, have been linked to outcome and survival in cerebral vascular and cardiovascular diseases. The effectiveness of intravenous tPA in patients with acute ischemic stroke appears to be enhanced in patients who have an Apo E2 phenotype. The ability of Apo E isoproteins (endogenous Apo E isoproteins or exogenous Apo E isoproteins) to modulate tPA-induced clot lysis in vitro was assessed using an in vitro clot assay system. Blood samples were obtained from 18-volunteers with three Apo E genotypes: E2, E3 and E4. tPA-induced clot lysis (0-4 microgram/ml tPA), was assessed in the presence or absence of supplemental Apo E2, E3 or E4 (9.8 microgram/ml). tPA-induced clot lysis was significantly (P equal or less than 0.0001) enhanced by supplementation with Apo E2 (EC50 0.20 0.06 microgram/ml) as compared to tPA alone (0.72 0.19). Apo E4 supplementation caused a significant (P &lt; or = 0.05) inhibition of clot lysis (0.98 0.23), but there was no significant change caused by Apo E3. The genotype of the volunteer did not significantly affect the ability of the supplemental Apo E from modulating tPA-induced clot lysis. We conclude that the administration of Apo E isoproteins can modulate clot lysis in vitro. Our results suggest that the Apo E isoprotein may have an impact on clot dissolution and the effectiveness of thrombolytic therapy.


Treatments for nervous system disorders that involve transplanting genetically modified neural stem cells may ultimately be feasible. As a step towards this therapeutic approach, a novel murine embryonic stem cell gammaretroviral vector was developed with features designed to optimize transgene expression in neural stem cells and to increase vector safety. All potential start sites of translation in the 5' leader were removed. These sites may compete with an inserted transgene for translation initiation, and also produce potentially immunogenic peptides. Further, all of the gag gene sequences were replaced with a well-defined constitutive transport element from avian leukemia virus to promote nuclear export of viral RNA, and to eliminate any homology between the vector and a murine leukemia virus-derived gag-pol packaging plasmid. Two versions of the virus were made in which EGFP expression was driven either by the Rous sarcoma virus U3 enhancer or by a combination of sequences from the Syn1 and Pgk-1 promoters. Both of these viruses efficiently transduced neural stem cells isolated from embryonic rat hippocampus, and robust EGFP expression was observed in neurons derived from these cells following differentiation in vitro.
Small animal models that manifest many of the characteristic neuropathological and behavioral features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been developed and have proven of great value for studying the pathogenesis of this disorder at the molecular, cellular and behavioral levels. The great progress made in our understanding of the genetic factors that either cause or contribute to the risk of developing AD has prompted many laboratories to create transgenic (tg) mice that overexpress specific genes which cause familial forms of the disease. Several of these tg mice display neuropathological and behavioral features of AD including amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) and amyloid deposits, neuritic plaques, gliosis, synaptic alterations and signs of neurodegeneration as well as memory impairment. Despite these similarities, important differences in neuropathology and behavior between these tg mouse models and AD have also been observed, and to date no perfect animal model has emerged. Moreover, ascertaining which elements of the neuropathological and behavioral phenotype of these various strains of tg mice are relevant to that observed in AD continues to be a challenge. Here we provide a critical review of the AD-like neuropathology and behavioral phenotypes of several well-known and utilized tg mice that express human APP transgenes.
To study the development of the cerebellum, we generated a transgenic mouse line Tg(malpha6-cre)B1LFR that expresses CRE recombinase under the GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit promoter. In this line, recombination of an R26R reporter allele occurred postnatally in granule cells of the cerebellum and dorsal cochlear nucleus, as well as in a subset of precerebellar nuclei in the brainstem. All neurons in which recombination occurred originated during embryogenesis from the rhombic lip. This might be explained by a very early specification event at the rhombic lip that primes cells derived from this structure to express the transgene during neuronal maturation. As no recombination occurred in the inferior olive, it may be derived from a distinct subset of precursors at the rhombic lip. No recombination occurred in any of the interneurons in the cerebellum (stellate cells, basket cells, and Golgi cells), consistent with the hypothesis that they are not derived from the same embryonic tissue as the granule cells.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by the presence of tight junction complexes between brain endothelial cells that restrict paracellular permeability. As a consequence, a number of transport proteins are expressed on cerebral endothelial cells to facilitate the transport of nutrients into the brain. Although the modulation of barrier tight junction properties by glial-conditioned medium and by second messengers is well established, little is known about the effects of these factors on carrier-mediated BBB transport processes. The ECV304 cell line shows an endothelial phenotype and can be induced to upregulate certain BBB features in the presence of glial factors. In the present study, we have examined the effect of conditioned medium derived from rat C6-glioma cells (C6CM) on the function of the L-system amino acid transporter in ECV304 cells, using L-leucine as the model substrate, and have determined whether the changes observed can be mimicked by modulating intracellular cAMP levels. ECV304 cells exposed to C6CM exhibited a significant increase in both the affinity of leucine transport and the diffusional constant (Michaelis-Menten), while the maximal transport capacity remained unchanged. Conversely, acute exposure to modulators of the PKA and PKC second messenger pathways was found to reduce significantly the maximal transport capacity and diffusion constants, while transport affinity remained unchanged. In both cases, the maximal flux of leucine was increased, indicating transport of greater efficiency. This study indicates that exposure of ECV304 cells to C6CM provides an influence inducing L-system transport properties characteristic of brain endothelial cells. Furthermore, it appears that L-system-mediated transport of amino acids can be modulated by several distinct pathways.

Both outer hair cells (OHCs) and inner hair cells (IHCs) survive and mature in 3 days old rat organ of Corti explants cultured for 1 month in a minimal essential medium. In contrast, under the same culture conditions, only IHCs survive in explants from adult guinea pig organ of Corti while many of the OHCs are lost within the first 48 h. Hair cell counts show OHCs loss to be greater in the lower portion (i.e. middle turn) of the cochlea than at the apex. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) indicates that there is DNA damage in adult OHCs within 8 h of explantation. Treatment of the adult organ of Corti explants with either actinomycin D (10(-7) M) or cycloheximide (10(-6) M) prevents most OHC losses. According to these results apoptosis may be the mechanism of OHC loss in adult organ of Corti explants. Stable membrane potentials recorded from the OHCs in both uncultured and actinomycin D-treated organ of Corti explants cultured for 72 h demonstrate the functional integrity of these hair cells. OHC losses in the adult guinea pig organ of Corti cultures can also be prevented by treatment with several of the growth factors tested, i.e. acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). The results of this study suggest that growth factor therapy may be applicable to the treatment of some hearing disorders.
The outcome of infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) varies greatly. The virus associates with serum lipoproteins, including those containing apolipoprotein E (apoE) and apolipoprotein B (apoB), and may enter cells via the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR). ApoE genotypes can affect the extent of damage in diseases caused by 2 other viruses--herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1; in Alzheimer's disease and herpes labialis) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). We therefore investigated whether specific apoE and apoB alleles were associated with different outcomes of HCV infection. A total of 156 anti-HCV-positive patients and 104 non-HCV-infected patients were studied. Liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic HCV infection (n = 111) were assessed for disease severity by the Knodell system. ApoE and apoB genotypes were determined by standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods. There was no significant difference among the apoE genotypes of HCV-infected subjects compared with previously published population data, or between HCV-RNA positive or negative patients. However, chronically HCV-infected subjects with mild liver disease (n = 65) had a significantly higher apoE-epsilon 4 allele frequency (20.0%) than those (n = 46) with severe disease (6.5%). ApoB alleles alone or in combination with apoE were not associated with mild or severe disease. The overall apoE allele frequencies of patients with liver disease not caused by HCV were similar to those of the total HCV group and in contrast to the HCV patients, the apoE allele frequencies were similar in those patients with no or mild fibrosis as compared with those with bridging fibrosis or cirrhosis. In conclusion, carriage of an apoE-epsilon 4 allele may be protective against liver damage caused by HCV, but not against damage due to various nonviral causes. This is yet another case in which apoE may determine the severity of a viral disease.
One brain region that has been implicated in the regulation of lordosis is the medial preoptic-anterior hypothalamic continuum (MPOA-AH). Previous studies have suggested that this zone may be part of the circuit mediating the effects of serotonin (5-HT) on sexual receptivity. In the present experiments, we investigated the role of 5-HT(1a/7) and 5-HT(2) receptor subtypes in the MPOA-AH in the control of lordosis. In two experiments, either 5-HT(1a/7) or 5-HT(2) agonists were injected unilaterally into the MPOA-AH of ovariectomized, hormonally primed female hamsters. In the first experiment, microinjections of the 5-HT(1a/7) agonist 8-hydroxy-2,9-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin resulted in an attenuation of the lordosis posture by causing a decrease in the mean lordosis duration and an increase in the number of lordosis episodes over the entire testing period. In the second experiment, microinjections of the 5-HT(2b/2c) agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine did not result in any changes in sexual receptivity. However, microinjections of the 5-HT(2) agonist (2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane HCl facilitated lordosis by increasing the mean lordosis duration and decreasing the number of lordosis episodes in the first 5 min of the testing period. These data indicate that serotonin may act in the MPOA-AH via 5-HT(1a/7) receptors to attenuate and 5-HT(2) receptors to facilitate sexual receptivity.
Many nontropical rodent species rely on photoperiod as a primary cue to coordinate seasonally appropriate changes in physiology and behavior. Among these changes, some species of rodents demonstrate increased aggression in short, &quot;winter-like&quot; compared with long &quot;summer-like&quot; day lengths. The precise neuroendocrine mechanisms mediating changes in aggression, however, remain largely unknown. The goal of the present study was to examine the effects of photoperiod and exogenous melatonin on resident-intruder aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). In Experiment 1, male Syrian hamsters were housed in long (LD 14:10) or short (LD 10:14) days for 10 weeks. In Experiment 2, hamsters were housed in long days and half of the animals were given daily subcutaneous melatonin injections (15 microg/day in 0.1 ml saline) 2 h before lights out for 10 consecutive days to simulate a short-day pattern of melatonin secretion, while the remaining animals received injections of the vehicle alone. Animals in both experiments were then tested using a resident-intruder model of aggression and the number of attacks, duration of attacks, and latency to initial attack were recorded. In Experiment 1, short-day hamsters underwent gonadal regression and displayed increased aggression compared with long-day animals. In Experiment 2, melatonin treatment also increased aggression compared with control hamsters without affecting circulating testosterone. Collectively, the results of the present study demonstrate that exposure to short days or short day-like patterns of melatonin increase aggression in male Syrian hamsters. In addition, these results suggest that photoperiodic changes in aggression provide an important, ecologically relevant model with which to study the neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying aggression in rodents.
Arithmetic processing deficits in persons with fragile X Syndrome (fraX), the most common heritable cause of mental retardation, are well known. In this study, we characterize the neural underpinnings of these performance deficits using functional MRI. Given that a single gene defect (FMR1) is known to be responsible for this disorder, we also assess whether brain activation in arithmetic processing areas is related to amount of FMR1 protein expression (FMRP). Subjects included 16 females with fraX, and 16 female age-matched controls. Subjects viewed arithmetic equations with two (1 + 3 = 4) or three (2 + 3 - 1 = 5) operands, and were asked to judge whether the results were correct or not. Subjects with fraX showed significant impairment in behavioral performance on the 3-operand but not the 2-operand arithmetic equations. Significant brain activation was observed bilaterally in the prefrontal and parietal cortices for unaffected subjects, and bilateral prefrontal and left angular gyrus for subjects with fraX, for both trial types. Subjects with fraX exhibited less overall activation than did unaffected subjects in both types of trials; and, unlike the unaffected group, did not show increased extent of activation in association with greater task difficulty. During the 3-operand trials, activation in bilateral prefrontal and motor/premotor, and left supramarginal and angular gyri were positively correlated with FMRP, suggesting that decreased FMR1 protein expression underlies deficits in math performance in persons with fraX. More broadly, this investigation demonstrates a unique bridging of cognitive and molecular neuroscience and represents a useful approach for the study of brain development and function.
We studied cytokine gene polymorphisms in the promoter region, including interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1beta, and IL-10, in Japanese patients with human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) associated myelopathy (HAM) (n = 65), asymptomatic HTLV-I carriers (n = 143), and HTLV-I seronegative, normal controls (n = 160). There was a significant difference between HAM patients and HTLV-I carriers in the distribution of IL-6 promoter polymorphism at position -634 (chi(2) = 9.90, p = 0.0071). The IL-6 genotype was also significantly different between HAM patients and normal controls (chi(2) = 11.53, p = 0.0033), while a similar distribution was observed in IL-1beta and IL-10 polymorphisms among HAM patients, carriers, and normal controls. The results suggest that IL-6 gene region may contribute to susceptibility to HAM, and that aberrant cytokine productions could be involved in the development of HAM.
The Ewing's sarcoma (EWS) oncogene is fused to a variety of cellular transcription factors in various forms of human cancers. Although EWS fusion proteins have been extensively studied, the normal function of EWS remains poorly characterized. We previously reported that a monoclonal antibody, referred to as MY95, recognized nucleoporins such as p62, Nup98, and CAN/Nup214 and an uncharacterized polypeptide with an apparent molecular mass of 83 kDa. In the present study, an amino acid sequence analysis of this 83-kDa protein revealed that it is, in fact, EWS, which is not known to belong to the nucleoporins. We further demonstrated that the immunodeterminant of MY95 contains an N-acetylglucosamine moiety, indicating that EWS is a glycoprotein. Interestingly, the glycosylation level of EWS changes during the neural differentiation of P19 cells. MY95 will be quite useful in further studies of the glycosylated form of EWS in terms of understanding the normal cellular function of this oncogene product.

The continuous respiration olfactometer (CRO) was designed as a respiration-synchronous method for delivering odorants during recordings of brain electrical activity, providing control and monitoring of the timing of the delivery as well as the quantities of odorant involved. The CRO incorporates a purpose-built electronic system designed with very specific temporal and quantitative characteristics, and is composed of four main parts: the respiratory monitoring apparatus, the odorant/air delivery system, the serial interface device and the respiratory monitoring software. Tests were undertaken to determine the performance of the system with reference to the accuracy and precision of timing and control of odorant delivery. Tests were also undertaken to determine the effects of variations in natural respiration between subjects on the capability of the respiratory monitoring system, using a group of 50 subjects, to test the success of a variable gain control to optimize the range of the digitized respiratory output. The delivery system was able to provide information concerning quantities of air or odorant delivered, and the stimulus timing information required for integration with neurophysiological recording techniques.
Previous work has suggested the existence of differences between the cerebral cortex of normal individuals, and those of patients with diseases such as epilepsy and schizophrenia. These shape abnormalities may be of developmental origin. Improved shape measures could provide useful tools for neuroscience research and patient diagnosis. We consider the theoretically desirable properties of measures of brain shape. We have implemented seven measures, three from the neuroscience literature, and four new to this field. Three of the measures are zero-order and four are second-order with respect to the surface. We validate the measures using simple geometrical shapes, and a collection of magnetic resonance scans of ten histologically normal ex vivo fetal brains with gestational ages from 19-42 weeks. We then apply the measures to MR scans from two histologically abnormal ex vivo brains. We demonstrate that our implementation of the measures is sensitive to anatomical variability rather than to the discreteness of the image data. All the measures were sensitive to changes in shape during fetal development. Several of the measures could distinguish between the normal and abnormal fetal brains. We propose a multivariate approach to studying the shape of the cerebral cortex, in which both zero-order and second-order measures are used to quantify folding.
Though fluid dynamics offer a good approach to nonrigid registration and give accurate results, even with large-scale deformations, its application is still very time consuming. We introduce and discuss different approaches to solve the core problem of nonrigid registration, the partial differential equation of fluid dynamics. We focus on the solvers, their computional costs and the accuracy of registration. Numerical experiments show that relaxation is currently the best approach, especially when reducing the cost/iteration by focusing the updates on deformation spots.
By using mice genomically lacking the mononuclear phagocytic growth factor colony-stimulating factor 1 and thereby deficient in macrophage and dendritic cell populations, we show that these cells play a dual role: they constitute a major defense against systemic infection but also facilitate cerebral bacterial invasion by Listeria monocytogenes.


The span of complexity in brains, between the simplest flatworms and the most advanced mammals is exceedingly great, measured by the number of different anatomical parts, physiological processes, sensory discriminations, and behavioral alternatives in the repertoire. Most evolution of brains has been adaptive radiation within the same grade of complexity. Distinct grades of complexity have appeared a dozen or more times and quite often in the retrograde direction. Advancement has not been inevitable or obviously advantageous in survival value but has happened-long before primates or mammals or vertebrates. Compare cuttlefish and the most advanced gastropods, bees and the best brine shrimp, primates and the most advanced reptiles known-all twigs with common branches. This repeated achievement of evolution has had all too little study in respect of the detailed listing of differences between major taxa of distinct grades of complexity. Connectivity at the level now known for the mammalian cortex is much needed in other classes, with estimates of reciprocity, intrinsic differentiation, dendritic parcellation and afferent and efferent connections, both locally and projecting to other centers, each done quantitatively to permit comparison. Physiological system organization, personality properties of neurons and circuits, proclivities and emergent phenomena at several integrative levels are sketchily known only for parts of a few systems. Examples are given of opportunities for new research that can more adequately characterize grades of brains.
Four major questions can be asked about vertebrate brain evolution: 1) What major changes have occurred in neural organization and function? 2) When did these changes occur? 3) By what mechanisms did these changes occur? 4) Why did these changes occur? Comparative neurobiologists have been very successful in recognizing major changes in brain structure. They have also made progress in understanding the functional significance of these changes, although this understanding is primarily limited to sensory centers, rather than integrative or motor centers, because of the relative ease of manipulating the relevant stimuli. Although neuropaleontology continues to provide important insights into when changes occurred, this approach is generally limited to recognizing variation in overall brain size, and sometimes brain regions, as interpreted from the surface of an endocranial cast. In recent years, most new information regarding when neural changes occurred has been based on cladistical analysis of neural features in extant taxa. Historically, neurobiologists have made little progress in understanding how and why brains evolve. The emerging field of evolutionary developmental biology appears to be the most promising approach for revealing how changes in development and its processes produce neural changes, including the emergence of novel features. Why neural changes have occurred is the most difficult question and one that has been the most ignored, in large part because its investigation requires a broad interdisciplinary approach involving both behavior and ecology.
Serotonin (5HT) induces short-term and long-term synaptic facilitation (STF and LTF, respectively) at sensory neuron to motor neuron (SN-MN) synapses in Aplysia, and these forms of plasticity are thought to contribute to short-term and long-term memory for behavioral sensitization. Recent evidence in Aplysia has identified a third phase of synaptic facilitation-intermediate-term facilitation (ITF)-that is temporally and mechanistically distinct from STF and LTF. Here, we review the findings of recent studies that have examined this unique intermediate-term phase at molecular, cellular, and behavioral levels. The results indicate that, at tail SN-MN synapses, multiple forms of ITF can be distinguished; they are induced via distinct mechanisms and use parallel molecular pathways for their expression. Moreover, we have incorporated the temporal and molecular features of these different forms of ITF at tail SN-MN synapses into behavioral analyses, and found that they accurately predict distinct forms of intermediate-term memory for sensitization of the tail-elicited siphon withdrawal reflex. These findings indicate that different types of experiences engage distinct molecular pathways in the service of memory retention over the same time domain.

Ghrelin, a 28 amino acid acylated peptide predominantly produced by the stomach, displays strong growth hormone-releasing activity mediated by the hypothalamus-pituitary GH secretagogue receptors that were found to be specific for a family of synthetic, orally active GH secretagogues. The discovery of ghrelin brings us to a new understanding of the regulation of GH secretion. However, ghrelin is much more than simply a natural GH secretagogue. It also acts on other central and peripheral receptors and exhibits other actions, including stimulation of lactotroph and corticotroph secretion, orexigenic, influences gastroenteropancreatic functions, and has metabolic, cardiovascular and antiproliferative effects. Knowledge of the whole spectrum of biologic activities of this new hormone will provide new understanding of some critical aspects of neuroscience, metabolism and internal medicine. In fact, GHS were born more than 20 years ago as synthetic molecules, eliciting the hope that orally active GHS could be used to treat GH deficiency as an alternative to recombinant human GH. However, the dream did not become reality and the usefulness of GHS as an anabolic anti-aging intervention restoring the GH/IGF-I axis in somatopause is still unclear. Instead, we now face the theoretic possibility that GHS analogues acting as agonists or antagonists could become candidate drugs for the treatment of pathophysiologic conditions in internal medicine totally unrelated to disorders of GH secretion.

Human CLC-KB has been identified as a kidney-specific member of the CLC chloride channel family, and mutations of the human CLC-KB gene are known to cause Bartter syndrome type III. A precise understanding of the localization of this channel in the human kidney is imperative to our understanding of the pathophysiology, but this has remained unclear due to the high homology between human CLC-KB and CLC-KA, another kidney-specific member of the same family. The high intraspecies homology also rules out an exact correlation of the human isoforms (CLC-KA and CLC-KB) to the mouse and rat isoforms (CLC-K1 and CLC-K2, respectively). This study created transgenic mice harboring the enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) gene driven by an 11-kbp human CLC-KB gene promoter. Three transgenic lines were generated, and all of them showed EGFP fluorescence in the kidney, with an identical pattern of localization to the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop, distal tubules, connecting tubules, and intercalated cells of the collecting duct. This localization is exactly the same as that of mouse CLC-K2 identified in a previous report (Kobayashi et al. J Am Soc Neph 12: 1327-1334, 2001). EGFP fluorescence was also detected in the inner ear, more specifically in marginal cells of the stria vascularis and dark cells of the vestibular labyrinth, suggesting that human CLC-KB could play an important role in the fluid transport mechanism of the inner ear. The results (1) confirmed that CLC-KB is the true human homologue of rat and mouse CLC-K2 and (2) established that the 11-kbp human CLC-KB gene promoter is sufficient to elicit the precise expression in specific cell types of the kidney and inner ear.
We determined the interaction between the vestibulosympathetic reflex and the arterial chemoreflex in 12 healthy subjects. Subjects performed three trials in which continuous recordings of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and arterial oxygen saturation were obtained. First, in prone subjects the otolith organs were engaged by use of head-down rotation (HDR). Second, the arterial chemoreflex was activated by inspiration of hypoxic gas (10% O2 and 90% N2) for 7 min with HDR being performed during minute 6. Third, hypoxia was repeated (15 min) with HDR being performed during minute 14. HDR [means +/- SE; increase (Delta)7 +/- 1 bursts/min and Delta50 +/- 11% for burst frequency and total MSNA, respectively; P &lt; 0.05] and hypoxia (Delta6 +/- 2 bursts/min and Delta62 +/- 29%; P &lt; 0.05) increased MSNA. Additionally, MSNA increased when HDR was performed during hypoxia (Delta11 +/- 2 bursts/min and Delta127 +/- 57% change from normoxia; P &lt; 0.05). These increases in MSNA were similar to the algebraic sum of the individual increase in MSNA elicited by HDR and hypoxia (Delta13 +/- 1 bursts/min and Delta115 +/- 36%). Increases in MAP (Delta3 +/- 1 mmHg) and HR (Delta19 +/- 1 beats/min) during combined HDR and hypoxia generally were smaller (P &lt; 0.05) than the algebraic sum of the individual responses (Delta5 +/- 1 mmHg and Delta24 +/- 2 beats/min for MAP and HR, respectively; P &lt; 0.05). These findings indicate an additive interaction between the vestibulosympathetic reflex and arterial chemoreflex for MSNA. Therefore, it appears that MSNA outputs between the vestibulosympathetic reflex and arterial chemoreflex are independent of one another in humans.
In this study, we examined effects of chemical stimulation of the ventrolateral region of the midbrain periaqueductal gray (vl PAG) on airway smooth muscle tone. We observed that in anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated ferrets, vl PAG stimulation elicited airway smooth muscle relaxation. To clarify the mechanisms underlying this observation, we examined the GABA-GABA(A) receptor signaling pathway by 1) examining the expression of GABA(A) receptors on airway-related vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs) located in the rostral nucleus ambiguus region (rNA), by use of receptor immunochemistry and confocal microscopy; 2) measuring GABA release within the rNA by using microdialysis; and 3) performing physiological experiments to determine the effects of selective blockade of GABA(A) receptors expressed by AVPNs in the rNA region on vl PAG-induced airway relaxation, thereby defining the role of the GABA(A) receptor subtype in this process. We observed that AVPNs located in the rNA region do express the GABA(A) receptor beta-subtype. In addition, we demonstrated that activation of vl PAG induced GABA release within the rNA region, and this release was associated with airway smooth muscle relaxation. Blockade of the GABA(A) receptor subtype expressed by AVPNs in the rNA by bicuculline diminished the inhibitory effects of vl PAG stimulation on airway smooth muscle tone. These data indicate, for the first time, that activation of vl PAG dilates the airways by a release of GABA and activation of GABA(A) receptors expressed by AVPNs.


We describe a novel method, two-dimensional electrophoresis/phage panning (2D-PP), for the generation of antibodies against proteins in crude biochemical samples, such as cellular membrane fractions. These sources have traditionally presented problems as to the development of antibodies by conventional techniques. 2D-PP involves two-dimensional resolution of proteins, blotting of the proteins onto a nitrocellulose membrane, and screening of a phage antibody library and isolation of corresponding antibodies. By 2D-PP with detergent-insoluble &quot;lipid rafts&quot; as a target protein complex, we obtained specific phage pools against eight antigen spots (from a total of 39 spots). These antibodies were functional in Western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assaying (ELISA), and immunoscreening of a cDNA expression library. Propagation of anti-nitrocellulose phages was the major problem in 2D-PP, but was overcome by the use of the soluble anti-nitrocellulose antibody fragment. 2D-PP constitutes a key tool for functional analysis of proteins in complex fractions.
The ability to form an association between the time and the place of food availability, namely time-place learning, is presumably important for survival. The present study was designed to examine time-place learning and to identify exogenous and endogenous factors that may affect this behavior in rats. In an initial experiment, rats displayed poor time-place behavior and appeared to prefer the feeder that was closer to the center aisle and water supply. When these cues were minimized in a subsequent experiment, rats consistently displayed the time-place discrimination by exhibiting food anticipatory activity (FAA) at the correct location prior to each meal time. These rats also showed significant correlations between the level of FAA and the amount of dopamine turnover (the dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio) in the nucleus accumbens and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, indicating possible involvement of regional dopaminergic activity in time-place behavior. No correlation was found for norepinephrine, epinephrine, or serotonin. In addition, the correlation between FAA and dopamine turnover was not found when rats were entrained to only one meal per day. Together, the data suggest that rats can learn the time-place discrimination under proper experimental conditions and that dopamine may play a role in the expression of this behavior.
The wear behavior of ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) is critical to the success of total joint replacements. Recent attempts to modify the wear behavior of UHMWPE by processing, in particular, crosslinking UHMWPE have shown promise to increase wear resistance, but concerns persist regarding other mechanical properties. It is also unclear what specific surface mechanical properties govern the wear resistance seen in these materials. The goal of this study was to demonstrate a custom-built surface mechanical test system and method that measures the micromechanical response of microtomed UHMWPE surfaces to depth-sensing microindentation tests. The surface structure of these UHMWPE materials was also examined using scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. A custom designed microindentation test system assessed the microindentation behavior of three UHMWPE resins: 1. Hylamertrade mark, 2. GUR-1020 CMS, and 3. Marathontrade mark-a lightly crosslinked material. The effects of material and indentation depth were studied. Microindentation tests were performed with indentation depths ranging from 2 to 45 microm. Four different measurements of surface micromechanical behavior were obtained including the surface modulus, microhardness, hysteresis energy (irreversible work done to the sample per unit cycle) and its associated energy dissipation factor, and loading slope. Statistically significant differences in each of these parameters were found for each material. Generally, Hylamer had the largest values for these parameters, followed by the GUR resin and then the Marathon. Surface modulus was independent of depth of testing and found to be 651 MPa for Marathon, 738 MPa for GUR, and 1015 MPa for Hylamer (Modulus for bulk UHMWPE is 540 MPa for Hylamer, 620 for GUR, and 1380 for Hylamer). The microhardness varied between 67 and 162 MPa depending on material and depth of testing. Surface structural characterization shows that the microtoming process for surface preparation generated distinct surface features that varied between materials. Intermittent drawn ribbons of polymer with oriented crystals were observed in both scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. The surface density and size of these features were characteristic of the materials with the Hylamer having the fewest, but largest ribbons, followed by GUR and then Marathon.
We describe a novel method for detecting micrometastasis in the blood stream of cancer patients based on RT-PCR amplification of tumor-associated carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) mRNA. To increase sensitivity and specificity of RT-PCR, CEA transcript was selectively up-regulated in cancer cells by exposure of peripheral blood to non-toxic concentrations of staurosporine (ST). Thereafter, polyA(+) RNA was extracted from tumor cells captured by means of magnetic beads coated with a monoclonal antibody against a common human epithelial antigen. Finally, RNA was subjected to RT-PCR analysis of CEA transcript. Using this approach, we demonstrated an ST-mediated increase in CEA transcript in blood specimens collected from a patient with metastatic colon cancer before receiving treatment with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin. After a few cycles of chemotherapy, CEA-positive tumor cells were no longer detected. Clinical follow-up of this patient indicated that treatment with chemotherapy induced a dramatic reduction in liver metastasis. Therefore, it can be hypothesized that lack of CEA transcript detection might be consistent with disappearance or at least marked reduction of circulating tumor cells.
Plexiform neurofibromas are one of the most common and disabling features of neurofibromatosis 1. Treatment options for patients with plexiform neurofibromas have been limited, with surgery being the primary option for patients with progressive lesions causing significant morbidity. Trials have evaluated other treatment approaches, including the use of antihistamines, maturation agents, and antiangiogenic agents. The design of such trials and entry criteria have been quite variable, and results have been difficult to interpret. As more is understood concerning the molecular genetic underpinnings of plexiform neurofibromas, new avenues of treatment are being explored. Evaluation of clinical trials is challenging because of the unpredictable nature of plexiform neurofibromas and difficulties in measuring objective responses. The use of innovative neuroimaging techniques and other outcome measures may greatly improve the design of trials and evaluation of potential effective agents.
Neurofibromatosis 1 is associated with an increased risk for the development of benign and malignant tumors involving neural and non-neural tissues. Children as well as adults with neurofibromatosis 1 are affected. Central nervous system neoplasms represent a significant portion of these malignancies and appear primarily in children less than 10 years of age. Optic pathway gliomas and brainstem gliomas are the most common intracranial neoplasms found in neurofibromatosis 1, although there also is an increased incidence of other brain tumors in this population. The majority of these intracranial neoplasms are benign pilocytic astrocytomas, which may behave in a less aggressive manner than histologically identical tumors in non-neurofibromatosis 1 patients. Owing to the indolent nature of these tumors, conservative management with close follow-up is recommended. When intervention is required, conventional treatment with surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy has been used with variable results. The current challenge lies in understanding the pathogenesis of gliomas in neurofibromatosis 1, which may lead to the development of biologically directed therapies with less associated morbidity and mortality for neurofibromatosis 1 as well as non-neurofibromatosis 1 children.
Neurofibromatosis 1 is a common autosomal dominant disease reported in approximately 1 in 3000 individuals. Although some features of neurofibromatosis 1, such as caf-au-lait spots and Lisch nodules, are clinically silent, neurofibromas cause a significant degree of morbidity, mortality, and cosmetic disfigurement. Childhood through early adulthood is a vulnerable period for the growth of these lesions. Neurofibromas are a heterogeneous group of benign tumors that grow from intraneural and extraneural tissues. These tumors take on different morphology, grow at variable rates, and occur in multiple locations. Symptoms arise as neurofibromas enlarge, compressing and distorting local structures. The unpredictable nature of neurofibromas has a serious impact on the quality of life of patients with neurofibromatosis 1, and their management is challenging for physicians. Surgical removal remains the mainstay of treatment. However, advances in the understanding of the genetics and pathogenesis of neurofibromatosis 1 have led to the development of promising new biologically directed therapies. The purpose of this review is to summarize the defining characteristics, incidence, clinical course, management options, and outcome of neurofibromas in children with neurofibromatosis 1.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is now established as an important noninvasive measure for neurophysiologic investigation of the central and peripheral nervous systems in humans. Magnetic stimulation can be used for stimulating peripheral nerves with a similar mechanism of activation as for electrical stimulation. When TMS is applied to the cerebral cortex, however, some features emerge that distinguish it from transcranial electrical stimulation. One of the most important features is designated the D and I wave hypothesis, which is now widely accepted as a mechanism of TMS of the motor cortex. Transcranial electrical stimulation excites the pyramidal tract axons directly, either at the initial segment of the neuron or at proximal internodes in the subcortical white matter, giving rise to D (direct) waves, whereas TMS excites the pyramidal neurons transsynaptically, giving rise to I (indirect) waves. There are still other phenomena with mechanisms that remain to be elucidated. First, not only excitatory effects but also inhibitory effects can be elicited by TMS of the cerebral cortex (e.g., the silent period and intracortical inhibition). The inhibitory effect may also be used to investigate cerebral functions other than the motor cortex, such as the visual, sensory cortices, and the frontal eye field, from which no overt response like the motor evoked potential can be elicited. Second, there is an abundance of intraregional functional connectivities among different cortical areas that can also be revealed by TMS, or TMS in combination with neuroimaging techniques. Last, repetitive transcranial stimulation exerts a lasting effect on brain function even after the stimulation has ceased. With further investigation of the neural mechanisms of TMS, these techniques will open up new possibilities for investigating the physiologic function of the brain as well as opportunities for clinical application.

Numerous psychotropic drugs exist as a mixture of 2 mirror-image stereoisomers of each other, each called an enantiomer and the mixture called a racemate. Often the drug can be improved when only 1 of the enantiomers is administered.
The prescribing of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors for adolescents is extensive despite the fact that there are few pharmacokinetic (PK), efficacy, safety, or tolerability studies on this group. This study reports the PK findings from two trials in adolescents treated with citalopram (CIT) in naturalistic clinical settings: one retrospective and one prospective. The aim of our study was to describe serum concentrations of CIT, desmethylcitalopram (DCIT), and didesmethylcitalopram (DDCIT) (trough values in steady state) in adolescents in relation to daily dose and clinical information obtained from therapeutic drug monitoring request forms. Altogether, 44 patients younger than 21 years were scrutinized using this combined open-label approach. The main findings were that (1) there was a pronounced interindividual variability of serum CIT, DCIT, and DDCIT concentrations in all doses prescribed, in agreement with previous studies on adults; on correcting for dose, the coefficient of variance was about 50% for CIT, DCIT, and DDCIT; (2) the transformation of CIT to DCIT and of DCIT to DDCIT was similar within the dose range 20 to 60 mg/day; (3) there was a difference between the sexes on comparing the dose-corrected concentrations of CIT and DCIT, with girls presenting significantly higher values than boys; and (4) there was a strong dose-serum concentration relationship in three identified subgroups of adolescents: (a) nonsmokers (CIT, r(2) = 0.71; DCIT, r(2) = 0.81), (b) girls not taking oral contraceptives (CIT, r(2) = 0.75; DCIT, r(2) = 0.71,), and (c) girls in the last 14 days of the menstrual cycle (CIT, r(2) = 0.68; DCIT, r(2) = 0.64). In summary, the present study tentatively supports influences of sex, oral contraceptives, and smoking habits on the disposition of CIT in younger patients. Hence, future studies on CIT should assess these parameters.
Using the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP), we investigated the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram on personality traits and the relationship between personality traits and peripheral indexes for central serotonergic function in patients with panic disorder at baseline and after 6 months of treatment. The degree of anxiety and depression was assessed using the Beck Anxiety Inventory, the Beck Depression Inventory, the Clinical Anxiety Scale, and the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale. A reduction in anxiety and depression scores of 75% was observed after treatment in two thirds of the patients. Mean changes of 12% in the direction of normalization were observed in all KSP anxiety-related items (Somatic Anxiety, Muscular Tension, Psychic Anxiety, and Psychasthenia), the aggression and hostility related items (Inhibition of Aggression, Irritability, and Guilt) and the item of Socialisation. A positive correlation was found between Vmax for the platelet [14C]-serotonin uptake and Inhibition of Aggression before treatment, and a negative correlation was found between the affinity of serotonin uptake and Inhibition of Aggression after treatment. Negative childhood experiences influenced enhanced scores on some KSP items but not the serotonergic function. In panic patients treated with citalopram, effects were seen on personality traits, confirming an association between serotonergic activity and aggression.
Several recent clinical trials have established that reboxetine, a new selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (selective NRI), is effective and safe for the treatment of major depression. However, the effects of reboxetine on specific symptoms of anxiety, agitation, and insomnia have not been reported. Data were obtained from nine short-term, double-blind, randomized clinical trials in patients with major depression. After initial titration, patients received reboxetine 8 to 10 mg per day. The effects on specific HAM-D symptoms of agitation, anxiety, and insomnia were compared between reboxetine-and placebo-treated patients. In addition, the incidence of treatment-emergent agitation, anxiety, and insomnia side effects with reboxetine were examined. Compared with placebo, the proportion of patients with improvement on the HAM-D agitation item and the HAM-D anxiety and insomnia factors from baseline was significantly greater with reboxetine at most assessment intervals. In general, the incidence of agitation-or anxiety-related side effects was comparable with reboxetine and placebo. Although reboxetine was associated with a significant (p &lt; 0.05) increase in treatment-emergent insomnia reported as an adverse effect during the first week of treatment, very few reports of insomnia were made at subsequent evaluations. The incidence of treatment-emergent agitation or anxiety was comparable between treatment groups.
We report here a combination of site-directed mutations that eliminate the high-affinity Ca(2+) response of the large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel (BK(Ca)), leaving only a low-affinity response blocked by high concentrations of Mg(2+). Mutations at two sites are required, the &quot;Ca(2+) bowl,&quot; which has been implicated previously in Ca(2+) binding, and M513, at the end of the channel's seventh hydrophobic segment. Energetic analyses of mutations at these positions, alone and in combination, argue that the BK(Ca) channel contains three types of Ca(2+) binding sites, one of low affinity that is Mg(2+) sensitive (as has been suggested previously) and two of higher affinity that have similar binding characteristics and contribute approximately equally to the power of Ca(2+) to influence channel opening. Estimates of the binding characteristics of the BK(Ca) channel's high-affinity Ca(2+)-binding sites are provided.

The expression of tissue factor (TF), the initiator of the clotting system, was investigated by immunohistochemical staining for its role in clotting mechanisms of Plasmodium falciparum-infected placenta. Most mononuclear cells in the intervillous space of infected placentas stained with an anti-TF monoclonal antibody (MAb) and were positive for antimacrophage MAb. The intervillous space of infected placentas had significant fibrin deposition. In contrast, only small amounts of leukocytes, TF-positive cells, and fibrin were seen in the intervillous space in noninfected placentas. These results indicate that macrophages accumulated in infected placentas express TF and that subsequent perivillous fibrin clot formation leads to a narrowing and plugging of the intervillous space and disturbance of the blood supply. Macrophage TF expression in placentas could be associated with retarded placental growth and low birth weight in malaria infection and should be further investigated.
We describe sequence analysis of the mitochondrial DNA of five Hungarian patients diagnosed with probable LHON, who do not carry any of the three primary point mutations. We report three novel mutations, one of which might have a pathogenic role.

The deposition of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) is an early and critical aspect of Alzheimer's disease. A beta is formed by the cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Studies of familial forms of Alzheimer's disease indicate that elevated secretion of A beta, particularly A beta(1-42), is likely to be an etiologic agent in the disease. A beta(1-42) is known to cause fibril formation and at elevated levels increases aggregation, which can lead to neuronal death. It has, therefore, been hypothesized that if the levels of A betaB, particularly A beta(1-42), could be reduced that onset of Alzheimer's disease could be slowed or possibly prevented. We, therefore, propose using PNAs targeted to APP to decrease plasma and brain levels of A beta(1-40) and A beta(1-42). This research project is designed to expand upon the discovery in our laboratory that systemic administration of antisense or antigene treatments utilizing peptide nucleic acids (PNAs) can be used to target and shut down proteins. Antisense strategies are methods of specifically targeting a particular protein by inhibiting translation by complementary binding to mRNA, while antigene methods inhibit transcription by complementary binding to DNA. For experiments involving antisense strategies, there are several advantages to using PNAs as opposed to the traditional oligonucleotide approaches. We initially preformed our studies in rats and identified a PNA sequence that was able to significantly reduce the levels of A beta(1-41) in rat brain compared to vehicle control rats. We have switched to mice so that we can prepare to perform our experiments in a transgenic animal model of Alzheimer's disease. We have, however, run into several technical difficulties with using mice compared to rats. In spite of this, we have identified one PNA sequence that specifically lowers mouse brain A beta(1-40) A beta(1-42) by 37% and 47%, respectively.
The Alzheimer's amyloid beta protein (A beta) precursor (APP) is proteolytically cleaved by beta-secretase to N- and C-terminal fragments sAPPbeta and CTFbeta, respectively. Subsequently, CTFbeta is cleaved by gamma-secretase to generate A beta. We previously showed that the levels of secreted A beta and sAPPbeta were significantly reduced upon removal of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins from either primary brain cells or Chinese hamster ovary cultures. The results indicated that GPI-anchored proteins facilitated beta-secretase activity. In this report, we strengthen the previous findings by demonstrating that CTFbeta, like sAPPbeta, is also reduced upon removal of GPI-anchored proteins and that sAPPbeta does not accumulate in an intracellular compartment. This facilitation pathway does not appear to be important for the processing of a disease-linked mutant form of APP (670NL), known to be a superior beta-secretase substrate. A novel aspartyl protease, BACE, responsible for beta-secretase activity in the brain is not GPI-anchored. However, BACE in brain membranes accumulate in lipid rafts, a compartment marked by the accumulation of GPI-anchored proteins. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that BACE interacts with GPI-anchored proteins that facilitate its activity possibly by chaperoning it into lipid rafts.
Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is considered a transitional stage in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease; however, not all MCI patients progress to clinically defined AD or decline at identical rates. Hippocampal atrophy, as measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), may be a marker for hippocampal pathology in patients with MCI and predict a more rapid deterioration to clinical AD. In this study, we used MRI data from an ongoing MCI clinical trial to determine whether MRI hippocampal volume at baseline was associated with cognitive and functional performance in MCI subjects and whether it predicted those individuals who were more likely to develop AD. We performed correlational analyses between the MRI hippocampal volumes at study entry and the subjects' concurrent performance on neuropsychological measures and clinical ratings. Larger hippocampal volume was associated with better performance on tests of memory, general cognition, and overall clinical ratings. Further analyses suggested that a smaller baseline hippocampal volume may be associated with a higher risk of developing clinical AD. As the trial is still ongoing, these results require confirmation once the trial is completed. In summary, these data suggest that MRI hippocampal volume may be a useful correlate of disease severity in MCI subjects and a prognostic indicator of subsequent AD.
This experiment was designed to test the hypothesis that the sensed presence, the feeling of a proximal sentient being, can be evoked within the laboratory. Under double-blind conditions, 48 university men and women were exposed to weak (100 nT to 1 muT), complex, pulsed magnetic fields that were applied primarily over the right temporoparietal region, primarily over the left temporoparietal region, or equally across both hemispheres (one treatment per group) for 20 minutes while wearing opaque goggles in a very quiet room. A fourth group was exposed to a sham-field condition. Subjects who received greater stimulation over the right hemisphere or equal stimulation across both hemispheres reported more frequent incidences of presences, fears, and odd smells than did the subjects who received greater stimulation over the left hemisphere or who were exposed to the sham-field condition. The results suggest that the sensed presence is subject to experimental manipulation. This experimental procedure could be employed to explore the idea that the experience of a sensed presence is a resident property of the human brain and may be the fundamental source for phenomena attributed to visitations by gods, spirits, and other ephemeral phenomena.
Epidemiologic evidence implicates cyclooxygenase activity in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, in which amyloid plaques have been found to contain increased levels of dimers and higher multimers of the amyloid beta peptide. The product of the oxygenation of arachidonic acid by the cyclooxygenases, prostaglandin H2 (PGH2), rearranges non-enzymatically to several prostaglandins, including the highly reactive gamma-keto aldehydes, levuglandins E2 and D2. We demonstrate that PGH2 markedly accelerates the formation of dimers and higher oligomers of amyloid beta1-42. This is associated with the formation of levuglandin adducts of the peptide. These findings provide the molecular basis for a hypothesis linking cyclooxygenase activity to the formation of oligomers of amyloid beta.
The development of the nervous system is regulated by trophic signals that control cell proliferation, differentiation, and survival. Numb is an evolutionarily conserved protein identified by its ability to control cell fate in the nervous system of Drosophila. Mammals express four isoforms of Numb that differ in the length of a phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domain and a proline-rich region (PRR). Using PC12 cells stably expressing each of the human isoforms, we show that Numb regulates sensitivity of the cells to neurotrophic factor-induced differentiation and neurotrophic factor withdrawal-induced death in an isoform-specific manner. Numb isoforms containing a short PTB domain enhance the differentiation response to NGF and enhance apoptosis upon NGF withdrawal; Numb isoforms containing a long PTB domain exhibit the same sensitivity to NGF as vector-transfected cells. These effects of Numb were found to be independent of the length of the PRR. In undifferentiated conditions, the levels of full-length TrkA and of phosphorylated p44/p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) are increased in cells expressing Numb isoforms with a short PTB domain, indicating an up-regulation of NGF signaling pathways. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the mechanism whereby short PTB domain Numb isoforms sensitize cells to trophic factor deprivation-induced apoptosis involves elevations in intracellular calcium concentrations. Our results suggest that Numb sensitizes cells to neurotrophin responses in an isoform-specific manner, an effect that may play an important role in the development and plasticity of the nervous system.
Intracellular calcium ions regulate the structure and functions of cytoskeletal proteins. On the other hand, recent studies have shown that the cytoskeleton, and actin filaments in particular, can modulate calcium influx through plasma membrane ligand- and voltage-gated channels. We now report that calcium release from inositol trisphosphate (IP3) and ryanodine-sensitive endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stores is modulated by polymerization and depolymerization of actin filaments in cultured hippocampal neurons. Depolymerization of actin filaments with cytochalasin D attenuates calcium release induced by carbamylcholine (CCh; a muscarinic agonist for IP3 pathway), caffeine (a ryanodine receptor agonist) and thapsigargin (an inhibitor of the ER calcium- ATPase) in both the presence and absence of extracellular calcium. Conversely, the actin polymerizing agent jasplakinolide potentiates calcium release induced by CCh, caffeine and thapsigargin. Cytochalasin D attenuated, while jasplakinolide augmented, thapsigargin-induced JNK activation and neuronal cell death. Our data show that the actin cytoskeleton regulates ER calcium release, suggesting roles for actin in the various physiological and pathological processes that involve calcium release.
Narp (neuronal activity regulated pentraxin) is a secreted immediate early gene product that is induced by synaptic activity. Recent studies have indicated that Narp may be an extracellular aggregating factor for AMPA receptors. Immunohistochemical studies have revealed prominent expression of Narp in the mossy fiber pathway of the dentate gyrus, suggesting it may be released pre-synaptically. However, in vitro studies using recombinant Narp indicate that Narp may act when expressed by either pre- or post-synaptic elements. To help define Narp's mode of action, we have examined its localization in the habenula-interpeduncular pathway which also displays robust Narp expression. Focusing on this pathway as well as hippocampal and cortical Narp expression, we found prominent Narp staining in projection pathways and terminal fields. In contrast, Narp expression in dendrites was minimal in these neuronal populations. These findings indicate that, under physiological conditions, Narp is targeted to the synapse from pre- rather than post-synaptic elements. Our results also suggest that future studies focusing on these projection pathways that express high levels of Narp, in vivo, may help to understand the regulation and function of endogenous Narp.
Volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) are critically important for cell volume homeostasis, and under pathological conditions contribute to neuronal damage via excitatory amino (EAA) release. The precise mechanisms by which brain VRACs are activated and/or modulated remain elusive. In the present work we explored the possible involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and NO-related reactive species in the regulation of VRAC activity and EAA release, using primary astrocyte cultures. The NO donors sodium nitroprusside and spermine NONOate did not affect volume-activated d-[3H]aspartate release. In contrast, the peroxynitrite (ONOO-) donor 3-morpholinosydnomine hydrochloride (SIN-1) increased volume-dependent EAA release by approx. 80-110% under identical conditions. Inhibition of ONOO- formation with superoxide dismutase completely abolished the effects of SIN-1. Both the volume- and SIN-1-induced EAA release were sensitive to the VRAC blockers NPPB and ATP. Further pharmacological analysis ruled out the involvement of cGMP-dependent reactions and modification of sulfhydryl groups in the SIN-1-inducedmodulation of EAA release. The src family tyrosine kinase inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2), but not its inactive analog PP3, abolished the effects of SIN-1. A broader spectrum tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin A51, also completely eliminated the SIN-1-induced EAA release. Our data suggest that ONOO- up-regulates VRAC activity via a src tyrosine kinase-dependent mechanism. This modulation may contribute to EAA-mediated neuronal damage in ischemia and other pathological conditions favoring cell swelling and ONOO- production.
G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling cascades may be key substrates for the antidepressant effects of chronic electroconvulsive seizures (ECS). To better understand changes in these signaling pathways, alterations in levels of mRNA's encoding regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) protein subtypes-2, -4, -7, -8 and -10 were evaluated in rat brain using northern blotting and in situ hybridization. In prefrontal cortex, RGS2 mRNA levels were increased several-fold 2 h following an acute ECS. Increases in RGS8 mRNA were of lesser magnitude (30%), and no changes were evident for the other RGS subtypes. At 24 h following a chronic ECS regimen, RGS4, -7, and -10 mRNA levels were reduced by 20-30%; only RGS10 was significantly reduced 24 h after acute ECS. Levels of RGS2 mRNA were unchanged 24 h following either acute or chronic ECS. In hippocampus, RGS2 mRNA levels were markedly increased 2 h following acute ECS. More modest increases were seen for RGS4 mRNA expression, whereas levels of the other RGS subtypes were unaltered. At 24 h following chronic ECS, RGS7, -8 and -10 mRNA levels were decreased in the granule cell layer, and RGS7 and -8 mRNA levels were decreased in the pyramidal cell layers. Only RGS8 and -10 mRNA levels were significantly reduced in hippocampus 24 h following an acute ECS. Paralleling neocortex, RGS2 mRNA content was unchanged in hippocampus 24 h following either acute or chronic ECS. In ventromedial hypothalamus, RGS4 mRNA content was increased 24 h following chronic ECS, whereas RGS7 mRNA levels were only increased 24 h following an acute ECS. The increased RGS4 mRNA levels in hypothalamus were significant by 2 h following an acute ECS. These studies demonstrate subtype-, time-, and region-specific regulation of RGS proteins by ECS, adaptations that may contribute to the antidepressant effects of this treatment.
A novel presenilin-binding protein (PBP) is specifically expressed in the brain, and its level in the soluble fraction of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains is much less than that in the age-matched controls. Recently, several proteins, including presenilin (PS), have been found to form structures of aggregated proteins, called aggresomes, when the production of the proteins exceeds their rate of degradation by proteasomes. Based on these observations it has been proposed that the aggresome may represent one of the mechanisms forthe formation of cytoplasmic deposits which are linked to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders including AD. It is shown here that the overexpression of PBP or the suppression of proteasome activity in monkey kidney COS-7 cells leads to the accumulation of detergent-insoluble and multiubiquitinated PBP aggregates. PBP also forms aggregates in primary cultures of neurons in the presence of a proteasome inhibitors. PBP aggregates have the characteristics of aggresomes, including the localization to microtubule organization centers and the disruption of intermediate filaments. These observations suggest that the malfunctioning of the proteasome can cause the formation of PBP aggresomes, which may lead to AD.
Homoquinolinate, a derivative of the endogenous NMDA agonist, quinolinate, has been shown to display higher affinity for Xenopus oocytes expressing NR2A- and NR2B-containing receptors, compared to NR2C- and NR2D-containing receptors, whilst autoradiographical experiments subsequently showed that [3H]homoquinolinate labelled a subpopulation of NMDA receptors in rat brain sections, with a similar distribution to NR2B-containing receptors. In this study, we have shown that NMDA-specific [3H]homoquinolinate binding to rat brain membranes comprised 44% of total binding with a Bmax value of 5.73 pmol/mg protein, which was inhibited by NMDA with Ki=0.867 micro m. However, NMDA-specific [3H]homoquinolinate binding was not observed for a number of human recombinant NMDA receptors investigated, suggesting that there are subtle differences between the binding sites of recombinant and native receptors. Electrophysiological experiments revealed that homoquinolinate activated human recombinant NR1a/NR2A, NR1a/NR2B and NR1a/NR2A/NR2B receptors with EC50 values of 25.2, 13.8 and 9.04 micro m, respectively, with intrinsic activities of 148, 93.3 and 125%, respectively, compared to glutamate (=100%). In contrast to an autoradiographical study, these radioligand binding and electrophysiological experiments suggest that homoquinolinate is not highly selective for NR2B-containing receptors.
Mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons modulate complex circuitry in the ventral forebrain involved in reward processing, although the precise function of the dopaminergic input is debated. Electrophysiological measurements have revealed that mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons can fire in either tonic or phasic modes, and that phasic firing accompanies the alerting or anticipatory phases of reward. However, the neurochemical relevance of this rapid neuronal discharge within the reward processing circuitry is not yet clear, in part because of difficulty in interpretation of extracellular dopamine measurements. Herein, the nature of the information provided by different neurochemical techniques is critically discussed. Classical methods of monitoring dopamine reveal changes in extracellular dopamine resulting from tonic neuronal activity, but do not have the temporal resolution to distinguish concentration transients. However, recent advances in dopamine sensors now enable transient dopamine concentrations resulting from phasic firing to be positively identified and followed on a physiologically relevant timescale. This has enabled demonstrations of discrete, phasic dopamine signals accompanying rewarding or alerting stimuli. Thus, enhanced dopamine release at terminals appears to be coincident with phasic electrical activity at cell bodies. These accumulating data promise to help unravel the precise role of phasic dopamine transmission in reward processing.
Intracellular accumulation of damaged or abnormal proteins is a common event associated with numerous neurodegenerative diseases and other age-related pathologies. Increasing the activity of the intracellular proteolytic systems normally responsible for the removal of these abnormal proteins might be beneficial in lessening the severity or development of those pathologies. In this study we have used human astrocyte glial cells to investigate the effect of vitamin C (ascorbate) on the intracellular turnover of proteins. Supplementation of the culture medium with physiological concentrations of vitamin C did not affect protein synthesis, but did increase the rate of protein degradation by lysosomes. Vitamin C accelerated the degradation of intra- and extracellular proteins targeted to the lysosomal lumen by autophagic and heterophagic pathways. At the doses analyzed, vitamin C lowered and stabilized the acidic intralysosomal pH at values that result in maximum activation of the lysosomal hydrolases.
Cognitive dysfunction adversely influences long term outcome after cerebral insult, but the potential for brain stem lesions to produce cognitive as well as physical impairments is not widely recognised. This report describes a series of seven consecutive patients referred to a neurological rehabilitation unit with lesions limited to brain stem structures, all of whom were shown to exhibit deficits in at least one domain of cognition. The practical importance of recognising cognitive dysfunction in this group of patients, and the theoretical significance of the disruption of specific cognitive domains by lesions to distributed neural circuits, are discussed.
Regular use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) seems to reduce the progression of several diseases, including colon cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer and Alzheimer disease (AD). Several studies have shown that NSAIDs can modulate cell cycle progression, especially in the G0/G1 phase. The main target of most NSAIDs is the enzyme cyclo-oxygenase (COX), which occurs in 2 isoforms, COX-1 and COX-2. In AD and non-demented control brain, COX-2 is expressed in neuronal cells. In this study the expression of COX-2, cyclin D1, and cyclin E was investigated at the immunohistochemical level in AD and non-demented control temporal cortex. COX-2, cyclin D1, and cyclin E expression was detected in pyramidal neurons in both AD and control patients. The number of COX-2-immunoreactive neurons positively correlated with the number of cyclin E- and cyclin D1-immunoreactive neurons. Moreover, immunostaining of sequential tissue sections and double immunofluorescence labeling revealed co-expression of COX-2 and cyclin D1 and E in neuronal cells. In addition, an inverse correlation was observed between the neuronal expression of COX-2 and cyclin E and the Braak score for amyloid beta deposits. Our findings suggest a relationship between the neuronal expression of COX-2 and cell cycle markers, which may be involved early in AD pathology.
During early neuronal development, GABA functions as an excitatory neurotransmitter, triggering membrane depolarization, action potentials, and the opening of plasma membrane Ca(2+) channels. These excitatory actions of GABA lead to a number of changes in neuronal structure and function. Although the effects of GABA on membrane biophysics during early development have been well documented, little work has been done to examine the possible mechanisms underlying GABA-regulated plastic changes in the developing brain. This study focuses on GABA-regulated kinase activity and transcriptional control. We utilized a combination of Western blotting and immunocytochemical techniques to examine two potential downstream pathways regulated by GABA excitation: the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade and the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB). During early development of cultured hypothalamic neurons (5 days in vitro), stimulation with GABA triggered activation of the MAPK cascade and phosphorylation of CREB at Ser 133. These effects were mediated by the GABA(A) receptor, since administration of the GABA(A) receptor-specific agonist muscimol (50 microM) triggered pathway activation, and pretreatment with the GABA(A)-receptor specific antagonist bicuculline (20 microM) blocked pathway activation. Immunocytochemistry revealed a spatial and temporal correlation between activation of the MAPK cascade and CREB phosphorylation. Pretreatment with the MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126 (10 microM) attenuated CREB phosphorylation, indicating that the MAPK pathway regulates that activation state of CREB. In contrast to the excitatory effects observed during early development, in more mature neurons, GABA functions as an inhibitory transmitter. Consistent with this observation, GABA(A) receptor activation did not stimulate MAPK cascade activation or CREB phosphorylation in mature cultures (18 days in vitro). To determine whether GABA(A) receptor activation during early development stimulates gene expression, we examined the inducible expression of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Both GABA and muscimol stimulated BDNF expression, and pretreatment with U0126 attenuated GABA-induced BDNF expression. Whole cell electrophysiological recording was used to assess the effects of BDNF on GABA release. BDNF (100 ng/ml) dramatically increased the frequency of excitatory GABAergic spontaneous postsynaptic currents. Together, these data suggest a positive excitatory feedback loop between GABA and BDNF expression during early development, where GABA facilitates BDNF expression, and BDNF facilitates the synaptic release of GABA. Signaling via the MAPK cascade and the transcription factor CREB appear to play a substantial role in this process.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor currents, evoked with the agonist kainate, were studied with the gramicidin perforated-patch-clamp technique in cultured rat spinal cord motoneurons. Kainate-induced currents could be blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist LY 300164 and displayed an apparent strong inward rectification. This inward rectification was not a genuine property of AMPA receptor currents but was a result of a concomitant decrease in outward current at potentials positive to -40.5 +/- 1.3 mV. The AMPA receptor current itself was nearly linear (rectification index 0.91). The kainate-inhibited outward current had a reversal potential close to the estimated K(+) equilibrium potential and was blocked by 30 mM tetraethylammonium. When voltage steps were applied, it was found that kainate inhibited both the delayed rectifier K(+) current K(V) and the transient outward K(+) current, K(A). The kainate-induced inhibition of K(+) currents was dependent on ion flux through the AMPA receptor, because no change in the membrane conductance was noticed in the presence of LY 300164. Removing extracellular Ca(2+) had no effect, whereas replacing extracellular Na(+) or clamping the membrane close to the estimated Na(+) equilibrium potential during kainate application attenuated the inhibition of the K(+) current. Sustained Na(+) influx induced by application of the Na(+) ionophore monensin could mimic the effect of kainate on K(+) conductance. These findings demonstrate that Na(+) influx through AMPA receptors results in blockade of voltage-gated K(+) channels.
The scleral search coil technique is commonly used for recording eye movements. The goal of this paper is to investigate to what extent the placement of scleral search coils onto the eyes influences the kinematics of saccades. To that end saccadic eye movements of human subjects were recorded with an infrared video system, while they wore coils and we compared the main sequence properties with recordings in which no coils were mounted on the eyes. It was found that saccades last longer (by about 8%) and become slower (by about 5%) when both eyes wear coils. This is truly due to the fact that the coils are on the eyes and not due to other factors that are part of this method, such as the scleral anesthesia. The influence of coils in both eyes was also observed when one coil was mounted on one eye only. Therefore the effect that the coils have on the eye movements cannot be attributed to purely mechanical factors, such as inertial load on the eyeball or increased friction. Rather the coils appear to change the oculomotor command signals that drive the saccadic eye movements.
Uninjured C-type rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons predominantly express slowly inactivating TTX-resistant (TTX-R) and slowly repriming TTX-sensitive (TTX-S) Na(+) currents. After peripheral axotomy, TTX-R current density is reduced and rapidly repriming TTX-S currents emerge and predominate. The change in TTX-S repriming kinetics is paralleled by an increase in the level of transcripts and protein for the Na(v)1.3 sodium channel alpha-subunit, which is known to exhibit rapid repriming. Changes in Na(+) current profile and kinetics in DRG neurons may substantially alter neuronal excitability and could contribute to some states of chronic pain associated with injury of sensory neurons. In the present study, we asked whether glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF), which have been shown to prevent some axotomy-induced changes such as the loss of TTX-R Na(+) current expression in DRG neurons, can ameliorate the axotomy-induced change in TTX-S Na(+) current repriming kinetics. We show that intrathecally administered GDNF and NGF, delivered individually, can partially reverse the effect of axotomy on the repriming kinetics of TTX-S Na(+) currents. When GDNF and NGF were co-administered, the repriming kinetics were fully rescued. We observed parallel effects of GDNF and NGF on the Na(v)1.3 sodium channel transcript levels in axotomized DRG. Both GDNF and NGF were able to partially reverse the axotomy-induced increase in Na(v)1.3 mRNA, with GDNF plus NGF producing the largest effect. Our data indicate that both GDNF and NGF can partially reverse an important effect of axotomy on the electrogenic properties of sensory neurons and that their effect is additive.
Diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is based on the presentation of clinical symptoms such as bradykinesia, resting tremor, and rigidity. However, one feature of PD that often begins years before diagnosis is decreased physical activity. We hypothesized that this depressed activity is not only a symptom of the early dopaminergic loss but also a catalyst in the degenerative process. Two experiments were performed to test this hypothesis. First, rats were exposed to a mild dose of 6-hydroxydopamine unilaterally into the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) projections, which would normally result in an approximately 20% DA loss and no detectable behavioral asymmetries. A subset of these lesioned animals then had a cast applied for 7 d to the contralateral forelimb. After the cast was removed, these animals displayed long-term behavioral asymmetry and exacerbation of neurochemical loss (approximately 60% depletion). Second, a group of animals received a high dose of 6-hydroxydopamine that normally would yield a severe loss of nigrostriatal terminals (approximately 90% loss) and chronic sensorimotor deficits. During the first 7 d after neurotoxin exposure, a subset of these animals were forced to rely on the contralateral forelimb, a procedure we have previously reported to protect DA terminals and behavioral function. Some of these rats then had the use of their &quot;recovered&quot; forelimb restricted during the second or third week after lesioning. This precipitated a severe and chronic loss of DA terminals and functional deficits. These results suggest decreased physical activity not only is a symptom of PD but also may act to potentiate the underlying degeneration.
Weight gain is one side effect of many antipsychotic drugs (APDs). A small number of lateral hypothalamic/perifornical area (LH/PFA) neurons express the orexins, peptides that are critically involved in body weight regulation and arousal. We examined the ability of APDs to activate orexin neurons, as reflected by induction of Fos. APDs with significant weight gain liability increased Fos expression in orexin neurons, but APDs with low or absent weight gain liability did not. The weight gain liability of APDs was correlated with the degree of Fos induction in orexin neurons of the lateral LH/PFA. In contrast, amphetamine, which causes weight loss, increased Fos expression in orexin neurons of the medial but not lateral LH/PFA. We compared the effects of amphetamine and clozapine, an APD with weight gain liability, on orexin neurons innervating the prefrontal cortex. Clozapine induced Fos in 75% of the orexin neurons that project to the cortex, but amphetamine induced Fos in less than a third of these cells. These data suggest that APD-induced weight gain is associated with activation of distinct orexin neurons and emphasize the presence of anatomically and functionally heterogeneous populations of orexin neurons.
Ceruloplasmin is a ferroxidase that oxidizes toxic ferrous iron to its nontoxic ferric form. We have previously reported that a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored form of ceruloplasmin is expressed in the mammalian CNS. To better understand the role of ceruloplasmin in iron homeostasis in the CNS, we generated a ceruloplasmin gene-deficient (Cp(-/-)) mouse. Adult Cp(-/-) mice showed increased iron deposition in several regions of the CNS such as the cerebellum and brainstem. Increased lipid peroxidation was also seen in some CNS regions. Cerebellar cells from neonatal Cp(-/-) mice were also more susceptible to oxidative stress in vitro. Cp(-/-) mice showed deficits in motor coordination that were associated with a loss of brainstem dopaminergic neurons. These results indicate that ceruloplasmin plays an important role in maintaining iron homeostasis in the CNS and in protecting the CNS from iron-mediated free radical injury. Therefore, the antioxidant effects of ceruloplasmin could have important implications for various neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease in which iron deposition is known to occur.
We demonstrate that the microtubule-associated protein tau, in the form of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) tau, is transported along axons of neurons in culture in the slow component of axonal transport with a speed comparable with that previously measured in vivo. It was demonstrated that the EGFP tag has no effect on transport characteristics, and the methodology enables slow transport rates of individual tau isoforms and tau mutants to be measured. We also expressed EGFP-tagged tau isoforms containing either three or four C-terminal repeats and zero or two N-terminal inserts in cultured neurons. No significant differences were found in the average rate of slow transport of the wild-type tau isoforms, suggesting that the exon 10 C-terminal repeat or the N-terminal inserts do not contain regions that play a significant regulatory role in axonal transport. Similarly, we found that missense mutations in tau have no noticeable effect on the rate of transport; hence their ability to cause neurodegeneration is by another mechanism other than that affecting the overall slow axonal transport of tau.
An increase in the extracellular concentration of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is believed to be one of the main mechanisms involved in the rewarding and motor-activating properties of psychostimulants such as amphetamines and cocaine. Using in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats, we demonstrate that systemic administration of behaviorally relevant doses of caffeine can preferentially increase extracellular levels of dopamine and glutamate in the shell of the NAc. These effects could be reproduced by the administration of a selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist but not by a selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist. This suggests that caffeine, because of its ability to block adenosine A1 receptors, shares neurochemical properties with other psychostimulants, which could contribute to the widespread consumption of caffeine-containing beverages.
Verbal information is maintained on-line within working memory by rehearsal. However, we still can recall the verbal information when rehearsal is interrupted. Here we show that this is achieved by reactivation of maintained information. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify brain activation at encoding, during memory delay, and at retrieval, within the same trial of a verbal working memory task. On half of the trials, retrieval was tested after arithmetic distraction to interrupt rehearsal of the remembered verbal items. We found that the parahippocampal cortex (PHC) was highly active at retrieval on trials with distraction compared with trials without distraction. The PHC did not show sustained activation during the memory delay. By contrast, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPF), left superior temporal region (ST), and Broca's area showed sustained activation during the memory delay, suggesting their role in maintenance of verbal items. After arithmetic distraction, the DLPF and ST were engaged in arithmetic processing. Thus, these areas could not maintain the verbal items during the distraction. At retrieval of verbal items after the distraction, the DLPF, ST and Broca's area were also active. The activity was taken to reflect reactivated representation of the verbal items. The primary role of the PHC in retrieval may be to trigger the reactivation of these cortical areas that had maintained the remembered items, thereby reactivating the information that is no longer maintained on-line.
Central neurocytoma (CN) is a rare intraventricular brain tumor that affects young adults. Just over 100 cases of CN have been reported since it was first described in 1982. It accounts for less than 1% of all central nervous system neoplasms. It is characterized by cystic spaces and intratumoral calcification. The tumor is generally hypervascular. Patients generally present with signs and symptoms of noncommunicating hydrocephalus such as headache, visual disturbances such as blurry vision and visual field deficit, and nausea or vomiting or both. Gross total surgical resection is the treatment of choice for CN. Other treatment modalities such as radiation therapy, radiosurgery, and chemotherapy may offer adjunctive or alternative treatment for residual or recurrent CN. The clinical outcome is generally good.
Stroke, or brain attack, is the third leading cause of death in the United States and a leading cause of disability in the rapidly aging population. Cognitive status after one particular type of brain attack, motor stroke, has received minimal attention. Intact cognition assists in recovery following stroke; therefore, cognitive status is of great interest to clinicians and researchers. The purpose of this study, part of a larger study of functional recovery following motor stroke, was to describe the cognitive status of 100 patients during the acute phase of care. Cognitive status was measured using two instruments: the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination (NCSE). This study provides a rich description of the cognitive status of a group of individuals who suffered a motor stroke. Clinicians, including neuroscience nurses, need to use appropriate tools (such as the NCSE) to assess for and address specific cognitive deficits in the areas of memory and constructional ability and to recognize similarities following motor stroke.

Epidemiological studies have indicated an association between influenza A virus infections during fetal life and neuropsychiatric diseases. To study the potential for influenza A virus infections to cause nervous system dysfunctions, we describe a mouse model using intranasal instillation of the mouse neuroadapted influenza A/WSN/33 strain in pregnant mice. Viral RNA and nucleoprotein were detected in fetal brains and the viral RNA persisted for at least 90 days of postnatal life. We have, thus, obtained evidence for transplacental passage of influenza virus in mice and the persistence of viral components in the brains of these animals into young adulthood.
We study a statistical ensemble of multimode laser beams. Each beam is made up of an incoherent superposition of off-axis polychromatic Hermite-Gaussian modes. We obtain analytic expressions for the squared beam radius, the waist position, the Rayleigh range, the skewness parameter, the kurtosis parameter, and the squared beam-propagation factor. We demonstrate that the squared beam radius has a quadratic dependence on the distance from the waist plane. The skewness parameter may be different from zero in the near-field zone, but it tends to zero in the far-field zone. The kurtosis parameter in the far-field zone coincides with the kurtosis parameter of the incoherent superposition of on-axis modes.

Effects of systemic morphine on operant escape responses of rats to thermal stimulation were compared directly with effects on innate licking and guarding responses. For these independent tests, thermal stimulation was delivered via the floor of testing chambers with or without platforms that provided an escape option. The principal findings were (1) administration of 0.5 to 1.5 mg/kg morphine attenuated escape from nociceptive heat and (2) in distinct contrast, licking and guarding responses to heat were enhanced by these doses. When escape responding was calculated as time on the heated plate without licking or guarding, sensitivity to morphine was greater for 44 degrees C than for 47 degrees C or 50 degrees C. Also, escape responses to cold (0 degrees C or 10 degrees C) were unaffected by 1.5 mg/kg morphine. The preferential reduction of heat nociception by morphine was demonstrated also by an operant preference task that gave the animals the option of standing on a cold (10 degrees C) or a hot (45 degrees C) surface. Administration of 0.5 mg/kg morphine increased occupancy of the hot surface. Platform time during operant tests was low and variable for warm stimulation (36 degrees C) and was significantly increased by each level of heat, showing that platform occupancy represented escape from nociception rather than avoidance responses. A lack of significant effects of 1.5 mg/kg morphine on operant performance during cold or warm stimulation controls for effects of systemic morphine other than antinociception.
Plasma butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is important in the metabolism of cocaine, but natural human BChE has limited therapeutic potential for detoxication because of low catalytic efficiency with cocaine. Here we report pharmacokinetics of cocaine in rats treated with A328W/Y332A BChE, an excellent cocaine hydrolase designed with the aid of molecular modeling. Compared with wild-type BChE, this enzyme hydrolyzes cocaine with 40-fold improved k(cat) (154 min(-1) versus 4.1 min(-1)) and only slightly increased K(M) (18 microM versus 4.5 microM). In rats given this hydrolase (3 mg/kg i.v.) 10 min before cocaine challenge (6.8 mg/kg i.v.), cocaine half-life was reduced from 52 min to 18 min. Mirroring the reductions of plasma cocaine were large increases in benzoic acid, a product of BChE-mediated cocaine hydrolysis. All other pharmacokinetic parameters confirmed a large, dose-dependent acceleration of cocaine removal by the injected cocaine hydrolase. These results show that A328W/Y332A, an efficient cocaine hydrolase in vivo as well as in vitro, might promote cocaine detoxication in a clinical setting.
This study set out to profile the activity of (S)-desmethylzopiclone (SEP-174559) at subtypes of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A (GABA(A)) receptor and other neurotransmitter receptor ion channels. Recombinant receptors were expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and examined functionally by patch-clamp recording with fast perfusion of agonist and drug solutions. Micromolar concentrations of SEP-174559 potentiated GABA(A) receptor currents evoked by subsaturating concentrations of GABA. The potentiation was related to a leftward shift in the GABA dose-response curves, suggesting the drug acts to increase GABA binding affinity. The potentiation strictly required the presence of the gamma2 subunit; no enhancement was seen for receptors containing instead the gamma1 subunit or lacking a gamma subunit altogether. SEP-174559 and its parent compound, racemic zopiclone, were not selective between alpha1-, alpha2-, or alpha3-bearing GABA(A) receptors. Within the nicotinic receptor superfamily, SEP-174559 did not affect serotonin type-3 receptor function but was found to inhibit nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptors. The inhibition of nACh receptors was noncompetitive and was mimicked by zopiclone, alprazolam, and diazepam. In the glutamate receptor superfamily, SEP-174559 inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor currents but did not affect non-NMDA receptors. These data confirm that SEP-174559 has benzodiazepine-like actions at gamma2-bearing subtypes of the GABA(A) receptor and suggest additional actions of benzodiazepine-site ligands at nACh and NMDA receptors.
High doses of intrathecally applied morphine or morphine-3beta-D-glucuronide (M3G) produce allodynia and hyperalgesia. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from substantia gelatinosa neurons in transverse slices of adult rat lumbar spinal cord to compare the actions of M3G with those of the mu-opioid agonist, DAMGO ([D-Ala(2),N-Met-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin), and the ORL(1) agonist, nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ). M3G (1-100 microM) had little or no effect on evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC) and no effect on postsynaptic membrane conductance. In contrast, 1 microM DAMGO and 1 microM N/OFQ reduced the amplitude of evoked EPSCs and activated an inwardly rectifying K(+) conductance. M3G did not attenuate the effect of DAMGO or N/OFQ on evoked EPSC amplitude. However, 1 to 100 microM M3G reduced the amplitude of evoked GABAergic and glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) by up to 48%. This effect was naloxone-insensitive. The evoked IPSC was also attenuated by DAMGO, but not by N/OFQ. Because M3G reduced the frequency of tetrodotoxin-insensitive miniature IPSCs and increased paired-pulse facilitation, it appeared to act presynaptically to disinhibit substantia gelatinosa neurons. This effect, which does not appear to involve mu-opioid or ORL(1) receptors, may contribute to the allodynia and hyperalgesia observed after intrathecal application of high doses of morphine.
Mapping inducible transcription factors has shown that the Edinger-Westphal nucleus is preferentially sensitive to alcohol intoxication. Herein, we characterize the pharmacological and signal transduction mechanisms related to alcohol-induced c-Fos expression in Edinger-Westphal neurons. Using immunohistochemistry, we show that pretreatment with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic antagonists (4 mg/kg bicuculline and 45 mg/kg pentylenetetrazole) attenuates induction of c-Fos expression by alcohol (2.4 g/kg, intraperitoneal). In addition, 10 mg/kg 2-(2,3-dihydro-2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioxin-2-yl)4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole (RX 821002), an alpha(2A/D)-adrenoceptor antagonist, and 20 mg/kg haloperidol, a dopamine antagonist, also block alcohol-induced c-Fos expression in Edinger-Westphal neurons. No effects were seen in alcohol-induced c-Fos after the pretreatment of 20 mg/kg propranolol (beta-adrenoceptor antagonist), 10 mg/kg 2-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl) ethy)-4,4-dimethyl-1,3-(2H,4H)-isoquinolindione dihydrochloride (ARC 239) (alpha(2B/C)-adrenoceptor antagonist), or 30 mg/kg naltrexone (opioid antagonist). Although positive modulators for the GABA(A) receptor (20 mg/kg 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one and 10-30 mg/kg chlordiazepoxide) and opioid receptor (10 mg/kg morphine) produced significant elevations, agonists for alpha(2)-adrenoceptors (clonidine) and dopamine receptors (apomorphine) had no effect on Edinger-Westphal c-Fos expression. These findings suggest that alcohol-induced c-Fos expression in Edinger-Westphal results from direct interactions with GABA(A) receptors, which are modified by alpha(2A/D)-adrenoceptors and dopamine receptors. Also using immunohistochemistry to identify potential intracellular mechanisms associated with alcohol-induced c-Fos expression in Edinger-Westphal, we show time-dependent increases in serine 727 phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) but no changes in phospho-cAMP response element-binding protein and phospho-Elk1. Time-dependent increases in phospho-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 were found to occur simultaneously with increases in serine 727 phospho-Stat3. Finally, blockade of ERK 1/2 phosphorylation with the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) 1/2 inhibitor SL327 blocked alcohol-induced c-Fos expression, suggesting that alcohol induces c-Fos in Edinger-Westphal neurons through activation of the MEK1/2-ERK1/2-Stat3 pathway.
In order to investigate the nature (i.e. static or dynamic) of fusimotor drive to the flexor hallucis longus (FHL) and flexor digitorum longus (FDL) muscles during locomotion we recorded Ia and group II muscle spindle afferent responses to sinusoidal stretch (0.25 and 1 mm amplitude, respectively, 4-5 Hz) in a decerebrate cat preparation. FHL Ia and group II afferents generally had increased discharge rates and decreased modulation to stretch throughout the step cycle, compared to rest, suggesting raised static gamma drive at all locomotor phases. Although the modulation of Ia afferents was reduced during locomotion, most (13 of 18) showed a clear increasing trend during homonymous muscle activity (extension). This was consistent with phasic dynamic gamma drive to FHL spindles linked with alpha drive. In agreement with previous reports, FHL gave a single burst of EMG activity during the step cycle while FDL alpha drive had two components. One was related to extension while the other comprised a brief burst around the end of this phase. Typically FDL Ia and group II afferents also had elevated firing rates and reduced modulation at all locomotor phases, again implicating static gamma drive. Half the afferents (seven Ia, three group II) showed increased discharge during extension, suggesting phasic static gamma drive. There was no gamma drive associated with the late FDL alpha burst. In conclusion, the gamma drives to FHL and FDL differed during locomotion. FHL, which has the alpha drive of a classic extensor, received gamma drive that closely resembled other extensors. The gamma drive of FDL, which exhibits both extensor and flexor alpha synergies, did not match either muscle type. These observations are compatible with the view that fusimotor drive varies in different muscles during locomotion according to the prevailing sensorimotor requirements.
We have previously identified two broad electrophysiological classes of spiral ganglion neuron that differ in their rate of accommodation (Mo &amp; Davis, 1997a). In order to understand the underlying ionic basis of these characteristic firing patterns, we used alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX) to eliminate the contribution of a class of voltage-gated K(+) channels and assessed its effects on a variety of electrophysiological properties by using the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique. Exposure to alpha-DTX caused neurons that initially displayed rapid accommodation to fire continuously during 240 ms depolarizing test pulses within a restricted voltage range. We found a non-monotonic relationship between number of action potentials fired and membrane potential in the presence of alpha-DTX that peaked at voltages between -40 to -10 mV and declined at more depolarized and hyperpolarized test potentials. The alpha-DTX-sensitive current had two components that activated in different voltage ranges. Analysis of recordings made from acutely isolated neurons gave estimated half-maximal activation voltages of -63 and 12 mV for the two components. Because alpha-DTX blocks the Kv1.1, Kv1.2 and Kv1.6 subunits, we examined the action of the Kv1.1-selective blocker dendrotoxin K (DTX-K). We found that this antagonist reproduced the effects of alpha-DTX on neuronal firing, and that the DTX-K-sensitive current also had two separate components. These data suggest that the transformation from a rapidly adapting to a slowly adapting firing pattern was mediated by the low voltage-activated component of DTX-sensitive current with a potential contribution from the high voltage-activated component at more depolarized potentials. In addition, the effects of DTX-K indicate that Kv1.1 subunits are important constituents of the underlying voltage-gated potassium channels.
The cellulose/xyloglucan framework underpins the cell wall of most flowering plants, and the processes of construction and restructuring of this framework are considered to be mediated by several different classes of enzymes such as cellulose synthetases, beta-1,4 glucanases, xyloglucan endotransglucosylases/hydrolases (XTH) and expansins. The Arabidopsis sequencing project has revealed that these enzymes are encoded, without exception, by large multi-gene families. Comprehensive expression-analyses of the XTH gene family, as assisted by real-time RT-PCR procedure, have revealed that each member of the gene family exhibits an expression profile distinct from the other members. The results obtained thus far support the idea that each member of the XTHgene family is regulated specifically by different sets of plant hormones and is committed to a certain specific process in a specific tissue, at specific stages of development. Based on these considerations, we advance a hypothesis that the cell wall in a certain cell-type is constructed, maintained and restructured by a series of collaborative actions of a set of enzymes that are characteristic of the cell-wall type. This hypothesis assumes that a master gene, specific for each cell type, conducts a set of enzymes required for certain types of cell-wall structure and, thereby, defines the cell-wall type and, hence, cell type, during the process of plant development.
In this paper, we examine a cognitive neuropsychiatric approach to understanding neuropsychiatric disorders by examining recent data in schizophrenia. By understanding and applying this approach, we suggest that the processes underlying the neurobiology of a range of other psychiatric disorders can be understood. Further, an assessment of the brain-behaviour relationships through this emerging discipline provides testable models for further study, using a range of techniques including functional and other imaging techniques.
Frontal-subcortical circuits form the principal network, which mediate motor activity and behavior in humans. Five parallel frontal-subcortical circuits link the specific areas of the frontal cortex to the striatum, basal ganglia and thalamus. These frontal-subcortical circuits originate from the supplementary motor area, frontal eye field, dorsolateral prefrontal region, lateral orbitofrontal region and anterior cingulate portion of the frontal cortex. The open afferent and efferent connections to the frontal-subcortical circuits mediate coordination between functionally similar areas of the brain. Specific chemoarchitecture and multiple neurotransmitter interactions modulate the functional activity of each circuit. Dorsolateral prefrontal circuit lesions cause executive dysfunction, orbitofrontal circuit lesions lead to personality changes characterized by disinhibition and anterior cingulate circuit lesions present with apathy. The neurobiological correlates of neuropsychiatric disorders including depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, schizophrenia and substance abuse, imply involvement of frontal-subcortical circuits.

Recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAV) are highly efficient vectors for gene delivery into the central nervous system (CNS). However, host inflammatory and immune responses may play a critical role in limiting the use of rAAV vectors for gene therapy and functional genomic studies in vivo. Here, we evaluated the effect of repeated injections of five rAAV vectors expressing different genetic sequences (coding or noncoding) in a range of combinations into the rat brain. Specifically, we wished to determine whether a specific immune or inflammatory response appeared in response to the vector and/or the transgene protein after repeated injections under conditions of mannitol coinjection. We show that readministration of the same rAAV to the CNS is possible if the interval between the first and second injection is more than 4 weeks. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that rAAV vectors carrying different genetic sequences can be administered at intervals of 2 weeks. Our data therefore suggest that the AAV capsid structure is altered by the vector genetic sequence, such that secondary structures of the single-stranded genome have an impact on the antigenicity of the virus. This study provides guidelines for more rational design of gene transfer studies in the rodent brain and, in addition, suggests the use of repeated administration of rAAV as a viable form of therapy for the treatment of chronic diseases.




The vomeronasal organ (VNO) of mammals plays an essential role in the perception of chemical stimuli of social nature including pheromone-like signals but direct evidence for the transduction of pheromones by vomeronasal sensory neurons has been lacking. The recent development of electrophysiological and optical imaging methods using confocal microscopy has enabled researchers to systematically analyze sensory responses in large populations of mouse vomeronasal neurons. These experiments revealed that vomeronasal neurons are surprisingly sensitive and highly discriminative detectors of volatile, urinary metabolites that have pheromonal activity in recipient mice. Functional mapping studies of pheromone receptor activation have uncovered the basic principles of sensory processing by vomeronasal neurons and revealed striking differences in the neural mechanisms by which chemosensory information is detected by receptor neurons in the VNO and the main olfactory epithelium. These advances offer the opportunity to decipher the logic of mammalian pheromonal communication.
In many terrestrial tetrapodes, a pair of vomeronasal organs (VNOs), which are chemosensory apparatuses, are situated at the base of the nasal septum in the anterior nasal cavity. The purposes of this review are to summarize comparative neuroanatomy and to introduce recent progress in neurobiological studies of the VNO. Five types of VNOs can be identifiable in terms of anatomical organization; snakes possess the most complex one. Sensory cells in the VNO, vomeronasal receptor neurons (VRNs), are located in its neuroepithelium, vomeronassal sensory epithelium. The VRNs retain the characteristic of epithelial cells in that they are born continuously from progenitor cells. They contain two prominent subcellular structures: microvilli and extraordinarily large amounts of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and a few unique glycoconjugates. The VRNs express two types of G-protein -subunits: Gi(alpha2) and Go(alpha) and each of them is coupled with putative pheromone receptors, V1Rs and V2Rs, respectively. Recent physiological and biochemical studies have demonstrated that pheromones depolarize the V1R-Gi(alpha2) and V2R-Go(alpha) VRNs via IP(3)-mediated mechanisms. The VRNs do not show adaptation and are ultrasensitive to putative pheromones. Other than being a chemosensory organ, the VNO and its primordium might play important roles for brain development; hypothalamic neurons that produce gonadotropin-releasing hormone are born in the VNO primordium and a few other neuron-like cells may be born in the VNO primordium and VNO. In human fetuses, anatomical findings strongly suggest that their VNOs contain a neuroepithelium. By contrast, it is unlikely that adult human VNO serves as a chemosensory organ.
Among the five senses, the sense of smell (olfaction) is the most sensitive and emotional window on the outside world (Stern and Marx, 1999). The olfactory system recognizes and discriminates myriad odorants of diverse molecular structures. What makes the olfactory system so specific and sensitive? OE harboring the olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) also has an another unusual characteristic ability that fascinates scientists. Neurogenesis in this tissue continues throughout lifetime. This unique character provides an elegant model to study neurogenesis and neuronal plasticity, since neuronal birth, differentiation, survival, axon pathfinding, target recognition, synapse formation, and cell death can be examined in the mature OE. This special issue of Microscopic Research and Technique presents the recent developments in this exciting field of neuroscience, &quot;structure and function of olfactory neuroepithelium.&quot;
To investigate the molecular interactions of synaptophysin I and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2)/synaptobrevin II during exocytosis, we have used time-lapse videomicroscopy to measure fluorescence resonance energy transfer in live neurons. For this purpose, fluorescent protein variants fused to synaptophysin I or VAMP2 were expressed in rat hippocampal neurons. We show that synaptophysin I and VAMP2 form both homo- and hetero-oligomers on the synaptic vesicle membrane. When exocytosis is stimulated with alpha-latrotoxin, VAMP2 dissociates from synaptophysin I even in the absence of appreciable exocytosis, whereas synaptophysin I oligomers disassemble only upon incorporation of the vesicle with the plasma membrane. We propose that synaptophysin I has multiple roles in neurotransmitter release, regulating VAMP2 availability for the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor complex and possibly participating in the late steps of exocytosis.
DNA inversions are mutations involving major rearrangements of the genome and are often regarded as either deleterious or catastrophic to gene function and can be associated with genomic disorders, such as Hunter syndrome and some forms of hemophilia. Here, we propose that DNA inversions are also an essential and hitherto unrecognized component of gene evolution in eukaryotic cells. Specifically, we provide evidence that an ancestral neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) gene was duplicated and that one copy retained its original function, whereas an internal DNA inversion occurred in the other. Crucially, the inversion resulted in the creation of new regulatory elements required for the termination and activation of transcription. In consequence, the duplicated gene was split, and two new and independently expressed genes were created. Through its dependence on DNA inversion, this is a fundamentally new scheme for gene evolution, which we show as being of particular relevance to the generation of endogenous antisense-containing RNA molecules. Functionally, such transcripts can operate as natural negative regulators of the expression of the genes to which they are related through a common ancestor.
Published online this week in Structure, Wisely et al. present a high-resolution X-ray crystallographic structure of the ligand binding domain of human hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 gamma (HNF4gamma). They find fatty acids filling the ligand binding pocket of this receptor long considered an orphan, but these &quot;ligands&quot; appear to be locked into the protein and not readily amenable to exchange. Not only does this present a new paradigm for nuclear receptors but it also provides new insights into their evolutionary origins.
The mechanisms by which glucocorticoids (GC) regulate annexin I (ANXA1) secretion in different cells are still a matter of debate. The aims of this study were to evaluate the ability of dexamethasone (Dex) to induce ANXA1 secretion and to investigate the roles of the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), and of the GC receptor, on that process. For this purpose, the human immature lymphoblastic CCRF-CEM cell line was used. Treatment of the cells with Dex, for up to 4 h, significantly reduced the intracellular content of ANXA1 and increased the amount of this protein bound to the outer surface of the plasma membrane, whereas exposure of cells to Dex, for 12 h, induced the synthesis of ANXA1. At the same short time periods, Dex also induced a significant increase in the [Ca2+]i. Incubation of the cells with BAPTA-AM (10 microM), a cell-permeant high affinity Ca2+ chelator, completely inhibited Dex-induced ANXA1 secretion. Furthermore, the Ca2+ ionophore, ionomycin, alone induced ANXA1 cleavage, but not its secretion. Additionally, we used brefeldin A to investigate the involvement of the classical endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway of protein secretion in the release of ANXA1. The GC receptor antagonist, RU486, neither reverted the Dex-dependent ANXA1 secretion nor inhibited the increase of the [Ca2+]i induced by Dex. Together, our results indicate that Dex induces ANXA1 synthesis and secretion in CCRF-CEM cells. ANXA1 secretion in this cell type show the following characteristics: (i) is unlikely to involve the classical ER-Golgi pathway; (ii) requires a Ca(2+)-dependent cleavage of ANXA1; (iii) involves both Ca(2+)-dependent and independent mechanisms; and (iv) is apparently independent of the GC receptor alpha isoform.
Drosophila neurogenic gene neuralized (neu) is required for the maintenance of neuroblast cell fate and differentiation. In the present study we have characterized a mouse and a rat homologue of Drosophila neu. Mammalian neu1 encodes several C-terminal RING zinc finger proteins with one or two neuralized homology repeat (NHR) domains. Mammalian neu1 mRNAs are predominantly expressed in the nervous system and in the skeletal muscle with the highest levels in the adult. In the nervous system neu1 mRNAs are expressed in neurons and dendritically localized in several brain regions, suggesting a role of neu1 in the regulation of synaptic function. Mammalian neu1 isoforms exhibit transcription repression activities that are mediated by NHR domains and regulated by nucleocytoplasmic shuttling. In conclusion, our results suggest that mammalian neu1 is a protein with transcriptional repressor activities involved in the regulation of myo- and neurogenesis.
Proteomics is a field of study directed toward providing a comprehensive view of the characteristics and activity of every cellular protein. Rapid innovations in the core technologies required to characterize proteins on a global scale are poised to bring about a comprehensive understanding of how dynamic changes in protein expression, post-translational modification, and function affect complex signaling and regulatory networks. These advances have significant implications for understanding the multitude of pathways that govern behavior and cognition and the response of the nervous system to injury and disease.
Dopamine is the primary inhibitory regulator of lactotroph proliferation and prolactin (PRL) secretion in vivo, acting via dopamine D2 receptors (short D2S and long D2L forms). In GH4C1 pituitary cells transfected with D2S or D2L receptor cDNA, dopamine inhibits PRL secretion and DNA synthesis. These actions were blocked by pertussis toxin, implicating G(i)/G(o) proteins. To address roles of specific G(i)/G(o)4 proteins in these actions a series of GH4C1 cell lines specifically depleted of individual Galpha subunits was examined. D2S-mediated inhibition of BayK8644-stimulated PRL secretion was primarily dependent on G(o) over G(i), as observed for BayK8644-induced calcium influx. By contrast, inhibitory coupling of the D2S receptor to TRH-induced PRL secretion was partially impaired by depletion of any single G protein, but especially G(i)3. Inhibitory coupling of D2L receptors to PRL secretion required G(o), but not G(i)2, muscarinic receptor coupling was resistant to depletion of any G(i)/G(o) protein, whereas the 5-HT1A and somatostatin receptors required G(i)2 or G(i)3 for coupling. The various receptors also demonstrated distinct G protein requirements for inhibition of DNA synthesis: depletion of any G(i)/G(o) subunit completely uncoupled the D2S receptor, the D2L receptor was uncoupled by depletion of G(i)2, and muscarinic and somatostatin receptors were resistant to depletion of G(i)2 only. These results demonstrate distinct receptor-G protein preferences for inhibition of TRH-induced PRL secretion and DNA synthesis.
Gaucher disease, the inherited deficiency of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase, presents with a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations including neuronopathic and non-neuronopathic forms. While the lipid glucosylceramide is stored in both patients with Gaucher disease and in a null allele mouse model of Gaucher disease, elevated levels of a second potentially toxic substrate, glucosylsphingosine, are also found. Using high performance liquid chromatography, glucosylsphingosine levels were measured in tissues from patients with type 1, 2, and 3 Gaucher disease. Glucosylsphingosine was measured in 16 spleen samples (8 type 1; 4 type 2; and 4, type 3) and levels ranged from 54 to 728 ng/mg protein in the patients with type 1 disease, 133 to 1200 ng/mg protein in the patients with type 2, and 109 to 1298 ng/mg protein in the type 3 samples. The levels of splenic glucosylsphingosine bore no relation to the type of Gaucher disease, the age of the patient, the genotype, nor the clinical course. In the same patients, hepatic glucosylsphingosine levels were lower than in spleen. Glucosylsphingosine was also measured in brains from 13 patients (1 type 1; 8 type 2; and 4 type 3). While the glucosylsphingosine level in the brain from the type 1 patient, 1.0 ng/mg protein, was in the normal range, the levels in the type 3 samples ranged from 14 to 32 ng/mg protein, and in the type 2 samples from 24 to 437 ng/mg protein, with the highest values detected in two fetuses with hydrops fetalis. The elevated levels found in brains from patients with neuronopathic Gaucher disease support the hypothesis that glucosylsphingosine may contribute to the nervous system involvement in these patients.

The amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) deposited in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia in the elderly, is a secreted proteolytic product of the amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP). Generation of Abeta from the APP requires two sequential proteolytic events, beta-secretase cleavage to generate the amino terminus, followed by gamma-secretase cleavage to generate the carboxyl terminus. Because this process is a central event in the pathogenesis of AD, gamma-secretase is believed to be an excellent therapeutic target. Gamma-secretase activity has been demonstrated to be membrane-associated, with the cleavage site primarily determined by the location of the substrate with respect to the membrane. It has also been shown that this unusual proteolytic activity not only occurs for APP, but also for proteins involved in morphogenic processes or cell proliferation and differentiation such as Notch and ErbB4. Thus far, all gamma-secretase substrates are involved in some form of nuclear signaling. These recent findings have important implications for the development of pharmacological interventions that target gamma-secretase.
Neuropathic pain is caused by nervous-system lesions. Early studies on the pathomechanisms of this abnormal pain state have focused on the directly injured fibers and neurons. Here, we present recently accumulating data about the contribution of the primary afferent neurons spared from direct injury to the pathomechanisms of neuropathic pain. The phenotypic changes in the spared neurons are similar to those in the neurons in peripheral inflammation models, as opposed to those in the directly injured neurons. Electrophysiological changes and behavioral data also favor the contribution of the spared neurons. These attractive targets of study will give us new approaches for understanding the abnormal pain.
Alternative splicing is a critical mechanism used extensively in the mammalian nervous system to increase the level of diversity that can be achieved by a set of genes. This review focuses on recent studies of voltage-gated calcium (Ca) channel Ca(v)alpha1 subunit splice isoforms in neurons. Voltage-gated Ca channels couple changes in neuronal activity to rapid changes in intracellular Ca levels that in turn regulate an astounding range of cellular processes. Only ten genes have been identified that encode Ca(v)alpha1 subunits, an insufficient number to account for the level of functional diversity among voltage-gated Ca channels. The consequences of regulated alternative splicing among the genes that comprise voltage-gated Ca channels permits specialization of channel function, optimizing Ca signaling in different regions of the brain and in different cellular compartments. Although the full extent of alternative splicing is not yet known for any of the major subtypes of voltage-gated Ca channels, it is already clear that it adds a rich layer of structural and functional diversity&quot;.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a well-known toxic gas with the smell of rotten eggs. Since the first description of the toxicity of H2S in 1713, most studies about H2S have been devoted to its toxic effects. Recently, H2S has been proposed as a physiologically active messenger. Three groups discovered that the brain contains relatively high concentrations of endogenous H2S. This discovery accelerated the identification of an H2S-producing enzyme, cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) in the brain. In addition to the well-known regulators for CBS, S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) and pyridoxal-5'-phosphate, it was recently found that Ca2+/calmodulin-mediated pathways are involved in the regulation of CBS activity. H2S is produced in response to neuronal excitation, and alters hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a synaptic model for memory. can also regulate the release of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) from hypothalamus. Another H2S producing enzyme, cystathionine gamma-lyase (CSE), has been identified in smooth muscle, and H2S relaxes smooth muscle in synergy with nitric oxide (NO). Recent progress in the study of H2S as a novel neuromodulator/transmitter in the brain is briefly reviewed.
The efficacy of glatiramer acetate in multiple sclerosis (MS) is thought to involve the production of Th2 regulatory lymphocytes that secrete anti-inflammatory cytokines; however, other mechanisms cannot be excluded Given that activated T lymphocytes infiltrate into the CNS and become in dose proximity to microglia, we evaluated whether glatiramer acetate affects the potential interaction between T cells and microglia. We report that the co-culture of activated T lymphocytes with microglia led to the induction of several cytokines, and that these were reduced by glatiramer acetate treatment Morphological transformation of bipolar/ramified microglia into an activated ameboid form was attenuated by glatiramer acetate. These results reveal a novel mechanism for glatiramer acetate: the impairment of activated T cells to effectively interact with microglia to produce cytokines. The net result of a non-inflammatory milieu within the CNS, in spite of T cell infiltration, may help account for the amelioration of disease activity in MS patients on glatiramer acetate therapy.
The physiological and phenotypic properties of motor units in the cat soleus muscle were studied after 4 months of inactivity induced by spinal cord isolation (SI). The soleus of some SI cats were stimulated for 30 min/day during an isometric (SI-I), shortening (SI-S), or lengthening (SI-L) phase of a simulated step cycle. Mean maximum tetanic tensions were approximately 15, 26, 32, and 51% of the control in the SI, SI-S, SI-L, and SI-I groups. Mean time-to-peak tension was approximately 50% shorter than the control in all SI groups. One motor unit was glycogen-depleted in each muscle via repetitive stimulation. Eighteen physiologically slow and 9 fast motor units from the spinal cord-isolated groups consisted of fibers that contained only slow myosin heavy chain (MHC) and sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum calcium-adenotriphosphatase (SERCA) isoforms. Two motor units (physiologically fast) consisted primarily of fibers that contained both fast and slow MHC and SERCA. These data reflect a dissociation between isometric speed-related properties and MHC and SERCA isoforms following inactivity. The predominance of fibers containing both fast and slow MHC and SERCA isoforms in 2 motor units demonstrates a strong motoneuronal influence on the muscle-fiber phenotype even when the motoneurons are silent.
Inactivity of the cat soleus muscle was induced via spinal cord isolation (SI), and the cats were maintained for 4 months. The soleus was electrically stimulated while lengthening (SI-L) or shortening (SI-S) during a simulated step cycle or during isometric (SI-I) contractions. For the SI, SI-S, SI-L, and SI-I groups, the soleus weights were 33, 55, 55, and 64% of the control, respectively, and the maximum tetanic tensions were 15, 30, 36, and 44% of the control, respectively. The specific tension was lower in all SI groups than in the control. Absolute forces at stimulation frequencies of 5-200 Hz were smaller in all SI groups than in the control. The SI-I group tended to have higher values for all force-related parameters than the other SI groups. Fatigue resistance was similar among all groups. The isometric twitch time-to-peak tension was shorter, and the frequency of the stimulation-tension response was shifted to the right in all SI groups with respect to the control. Maximum shortening velocities were 70, 59, and 73% faster for the SI, SI-S, and SI-L groups and similar to the control for the SI-I group. Inactivity resulted in an increased percentage of faster myosin heavy chains (MHCs) that was blunted in the SI-I and SI-L groups but not in the SI-S group. Pure type I MHC fibers atrophied by 80, 59, 58, and 47% in the SI, SI-S, SI-L, and SI-I groups. The data from the SI group quantify the contribution of activity-independent factors in maintaining the mechanical and phenotypic properties of the cat soleus. Relative to a fast-fatigable muscle, these results suggest that only 25% of the slowness (type I MHC) and none of the resistance to fatigue of the soleus muscle are dependent on activity-related factors. Short, daily bouts of electromechanical activation ameliorated several of these adaptations, with the isometric contractions being the most effective countermeasure. The clinical implications of these findings for rehabilitation strategies are discussed.
Identifying the genes involved in polygenic traits has been difficult. In the 1950s and 1960s, laboratory selection experiments for extreme geotaxic behavior in fruit flies established for the first time that a complex behavioral trait has a genetic basis. But the specific genes responsible for the behavior have never been identified using this classical model. To identify the individual genes involved in geotaxic response, we used cDNA microarrays to identify candidate genes and assessed fly lines mutant in these genes for behavioral confirmation. We have thus determined the identities of several genes that contribute to the complex, polygenic behavior of geotaxis.
It is widely thought that persistent, use-dependent alterations in synaptic strength such as long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) underlie at least a portion of memory traces in the brain, but the exact cellular locus of expression for these alterations remains to be determined. They could be expressed presynaptically as a decrease in transmitter release, postsynaptically as a decrease in the synaptic current evoked by a fixed delivery of transmitter, as an increase in the number of functional synaptic contacts, or by a combination of these mechanisms. Here we report that LTD at the climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse in rat cerebellum was not associated with changes in a synaptic cleft glutamate transient, indicating that this type of LTD is most likely expressed postsynaptically.
The dendrites of pyramidal neurons have markedly different electrical properties from those of the soma, owing to the non-uniform distribution of voltage-gated ion channels in dendrites. It is thus possible that drugs acting on ion channels might preferentially alter dendritic, but not somatic, excitability. Using dendritic and somatic whole-cell and cell-attached recordings in rat hippocampal slices, we found that the anticonvulsant lamotrigine selectively reduced action potential firing from dendritic depolarization, while minimally affecting firing at the soma. This regional and input-specific effect resulted from an increase in the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)), a voltage-gated current present predominantly in dendrites. These results demonstrate that neuronal excitability can be altered by drugs acting selectively on dendrites, and suggest an important role for I(h) in controlling dendritic excitability and epileptogenesis.
Processing of neuronal information depends on interactions between the anatomical connectivity and cellular properties of single cells. We examined how these computational building blocks work together in the intact rat hippocampus. Single spikes in dentate granule cells, controlled intracellularly, generally failed to discharge either interneurons or CA3 pyramidal cells. In contrast, trains of spikes effectively discharged both CA3 cell types. Increasing the discharge rate of the granule cell increased the discharge probability of its target neuron and decreased the delay between the onset of a granule cell train and evoked firing in postsynaptic targets. Thus, we conclude that the granule cell to CA3 synapses are 'conditional detonators,' dependent on granule cell firing pattern. In addition, we suggest that information in single granule cells is converted into a temporal delay code in target CA3 pyramidal cells and interneurons. These data demonstrate how a neural circuit of the CNS may process information.
Although many of the molecules involved in synaptogenesis have been identified, the sequence and kinetics of synapse assembly in the central nervous system (CNS) remain largely unknown. We used simultaneous time-lapse imaging of fluorescent glutamate receptor subunits and presynaptic proteins in rat cortical neurons in vitro to determine the dynamics and time course of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) recruitment to nascent synapses. We found that both NMDA and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) subunits are present in mobile transport packets in neurons before and during synaptogenesis. NMDAR transport packets are more mobile than AMPAR subunits, moving along microtubules at about 4 microm/min, and are recruited to sites of axodendritic contact within minutes. Whereas NMDAR recruitment to new synapses can be either concurrent with or independent of the protein PSD-95, AMPARs are recruited with a slower time course. Thus, glutamatergic synapses can form rapidly by the sequential delivery of modular transport packets containing glutamate receptors.
The kynurenine pathway is the main pathway for tryptophan metabolism. It generates compounds that can modulate activity at glutamate receptors and possibly nicotinic receptors, in addition to some as-yet-unidentified sites. The pathway is in a unique position to regulate other aspects of the metabolism of tryptophan to neuroactive compounds, and also seems to be a key factor in the communication between the nervous and immune systems. It also has potentially important roles in the regulation of cell proliferation and tissue function in the periphery. As a result, the pathway presents a multitude of potential sites for drug discovery in neuroscience, oncology and visceral pathology.

The exact site(s) and the molecular mechanism(s) by which ethanol inhibits the activity of NMDA receptors in the brain have so far not been identified although the involvement of several NMDA receptor modulatory sites activated by glycine, Mg2+, Zn2+, polyamines and red-ox agents has been suggested. In this study we investigated the effects of spermidine, a polyamine site agonist, on NMDA-induced neurotoxicity and its ability to modulate the inhibitory action of ethanol on neurotoxicity produced by the maximal neurotoxic concentration of NMDA as measured by the MTT assay in rat cerebellar granule cells. This assay measures the enzymatic activity in mitochondria and/or endosome/lysosome compartment that closely correlates with the cell viability. Spermidine dramatically potentiated NMDA-induced responses both at nontoxic and maximally neurotoxic NMDA concentrations. Ethanol, as expected, concentration-dependently inhibited the maximal neurotoxicity produced by NMDA. The potentiating effect of spermidine observed at nontoxic concentrations of NMDA was not altered by ethanol evidenced by the fact that the EC(50) value for spermidine was not significantly changed in the presence of ethanol. This suggests that ethanol and spermidine produce their effects by acting at different sites within the NMDA receptor complex. In contrast, the inhibitory effect of ethanol on the maximally neurotoxic action of NMDA was significantly reduced by spermidine in a concentration-dependent manner, suggesting that the spermidine enhancement of NMDA receptor function in this situation is more potent and is able mask the inhibitory action of ethanol on other sites within the NMDA receptor.
This review reflects back on the progress that has been made in infant pain research over the past 20 years and how the research has influenced (or has failed to influence) the attitudes and practices of health professionals about infant pain. Progress in understanding of infant pain neurobiology, treatment, and measurement are discussed, and new directions for future research are proposed.

Neuroscience is generating vast amounts of highly diverse data which is of potential interest to researchers beyond the laboratories in which it is collected. In particular, quantitative neuroanatomical data is relevant to a wide variety of areas, including studies of development, aging, pathology and in biophysically oriented computational modelling. Moreover, the relatively discrete and well-defined nature of the data make it an ideal application for developing systems designed to facilitate data archiving, sharing and reuse. At present, the only widely used forms of dissemination are figures and tables in published papers which suffer from inaccessibility and the loss of machine readability. They may also present only an averaged or otherwise selected subset of the available data. Numerous database projects are in progress to address these shortcomings. They employ a variety of architectures and philosophies, each with its own merits and disadvantages. One axis on which they may be distinguished is the degree of top-down control, or curation, involved in data entry. Here we consider one extreme of this scale in which there is no curation, minimal standardization and a wide degree of freedom in the form of records used to document data. Such a scheme has advantages in the ease of database creation and in the equitable assignment of perceived intellectual property by keeping the control of data in the hands of the experts who collected it. It does, however, require a more sophisticated infrastructure than conventional databases since the software must be capable of organizing diverse and differently documented data sets in an effective way. Several components of a software system to provide this infrastructure are now in place. Examples are presented, showing how these tools can be used to archive and publish neuronal morphology data, and how they can give an integrated view of data stored at many different sites.
Topological and metrical measures are reviewed, which describe whole dendritic trees and variables within trees. These measures are applied to differentiate and classify groups of neurons. They are also of importance for simulation or reconstruction of neuronal trees in view of functional computational characteristics.
In this paper we summarize neuroanatomical tracing methods, in particular combinations of methods designed to achieve the combined goals of tracing connectivity and extracting extra information from the projection or the target neurons. These combinations include techniques that identify projection fibres together with the neurons from which they originate, methods which establish the morphological or chemical identity of the target neurons and techniques to verify the presence of contacts between the terminal boutons on fibres and prospective target neurons. In the second part of this paper we describe a method recently developed in our laboratory, which consists of fluorescence tracing (introducing marker #1) combined with immunofluorescence with different fluorochromes (markers #2 and #3). This method enables us to observe the distribution of terminals of a particular set of projection fibres in contact with neurons belonging to two chemically different populations of interneuron. Multifluorescence confocal laser scanning is used for image acquisition of fibres and processes of presumed target neurons, and follow-up is by three-dimensional computer reconstruction. These reconstructions are used to determine that the contacts between the differentially labelled structures are real, i.e. with no optically empty space in between regardless of the angle of inspection. The specific experiments reported in this paper comprise the tracing with biotinylated dextran amine of fibres in the rat brain running from the presubiculum to layer III of the medial division of the entorhinal cortex. We studied the possibility of contacts in the latter area between the terminal boutons of these projecting fibres in association with presumed target neurons, i.e. parvalbumin and calretinin expressing interneurons.
Neuronal firing patterns are influenced by both membrane properties and dendritic morphology. Distinguishing two sources of morphological variability-metrics and topology-we investigate the extent to which model neurons that have the same metrical and membrane properties can still produce different firing patterns as a result of differences in dendritic topology. Within a set of dendritic trees that have the same number of terminal segments and the same total dendritic length, we show that firing frequency strongly correlates with topology as expressed by the mean dendritic path length. The effect of dendritic topology on firing frequency is bigger for trees with equal segment diameters than for trees whose segment diameters obey Rall's 3/2 power law. If active dendritic channels are present, dendritic topology influences not only firing frequency but also type of firing (regular, bursting).
This paper addresses in an integrated and systematic fashion the relatively overlooked but increasingly important issue of measuring and characterizing the geometrical properties of nerve cells and structures, an area often called neuromorphology. After discussing the main motivation for such an endeavour, a comprehensive mathematical framework for characterizing neural shapes, capable of expressing variations over time, is presented and used to underline the main issues in neuromorphology. Three particularly powerful and versatile families of neuromorphological approaches, including differential measures, symmetry axes/skeletons, and complexity, are presented and their respective potentials for applications in neuroscience are identified. Examples of applications of such measures are provided based on experimental investigations related to automated dendrogram extraction, mental retardation characterization, and axon growth analysis.
The outgrowth of dendritic branching patterns proceeds by neurite elongation and branching. These actions are supported by growth cones, specialized dynamic structures at the tips of outgrowing neurites, in response to a multitude of intracellular and extracellular signals and mechanisms. Branching rates of growth cones and their temporal patterns thus reflect the extent and changes in these responses. The present study outlines a model framework to relate branching rates of individual growth cones with the growth rate of the entire dendritic tree. The branching rate of an individual growth cone is assumed to depend on the total number of growth cones at any given moment (representing competition between growth cones), on its position along the dendrite, and on a baseline component representing all other factors. Four different strategies are discussed for determining quantitatively these components from experimental data. The methods are applied in the analysis of dendritic trees of Wistar rat multipolar non-pyramidal neurons, quantitatively reconstructed at several developmental stages (Parnavelas J G and Uylings H B M 1980 Brain Res. 193 373-82, Uylings H B M, Parnavelas J G, Walg H and Veltman W A M 1980 Mikroskopie 37 220-4). It is shown that the baseline branching rate is a rapidly decreasing function of time, indicating the largest baseline drive for branching in the early days of outgrowth.
The complexity and variability of dendritic morphology constitutes a fascinating challenge to the investigation of the structure-activity-function relationship in the nervous system. Computational modelling has recently emerged as a powerful approach for the quantitative anatomical characterization of dendrites. The key idea is to design a stochastic algorithm to generate digital structures that are statistically indistinguishable from those of real neurons of a given morphological class. The set of parameters used by this algorithm would then constitute a complete and accurate description of that morphological class. We review the strengths and weaknesses of the major types of algorithms used to model dendrogram properties, including those based on branch diameter and on distance from the soma. We also describe some approaches to the simulation of dendritic orientation and three-dimensional geometry. Finally, we discuss the environmental influences on dendritic morphology (especially the presence of axons, other neurons, and anatomical boundaries) and thus the need to include models of the tissue volume in the algorithmic description of dendrites.

It is possible to combine multiple latent-variable models of the same data by multiplying their probability distributions together and then renormalizing. This way of combining individual &quot;expert&quot; models makes it hard to generate samples from the combined model but easy to infer the values of the latent variables of each expert, because the combination rule ensures that the latent variables of different experts are conditionally independent when given the data. A product of experts (PoE) is therefore an interesting candidate for a perceptual system in which rapid inference is vital and generation is unnecessary. Training a PoE by maximizing the likelihood of the data is difficult because it is hard even to approximate the derivatives of the renormalization term in the combination rule. Fortunately, a PoE can be trained using a different objective function called &quot;contrastive divergence&quot; whose derivatives with regard to the parameters can be approximated accurately and efficiently. Examples are presented of contrastive divergence learning using several types of expert on several types of data.

Previous research has revealed that natural and synthetic pheromones can enhance ratings of opposite sex attractiveness. The present study investigated the effects of exposure to male axillary secretions on female ratings of the sexual attractiveness of male stimuli. Thirty-two female undergraduates, half of whom were contraceptive pill users, rated male vignette characters and photographs of male faces on aspects of attractiveness. On two separate study days, corresponding to different phases of their menstrual cycle, stimuli were presented while exposed to male axillary pheromones and under a control condition (no pheromone). The order of testing was balanced with respect to pheromone/control condition and menstrual cycle phase. Pheromone exposure resulted in significantly higher attractiveness ratings of vignette characters and faces. Use of the contraceptive pill or menstrual cycle phase had equivocal effects on some vignette items and neither had any influence on female ratings of male facial attractiveness. The results of this study suggest that exposure to natural male axillary pheromones can significantly enhance female perceptions of various aspects of male attractiveness.

There is currently no effective pharmacological treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Because recent evidence suggests that secondary inflammation and caspase activation may contribute to neurodegeneration in ALS, we tested the effects of minocycline, a second-generation tetracycline with anti-inflammatory properties, in mice expressing a mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1(G37R)) linked to human ALS. Administration of minocycline into the diet, beginning at late presymptomatic stage (7 or 9 months of age), delayed the onset of motor neuron degeneration, muscle strength decline, and it increased the longevity of SOD1(G37R) mice by approximately 5 weeks for approximately 70% of tested mice. Moreover, less activation of microglia was detected at early symptomatic stage (46 weeks) and at the end stage of disease in the spinal cord of SOD1(G37R) mice treated with minocycline. These results indicate that minocycline, which is clinically well tolerated, may represent a novel and effective drug for treatment of ALS.
Fragile X syndrome is the most common inherited form of mental retardation. Although this syndrome originates from the absence of the RNA-binding protein FMRP, the molecular mechanisms underlying the cognitive deficits are unknown. The expression pattern of 6789 genes was studied in the brains of wild-type and FMR1 knockout mice, a fragile X syndrome animal model that has been associated with cognitive deficits. Differential expression of more than two-fold was observed for the brain mRNA levels of 73 genes. Differential expression of nine of these genes was confirmed by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and by in situ hybridization. In addition to corroborating the microarray data, the in situ hybridization analysis showed distinct spatial distribution patterns of microtubule-associated protein 2 and amyloid beta precursor protein. A number of differentially expressed genes associated with the fragile X syndrome phenotype have been previously involved in other memory or cognitive disorders.
Glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) is a major component of the glial filament network and alterations in expression of this protein in cultured astrocytes have been reported in response to acute ammonia exposure in vitro. In order to determine the effects of acute hyperammonemia in vivo on GFAP expression, brain extracts from rats with acute liver failure due to hepatic devascularization (portacaval anastomosis followed 24h later by hepatic artery ligation, HAL) were analyzed for GFAP mRNA using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and appropriate oligonucleotide primers. GFAP protein was assayed by immunoblotting using a polyclonal antibody. Hepatic devascularization resulted in a significant 55-68% decrease (P&lt;0.01) of GFAP mRNA and a concomitant loss of GFAP protein at precoma and coma stages of encephalopathy when brain water content was significantly increased and brain ammonia concentrations were in the millimolar range (1-5mM). Expression of a second glial filament protein S-100beta was unaffected by acute hyperammonemia. These findings suggest a role for GFAP in cell volume regulation and that loss of GFAP expression could contribute to the pathogenesis of brain edema in acute hyperammonemic syndromes.
Increased levels of brain ammonia occur in both congenital and acquired hyperammonemic syndromes including hepatic encephalopathy, fulminant hepatic failure, Reye's syndrome and congenital urea cycle disorders. In addition to its effect on neurotransmission and energy metabolism, ammonia modulates the expression of various genes including the astrocytic &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine (or omega 3) receptor (PTBR). Increased expression of the isoquinoline carboxamide binding protein (IBP), one of the components of the PTBR complex, is observed in brain and peripheral tissues following chronic liver failure as well as in cultured astrocytes exposed to ammonia. Increased densities of binding sites for the PTBR ligand [3H]-PK11195 are also observed in these conditions as well as in brains of animals with acute liver failure, congenital urea cycle disorders and in patients who died in hepatic coma. The precise role of PTBR in brain function has not yet fully elucidated, but among other functions, PTBR mediates the transport of cholesterol across the mitochondrial membrane and thus plays a key role in the biosynthesis of neurosteroids some of which modulate major neurotransmitter systems such as the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) and glutamate (N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)) receptors. Activation of PTBR in chronic and acute hyperammonemia results in increased synthesis of neurosteroids which could lead to an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in the CNS. Preliminary reports suggest that positron emission tomography (PET) studies using [11C]-PK11195 may be useful for the assessment of the neurological consequences of chronic liver failure.
Evidence suggests that increases in brain ammonia due to congenital urea cycle disorders, Reye Syndrome or liver failure have deleterious effects on the glutamate neurotransmitter system. In particular, ammonia exposure of the brain in vivo or in vitro preparations leads to alterations of glutamate transport. Exposure of cultured astrocytes to ammonia results in reduced high affinity uptake sites for glutamate due to a reduction in expression of the astrocytic glutamate transporter GLAST. On the other hand, acute liver failure leads to decreased expression of a second astrocytic glutamate transporter GLT-1 and a consequent reduction in glutamate transport sites in brain. Effects of the chronic exposure of brain to ammonia on cellular glutamate transport are less clear. The loss of glutamate transporter activity in brain in acute liver failure and hyperammonemia is associated with increased extracellular brain glutamate concentrations which may be responsible for the hyperexcitability and cerebral edema observed in hyperammonemic disorders.
Ganglioside function in eukaryotic cells encompasses a variety of modulatory interactions related to both development and mature cellular behavior. In relation to the nervous system this includes induction of neurite outgrowth and trophic/neuroprotective phenomena; more generally this applies to ganglioside effects on receptor function, adhesion reactions, and signal transduction mechanisms in neural and extraneural systems. Underlying many of these trophic effects are ganglioside-induced changes in cellular calcium, accomplished through modulation of Ca2+ influx channels, Ca2+ exchange proteins, and various Ca2+-dependent enzymes that are altered through association with gangliosides. A clear distinction needs to be drawn between intrinsic functions of gangliosides as naturally expressed by the cell and activities created by application of exogenous ganglioside(s) that may or may not reflect natural function. This review attempts to summarize findings in this area and point to possible future directions of research.
&quot;Plain question and plain answer make the shortest road out of most perplexities.&quot; Mark Twain-Life on the Mississippi. A new methodology for the measurement of the neural substrates of human social interaction is described. This technology, termed &quot;Hyperscan,&quot; embodies both the hardware and the software necessary to link magnetic resonance scanners through the internet. Hyperscanning allows for the performance of human behavioral experiments in which participants can interact with each other while functional MRI is acquired in synchrony with the behavioral interactions. Data are presented from a simple game of deception between pairs of subjects. Because people may interact both asymmetrically and asynchronously, both the design and the analysis must accommodate this added complexity. Several potential approaches are described.
Several functional imaging studies of pain, using a number of different experimental paradigms and a variety of reference states, have failed to detect activations in the somatosensory cortices, while other imaging studies of pain have reported significant activations in these regions. The role of the somatosensory areas in pain processing has therefore been debated. In the present study the left hand was immersed in painfully cold water (standard cold pressor test) and in nonpainfully cold water during 2 min, and PET-scans were obtained either during the first or the second minute of stimulation. We observed no significant increase of activity in the somatosensory regions when the painful conditions were directly compared with the control conditions. In order to better understand the role of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in pain processing we used a regression analysis to study the relation between a ROI (region of interest) in the somatotopic S1-area for the stimulated hand and other regions known to be involved in pain processing. We hypothesized that although no increased activity was observed in the S1 during pain, this region would change its covariation pattern during noxious input as compared to the control stimulation if it is involved in or affected by the processing of pain. In the nonpainful cold conditions widespread regions of the ipsilateral and contralateral somatosensory cortex showed a positive covariation with the activity in the S1-ROI. However, during the first and second minute of pain this regression was significantly attenuated. During the second minute of painful stimulation there was a significant positive covariation between the activity in the S1-ROI and the other regions that are known to be involved in pain processing. Importantly, this relation was significantly stronger for the insula and the orbitofrontal cortex bilaterally when compared to the nonpainful state. The results indicate that the S1-cortex may be engaged in or affected by the processing of pain although no differential activity is observed when pain is compared with the reference condition.
The draining vein problem is recognized as one of the most severe constraints on the spatial resolution of BOLD contrast fMRI, used widely in imaging neuroscience. Changes in blood oxygenation arising from local brain activity-related changes in blood flow propagate downstream in veins and can give rise to spurious activation at sites remote from neuronal activity. The geometry of the venous vasculature is quite regular in structure and is well depicted in photomicrographs. Quantitative analysis of this geometry, together with hydrodynamic considerations, permit upper bounds dependent on the area of cortical neuronal activity to be derived for the spatial extent of draining vein contamination. It is estimated that an activated cortical area of 100 mm(2) will generate an oxygenation change in venous blood that extends without dilution along the vein no more than 4.2 mm beyond the edge of the activated area. At greater distances along the draining vein this oxygenation change will be diluted. The model leads to a quantitative prediction of the functional form of this dilution.
Metabolic, functional, behavioral, and histologic studies suggest that the structure of the cerebrum may be abnormal in autism. In a previous cross-sectional study we found abnormal enlargement of cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter volumes in autistic 2- and 3-year-olds and abnormally slow rates of volume change across later ages. In the present study, we assessed whether these volume abnormalities are limited to particular cerebral regions or are pervasive throughout the cerebrum. We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to quantify volumes of cerebral lobes (frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital regions), using classic sulcal boundaries to define regions. We examined 38 boys with autism and 39 normal control boys between the ages of 2 and 11 years. Several regions showed signs of gray matter and white matter hyperplasia in 2- and 3-year-old patients (as much as 20% enlargement), but there appeared to be an anterior to posterior gradient in the degree of hyperplasia. The frontal lobe showed the greatest enlargement while the occipital lobe was not significantly different from normal. Gray and white matter differences were not found in the older children. By examining the relationships between regional volumes and subject age, we found that frontal, temporal, and parietal white matter volumes, as well as frontal and temporal gray matter volumes, changed at significantly slower rates in autism patients than in controls across the 2- to 11-year-age range. For example, frontal lobe white matter volume increased by about 45% from 2-4 years of age to 9-11.5 years, but by only 13% in autistic patients. Mechanisms that might account for early hyperplasia are discussed as they might relate to the regional differences in degree of abnormality. For instance, possible influences of neurotrophic factors, or of abnormal afferent activity from other affected brain regions are considered.
The effects of spatial filtering in functional magnetic resonance imaging were investigated by reevaluating the data of a previous study of episodic memory encoding at 2 x 2 x 4-mm(3) resolution with use of a SPM99 analysis involving a Gaussian kernel of 8-mm full width at half maximum. In addition, a multisubject analysis of activated regions was performed by normalizing the functional images to an approximate Talairach brain atlas. In individual subjects, spatial filtering merged activations in anatomically separated brain regions. Moreover, small foci of activated pixels which originated from veins became blurred and hence indistinguishable from parenchymal responses. The multisubject analysis resulted in activation of the hippocampus proper, a finding which could not be confirmed by the activation maps obtained at high resolution. It is concluded that the validity of multisubject fMRI analyses can be considerably improved by first analyzing individual data sets at optimum resolution to assess the effects of spatial filtering and minimize the risk of signal contamination by macroscopically visible vessels.
The execution of movements that are guided by an increasingly complex target motion is known to draw on premotor cortices. Whole-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to investigate whether, in the absence of any movement, attending to and predicting increasingly complex target motion also rely on premotor cortices. Complexity was varied as a function of number of sequential elements and amount of dynamic sequential trend in a pulsing target motion. As a result, serial prediction caused activations in premotor and parietal cortices, particularly within the right hemisphere. Parametric analyses revealed that the right ventrolateral premotor cortex and the right anterior intraparietal sulcus were the only areas that, in addition, covaried positively with both behavioral and physical measures of sequential complexity. Further areas that covaried positively with increasing task difficulty reflected influences of both number and trend manipulation. In particular, increasing element number drew on dorsal premotor and corresponding posterior intraparietal regions, whereas increasing trend drew on the visual motion area and area V4. The present findings demonstrate that premotor involvement directly reflects perceptual complexity in attended and predicted target motion. It is suggested that when we try to predict how a target will move, the motor system generates a &quot;blueprint&quot; of the observed motion that allows potential sensorimotor integration. In the absence of any motor requirement, this blueprint appears to be not a by-product of motor planning, but rather the basis for target motion prediction.
Electrodermal activity reflects autonomic sympathetic innervation of dermal sweat glands providing an index of emotion-related bodily states of arousal. Relaxation techniques, which are facilitated by external (bio)feedback of electrodermal activity, can be used by trained subjects to actively control bodily and emotional arousal. Biofeedback relaxation provides an experimental model to explore neural mechanisms contributing to emotional representations and intentional autonomic control. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to explore neural mechanisms contributing to integration of volitional intent, self-representation, and autonomic states of arousal, embodied within performance of a biofeedback relaxation exercise. Data were obtained from 17 subjects to assess brain activity during relaxation in which a visual index of electrodermal arousal was modulated by accuracy (addition of random &quot;noise&quot;) or sensitivity (by scalar adjustments of feedback). A central matrix of cortical, subcortical and brainstem autonomic centres was activated during biofeedback relaxation, as well as regions that mediate visual and somatesthetic representations and executive control. Anterior cingulate, amygdala, and insula activity was modulated by task manipulations that increased demand on processing interoceptive representations, while variation in anterior insula activity reflected an interaction between accuracy and sensitivity of feedback. These findings identify neural substrates that support integration of perceptual processing, interoception, and intentional modulation of bodily states of arousal.
The four-link chain of the motor unit represents the contemporary end-point of some two millennia of evolving knowledge in neuroscience. The paradigm shift in neuromuscular epistemology occurred in the mid-17th century. In 1666, the newly graduated Dutch doctor, Jan Swammerdam (1637-1680) published his former investigations of dissected nerve-muscle preparations. These experiments comprised the quantum leap from observation and speculation, to that of experimentation in the field of neuroanatomy and neurophysiology. In what he termed 'A Curious Experiment' he also described the phenomenon of intrinsic muscle excitability - &quot;I cannot observe that the muscle in the living animal ever absolutely ceases from all motion&quot;. Eighty years later (1752), von Haller demonstrated experimentally that irritability (contractility) was an intrinsic property of all muscular tissue; and distinguished between the sensibility of nerve impulses and the irritability of muscular contraction. This experimental progression from Swammerdam to von Haller culminated in 1850, when Claude Bernard's studies in experimental pharmacology confirmed that muscle was a functional unit, independent of any electrical innervation via its supplying nerve. This account comprises an audit of Swammerdam's work in the perspective of neuromuscular knowledge.
Motor neuropathy with multifocal conduction blocks represents a recently identified autoimmune disorder of the peripheral nerve myelin. Association of motor neuropathies or neuronopathies with thyroid disorders, such as hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism or thyroid neoplasms has been rarely described. We studied a 61-year-old man with a 2-year-history of slowly progressive weakness of the left limbs with atrophy and fasciculations. Nerve conduction velocity studies revealed multifocal motor conduction blocks. Serum IgM titer of antibodies against GM1 was elevated (1:1280; n.v. up to 1:640). Thyroid studies were compatible with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Therapy with high dose intravenous immunoglobulins was followed by a prompt clinical recovery. Then the disease assumed an intravenous immunoglobulins dependent course with a full clinical, but transient, recovery. This is the first observation of an association of multifocal motor neuropathy with high titers of GM1 and Hashimoto's thyroiditis and reinforces the multifocal motor neuropathy autoimmune origin as well as the repeated clinical recoveries after intravenous immunoglobulins. This case also suggests to deeply investigate the thyroid function in patients with multifocal motor neuropathy.
Welander distal myopathy is a late onset disorder that is mainly seen in Sweden. It is linked to chromosome 2p13 and all Swedish patients show a common shared haplotype, indicating a founder mutation. Here we report the clinical manifestations, magnetic resonance imaging, pathophysiology and haplotype analysis of Welander patients in the Finnish population. The clinical examination of patients from 12 different families showed a distal myopathy with onset in the long extensor muscles of the hands and fingers, also seen in Swedish Welander patients. Muscle biopsies showed characteristic myopathic changes. Haplotype analysis with the five polymorphic markers that make up the common core haplotype, seen in the Swedish patients, revealed that this haplotype is also co-segregating in the Finnish patients and a common ancestry is therefore further supported for patients with Welander distal myopathy.
The factors that influence experience-dependent plasticity in the human brain are unknown. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a pharmacological manipulation to measure cholinergic modulation of experience-dependent plasticity in human auditory cortex. In a differential aversive conditioning paradigm, subjects were presented with high (1600 Hz) and low tones (400 Hz), one of which was conditioned by pairing with an electrical shock. Prior to presentation, subjects were given either a placebo or an anticholinergic drug (0.4 mg iv scopolamine). Experience-dependent plasticity, expressed as a conditioning-specific enhanced BOLD response, was evident in auditory cortex in the placebo group, but not with scopolamine. This study provides in vivo evidence that experience-dependent plasticity, evident in hemodynamic changes in human auditory cortex, is modulated by acetylcholine.
To examine how hippocampal neurons respond to a mismatch between retrieved and actual experience, we trained rats to find a hidden platform at a particular location in an annular watermaze and then moved the platform. Several cells that were silent at the new platform location before the move fired vigorously when the rat found the goal. The new activity was paralleled by reduced discharge in a subset of simultaneously recorded interneurons. The pattern of activity returned toward its original configuration as the rat learned the new location. The activation of specific hippocampal neurons following dislocation of a target object may be essential for synaptic plasticity and adaptive modification of the animal's representation of the environment.
The primary visual cortex is organized into clusters of cells having similar classical receptive field (CRF) properties. Nonclassical, extra-receptive fields (ERFs) can either inhibit or facilitate the response elicited by stimulation within the CRF. Here, we report that in the primary visual cortex of cat, neurons with similar inhibitory or facilitatory ERF properties are also grouped into clusters. These clusters are randomly distributed in all cortical layers, with no detectable relationship with orientation and ocular dominance columns. This functional organization of neurons with respect to ERF properties may allow an efficient processing of global visual information.
The presence of polyribosomes in dendritic spines suggests a potential involvement of local protein synthesis in the modification of synapses. Dendritic spine and synapse ultrastructure were compared after low-frequency control or tetanic stimulation in hippocampal slices from postnatal day (P)15 rats. The percentage of spines containing polyribosomes increased from 12% +/- 4% after control stimulation to 39% +/- 4% after tetanic stimulation, with a commensurate loss of polyribosomes from dendritic shafts at 2 hr posttetanus. Postsynaptic densities on spines containing polyribosomes were larger after tetanic stimulation. Local protein synthesis might therefore serve to stabilize stimulation-induced growth of the postsynaptic density. Furthermore, coincident polyribosomes and synapse enlargement might indicate spines that are expressing long-term potentiation induced by tetanic stimulation.
Retinal axons project to their central targets along two orthogonal topographic axes, anterior-posterior (A-P) and dorsal-ventral (D-V). While ephrin-A/EphA signaling determines A-P topography, little has been known about the molecular mechanisms guiding axons along the D-V axis. Two papers by Mann et al. and Hindges et al. in this issue of Neuron provide evidence for both forward and reverse ephrin-B/EphB signaling in regulating D-V topography.
The formation of protease-resistant prion protein (PrPsc) is considered to be an early event in the pathogenesis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and hence its demonstration in brain biopsies by immunohistochemistry is considered diagnostic. We analysed eight brain biopsies from the frontal cortex collected from different parts of India from cases diagnosed as CJD on clinical and pathological grounds for the expression of prion protein (PrP). The duration of illness in these cases varied from 2 months to 1 year. Immunohistochemistry was carried out on paraffin sections using two different clones (KG9 and 3F4) of monoclonal antibodies to PrP. Although all eight cases showed classical features of spongiform encephalopathy of varying severity, only five of the eight cases revealed PrP(sc) in the brain tissue. The immunolabelling was focal and all areas with spongiform change were not labelled. A temporal evolution in the staining pattern was evident - particulate diffuse labelling (synaptic type) in early stages (2 months), perivacuolar deposits in intermediate stages (5-6 months), and dense plaques in late stages (12 months).
In a stereological study of the human substantia nigra (SN), the total number of melanin-positive and melanin-negative neurones from 28 male subjects aged 19-92 years was estimated using a uniform sampling design and optical disectors. There was a significant decrease in the total number of melanin-positive neurones as a function of age (r(2)=0.18, residual-CV=0.35, 2P=0.032). Using the rotator method, the size distribution of the melanin-positive neurones was estimated and showed a significant difference in mean cell volume of melanin-positive neurones between the seven youngest (21,077 microm(3)) and the seven oldest individuals (32,011 microm(3)), 2P=0.022. Using a combination of the total number of melanin-positive neurones and their size distribution, the total perikaryon volume of melanin-positive neurones could be estimated and showed no decrease with increasing age (r(2)=0.01, residual-CV=0.41, 2P=0.62). Age-related decline in dopamine-transporter neurones within the SN might explain the occurrence of extrapyramidal symptoms in many elderly individuals. Although age-related cell hypertrophy is usually considered to be an indication of cell degeneration or necrosis, this might not always be the case. The fact that motor symptoms, although present in many of the elderly, are of a limited nature despite the high percentage of lost neurones could be due to a compensatory increase in the cell body of dopamine-producing SN neurones. Thus, the total amount of cell substance capable of producing the essential transmitters might not be reduced to a critically low level as a result of ageing.
Spinal microdialysis was used to study the potassium induced in vivo release of substance P (SP) in the rat dorsal horn at different time points (3, 14, and 60 days) following partial sciatic nerve ligation (PNL) or sciatic nerve axotomy. The withdrawal threshold to innocuous mechanical stimuli was investigated with von Frey filaments in the PNL rats prior to microdialysis. The release of SP was significantly elevated at 60 days following PNL but not following complete nerve injury. However, the PNL rats in all time groups displayed mechanical hypersensitivity, which implies that this late change in SP release seems to be unrelated to the development of neuropathy. The present results indicate that there is an increase of the releasable pool of SP in the dorsal horn at late post-operative times after PNL. This change in SP release may reflect an altered sensory processing or may instead relate to adaptive responses to promote recovery.
Pre-synaptic metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors modulate neuronal excitability by controlling glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release. The mGlu8 receptor is predominantly found in pre-synaptic terminals and its expression is highly restricted. To study the role of this receptor, mGlu8 receptor-deficient mice were generated. Here we report that nave mGlu8 receptor-deficient mice showed increased anxiety-related behavior in the elevated plus maze in low illumination conditions (red light). Open arm avoidance and risk assessment behavior were both significantly increased in mutant mice. Increased stressfulness of the testing conditions abolished this behavioral difference. Fluorescent light or prior restraint stress decreased the open arm activity of wild-type mice, while the open arm activity of mutant mice was essentially unaffected, leading to similar values in both strains. The total number of arm entries or closed arm entries was not significantly different between strains, indicating that the lack of mGlu8 receptor does not affect locomotor activity. No gross behavioral changes, or changes in the function of the autonomic nervous system or somatomotor systems were observed in mutant mice. Moreover, no significant differences in seizure susceptibility were detected between strains. Our results suggest that mGlu8 receptor may play a role in responses to novel stressful environment.
mGluR8 is a G-protein coupled metabotropic glutamate receptor expressed in the mammalian brain. Members of the mGluR family have been shown to be modulators of neural plasticity and learning and memory. Here we analyze the consequences of a null mutation at the mGluR8 gene locus generated using homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells by comparing the learning performance of the mutants with that of wild type controls in the Morris water maze (MWM) and the context and cue dependent fear conditioning (CFC). Our results revealed robust performance deficits associated with the genetic background, the ICR outbred strain, in both mGluR8 null mutant and the wild type control mice. Mice of this strain origin suffered from impaired vision as compared to CD1 or C57BL/6 mice, a significant impediment in MWM, a visuo-spatial learning task. The CFC task, being less dependent on visual cues, allowed us to reveal subtle performance deficits in the mGluR8 mutants: novelty induced hyperactivity and temporally delayed and blunted responding to shocks and temporally delayed responding to contextual stimuli were detected. The role of mGluR8 as a presynaptic autoreceptor and its contribution to cognitive processes are hypothesized and the utility of gene targeting as compared to pharmacological methods is discussed.
The contribution of metabotropic glutamate 8 (mGlu8) receptors to modulation of medial and lateral perforant path (MPP and LPP) inputs to the dentate gyrus was investigated using electrophysiological recording of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) from hippocampal slices taken from wild-type and mGlu8 receptor knockout animals. Application of the selective group III mGlu receptor agonist, L-AP4 (1-100 microM), reduced fEPSPs evoked by LPP, but not MPP stimulation in wild-type slices in a concentration-dependent manner (EC(50) = 4.7 microM). The selective mGlu8 receptor agonist, DCPG (1-30 microM) also suppressed LPP fEPSPs with an EC(50) value of 3.1 microM. The L-AP4-induced reduction in LPP fEPSPs could be blocked by the group III antagonist, MSOP (100 microM) in wild-type slices and was eliminated in mGlu8 receptor-deficient slices. Additional experiments showed that MPP fEPSPs were suppressed by the group II agonist, LY379268 (0.01-3 microM) in control slices (EC(50) = 153.1 nM); an effect that was not altered in mGlu8 receptor knockout slices (EC(50) = 153.8 nM). In addition, LY379268 had little effect on fEPSPs evoked by LPP stimulation in mGlu8 receptor-deficient slices. In conjunction with recent receptor localization studies, these results suggest that the mGlu8 receptors serve as autoreceptors on LPP afferents to the dentate gyrus.
Protein phosphorylation, controlled by the coordinated actions of phosphatases and kinases, is an important regulatory mechanism in synaptic transmission and other neurophysiological processes. Ionotropic glutamate receptors are known targets of phosphorylation on serine, threonine and tyrosine residues, with functional consequences for cell excitability, plasticity and toxicity. While phosphorylation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) also impacts critical cellular processes, there has been no evidence for direct tyrosine phosphorylation of mGluRs. In the present study, anti-phosphotyrosine and specific mGluR antibodies were used to detect tyrosine-phosphorylated mGluRs in rat brain. In particular, we found that mGluR5 is an abundant phosphotyrosine protein in vivo as well as in primary striatal neurons and tissue slices in vitro. The protein phosphatase inhibitor pervanadate robustly increased the amount of tyrosine-phosphorylated mGluR5, suggesting the receptor is subject to an endogenous, active cycle of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. Furthermore, NMDA treatment also increased the amount of tyrosine-phosphorylated mGluR5, suggesting these endogenous phosphorylation regulatory mechanisms can be used to mediate crosstalk between synaptic glutamate receptors. While mGluR5-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis appears to be unaltered by pervanadate treatment, tyrosine phosphorylation of mGluR5 may be important in trafficking, anchoring, or signaling of the receptor through G protein-independent pathways.
Excitatory glutamatergic inputs to the subthalamic nucleus (STN), and subthalamic afferents to the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) are believed to play a key role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Previously, we have shown that activation of the group I mGlus in the STN and SNr induces a direct depolarization of the neurons in these nuclei. Surprisingly, although both group I mGlus were present in the STN and SNr, mGlu5 alone mediated the DHPG-induced depolarization of the STN, and mGlu1 alone mediated the DHPG-induced depolarization of the SNr. We now report that both mGlu1 and mGlu5 are coexpressed in the same cells in both of these brain regions, and that both receptors play a role in mediating the DHPG-induced increase in intracellular calcium. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the induction of an acute PD-like state using a 16 h haloperidol treatment produces an alteration in the coupling of the group I receptors, such that post-haloperidol, DHPG-induced depolarizations are mediated by both mGlu1 and mGlu5 in the STN and SNr. Therefore, the pharmacology of the group I mGlu-mediated depolarization depends on the state of the system, and alterations in receptor coupling may be evident in pathological states such as PD.
This study examined the effects of footshock stress and re-exposure to cues previously associated with footshock on expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in the hippocampus of male rats. Exposure to twenty 0.5-s 0.4-mA footshocks co-terminating with 70 dB, 5-s long pure tones over 60 min decreased dentate gyrus BDNF mRNA by 21.5%. Baseline BDNF mRNA levels returned to normal by two days after footshock exposure. Re-exposure for 60 min to the chamber and tones previously paired with 0.4 mA footshock decreased BDNF mRNA by 12%. Re-exposure to the conditioning chamber and tones previously paired with 0.6 mA footshock over 60 min decreased BDNF mRNA by 20.8%. The data suggest that psychological, as well as unconditioned physical stress, can decrease hippocampal BDNF mRNA. Possible implications for stress-related and other neuropsychiatric disorders associated with deficits in hippocampal function and volume, such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and Alzheimer's Disease, are discussed.
The brain renin-angiotensin system mediates several classic physiologies including body water balance, maintenance of blood pressure, cyclicity of reproductive hormones and sexual behaviors, and regulation of pituitary gland hormones. In addition, angiotensin peptides have been implicated in neural plasticity and memory. The present review initially describes the extracellular matrix (ECM) and the roles of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), matrix metalloproteinases, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases in the maintenance and degradation of the ECM. It is the ECM that appears to permit synaptic remodeling and thus is critical to the plasticity that is presumed to underlie mechanisms of memory consolidation and retrieval. The interrelationship among long-term potentiation (LTP), CAMs, and synaptic strengthening is described, followed by the influence of angiotensins on LTP. There is strong support for an inhibitory influence by angiotensin II (AngII) and a facilitory role by angiotensin IV (AngIV), on LTP. Next, the influences of AngII and IV on associative and spatial memories are summarized. Finally, the impact of sleep deprivation on matrix metalloproteinases and memory function is described. Recent findings indicate that sleep deprivation-induced memory impairment is accompanied by a lack of appropriate changes in matrix metalloproteinases within the hippocampus and neocortex as compared with non-sleep deprived animals. These findings generally support an important contribution by angiotensin peptides to neural plasticity and memory consolidation.
Neurons are the most highly polarized cells, comprised of two structurally and functionally distinct parts, axons and dendrites. This asymmetry enables a vectorial flow of signaling within neurons. One of the most fundamental questions still to be answered in neuroscience is how these two specialized processes initially develop. The first manifestation of polarization occurs when one of the immature neurites acquires axonal characteristics. We review recent advances that have highlighted the involvement of several cellular events in the initial formation of the axon, including membrane traffic and cytoskeletal rearrangement. We then discuss the molecular mechanisms underlying axon formation, focusing on the Rho family small GTPases and an axon-inducing neuronal protein, CRMP-2.
Voluntary goal-directed movements, such as arm reaching, are nearly optimized in terms of smoothness over the entire movement. Such smoothness is lost with cerebellar dysfunction, suggesting the essential role of the cerebellum in optimizing movement. However, it is still not clear how the cerebellum contributes to achieving smoothness over an entire movement. A recent study has shown that such smoothness of movement can be achieved by reducing the variance of errors at the end of the movement. Here, I hypothesize that the terminal errors conveyed by climbing fibers in the cerebellum serve to reduce not only the mean error, but also the variance of the error, through a process analogous to the random walk through movement control candidates. In the random walk, the direction of each step is randomly determined, but the size of each step is determined by the error at the end of each trial.
In recent years, oxidative stress has been implicated in a variety of degenerative processes, diseases, and syndromes. Some of these include atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, stroke, and ischemia/reperfusion injury; chronic and acute inflammatory conditions such as wound healing; central nervous system disorders such as forms of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and glutathione peroxidase-linked adolescent seizures; Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's dementia; and a variety of other age-related disorders. Among the various biochemical events associated with these conditions, emerging evidence suggests the formation of superoxide anion and expression/activity of its endogenous scavenger, superoxide dismutase (SOD), as a common denominator. This review summarizes the function of SOD under normal physiological conditions as well as its role in the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying oxidative tissue damage and neurological abnormalities. Experimental evidence from laboratory animals that either overexpress (transgenics) or are deficient (knockouts) in antioxidant enzyme/protein levels and the genetic SOD mutations observed in some familial cases of ALS are also discussed.
A number of studies have shown that early life events can affect the development of the nervous system, contributing to particular individual differences in later vulnerability to different forms of psychosocial stress related to the environment and lifestyle. Neuropeptides, chemokines (CKs), neurotrophins (NTs) belong to the chemical microenvironment of the cells of the central nervous system (CNS). This paper reviews research performed in our and other laboratories indicating that mass spectrometry should play a significant role in future studies of the structures of proteins/peptides in neuroscience. These applications include peptide metabolism associated with normal and impaired neurone/immune function. Detailed information about peptide/protein processing in the CNS may be studied by using the lymphocyte as a model reflecting different chemical modifications of peptides/proteins related to various psychosomatic disturbances reflecting disorders of environment and lifestyle.
There is a growing literature that indicates that exposure to elevated levels of glucocorticoids can result in long term consequences for the developing brain. In the developing rodent there is a period from about day 4-14 when the adrenal response to stress is either minimal or non-existent thus resulting in stable low levels of circulating glucocorticoids. This has been designated as the stress hypo-responsive period (SHRP). Numerous experiments have demonstrated that maternal factors are critical for the regulation of the pup's hypothalamic-pituitarty adrenal (HPA) axis and the maintenance of the SHRP. Following 24 h of maternal deprivation the neonatal rat shows elevated basal levels of corticosterone and exhibits a robust corticosterone and ACTH response to mild stress. Further c-fos mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus is enhanced following stress in deprived pups. At least three aspects of maternal behavior play a role in the regulation of the HPA axis during development. Tactile stimulation appears capable of inhibiting most of the brain-related changes that occur following maternal deprivation. Feeding is essential for maintaining the adrenal unresponsive and reduces the sensitivity of the adrenal to ACTH. Passive contact suppresses the response to stress. In the adult corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is the major neuropeptide that controls pituitary ACTH secretion. In the maternally deprived pup CRH gene transcription is down regulated and arginine vasopressin (AVP) appears to assume the major regulatory hormone that modulates ACTH. These data all indicate that maternal factors are responsible for actively inhibiting the endocrine responses to stress postnatally. Further, maternal deprivation also results in increased cell death in several brain regions. Thus during development most of the peripheral and central stress responsive systems are capable of being activated. However, under conditions of normal dam-pup interactions these responses are mostly suppressed by the dam's behavioral interaction with the pups thus preventing the potential toxic effects of increased secretion of glucocorticoids during critical periods of brain development.
The present review summarizes the findings on the role of neuropeptides in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and major depression. Several neuropeptides as vasopressin and endorphins in particular, beta-endorphin and gamma-type endorphins, cholecystokinin (CCK), neurotensin, somatostatin and Neuropeptide Y have been implicated in schizophrenia. During the last decade, however, few attempts to explore the significance of most of these and other neuropeptides in the pathophysiology of the disease or their therapeutic potential are found in the literature. An exception is neurotensin, which exerts neuroleptic-like effects in animal studies, while CSF, brain and blood studies are inconclusive. Things are different in major depression. Here much attention is paid to the endocrine abnormalities found in this disorder in particular the increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Neuropeptides as corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), vasopressin and corticosteroids are implicated in the symptomatology of this disorder. As a consequence much work is going on investigating the influence of CRH and corticosteroid antagonists or inhibitors of the synthesis of corticosteroids as potential therapeutic agents. This review emphasizes the role of vasopressin in the increased activity of the HPA axis in major depression and suggests exploration of the influence of the now available non-peptidergic vasopressin orally active V1 antagonists.
Numerous studies have shown that MAO-B activity in platelets correlates with specific personality characteristics such as sensation seeking and impulsiveness. Low levels of platelet MAO as well as the personality traits associated with these low levels have been associated with type 2 alcoholism, recurrent criminality and antisocial violent behavior. Platelet MAO has a high degree of heritability and regulation of MAOB gene expression seems to explain most of the inter-individual differences in activity. The transcription factor family AP-2 is an important regulatory factor for neural gene expression and neural development, especially in midbrain structures, including the monoaminergic nuclei. In man, the gene encoding AP-2beta contains a polymorphic region in the second intron, consisting of a variable number of tandem repeats [CAAA](4-5). The long AP-2beta allele has previously been associated with specific personality traits as well as with binge-eating disorder characterized by an impulsive temperament. We have shown that males and females homozygous for the long AP-2beta allele display significantly lower platelet MAO activity compared to subjects with one or two short alleles. Thus, we find it likely that the personality disturbances previously linked to low platelet MAO activity could be associated with the presence of two long alleles of the AP-2beta gene. We suggest that the molecular mechanisms underlying the association between platelet MAO and vulnerability, e.g. substance abuse, may involve specific transcription factors that regulate the expression of midbrain monoamine structures as well as that of platelet MAO.

Neuronal rapidly exchanging Ca(2+) stores coincide with the endoplasmic reticulum and possess ample, nonrandom distribution, dual receptor channels, IP(3) and ryanodine receptors, and heterogeneous membranes. Because of these properties, the stores are able to reinforce and expand the Ca(2+) signals generated at the surface, working as partners of voltage- and receptor-gated channels.
Diabetic neuropathy is a most-convoluted complication. Diabetic gastropathy, ulcers, diarrhea, and bladder dysfunction are the major peripheral neuropathies. Peripheral neuropathies have been the primary neuroscience focus of diabetes research. In contrast to the periphery, the brain is not usually thought to be a target of chronic diabetic complications. However, the impact of diabetes mellitus on the central nervous system has recently gained attention. It is well known that diabetes or hyperglycemia influences the sensitivity of laboratory animals to various pharmacological agents. An increased sensitivity of hyperglycemic or diabetic animals to barbiturates and a decreased sensitivity of D-amphetamine, p-chloroamphetamine, and carbon tetrachloride have been demonstrated. Furthermore, it was reported that mice and rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes and spontaneously diabetic mice are significantly less sensitive than non-diabetic mice to the antinociceptive effect of morphine. However, little information is available regarding the mechanism responsible for these changes. It is well established that anxiety and depression are common in patients with diabetes. Moreover, diabetic animals showed significantly more anxiogenic activity than non-diabetic animals did. However, the mechanisms through which diabetes may contribute to the development of, or be a risk factor for, psychiatric disorders are not clear. We provide an overview of our current understanding of the effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on the opioid receptor and the benzodiazepine receptor.

Radiohalogenated 5-halo-6-nitroquipazine analogues have been shown to be potential radioligands for visualization of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) with PET and SPECT. In the present study a methylated analogue, 5-methyl-6-nitroquipazine (MNQP), was radiolabeled with carbon-11 in a two step reaction via a palladium catalyzed cross coupling reaction between N-t-BOC-protected 5-tributylstannyl-6-nitroquipazine and [(11)C]methyl iodide as key step. [(11)C]MNQP was examined in the cynomolgus monkey brain with positron emission tomography (PET) and the appearance of labeled metabolites in monkey plasma was measured with gradient HPLC. Radioactivity increased continuously in all brain regions during the 90 minutes acquisition time. Highest accumulation of radioactivity was observed in the thalamus and brainstem, regions with a known high density of 5-HTT. The calculated ratios between the thalamus and brainstem to the 5-HTT poor cerebellum were 1.5 and 1.3-1.4, respectively, 80 minutes after radioligand injection. Pretreatment with citalopram prior to the PET measurement markedly reduced the binding in the thalamus and the brainstem. At 15 and 30 minutes after injection of [(11)C]MNQP approximately 90% and 60%, respectively, of radioactivity in plasma represented unchanged radioligand. The slow kinetics and moderate ratios recorded however, may limit its use as a PET radioligand for quantitative studies of the serotonin transporter with PET.

Planning strategies to encourage students to pursue a career in pediatric neurology requires assessment of their attitudes and career choices. A structured 30-item questionnaire was designed to examine students' attitudes toward pediatric neurology. In the study, 161 final-year medical students (1999-2000), 20-26 years of age (mean, 23 years of age) were included prospectively. Although most students had been taught by a pediatric neurologist and considered neurologic disorders interesting, 77%-100% had unfavorable attitudes. Although 79% considered pediatric neurology as a future career option, only nine students (6%) selected it as their first choice. Our findings highlight some aspects that might be targeted to promote students' interest in pediatric neurology and improve their learning experiences.
Intracerebroventricular administration of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) encoding the rat leptin gene (rAAV-lep) to 24-d-old female and male rats suppressed postpubertal weight gain for extended periods by decreasing food consumption and adiposity, as reflected by lowered serum leptin, insulin, and FFA. Serum ghrelin levels were increased in young but not older rats. Central rAAV-lep therapy also increased energy expenditure through nonshivering thermogenesis in younger rats as shown by expression of uncoupling protein mRNA in brown adipose tissue. The sustained decrease in appetite seemingly resulted from attenuation of appetite-stimulating neuropeptide Y and enhancement of appetite-inhibiting melanocortin signalings in the hypothalamus. Neither the onset of pubertal sexual maturation nor reproductive cyclicity in adult female rats was affected by the sustained reduction in energy consumption and weight gain. These findings demonstrate that central leptin gene therapy in prepubertal rats is a novel therapy to control postpubertal weight gain, adiposity, and hyperinsulinemia for extended periods.
The ability of sodium deficiency to stimulate vasopressin (VP) release was examined by determining if sodium deficiency sensitizes the animal to the behavioral disruption caused by intraventricular injections of VP. In sodium-replete rats, intraventricular injections of 50 ng VP on Day 1 had no effect on behavior, but this dose elicited abnormal behaviors (barrel rolls, hind-limb extensions) when administered on Day 2, indicating a sensitization phenomenon. In separate experiments, the first intraventricular injection of 50 ng VP in sodium-deficient but not in sodium-replete rats also elicited barrel rotations followed by hind-limb extension. Intraventricular injection of VP also disrupted motor behavior in sodium-replete rats that had multiple prior experiences with sodium deficiency but not in naive rats. These results show that sodium deficiency can mimic the effect of central injections of VP in sensitizing the brain to the behavioral effects of exogenous VP. This suggests that sodium deficiency induces the central release of VP.
Environmental factors can have profound influences on the brain. Enriching environments with physical, social and sensory stimuli are now established to be beneficial to brain development and ageing. A multitude of responses from cellular and molecular mechanisms to macroscopic changes in neural morphology and neurogenesis have been considered in the context for evidences that environmental inputs can regulate brain plasticity in the rat at all stages of life. Data from our laboratory have revealed that enriched environment increased nerve growth factor (NGF) gene expression and protein levels in the hippocampus, and this may contribute to events underlying environmentally induced neural plasticity. Because neurotrophic factors are essential for neural development and survival, they are likely to be involved in the cerebral consequences modified by enriched experiences.
Repeated separation of rat pups from their mothers has been reported to increase behavioral fearfulness and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) response to stress. Recently, it was suggested that it might also alter behavioral responses to natural and drug rewards. Here, we studied whether maternal separation (MS) would alter behavioral responses to a sucrose reward. We also tested whether MS would alter behavioral responses in an open-field test using a novel method of analysis [Software for the Exploration of Exploration (SEE)]. Long-Evans rat pups were exposed to either 180 min of MS, 15 min of separation [early handling (EH)] or left undisturbed [nonhandled (NH)] from postnatal day (PND) 3 to 14. The adult male offspring were tested for sucrose solution preference using a two-bottle free-choice test, operant response for sucrose under fixed ratio and progressive ratio (PR) schedules of reinforcement and response to a novel environment (open-field test). MS had no effect on sucrose preference or operant responding for sucrose reward. In the open-field test, NH rats showed a brief decrease in locomotor response, but MS rats did not differ from the NH and EH groups in the other behavioral measures. Thus, under the conditions of the present study, MS did not appear to alter reward-related processes and also had a minimal effect on open-field behavior.
Rat pups were individually isolated from the mother and nest for 1 h/day from postnatal days (PND) 2 to 9 and tested as juveniles (PND 26-30) compared to nonhandled (NH) controls. In response to 1 h of restraint stress, NH rats increased locomotor activity and dopamine (DA) levels, but neonatally isolated (ISO) rats did not. Both groups had increased plasma corticosterone levels in response to restraint, but corticosterone levels were higher in ISO than in NH. Brain allopregnanolone (3alpha,5alpha-THP) levels also increased in response to stress, but NH and ISO did not differ. Sex of the rats was not a factor for any of the measures except plasma corticosterone levels, where females had higher levels than males. These data indicate that the effects of neonatal isolation persist postweaning and that the effects are most evident in response to stress as opposed to under baseline conditions.
Glioma, the most common form of brain tumor, has been shown mostly by in vitro studies to utilize matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) for invasive growth through degradation of the extracellular matrix. In order to examine the in vivo role of MMP, we established a rodent model of glioma progression using C6 rat glioma cells and analyzed the effect of tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). TIMP-2 rather than TIMP-1 caused significant reduction of the tumor size accompanied by the presence of degenerated blood vessels and ischemic necrosis. Because TIMP-2 inhibits MMP-2 preferentially, we then examined glioma growth in MMP-2-deficient mice and observed essentially identical consequences. While MMP-2 activity was present in the tumor and adjacent tissues of the wild-type mice, no MMP-2 activity was detected even in the tumor of the null mice, although C6 cells are known to express MMP-2. These observations suggest that glioma induces MMP-2 and utilizes its activity in the host tissue to support angiogenesis and to maintain angioarchitecture.
The heritability of self-reported sleep patterns was investigated with 86 identical and 78 fraternal same-sex and 51 fraternal mixed-gender adult twin pairs who were paid to maintain 7-day diaries. Linear structural modeling was applied to investigate the nature and degree of genetic and environmental influences and revealed significant genetic influences on the time that individuals went to sleep and woke up, how often the individual woke up during the night, the duration of sleep and wakefulness, and how alert the individual felt upon waking and over the day, accounting for 21% to 41% of the variance. These influences of heredity were present for sleep-wake behavior over the entire week and also when the sleep-wake pattern was analyzed separately for weekdays and weekends. Further, it was demonstrated that there were multiple independent influences of heredity on sleep-wake behavior. The results suggest that sleep-wake patterns are not learned but result in part from multiple heritable influences.
The vertebrate central nervous system (CNS) contains two major classes of macroglial cells, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. Oligodendrocytes are responsible for the formation of myelin in the central nervous system, while the functions of astrocytes are more diverse and less well established. Recent studies have provided new insights into when, where and how these different classes of cell arise during CNS development. The founder cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage initially arise in distinct regions of the ventricular zone during early development as the result of local signals including sonic hedgehog. In the spinal cord, oligodendrocyte precursors appear to share a developmental lineage with motor neurons, although they may also develop from restricted glial precursors. Immature oligodendrocyte precursors are highly migratory. They migrate from their site of origin to developing white matter tracts using a variety of guidance cues including diffusible chemorepellents. The majority of oligodendrocyte precursor proliferation occurs in developing white matter as a result of the local expression of mitogenic signals. Oligodendrocyte precursor cell proliferation is regulated by a number of distinct growth factors that act at distinct stages in the lineage and whose activity is modulated by synergy with other molecules including chemokines. The final matching of oligodendrocyte and axon number is accomplished through a combination of local regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation and cell death. Not all oligodendrocyte precursors differentiate during development, and the adult CNS contains a significant population of precursors. Understanding the regulation of oligodendrogenesis will facilitate the use of these endogenous precursors to enhance repair in a variety of pathological conditions.
The application of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the study of human disease using small animals has steadily evolved over the past two decades and strongly established the fields of &quot;small animal MR imaging&quot; and &quot;MR microscopy.&quot; An increasing number of neuroscience related investigations now implement MR microscopy in their experiments. Research areas of growth pertaining to MR microscopy studies are focused on (1). phenotyping of genetically engineered mice models of human neurological diseases and (2). rodent brain atlases. MR microscopy can be performed in vitro on tissue specimens, ex vivo on brain slice preparations and in vivo (typically on rodents). Like most new imaging technologies, MR microscopy is technologically demanding and requires broad expertise. Uniform guidelines or &quot;standards&quot; of a given MR microscopy experiment are non-existent. The main focus therefore of this review will be on biological applications of MR microscopy and the experimental requirements. We also take a critical look at the biological information that small animal (rodent) MR imaging has provided in neuroscience research.
A novel tracer technique is presented for the simultaneous and independent measurement of multiple stable isotopically labeled essential fatty acids. Gas chromatography/negative chemical ionization mass spectrometry was employed for high sensitivity detection of the following isotopes: deuterium-labeled-linolenate, carbon-13-U-labeled-eicosapentaenoate, carbon-13-U-labeled-linoleate, and deuterium-labeled-dihomo-gamma-linolenate. These isotope-labeled fatty acids in vehicle oil were given to rats either singly or together as a single oral dose. Rat blood was collected after dosing and the isotopomers of the precursors and their main metabolites, including those containing both(13) C and (2)H, were detected simultaneously with good resolution and without interference from other isotopes due to differences in mass and chromatographic retention.
In the central nervous system (CNS), prostaglandin (PG) and other bioactive lipids regulate vital aspects of neural membrane biology, including protein-lipid interactions, trans-membrane and trans-synaptic signaling. However, a series of highly reactive PGs, free fatty acids, lysophospolipids, eicosanoids, platelet-activating factor, and reactive oxygen species (ROS), all generated by enhanced phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity and arachidonic acid (AA) release, participate in cellular injury, particularly in neurodegeneration. PLA2 activation and PG production are among the earliest initiating events in triggering brain-damage pathways, which can lead to long-term neurologic deficits. Altered membrane-associated PLA2 activities have been correlated with several forms of acute and chronic brain injury, including cerebral trauma, ischemic damage, induced seizures in the brain and epilepsy, schizophrenia, and in particular, Alzheimer's disease (AD). Biochemical mechanisms of PLA2 overactivation and its pathophysiological consequences on CNS structure and function have been extensively studied using animal models and brain cells in culture triggered with PLA2 inducers, PGs, cytokines, and related lipid mediators. Moreover, the expression of both COX-2 and PLA2 appears to be strongly activated during Alzheimer's disease (AD), indicating the importance of inflammatory gene pathways as a response to brain injury. This review addresses some current ideas concerning how brain PLA2 and brain PGs are early and key players in acute neural trauma and in brain-cell damage associated with chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as AD.
We have performed cysteine scanning mutagenesis of the bacteriorhodopsin mutant D85N to explore the role of individual amino acids in the conformational transitions of the reprotonation mechanism. We have used whole-cell reflectance spectroscopy to evaluate the spectral properties of the 59 mutants generated during a scan of the entire F and G helices and the intervening loop region. Cys mutants were grouped into one of six phenotypes based on the spectral changes associated with their M &lt;--&gt; N &lt;--&gt; O intermediate-state transitions. Mutations that produced similar phenotypes were found to cluster in discrete molecular domains and indicate that M, N, and O possess distinct structures and that unique molecular interactions regulate the transitions between them. The distribution of these domains suggests that 1) the extramembranous loop region is involved in the stabilization of the N and M intermediates, 2) lipid-protein interactions play a key role in the accumulation of N, and 3) the amino acid side-chain interactions in the extracellular portion of the interface between helices G and A participate in the accumulation of M.
Transgenic, knockout and knockin mice are useful tools for linking specific genes with behaviour and other complex biological processes. However, complications arising due to compensatory changes, genetic background differences and other factors could lead to difficulty in interpreting the resulting changes in phenotype. We have used fluorescence two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis in combination with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass fingerprinting to investigate the possibility that distinct genetic alterations can lead to common protein expression changes in genetically modified mice. Brain proteomes were compared from two transgenic mouse strains (Tg2576 x TgPS1 and Tg2576), two knockout mouse strains (5-HT(7)R -/- and GABA(A)Ralpha5 -/-) and one knockin mouse strain (GABA(A)Ralpha1-H101R). Both of the transgenic models showed an isoform change in the heat shock 70 related protein, mortalin. The knockout and knockin models showed similar changes in mortalin expression along with an alteration of the anti-oxidant protein 2. The observed proteomic alterations indicate that stress-responsive protein pathways may be altered artefactually in all of the mouse models used in this study and highlights an area where caution is needed in interpreting proteomic changes in genetically modified mice.

Social phobia may be associated with a dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In this study we determined HPA axis responsivity to a psychological stressor in patients with social phobia and compared them to healthy controls. Fifteen patients with DSM IV social phobia with a mean score of 77.7 on the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale and 15 age and sex matched controls underwent the stressor consisting of mental arithmetic and a short term memory test performed in front of an audience. Plasma levels of cortisol and corticotropin were measured at various intervals throughout the test. Although baseline measures of cortisol did not differ between patients (319.8+/-34.6 nmol/l) and controls (279.5+/-42.7 nmol/l)(t=0.7, df=28, P&lt;0.5) nor did baseline corticotropin values (8.6+/-2.1 pg/ml vs 13.7+/-2.0 pg/ml respectively) (t=-1.8, df=28, P&lt;0.08) this stressor resulted in a significantly greater delta max cortisol response (the difference between baseline values and the maximum increase during the stressor) in patients (167.1+/-23.7 nmol/l) than in controls (106.7+/-16 nmol/l) (t=2.1, df=28, P&lt;0.04). There was no significant difference in delta max corticotropin between groups (patients 8.8+/-2.1 pg/ml vs controls 9.1+/-1.9 pg/ml) (t=-0.08, df=28, P&lt;0.9). This preliminary study indicates that patients with social phobia appear to have a hyper-responsive adrenocortical response to psychological stress.




In vivo 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) studies of the brain have quantitatively assessed rates of glutamate-glutamine cycle (Veye) and glucose oxidation (CMRGle(ox)) by detecting 13C label turnover from glucose to glutamate and glutamine. Contrary to expectations from in vitro and ex vivo studies, the in vivo 13C-MRS results demonstrate that glutamate recycling is a major metabolic pathway, inseparable from its actions of neurotransmission. Furthermore, both in the awake human and in the anesthetized rat brain, Veye and CMRGle(ox) are stoichiometrically related, where more than two thirds of the energy from glucose oxidation supports events associated with glutamate neurotransmission. The high energy consumption of the brain measured at rest and its quantitative relation to neurotransmission reflects a sizeable activity level for the resting brain. The high activity of the non-stimulated brain, as measured by cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen use (CMRO2), establishes a new neurophysiological basis of cerebral function that leads to reinterpreting functional imaging data because the large baseline signal is commonly discarded in cognitive neuroscience paradigms. Changes in energy consumption (delta CMRO2%) can also be obtained from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) experiments, using the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) image contrast, provided that all the separate parameters contributing to the functional MRI (fMRI) signal are measured. The BOLD-derived delta CMRO2% when compared with alterations in neuronal spiking rate (delta v%) during sensory stimulation in the rat reveals a stoichiometric relationship, in good agreement with 13C-MRS results. Hence fMRI when calibrated so as to provide delta CMRO2% can provide high spatial resolution evaluation of neuronal activity. Our studies of quantitative measurements of changes in neuroenergetics and neurotransmission reveal that a stimulus does not provoke an arbitrary amount of activity in a localized region, rather a total level of activity is required where the increment is inversely related to the level of activity in the non-stimulated condition. These biophysical experiments have established relationships between energy consumption and neuronal activity that provide novel insights into the nature of brain function and the interpretation of fMRI data.

Status epilepticus is a medical emergency that requires prompt recognition and urgent treatment. Successful management of status epilepticus in children depends upon implementation of a treatment protocol modified according to current practices as well as availability of antiepileptic medications, out of hospital emergency services and intensive-care facilities. We propose a treatment protocol for status epilepticus in children in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Equipment which measure femorotibial motions indirectly by using a patellar pad are reported to have errors caused by deformation of soft tissues and slippage of the device. For the purpose of validation, the tibial translation in relation to the femur per degree of knee extension was estimated from the slope coefficients of the flexion-displacement curve, obtained by both fluoroscopic and electrogoniometric tests, in the knee of the dominant limb in healthy subjects and in both knees of patients with unilateral anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) deficiency. In addition, the anterior and posterior static knee laxity limits and the tibial resting position were evaluated. Within all knee groups, the tibia moved posteriorly in relation to the femur during extension. The measured movement was similar both with the electrogoniometer and with fluoroscopy thereby indicating that sagittal plane knee translation measurements with the CA-4000 electrogoniometer are reliable and in good agreement with the X-ray measurements, even though the measurements were made separately. The ACL injured knees showed approximately 20% smaller posterior movement of tibia in relation to femur per degree change of knee extension than the non-injured or control knees (p &lt; 0.05) and a more anterior resting position of the tibia relative to femur as compared to the contralateral healthy knee during knee laxity testing (p = 0.002).





The new glaucoma drugs latanoprost, isopropyl unoprostone, travoprost, and bimatoprost cause increased pigmentation of the iris in some patients. The purpose of the present article is to survey the available preclinical and clinical data on prostaglandin-induced iris pigmentation and to assess the phenomenon from a clinical perspective. Most of the data have been obtained with latanoprost, and it appears that there is a predisposition to latanoprost-induced iris pigmentation in individuals with hazel or heterochromic eye color. As latanoprost and travoprost are selective agonists for the prostaglandin F(2alpha) receptor, it is likely that the phenomenon is mediated by this receptor. Several studies indicate that latanoprost stimulates melanogenesis in iridial melanocytes, and transcription of the tyrosinase gene is upregulated. The safety aspects of latanoprost-induced iris pigmentation have been addressed in histopathologic studies, and no evidence of harmful consequences of the side effect has been found. Although a final assessment of the clinical significance of prostaglandin-induced iris pigmentation currently is impossible to make, it appears that the only clear-cut disadvantage is a potential heterochromia between the eyes in unilaterally treated patients because the heterochromia is likely to be permanent, or very slowly reversible.

Our objective was to study the intraocular pressure (IOP) in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertensive patients during long-term treatment with latanoprost. A total of 532 patients treated with 0.005% latanoprost were enrolled, including 493 and 113 patients treated for 6 and 24 months, respectively. Mean IOP was analyzed with the analysis of variance technique. The risk of treatment failure was analyzed with survival analysis technique. After 2 weeks of latanoprost treatment, the mean IOP was reduced 8.2 (32%) and 8.9 (34%) mm Hg in the subgroups of patients treated for 6 and 24 months, respectively. The change in mean IOP during 2 years of latanoprost treatment was not statistically significant (p = 0.15). Patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension showed an 86% and 97% chance of receiving a sufficient IOP reduction with latanoprost (p &lt; 0.01), repectively. The initial mean IOP reduction was maintained throughout the 2 years of treatment.
The ocular pharmacokinetics of latanoprost (13,14-dihydro-17-phenyl-18, 19,20-trinor-PGF(2alpha)-isopropyl ester; Xalatan [Pharmacia-Upjohn, Peapack, NJ]) was studied in patients undergoing cataract surgery using radio-immunoassay, and the systemic pharmacokinetics of latanoprost was studied in healthy human volunteers with 3H-latanoprost as well as radioimmunoassay. After topical application, latanoprost was rapidly hydrolysed in the cornea and blood. The maximum concentration of the active drug, latanoprost acid, was detected in the aqueous humor 1-2 hours after topical administration of the clinical dose and amounted to 15-30 ng/ml. The half-life of latanoprost acid in the aqueous humor was 2-3 hours. In the systemic circulation the peak concentration of latanoprost acid appeared 5 minutes after topical application and reached a level of 53 pg/ml with an elimination half-life of 17 minutes. In patients that had been on the drug continuously for more than 1 year, 5 out of 10 had plasma levels of latanoprost acid below the limit of detection (&lt;30 pg/ml). The mean plasma clearance was 0.40 +/- 0.04 l/h. kg, and the volume of distribution was 0.16 +/- 0.02 l/kg after intravenous administration. The corresponding figures after ocular administration were 0.88 l/h. kg, and 0.36 l/kg. The majority of the radioactivity was recovered in urine (88%) and the rest was found in feces. In the eye the main metabolism of latanoprost was the ester hydrolysis. The only prominent chromatographic peak in plasma corresponded to latanoprost acid. In urine no latanoprost or latanoprost acid was detected. Before excretion latanoprost acid was beta oxidized to 1,2-dinor and 1,2,3,4-tetranor latanoprost acid. These metabolites accounted for approximately 66% of the radioactivity in urine. In conclusion, latanoprost is rapidly hydrolyzed in the eye and blood to latanoprost acid. Minimal further metabolism occurs in the eye, but latanoprost acid undergoes beta oxidation and other metabolism outside the eye. After topical application the peak concentration in aqueous humor was approximately 10(-7) M, whereas that in plasma was about 10(-10) M or less.
We have shown that fluorinated N-3-fluoropropyl-2-beta-carboxymethoxy-3-beta-(4-iodophenyl) nortropane ([(18)F]FPCIT) and PET offer a valuable means of quantifying regional abnormality in dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). The objective of this study was to delineate the topographic distribution of DAT binding in early stage idiopathic PD using statistical parametric analysis of [(18)F]FPCIT PET data. We performed dynamic PET studies in 15 hemi-parkinsonian (Hoehn &amp; Yahr I) patients and 10 age-matched normal volunteers over 100 min and calculated images of [(18)F]FPCIT binding ratios on a pixel-by-pixel basis. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was then used to localize binding reductions in PD and to compute the absolute change relative to normal. [(18)F]FPCIT binding decreased significantly in the contralateral posterior putamen of the PD group (P &lt; 0.001, corrected). A significant reduction was also seen in the ipsilateral putamen, which was smaller in extent but localized more posteriorly. A quantitative comparison of DAT binding in the two clusters showed that the onset of motor symptoms in PD was associated with an approximate 70% loss relative to the normal mean in the contralateral posterior putamen. These results suggest that SPM analysis of [(18)F]FPCIT PET data can be used to quantify and map abnormalities in DAT activity within the human striatum. This method provides a useful tool to track the onset and progression of PD at its earliest stages.
Throughout the ventral tegmental area (VTA), dopamine is packaged within subcellular organelles by the vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT2). Somatodendritically released dopamine in this region binds to the D2 receptor (D2R) to modulate ongoing neurotransmission. Although autoregulation of mesocortical dopaminergic neurons in the parabrachial VTA (PB-VTA) is known to be less efficacious than that of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons in the paranigral (PN-VTA), the cellular basis for this regional heterogeneity is not known. For this reason, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine the subcellular localization of the dopamine storage vesicles (identified by the presence of VMAT2) in relation to the D2R in these VTA subdivisions. In both regions, D2R immunoreactivity was principally located on extrasynaptic dendritic plasma membranes near excitatory-type synapses. Equivalent percentages (72 and 74%) of the D2R-labeled dendrites in each region contained VMAT2-immunoreactive tubulovesicles. Of the total VMAT2-labeled dendrites, however, a significantly lower percentage in the PB-VTA (26%) than in the PN-VTA (38%) contained D2R labeling. In contrast, a significantly higher number of VMAT2 immunogold-silver deposits was seen within individual dendrites in the PB-VTA than in PN-VTA. In both regions, D2R immunoreactivity was also detected in VMAT2-negative axon terminals that formed synapses on dendrites containing VMAT2. Our results are the first to demonstrate that within VTA neurons and their afferents the D2R is strategically positioned for activation by dopamine released from dendritic storage vesicles. These findings also suggest that the potential for D2R activation may affect the expression levels of VMAT2 in VTA dendrites.
To develop a method to measure the dynamic response of the serotonin system in vivo, the effects of intravenously administered citalopram (the most selective of the serotonin reuptake inhibitors) on cerebral glucose metabolism were evaluated. Cerebral glucose metabolism was measured with positron emission tomography (PET) in 14 normal subjects scanned after administration of saline placebo and citalopram administered on 2 separate days. Citalopram administration resulted in a decrease in metabolism in the right anterior cingulate gyrus (BA 24/32), right superior (BA 9) and right middle frontal gyrus (BA 6), right parietal cortex (precuneus), right superior occipital gyrus, left thalamus, and right cerebellum. Increased metabolism was observed in the left superior temporal gyrus and left occipital cortex. Alterations in metabolism by acute citalopram administration involved the heteromodal association cortices that also show metabolic alterations in patients with geriatric depression and overlap with the regions affected by antidepressant treatment. Future studies will evaluate how the acute metabolic response to citalopram relates to the metabolic response after chronic treatment in patients with geriatric depression.
Olanzapine (Zyprexa) was approved for general prescription in Sweden in November 1996, and an HPLC-based therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) routine for serum olanzapine (OLA) and its major metabolite, N-demethylolanzapine (DMO) was established in February 1997. During 1997 to 1999, a total of 753 TDM requests for a total of 545 Swedish patients was analyzed. Additional patient information on certain clinical variables was collected on specifically designed TDM request forms. After the exclusion process, samples from 194 patients were found to be eligible for further scrutiny. The concentration-to-dose (C/D) ratio for OLA varied 25-fold and that of DMO 22-fold. Women had a higher (P &lt; 0.01) median C/D ratio for OLA than men (median, 7.2 nmol/L/mg vs 5.2 nmol/L/mg). Nonsmokers had a higher (P &lt; 0.001) C/D ratio for OLA than smokers (median, 9.2 nmol/L/mg vs 4.0 nmol/L/mg). Smokers got higher prescribed (P &lt; 0.05) doses of OLA than nonsmokers did. In the group with reported side effects, the median serum OLA concentration was 22% higher (P &lt; 0.05) than in the group without side effects. Patients co-medicated with carbamazepine had a 71% lower median C/D ratio for OLA than patients on OLA monotherapy. The present TDM-based follow-up suggests that the influence of gender, smoking habits, and certain drug interactions may need to be considered for optimal dosage of OLA. TDM may be used for this purpose more readily in the future.
Syntactic comprehension is a fundamental aspect of human language, and has distinct properties from other aspects of language (e.g. semantics). In this article, we aim to identify if there is a specific locus of syntax in the brain by reviewing imaging studies on syntactic processing. We conclude that results from neuroimaging support evidence from neuropsychology that syntactic processing does not recruit one specific area. Instead a network of areas including Broca's area and anterior, middle and superior areas of the temporal lobes is involved. However, none of these areas appears to be syntax specific.

Does your heart pound because you feel afraid, or do you feel afraid because your heart is racing? This question is the crux of a century-old controversy, stemming from a proposal by William James. A recent neuroimaging study addresses this issue and suggests that the functional connectivity of the insula could provide the key to resolving the debate.

Event-related potentials (ERPs) provide evidence of a direct link between cognitive events and brain electrical activity in a wide range of cognitive paradigms. It has generally been held that an ERP is the result of a set of discrete stimulus-evoked brain events. A recent study, however, provides new evidence to suggest that some ERP components might be generated by stimulus-induced changes in ongoing brain dynamics. This is consistent with views emerging from several neuroscientific fields, suggesting that phase synchronization of ongoing rhythms across different spatio-temporal scales mediates the functional integration necessary to perform higher cognitive tasks.

Initiation and maintenance of the postsynaptic neurotransmitter-receptor field are important steps during synapse formation and maturation, as they play a determinative role in regulating synaptic strength. However, the mechanisms directing neurotransmitter-receptor clustering and maintenance are poorly understood. Recently, two models explaining glutamate-receptor clustering at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction have been proposed. One model postulates that release of an agent via single vesicle fusion events (minis) is required for the initiation of postsynaptic glutamate-receptor clustering, and that glutamate is not responsible for initiation or maintenance of the postsynaptic receptor field. The other model rules out a role for minis in initiation of clustering, and suggests a role for non-vesicular release of glutamate in receptor-field maintenance. Here, we compare and discuss the data underlying both models.
The aim of this study was to compare the educational achievement of female twins (n = 577) and their matched singleton controls (n = 447), who were selected from participants of a national test of educational achievement in the years 1993 to 1998. To assure the representativeness of the selected groups we also compared the achievement scores of the twins and the controls to those of the total Dutch female population tested in the same period. We analyzed the results of the following educational achievement scales: Language, Mathematics and Information Processing. The results indicated that the singleton classmates performed significantly better than the twins on all three scales. However, the twins performed equally well as compared to the Dutch female population. We believe that our singleton control group was not as properly selected as we intended, a selection bias operative at the level of the schools may have confounded the comparison. We therefore conclude on the basis of a comparison with the performance of the total Dutch female population that there are no differences in educational achievement between female twins and singletons.
The aim of this work was to elucidate several characteristic phenomena associated with rapid curved-line detection in multi-element arrays and to provide a unified account of the underlying curvature-sensitive mechanisms. To this end, a parametric experiment was performed in which the detectability of a curved-line target in a briefly presented planar array of curved-line distractors was measured for a range of target and distractor curvatures and distractor numbers. For both vertically oriented and randomly oriented curved lines, it was found that (1) the dependence of target detectability on target curvature was independent of distractor number for small distractor curvatures but not for medium-to-large distractor curvatures; (2) an asymmetry in target detectability with respect to interchange of target and distractor curvatures occurred only with large distractor numbers; and (3) with small distractor numbers, target detectability depended only on the difference between target and distractor curvatures. These properties of spatial parallelism, asymmetry, and uniformity were explained quantitatively by a minimal model of rapid curved-line detection in which contour curvature was coded in terms of just two or three curvature categories, depending on curved-line orientation.
Temporal phase discrimination was measured as a function of spatial separation of the stimulus components. In contrast to many previous studies, phase discrimination thresholds were measured directly, rather than inferred from the ability to discriminate synchronous from antiphase stimuli, or from segregation or shape tasks. For abutting bars, relative phase thresholds were closely proportional to temporal frequency. The proportionality corresponded to a threshold temporal offset of 2.5-9.5 ms, across subjects. Introduction of a small gap (0.125 degrees or greater) led to a dramatic (3- to 7-fold) increase in thresholds for temporal phase discrimination, and thresholds were no longer proportional to temporal frequency. Insertion of a third bar filling the gap resulted in a recovery of the low thresholds, provided that its modulation was consistent with apparent motion across the three bars. Below 8 Hz, phase discrimination thresholds across three bars were equivalent to thresholds for two abutting bars. Above 8 Hz, phase discrimination thresholds for the three bar combination were lower than thresholds for two adjacent bars, implying that phase information was integrated across all three bars.Phase discrimination thresholds do not appear to reflect the properties of a single mechanism. Especially at high temporal frequencies, low thresholds for phase discrimination are closely tied to the presence of apparent motion. Temporal phase discrimination is markedly impaired by a small separation of stimulus components. Moreover, the inability to detect phase differences across gaps corresponds to the loss of phase-dependence of vernier acuity thresholds across gaps.
Over the past 20 years, new methods have been developed that have allowed scientists to visualize the human brain in action. Initially positron emission tomography (PET) and now functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) are causing a paradigm shift in psychiatry and the neurosciences. Psychiatry is abandoning the pharmacological model of 'brain as soup', used for much of the past 20 years. Instead, there is new realization that both normal and abnormal behavior arise from chemical processes that occur within parallel distributed networks in specific brain regions. Many of these pathological circuits are becoming well characterized, in disorders ranging from Parkinson's disease, to obsessive-compulsive disorder, to depression. Most recently, there has been an explosion of new techniques that allow for direct stimulation of these brain circuits, without the need for open craniotomy and neurosurgical ablation. The techniques include transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), magnetic seizure therapy (MST), vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), and deep brain stimulation (DBS). This review will describe these new tools, and overview their current and future potential for research and clinical neuropsychiatric use. The psychiatry of the future will be better grounded in a firm understanding of neuroanatomy and neurophysiology (as well as pharmacology). These brain stimulation tools, or their next iterations, will play an ever-larger role in clinical neuropsychiatric practice.
Using a well-defined medium with insulin, transferrin and selenium but without serum and albumin, we quantitatively determined the effect of thyroid hormones on the development of Purkinje cells in mouse cerebellar monolayer cultures. Addition of a thyroid hormone, T3 or T4, to the serum-free medium resulted in a highly elaborate dendritic development of Purkinje cells. The cultured Purkinje cells in the presence of T4 even showed similarities in shape and in synapse formation to normal Purkinje cells in vivo. Such effect of T4 on the dendritic arborization of Purkinje cells was dose dependent and significantly sensitive to a low dose of T4 even at 50 pM. The effect of T4 was confirmed by an inhibition experiment using amiodarone, which was reported to induce thyroid dysfunction. Furthermore, T4 affected not only Purkinje cell development but also the shape of other neural cells such as small interneurons (mainly granule cells) and astrocytes in cerebellar cultures. T4 induced development of both interneurons and astrocytes having long processes. These results indicate that thyroid hormones play a pivotal role in the development of mouse Purkinje cell dendrites acting on Purkinje cells directly and/or indirectly via the close interaction with interneurons and astrocytes.
The purpose of these experiments was to study the effects of dopamine (DA) and 17 beta-estradiol (EST) upon parvalbumin expression in rodent frontal cortex during development. Organotypic slice cultures of the frontal cortex were prepared from neonatal rats (postnatal day 2/3) and maintained for 14 days in vitro in serum-enriched medium and medium treated with either DA, EST or DA+EST. Cultured slices were then fixed and immunostained for parvalbumin immunoreactivity. Under control conditions, parvalbumin immunoreactive somata and fibers were primarily found in the deep laminae. In comparison, slices in all treatment groups exhibited a pattern of parvalbumin expression that was significantly different than controls. Specifically, DA treatment increased the percentage of parvalbumin immunoreactive somata, dendritic length and density in the deep cortical layers, but not in the superficial cortical layers. Both EST and DA+EST treatments induced similar changes in both the deep and the superficial cortical layers. These treatment induced changes represent more mature patterns of parvalbumin expression when compared to controls, indicating that both DA and EST enhance cortical expression of the protein.
A low-noise flexible system for the simultaneous recording and analysis of several electrical signals (EEG, ECG, EMG, and diaphragm EMG) from the same rat was constructed for studying changes in physiological functions during the sleep-wake cycle. The hardware in the system includes a multichannel amplifier, a video camera, a timer code generator, and a PC. A miniature buffer headstage with high-input impedance connected to a 6-channel amplifier was developed. All electrical activities devoid of 60 Hz interference could be consistently recorded by our low-cost amplifier with no shielding treatment. The analytical software was established in the LabVIEW environment and consisted of three major frames: temporal, spectral, and nonlinear analyses. These analytical tools demonstrated several distinct utilities. For example, the sleep-wake states could be successfully distinguished by combining temporal and spectral analyses. An obvious theta rhythm during rapid-eye-movement sleep (REMS) was recorded from parietal to occipital cortical areas but not from the frontal area. In addition, two types of sleep apnea with/without cardiac arrhythmias were observed under REMS condition. Moreover, the evoked potentials of the primary somatosensory cortex elicited by innocuous electrical pulses were modulated by vigilant states, especially under a slow-wave sleep state. These results show that our system delivers high-quality signals and is suitable for sleep investigations. The system can be easily expanded by combining other recording devices, like a plethysmograph. This compact system can also be easily modified and applied to other related physiological or pharmacological studies.
Mounting evidence indicates that zinc has multiple roles in cell biology, viz. as a part of metalloenzyme catalytic sites, as a structural component of gene regulatory proteins, and (like calcium) as a free signal ion, particularly in the cortex of the brain. While most Zn(II) in the brain is tightly bound, such that free Zn(II) levels extracellularly and intracellularly are likely to be picomolar, a subset of glutamatergic neurons possess weakly bound zinc in presynaptic boutons which is released at micromolar levels in response to a variety of stimuli. Key to further progress in understanding the multiple roles of zinc will be the availability of fluorescent indicator systems that will permit quantitative determination and imaging of zinc fluxes and levels over a broad concentration range both intracellularly and extracellularly using fluorescence microscopy. Towards that end, we have compared a variety of fluorescent indicators for their sensitivity to Zn(II) and Cu(II), selectivity for Zn(II) in the presence of potential interferents such as Ca(II) or Mg(II), and potential for quantitative imaging. The commercially available probes Fura-2, Mag-Fura-5, Newport Green DCF, and FuraZin-1 were compared with the carbonic anhydrase-based indicator systems for selectivity and sensitivity. In addition, intracellular levels of Zn following excitotoxic insult were determined by single pixel fluorescence lifetime microscopy of Newport Green DCF, and extracellular levels of free zinc following stimulus of rat hippocampal slices were determined ratiometrically with a carbonic anhydrase-based indicator system. These results suggest that zinc ion at high nM to microM levels can be accurately quantitated by FuraZin-1 ratiometrically or by Newport Green DCF by fluorescence lifetime; and at levels down to pM by intensity ratio, lifetime, or polarization using carbonic anhydrase-based systems.
A chronically implantable electrode design permitting alternate extracellular nerve recording and axon stimulation in freely behaving crayfish was developed. The electrode consists of a double hook made from 20 microm thin platinum wire that can be fitted to various nerve diameters, and is easily implantable. A fast curing, flexible two-component silicone was used for insulation. The double hook was connected to plugs and fixed on the carapace of a crayfish allowing the animals to roam freely. The setup also allows for repeated dis- and re-connection of the crayfish for alternating recording and stimulation. Two channel recordings were used to determine directionality and to discriminate between afferent activity of the two stretch receptor neurons and efferent activity of several motor neurons. In addition, they were also used to determine the conduction velocity of the recorded efferent activity. Stable two-channel recordings could be obtained for up to 5 months and 15 days without apparent effects on the animal. In vivo stimulation could be performed for at least 3 1/2 weeks. The implantable double hook is suitable for widespread use in invertebrate neurobiology.
Linear vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs) measure the collective neural activity of the gravity receptor organs in the inner ear that respond to linear acceleration transients. The present study examined the effects of electrode placement, analog filtering, stimulus polarity and stimulus rate on linear VsEP thresholds, latencies and amplitudes recorded from mice. Two electrode-recording montages were evaluated, rostral (forebrain) to 'mastoid' and caudal (cerebellum) to 'mastoid'. VsEP thresholds and peak latencies were identical between the two recording sites; however, peak amplitudes were larger for the caudal recording montage. VsEPs were also affected by filtering. Results suggest optimum high pass filter cutoff at 100-300 Hz, and low pass filter cutoff at 10,000 Hz. To evaluate stimulus rate, linear jerk pulses were presented at 9.2, 16, 25, 40 and 80 Hz. At 80 Hz, mean latencies were longer (0.350-0.450 ms) and mean amplitudes reduced (0.8-1.8 microV) for all response peaks. In 50% of animals, late peaks (P3, N3) disappeared at 80 Hz. The results offer options for VsEP recording protocols.
In this study we examined the primary afferent input to rat area X of Rexed, and characterized sensory receptive fields (RFs) of the cells therein. This poorly understood area contains primary afferent fibres, some of which are arranged into a compact bundle beneath the central canal. Anterograde transport of the B fragment of cholera toxin (CTB) from the sciatic nerve showed a strictly ipsilateral projection to segments in L4 and L5 but both ipsi- and contralateral projections in L6 and more caudal segments. The response of cells in area X to mechanical cutaneous stimuli was recorded through extracellular microelectrodes in decerebrate, decerebrate-spinal, and urethane-anaesthetised preparations. The lateral edge of area X was marked by an abrupt change in the RFs: Lateral to area X in the dorsal horn, they were strictly unilateral and relatively small. At a mean of 90 microm from the midline, there was an abrupt expansion of the RFs to cover at least the entire ipsilateral dermatome. Within area X, 70% of the cells' RFs extended across the midline to include contralateral skin. In 35% of cells recorded in rats with intact spinal cords, the RF extended rostrally onto the forelimb. In a small number of cells, the RF included ear pinnae and nose. The precise function of area X cells remains unknown; although they have been shown to be involved in visceral reflexes, the fact that they receive convergent input from a wide variety of tissues and from local and remote body parts implies a more generalized, integrative function.

The present study was conducted to evaluate the characteristics of electroacupuncture (EA)-induced analgesia in mice. Three inbred strains of mice (DBA/2, C57BL/6J, BALB/c) and three outbred strains (ICR, LACA, NIH) were used in the experiment. Two pairs of metallic needles were inserted into acupoints ST 36 and SP 6 connected to an electric pulse generator. EA parameters were set as constant current output with alteration of a positive and negative square wave, 0.6 ms in pulse width for 2 Hz and 0.3 ms for 100 Hz. Tail-flick latencies evoked by radiant heat were measured before, during and after EA stimulation. We found that (1) DBA/2 mice showed a significantly more potent analgesic effect than the other five strains in response to both 100 and 2 Hz EA. In this case, the intensities were 1.0-2.0-2.0 mA, 10 min for each intensity totally 30 min. (2) EA analgesia increased as the intensity of stimulation increased from 0.5 to 2.0 mA, but it remained at this plateau when the intensity further increased from 2.0 to 3.0 mA. (3) 10.0 mg x kg(-1) naloxone was needed to block the analgesic effect induced by 2 Hz EA of 2.0 mA, but to block that by 100 Hz, 25.0 mg x kg(-1) was necessary. (4) A positive correlation was observed between analgesia induced by morphine at the dose of 5.0 mg x kg(-1) and by 100 Hz EA in two tested strains DBA/2 and C57BL/6J. In conclusion, EA induces reliable, strain-dependent analgesia in mice. The naloxone-reversibility of EA, a measure of whether it is opioid or non-opioid mediated, is dependent upon intensity and frequency.
As axons grow past intermediate targets, they change their responsiveness to guidance cues. Local upregulation of receptor expression is involved, but the mechanisms for this are not clear. Here protein synthesis is traced within individual axons by introducing RNAs encoding visualizable reporters. Individual severed axons and growth cones can translate proteins and also export them to the cell surface. As axons reach the spinal cord midline, EphA2 is among the receptors upregulated on at least some distal axon segments. Midline reporter upregulation is recapitulated by part of the EphA2 mRNA 3' untranslated region, which is highly conserved and includes known translational control sequences. These results show axons contain all the machinery for protein translation and cell surface expression, and they reveal a potentially general and flexible RNA-based mechanism for regulation localized within a subregion of the axon.
The AS/AGU rat is a spontaneously occurring mutation which exhibits locomotor abnormalities, reduced tyrosine hydroxylase levels in substantia nigra and lower extracellular levels of dopamine, making it a valuable model for some human locomotor disorders, and spontaneous chronic degeneration. The molecular defect is an absence of protein kinase Cgamma (PKCgamma), an enzyme suggested to play a role in synaptic plasticity. We have therefore examined long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal slices from the mutant animals compared with the normal control strain of Albino Swiss rat. In the CA1 region, LTP was of the same magnitude in mutant and control animals, and the presynaptic inhibitory effects of adenosine were unchanged in nave slices or following LTP. Paired-pulse inhibition and facilitation were normal. It is concluded that the absence of PKCgamma in this strain does not modify synaptic plasticity or presynaptic sensitivity to adenosine.

Gene silencing mediated by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) is a sequence-specific, highly conserved mechanism in eukaryotes. In plants, it serves as an antiviral defence mechanism. Animal cells also possess this machinery but its specific function is unclear. Here we demonstrate that dsRNA can effectively protect human cells against infection by a rapidly replicating and highly cytolytic RNA virus. Pre-treatment of human and mouse cells with double-stranded, short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) to the poliovirus genome markedly reduces the titre of virus progeny and promotes clearance of the virus from most of the infected cells. The antiviral effect is sequence-specific and is not attributable to either classical antisense mechanisms or to interferon and the interferon response effectors protein kinase R (PKR) and RNaseL. Protection is the result of direct targeting of the viral genome by siRNA, as sequence analysis of escape virus (resistant to siRNAs) reveals one nucleotide substitution in the middle of the targeted sequence. Thus, siRNAs elicit specific intracellular antiviral resistance that may provide a therapeutic strategy against human viruses.



In instrumental learning, Thorndike's law of effect states that stimulus-response relations are strengthened if they occur prior to positive reinforcement and weakened if they occur prior to negative reinforcement. In this study, we demonstrate that neural correlates of Thorndike's law may be observed in the primary auditory cortex, A1. Adult owl monkeys learned to discriminate tones higher than a standard frequency. Responses recorded from implanted microelectrodes initially exhibited broad spectral selectivity over a four-to-five octave range. With training, frequency discrimination thresholds changed from close to one octave to about 1/12 octave. Physiological recordings during the week in which the monkey came under behavioral control signaled by a drop in measured threshold had stronger responses to all frequencies. During the same week, A1 neural responses to target stimuli increased relative to standard and nontarget stimuli. This emergent difference in responsiveness persisted throughout the subsequent weeks of behavioral training. These data suggest that behavioral responses to stimuli modulate responsiveness in primary cortical areas.
The regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins modulate heterotrimeric G protein signaling. RGS8 is a brain-specific RGS protein of 180 aa. Here we identified a short isoform of RGS8, RGS8S, that arises by alternative splicing. RGS8S cDNA encodes a N terminus of 7 aa instead of amino acids 1-9 of RGS8 and 10-180 of RGS8. The subcellular distribution of RGS8 and RGS8S did not differ significantly in transfected cells. RGS8S accelerated, not as efficiently as RGS8, the turning on and off of Gi/o-mediated modulation of G protein-gated inwardly rectifying K(+) channels in Xenopus oocytes. We next examined the effects of RGS8 and RGS8S on Gq-mediated signaling. RGS8 decreased the amplitude of the response upon activation of m1 muscarinic or substance P receptors, but did not remarkably inhibit signaling from m3 muscarinic receptors. In contrast, RGS8S showed much less inhibition of the response of either of these Gq-coupled receptors. By quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect and the protein expression level, we confirmed that the difference of inhibitory effect is caused by both the qualitative difference between RGS8 and RGS8S and the quantitative difference of the protein expression level. We also confirmed that the receptor-type specificity of inhibition is not caused by the difference of the expression level of the receptors. In summary, we showed that 9 aa in the N terminus of RGS8 contribute to the function to inhibit Gq-coupled signaling in a receptor type-specific manner and that the regulatory function of RGS8S is especially diminished on Gq-coupled responses.
Phosphorylation-dependent protein-protein interactions provide the foundation for a multitude of intracellular signal transduction pathways. One of the goals of signal transduction research is to more precisely understand the nature of these phosphorylation-dependent interactions. Here, we describe a bacterial two-hybrid assay that allows for the rapid, efficient analysis of phosphorylation-dependent protein-protein interactions. In this system, the interacting protein domains are provided as fusion proteins in Escherichia coli. cells that contain a eukaryotic kinase. Specific phosphorylation of one of the fused protein domains results in a protein-protein interaction that can be detected as a change in the expression of a reporter gene. We also describe how this system can be modified to permit the use of cDNA libraries to identify either novel binding partners for a phosphorylated substrate or novel kinases that can induce a specific protein-protein interaction.
ATP is well known for its role as an intracellular energy source. However, there is increasing awareness of its role as an extracellular messenger molecule (Burnstock, 1997). Although evidence for the presence of receptors for extracellular ATP on skeletal myoblasts was first published in 1983 (Kolb and Wakelam), their physiological function has remained unclear. In this paper we used primary cultures of rat skeletal muscle satellite cells to investigate the role of purinergic signaling in muscle formation. Using immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and electrophysiology, we demonstrate that the ionotropic P2X5 receptor is present on satellite cells and that activation of a P2X receptor inhibits proliferation, stimulates expression of markers of muscle cell differentiation, including myogenin, p21, and myosin heavy chain, and increases the rate of myotube formation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that ATP application results in a significant and rapid increase in the phosphorylation of MAPKs, particularly p38, and that inhibition of p38 activity can prevent the effect of ATP on cell number. These results not only demonstrate the existence of a novel regulator of skeletal muscle differentiation, namely ATP, but also a new role for ionotropic P2X receptors in the control of cell fate.
p21(Cip1/WAF1) has cell cycle inhibitory activity by binding to and inhibiting both cyclin/Cdk kinases and proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Here we show that p21(Cip1/WAF1) is induced in the cytoplasm during the course of differentiation of chick retinal precursor cells and N1E-115 cells. Ectopic expression of p21(Cip1/WAF1) lacking the nuclear localization signal in N1E-115 cells and NIH3T3 cells affects the formation of actin structures, characteristic of inactivation of Rho. p21(Cip1/WAF1) forms a complex with Rho-kinase and inhibits its activity in vitro and in vivo. Neurite outgrowth and branching from the hippocampal neurons are promoted if p21(Cip1/WAF1) is expressed abundantly in the cytoplasm. These results suggest that cytoplasmic p21(Cip1/WAF1) may contribute to the developmental process of the newborn neurons that extend axons and dendrites into target regions.
The central adrenergic neurons have been suggested to play a role in the regulation of arousal and in the neuronal control of the cardiovascular system. To provide morphological evidence that these functions could be mediated via the basal forebrain, we performed correlated light and electron microscopic double-immunolabeling experiments using antibodies against phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) and choline acetyltransferase, the synthesizing enzymes for adrenaline and acetylcholine, respectively. Most adrenergic/cholinergic appositions were located in the horizontal limb of diagonal band of Broca, within the substantia innominata, and in a narrow band bordering the substantia innominata and the globus pallidus. Quantitative analysis indicated that cholinergic neurons of the substantia innominata receive significantly higher numbers of adrenergic appositions than cholinergic cells in the rest of the basal forebrain. In the majority of cases, the ultrastructural analysis revealed axodendritic asymmetric synapses. By comparing the number and distribution of dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH)/cholinergic appositions, described earlier, with those of PNMT/cholinergic interactions in the basal forebrain, it can be concluded that a significant proportion of putative DBH/cholinergic contacts may represent adrenergic input. Our results support the hypothesis that the adrenergic/cholinergic link in the basal forebrain may represent a critical component of a central network coordinating autonomic regulation with cortical activation.
A novel 25 K Ras-like protein, Rin, binds calmodulin in a Ca2+-dependent manner and is considered to participate in a calcium/calmodulin-mediated signaling pathway. However, little is known about Rin signaling mechanism. Here we examined the signal transduction pathway through Rin protein using pull down assay system. When we stimulated Rin-expressed Cos-7 cells with ionomycin, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or epidermal growth factor (EGF), Rin protein was rapidly activated. Moreover, cells cotransfected with Rin and mSos showed a similar Rin activation profile, and Rin protein was coimmunoprecipitated with mSos protein in vivo. When cells were cotransfected with Rin and Ras-GTPase-activating proteins, basal Rin activity was decreased. Association with Rin and calmodulin was potentiated after stimulation and Rin activation was regulated by both calcium ion and calmodulin. These studies suggest that Rin may be involved in EGF receptor and mSos-mediated signaling pathway and may participate in calcium/calmodulin-mediated cellular processes.
We compared the clinical and pharmacodynamic effects of N-terminal methionine brain-derived neurotrophic factor (met-BDNF) and endogenous met-free BDNF in wobbler mouse motor neuron disease (MND). Met- or met-free BDNF at 5 or 20 mg/kg was subcutaneously injected daily, six times/week for 4 weeks. At 20 mg/kg, grip strength (P&lt;0.05, met-free BDNF; P&lt;0.01, met-BDNF) and running speed (P&lt;0.01 for both groups) improved compared to vehicle. At 5 mg/kg, the beneficial effect was more modest. Plasma BDNF levels after the final injection were dose-dependent and did not differ between BDNF groups. Endogenous met-free BDNF exerts effects similar to met-BDNF in wobbler MND.
Interleukin (IL)-2 is a potent modulator of dopamine activity in the mesocorticolimbic and mesostriatal systems. It is also associated with behavioral changes (increased motor activity) and psychopathological outcomes (schizophrenia, Parkinson's Disease, cognitive deficits) that at least partly reflect aberrations in central dopaminergic transmission. Nonetheless, there is no evidence that a functional link exists between IL-2, dopaminergic processes, and related behavioral changes. We thus determined if IL-2 treatment increases the expression of climbing behavior, a behavior that is linked with dopamine D-1 and/or D-2 receptors and one used to test the efficacy of neuroleptics. IL-2 treatment (5-daily i.p. injections; 0.4 microg/BALB/c mouse) induced a marked 2-fold increase in climbing scores; a single injection had no effect. IL-2-induced increases in climbing behavior were completely blocked by a selective dopamine D-1 receptor antagonist (SCH 23390; 0.05 or 0.2 mg/kg; i.p.), or by a relatively high dose of a D-2 antagonist (sulpiride; 80 mg/kg; i.p.). In contrast, MK-801, a noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, had no effect. This is the first demonstration of a functional link between IL-2, dopaminergic receptors, and behavior. These findings could shed light on the mechanisms by which IL-2 increases vulnerability to psychiatric abnormalities associated with aberrations in central dopaminergic processes.
The five subtypes (M1-M5) of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors signal through G(alpha)(q) or G(alpha)(i)/G(alpha)(o). M1, M3 and M5 receptors couple through G(alpha)(q) and function predominantly as postsynaptic receptors in the central nervous system. M1 and M3 receptors are localized to brain regions involved in cognition, such as hippocampus and cortex, but their relative contribution to function has been difficult to ascertain due to the lack of subtype specific ligands. A functional and genetic approach was used to identify the predominant muscarinic receptor subtype(s) mediating responses in mouse hippocampus and cortex, as well as the relative degree of spare muscarinic receptors in hippocampus. The nonselective muscarinic agonist oxotremorine-M stimulated G(alpha)(q)/11-specific GTP-gamma-35S binding in a concentration dependent manner with a Hill slope near unity in wild type mouse hippocampus and cortex. Muscarinic receptor stimulated G(alpha)(q)/11-specific GTP-gamma-35S binding was virtually abolished in both the hippocampus and cortex of M1 receptor knockout (KO) mice. In contrast, there was no loss of signaling in M3 receptor KO mice in either brain region. Muscarinic receptor reserve in wildtype mouse hippocampus was measured by Furchgott analysis after partial receptor alkylation with propylbenzylcholine mustard. Occupation of just 15% of the M1 receptors in mouse hippocampus was required for maximal efficacy of oxotremorine-M-stimulated GTP-gamma-35S binding indicating a substantial level of spare receptors. These findings support a role for the M1 receptor subtype as the primary G(alpha)(q)/11-coupled muscarinic receptor in mouse hippocampus and cortex.
18-Methoxycoronaridine, a novel iboga alkaloid congener that decreases drug self-administration in several animal models, may be a potential treatment for multiple forms of drug abuse. In previous work, 18-methoxycoronaridine was found to be a somewhat selective antagonist at alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors; and low dose combinations of 18-methoxycoronaridine with other drugs known to have the same action (e.g., mecamylamine, dextromethorphan) decreased both morphine and methamphetamine self-administration in rats at doses that were ineffective if administered alone. In the present study, similar drug combinations (but including bupropion as well) were found to decrease nicotine self-administration in rats. The data further support the hypothesis that diencephalic pathways having high densities of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors modulate mesocorticolimbic pathways more directly involved in drug reinforcement. Antagonists of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors may represent a totally novel approach to treating polydrug abuse.
Several studies have indicated the occurrence of an antagonistic interaction between muscarinic and dopamine D1-like receptors in the ventral striatum, but the subtype(s) of muscarinic receptor involved has not been characterized. We show that in membranes of rat nucleus accumbens, carbachol inhibited the stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity by dopamine and the dopamine D1-like receptor agonist (+/-)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine without affecting the binding properties of dopamine to dopamine D1-like receptors. The carbachol inhibition was competitively counteracted by receptor antagonists with a rank order of potency typical of the involvement of the muscarinic M(4) receptor subtype. Moreover, muscarinic toxin 3, a selective muscarinic M(4) receptor antagonist, completely blocked the carbachol inhibition, whereas muscarinic toxin 7, a selective muscarinic M(1) receptor antagonist, had no effect. The muscarinic inhibition occurred to a similar extent in the core and shell regions. These data demonstrate that in nucleus accumbens, muscarinic M(4) receptors exert a direct inhibitory control on dopamine D1-like receptor signalling.
In this study we report the expression of TrkA receptor within the rat visual cortex during postnatal development and in adulthood, using a specific monoclonal antibody which recognizes the extracellular domain of TrkA receptor. TrkA was not detected by immunohistochemistry at postnatal day 13 (P13), i.e. before eye opening. At P22 TrkA was mostly localised in cortical fibre-like processes. At P39 and P90, TrkA-positive neuronal cell bodies in supragranular and infragranular layers were found. Using double immunohistochemistry, labelled cells were identified as intrinsic cholinergic neurones, and as interneurones expressing calbindin and neuropeptide Y. We conclude that TrkA is expressed in visual cortical neurones during postnatal development and in adulthood and that its pattern of expression is developmentally regulated.
Peripheral sensorineural hearing loss is a very common inner ear disorder affecting nearly 10% of the population. At present there is no cure for this disorder but gene therapy has been suggested as a potentially effective method for clinical treatment in the future. Thus we investigated the effectiveness of adenoviral (Ad) and adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors to transduce the cochlea of guinea pigs. After direct injection into the basal turn of the cochlea, we found that both Ad and AAV vectors coding for the reporter genes lacZ or GFP readily transduced spiral ganglion cells. In addition, some transgene expression was detected in the stria vascularis after AAV-GFP injection. Gene expression persisted at least 8 weeks after viral vector injection. Present findings will help to develop future gene therapy protocols in the inner ear by using Ad and AAV coding for neurotrophins such as NT-3, BDNF, GDNF and VEGF.
We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) in 2-month-old infants in two different states of alertness: awake and asleep. Syllables varying in vowel duration (long vs short) were presented in an oddball paradigm, known to elicit a mismatch brain response. ERPs of both groups showed a mismatch response reflected in a positivity followed by a frontal negativity. While the positivity was present as a function of the stimulus type (present for long deviants only), the negativity varied as a function of the state of alertness (present for awake infants only). These data indicate a functional separation between precognitive and cognitive aspects of duration mismatch essential for the distinction between long and short vowels during early infancy.
To identify genes that were altered by spinal cord injury (SCI), we used complementary DNA microarray consisting 1176 rat genes. Rats were subjected to contusive injury of the thoracic spinal cord. Sham animals received only a laminectomy. Twenty-four hours later, spinal cord was dissected out, a 32P labeled probe was prepared and hybridized to the microarray. We identified three genes that showed a greater than 2-fold increase in SCI tissue, heat shock 27-kDa protein, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 and epidermal fatty acid-binding protein. Seven genes, lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase, dipeptidyl aminopeptidase related protein, phospholipase C delta 4, plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase isoform 2, G-protein GO alpha subunit, GABA transporter 3, and neuroendrocrine protein 7B2 were down-regulated greater than 50% in SCI tissue. Changes in expression of these genes were confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. These genes may play a role in the response to tissue damage or repair following SCI.
We have previously demonstrated that kainate receptors (KA-Rs) are acutely inhibited by ethanol (EtOH). Here we show that KA-Rs are also affected by long-term EtOH exposure. Whole-cell recordings of pharmacologically isolated KA-R-mediated currents in cultured hippocampal neurons revealed that exposure to 80 mM EtOH for 3 days followed by a 24 h withdrawal period increased KA-R current densities. Quantitative confocal microscopy showed that expression of GluR6/7 subunits increases after ethanol withdrawal in these neurons. Since KA-Rs control hippocampal excitability and seizure generation, we postulate that upregulation of these receptors may have a role in the pathophysiology of alcohol withdrawal syndrome.
Two mutations in torsinA have been identified to date, both of which are associated with an autosomal dominant form of early onset-dystonia. It has been reported previously that expression of the more common mutation, a deletion of one of a pair of glutamates (deltaE302/303) produces intracellular, endoplasmic reticulum-derived inclusions in cultured cells. In this study we have replicated these previous results and have additionally looked at the localization of the more recently described deltaF323-Y328 mutation. We show that the localization of this latter mutation is similar to wild type torsinA and unlike the deltaE302/303 mutation. This data suggests that the formation of intracellular inclusions is specific to deltaE302/303 and not a property shared by deltaF323-Y328.

With the advent of recombinant DNA technology the mouse has become a favored model organism in brain research. Numerous mouse strains are available to use as a host for carrying genetic alteration induced by targeted or random mutagenesis. Most strains differ in their genetic makeup and phenotypical characteristics. The choice of the host strain thus can be crucial for the analysis of functional effects of the induced mutation. In the present paper we analyze the behavior of two related outbred albino strains of mice, ICR and CD1, that are often used in transgenic research. Using two frequently employed learning tasks, the Morris water maze (MWM) and the context-dependent fear conditioning (CFC) as well as other behavioral tests, we demonstrate significant performance differences between the strains. ICR suffers from a severe visual impairment making this strain difficult to use in several behavioral paradigms that require good visual perception, e.g. the MWM. CD1 does not suffer from grossly impaired vision but, similarly to the ICR strain, CD1 mice exhibit decreased freezing in all phases of CFC. Although the strains are able to learn, such deficits can render them significantly impaired dependent on the performance demands of the cognitive test employed. Our findings underscore the need for careful examination of the characteristics of the host strain, the choice of which must be made in accordance with the expected functional alterations induced by the mutation.
Wheel running performed by rats is reinforcing, rewarding and possibly addictive. In this study we analyzed if wheel running could affect ethanol preference. Lewis rats, known to be both addiction-prone and to develop an excessive wheel running behavior, were given access to ethanol in a two-bottle free-choice paradigm. The animals reached a high and stable ethanol intake after 5 weeks. In the next phase, rats were subjected to ethanol withdrawal for 1, 2 or 4 weeks with or without access to running wheels. Finally animals were again given access to ethanol in the same two-bottle free-choice paradigm, combined with access to running wheels. The rats that ran in running wheels during 1 or 2, but not 4, weeks of ethanol withdrawal increased both ethanol intake and preference as compared with the control group that did not have access to the wheels. Previous studies have demonstrated that low doses of morphine increases ethanol preference. Here we show that also running potentiates ethanol intake and preference. Thus, running which shares many of the reinforcing properties with addictive drugs appears to potentiate rats to an increased preference for ethanol. Our results describe a behavioral interaction where running increases ethanol consumption.
One-day old domestic chicks (Gallus gallus domesticus) show concentration-dependent behavioural responses to olfactory cues. In the present study we investigated the lateralized olfactory responses of 1-day-old chicks to the odours of eugenol and iso-amyl acetate. In experiment 1 different concentrations of each odour were presented in repeated trials to chicks housed individually. The odours were presented together with a small coloured bead at which the chick pecked. When tested with the highest concentration of eugenol (100% v/v), the chicks demonstrated more head shaking when their left nostril was occluded (RN; right nostril in use) than when their right nostril was occluded (LN; left nostril in use). No such lateralization occurred in response to iso-amyl acetate. This result was confirmed in a second experiment in which the chicks were tested with unscented stimuli, 100% eugenol and 100% isoamyl acetate. In experiment 3 we found that occluding both the chicks' nostrils abolished the head shaking response to eugenol and to iso-amyl acetate. Thus, the chicks' head shaking responses to the odorants eugenol and iso-amyl acetate are mediated primarily by inputs from within the nasal cavity, and not by oral or occular inputs. The present results are consistent with the hypothesis that there is lateralization to olfactory cues and that it is dependent on the involvement of receptors inside the nasal cavity. We suggest that differences in lateralized olfactory responses to different odours are affected by the relative involvement of intranasal olfactory and trigeminal chemoreceptors.
Repeated low-dose cocaine treatment (0.5 mg/kg/day) during adolescence facilitates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). The current study assessed whether adolescent cocaine-facilitated offensive aggression was inhibited by increased serotonin activity and if cocaine exposure during this developmental period influenced serotonin development in the primary aggression areas of hamster brain. In a first experiment, hamsters were treated with low doses of cocaine throughout adolescence and then scored for offensive aggression following the systemic administration of vehicle or fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Vehicle-treated hamsters showed high levels of offensive aggression, while treatment with fluoxetine inhibited the cocaine-facilitated aggressive response. Only one out of ten fluoxetine-treated animals both attacked and bit intruders, compared to nine out of ten saline-treated animals. In a second experiment, hamsters were administered low doses of cocaine or saline throughout adolescence, tested for offensive aggression, and then examined for differences in serotonin afferent innervation to regions of the hamster brain implicated in aggressive responding. Aggressive cocaine-treated hamsters showed significant reductions (35-50%) in the number of serotonin immunoreactive varicosities and fibers in several aggression areas, including the anterior hypothalamus, lateral septum, medial amygdala, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Together, these results support a role for serotonin innervation and function in adolescent cocaine-facilitated offensive aggression.
The study of olfactory lateralization in humans has given rise to many publications, but the findings have often been contradictory. There is growing evidence to suggest that the nature of the olfactory stimulus influences the processes of lateralization. An important factor could be the trigeminal component. Indeed, most odorants simultaneously stimulate both olfactory (CN I) and trigeminal (CN V) systems which differ in terms of their central projections, ipsilaterally for CN I and contralaterally for CN V. The aim of this study was to investigate variations in psychophysiological measurements between a nasal input with low (phenyl ethyl alcohol (PEA)) and high (allyl isothiocyanate (AIC)) intranal trigeminal stimulation. In a first experiment (20 subjects), the intensity, hedonicity and irritation levels of stimulus were tested with a psychophysical evaluation to study the possible influences of perceptual characteristics. A second experiment (37 subjects) used bilateral electrodermal recordings and compared the skin conductance responses (SCRs) for both nasal inputs on either monorhinal and birhinal stimulations. Firstly, the electrodermal activity (EDA) results showed no differences between the two nostrils for PEA as well as AIC, but differences in relation to the type of stimulus, e.g. higher amplitude in response to AIC versus PEA. Secondly, the results indicated bilateral differences in EDA recordings related to the nature of the stimulus and are discussed in terms of hemispheric asymmetric activation.
Animal (monkey, rat, mouse) models are widely used to investigate degenerative processes and potential therapeutic treatments for human Parkinson's disease (PD). One task that has proved useful in these investigations is a reach-to-grasp task (skilled reaching) in which an animal reaches for a piece of food that it then consumes. Rats with extensive unilateral Dopamine depletions are impaired in using the contralateral limb. The qualitative features of posture, lifting and advancing the limb, pronating the paw to grasp food, and in withdrawing and supinating the paw to place the food in the mouth are impaired, as is reaching success. Humans with PD are often described as having poor manual dexterity that worsens as the disease progresses. As there have been no detailed comparisons of reaching movements in the animal models and in PD subjects, the following descriptive analysis was performed. Ten subjects with PD, eight age matched controls and 14 young normal subjects were studied as they used a natural movement of reaching for a small piece of food that they then placed in the mouth to eat. The reaching movements were described using Eshkol-Wachman Movement Notation (EWMN), supplemented with kinematic analyses. From this description, a 21-point rating scale was devised to describe the component movements of the reach. Movements included: orienting the head and eyes to the target, adjusting posture, lifting the hand, shaping and aiming the digits to the target, pronating the hand to grasping the food with a pincer grip, lifting and supinating the hand to transporting the food to the mouth, and further supinating the hand and opening the digits to place food in the mouth, and finally returning the hand to the starting position. Analysis indicated that most aspects of the reaching movements of the PD subjects were significantly different relative to both young control subjects and old control subjects. As compared to the control groups, postural and reaching components of the movements were fragmented, movements were achieved using more proximal segments of the body, and rotatory movements of the hand were limited. The PD subjects did use a pincer grasp to obtain the food, but the grasp was less independent of other digit movements than was observed in the control subjects. These results are discussed in terms of a homology to impairments displayed animal models of PD.
Strengthening of synaptic connections following coincident pre- and postsynaptic activity was proposed by Hebb as a cellular mechanism for learning. Contemporary models assume that multiple synapses must act cooperatively to induce the postsynaptic activity required for hebbian synaptic plasticity. One mechanism for the implementation of this cooperation is action potential firing, which begins in the axon, but which can influence synaptic potentiation following active backpropagation into dendrites. Backpropagation is limited, however, and action potentials often fail to invade the most distal dendrites. Here we show that long-term potentiation of synapses on the distal dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons does require cooperative synaptic inputs, but does not require axonal action potential firing and backpropagation. Rather, locally generated and spatially restricted regenerative potentials (dendritic spikes) contribute to the postsynaptic depolarization and calcium entry necessary to trigger potentiation of distal synapses. We find that this mechanism can also function at proximal synapses, suggesting that dendritic spikes participate generally in a form of synaptic potentiation that does not require postsynaptic action potential firing in the axon.
Synaptotagmin is a synaptic vesicle protein that is postulated to be the Ca(2+) sensor for fast, evoked neurotransmitter release. Deleting the gene for synaptotagmin (syt(null)) strongly suppresses synaptic transmission in every species examined, showing that synaptotagmin is central in the synaptic vesicle cycle. The cytoplasmic region of synaptotagmin contains two C(2) domains, C(2)A and C(2)B. Five, highly conserved, acidic residues in both the C(2)A and C(2)B domains of synaptotagmin coordinate the binding of Ca(2+) ions, and biochemical studies have characterized several in vitro Ca(2+)-dependent interactions between synaptotagmin and other nerve terminal molecules. But there has been no direct evidence that any of the Ca(2+)-binding sites within synaptotagmin are required in vivo. Here we show that mutating two of the Ca(2+)-binding aspartate residues in the C(2)B domain (D(416,418)N in Drosophila) decreased evoked transmitter release by &gt;95%, and decreased the apparent Ca(2+) affinity of evoked transmitter release. These studies show that the Ca(2+)-binding motif of the C(2)B domain of synaptotagmin is essential for synaptic transmission.
C. elegans OSM-9 is a TRPV channel protein involved in sensory transduction and adaptation. Here, we show that distinct sensory functions arise from different combinations of OSM-9 and related OCR TRPV proteins. Both OSM-9 and OCR-2 are essential for several forms of sensory transduction, including olfaction, osmosensation, mechanosensation, and chemosensation. In neurons that express both OSM-9 and OCR-2, tagged OCR-2 and OSM-9 proteins reside in sensory cilia and promote each other's localization to cilia. In neurons that express only OSM-9, tagged OSM-9 protein resides in the cell body and acts in sensory adaptation rather than sensory transduction. Thus, alternative combinations of TRPV proteins may direct different functions in distinct subcellular locations. Animals expressing the mammalian TRPV1 (VR1) channel in ASH nociceptor neurons avoid the TRPV1 ligand capsaicin, allowing selective, drug-inducible activation of a specific behavior.
Spatiotemporally resolved functional MRI (fMRI) in animals can reveal how wide-spread neural networks are organized and accompanying electrophysiological recordings can show how small neural assemblies contribute to this organization. Here we present a novel technique that yields high-resolution structural and functional images of the monkey brain with small, tissue-compatible, intraosteally implantable radiofrequency coils. Voxel sizes as small as 0.0113 microl with high signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratios were obtained, revealing both structural and functional cortical architecture in great detail. Up to a certain point, contrast sensitivity increased with decreasing voxel size, probably because of the decreased partial volume effects. Spatial specificity was demonstrated by the lamina-specific activation in experiments comparing responses to moving and flickering stimuli. The implications of this technique for combined fMRI/electrophysiology experiments and its limitations in terms of spatial coverage are discussed.
Cellular mechanisms of plasticity must be linked to circuit mechanisms of behavior to understand learning and memory. Studies of how learning occurs in cerebellar circuits for classical conditioning of eyeblinks are meeting this challenge admirably. Several recent papers have added to the richness of our understanding of cerebellar learning by correlating complex aspects of learned behaviors with hitherto underappreciated properties of the cerebellar circuit.
We have explored the process of oligomerization of G protein-coupled purinergic receptors, adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R) and P2Y(1) receptor (P2Y(1)R), in intact HEK293T cells by means of modified bioluminescence resonance energy transfer technology (BRET(2)) that offers greatly improved separation of the emission spectra of the donor and acceptor moieties compared to traditional BRET. This approach identified both constitutive and agonist-promoted heteromeric oligomerization between Myc-tagged P2Y(1)R fused to a donor, Renilla luciferase (Myc-P2Y(1)R-Rluc) and HA-tagged A(1)R fused to an acceptor, a different form of green fluorescent protein (HA-A(1)R-GFP(2)). The BRET(2) signal increased in a time-dependent manner in the cells expressing HA-A(1)R-GFP(2)/Myc-P2Y(1)R-Rluc upon addition of agonists for both receptors, which could be inhibited by pretreatment with the P2Y(1)R antagonist MRS2179. A high degree of HA-A(1)R-GFP(2) and Myc-P2Y(1)R-Rluc co-localization in the co-transfected HEK293T cells was also observed by confocal laser microscopy. These results indicate that A(1)R and P2Y(1)R can form constitutive hetero-oligomers in living cells and this process is promoted by the simultaneous activation of both receptors.
Rho-Kinase is a serine/threonine kinase that is involved in the regulation of smooth muscle contraction and cytoskeletal reorganization of nonmuscle cells. While the signal transduction pathway in which Rho-Kinase participates has been and continues to be extensively studied, the kinetic mechanism of Rho-Kinase-catalyzed phosphorylation has not been investigated. We report here elucidation of the kinetic mechanism for Rho-Kinase by using steady-state kinetic studies. These studies used the kinase domain of human Rho-Kinase II (ROCK-II 1-534) with S6 peptide (biotin-AKRRRLSSLRA-NH(2)) as the phosphorylatable substrate. Double-reciprocal plots for two-substrate kinetic data yielded intersecting line patterns with either ATP or S6 peptide as the varied substrate, indicating that Rho-Kinase utilized a ternary complex (sequential) kinetic mechanism. Dead-end inhibition studies were used to investigate the order of binding for ATP and the peptide substrate. The ATP-competitive inhibitors AMP-PCP and Y-27632 were noncompetitive inhibitors versus S6 peptide, and the S6 peptide analogue S6-AA (acetyl-AKRRRLAALRA-NH(2)) was a competitive inhibitor versus S6 peptide and a noncompetitive inhibitor versus ATP. These results indicated a random order of binding for ATP and S6 peptide.

Hepatic expression of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) is rapidly and completely inhibited by insulin. The signalling pathway that mediates this effect of insulin requires the activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase). Many of the cellular actions of insulin, including activation of PI 3-kinase, can be 'mimicked' by oxidative stresses, such as H(2)O(2). In the present study, we demonstrate that H(2)O(2) does not 'mimic' but rather antagonizes insulin repression of IGFBP-1 gene expression in H4IIE cells. This effect is accompanied by a decrease in the insulin-induced activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-dependent signalling. However, insulin-induced phosphorylation and regulation of protein kinase B, glycogen synthase kinase-3 and FKHR (forkhead in rhabdomyosarcoma) are not affected by H(2)O(2) in the same cells. In addition, H(2)O(2) strongly activates the p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinases, but the presence of PD184352 (an inhibitor of this pathway) does not block the effect of H(2)O(2) on IGFBP-1 gene expression. Our results support the view that the insulin-mediated repression of IGFBP-1 gene expression is partly mTOR-dependent, and demonstrate that H(2)O(2) selectively antagonizes mTOR-dependent insulin action. The implications for the use of H(2)O(2)-generating agents as therapeutics for the treatment of insulin resistance, as well as the role of oxidative stress in the development of insulin resistance, are discussed.


It has been shown previously that: CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) mRNA is tightly regulated in brain; protein kinase A (PKA) is involved in CART expression in GH3 cells; and a cyclic AMP-responsive element (CRE) site is present in the proximal promoter region of the CART gene. Thus, the goal of this study was to test if CRE binding protein (CREB) can bind to the consensus CRE site and if phosphorylation of CREB occurs in GH3 cells under conditions of enhanced CART gene expression. Electromobility shift assays showed that a 27-bp oligonucleotide containing the CART CRE site was indeed bound by nuclear factors. Western blotting showed that incubation of GH3 cells with forskolin, which enhances CART mRNA expression, caused an increase in phosphorylated CREB (P-CREB) levels. Supershift analyses indicated that the CART CRE oligo/protein complex interacted with a P-CREB antibody. Taken together, these data indicate that P-CREB is a likely regulator of CART expression in GH3 cells.
Kainate (KA) receptors are a family of ionotropic glutamate receptors, which mediate the excitatory synaptic transmission in various areas of the mammalian CNS. We have studied the expression pattern of the genes encoding for KA receptor subunits (Glur5-1, Glur5-2, Glur6, Glur7, KA1 and KA2) in rat prenatal (E), postnatal and adult ventral mesencephalon (MES) and striatum (STR) and in fetal midbrain primary cultures. Each receptor subunit shows a unique area- and temporal-expression pattern. In MES the onset of both Glur5 subunits is delayed when compared to the other subunits. In addition, most of the transcripts for KA subunits gradually increase during embryonic development and show a slight decrease during the first postnatal week. Differently, Glur6 and KA2 mRNAs show a sharp increase at E14.5 and decrease thereafter, reaching the lowest levels during late embryonic and postnatal development. In the STR, the gene expression of all KA subunit mRNAs is higher during embryonic development than after birth, except KA1 transcripts, that show a peak at P5. In embryonic MES primary cultures, Glur5-2, Glur6 and KA2 mRNAs are higher at the beginning of the culture when compared to older cultures, while the other subunit mRNAs do not show significant variation throughout the days in vitro. Thus, all the KA receptor subunit transcripts appear independently regulated during MES and STR development, probably contributing to the establishment of the fine tuning of the excitatory circuits reciprocally established between these CNS areas.
Little is known about molecular and cellular responses to spinal cord injury in primates. In this study, the normal milieu of the primate spinal cord was disturbed by multiple needle penetrations and cell injections in the mid-thoracic spinal cord; subsequent effects on local axons and expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules were examined, together with effects of cellular delivery of nerve growth factor (NGF) to the injured region. Four adult rhesus monkeys each received injections of two grafts of autologous fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete human NGF, and, in control injection sites, two separate grafts of autologous fibroblasts transduced to express the reporter gene, beta-galactosidase. Three months later, Schwann cells extensively infiltrated the region of localized injury and penetrated both NGF and control fibroblast grafts. Marked upregulation of several ECM molecules occurred, including chondroitin and heparan sulfate proteoglycans and type IV collagen, in or adjacent to all injection sites. Schwann cells were an apparent source of some ECM expression. Spinal cord sensory axons and putative coerulospinal axons extended into both graft types, but they penetrated NGF grafts to a significantly greater extent. Many of these axons expressed the cell adhesion molecule L1. Thus, extensive cellular and molecular changes occur at sites of localized primate spinal cord injury and grafting, attributable in part to migrating Schwann cells, and are accompanied by spontaneous axonal plasticity. These molecular and cellular events closely resemble those observed in the rodent spinal cord after injury. Furthermore, as in rodent studies, cellular delivery of a trophic factor significantly augments axonal plasticity in the primate spinal cord.
Rhabdom shedding in horseshoe crab lateral eye photoreceptors was studied with anti-opsin and anti-arrestin immunocytochemistry. Two, possibly three, distinct shedding mechanisms were revealed in animals maintained in natural lighting. Transient rhabdom shedding, triggered by dawn, is a brief, synchronous event that removes up to 10% of the rhabdom membrane. Whorls of rhabdomeral membrane break into vesicles and form compact multivesicular bodies. These debris particles are immunoreactive for opsin and are of a relatively uniform size, averaging approximately 2 microm(2) in area. Transient shedding requires that input from circadian efferent fibers to the retina precedes the light trigger, and cutting the optic nerve blocks efferent input and transient shedding. Light-driven rhabdom shedding is a progressive process. Rhabdomeral membrane is removed by coated vesicles that accumulate into loosely packed multivesicular bodies. These debris particles label with antibodies directed against opsin, arrestin, and adaptin, and they have a large distribution of sizes, averaging almost 6 microm(2) in area and ranging up to 25 microm(2) or more. The amount of rhabdomeral membrane removed by light-driven shedding has seasonal variation and depends on latitude. Light-driven shedding does not require circadian efferent input. A possible third shedding mechanism, light-independent shedding, is observed when transient shedding is blocked either by 48 hours of darkness or by cutting the optic nerve. Small particles, averaging 1.8 microm(2) in area, exhibiting opsin but not arrestin immunoreactivity can then be found in the cytoplasm surrounding the rhabdom. The nature of light-independent shedding is not yet clear.
Src homology region 2 domain-containing phosphatase 1 (SHP-1) is a key mediator in lymphocyte differentiation, proliferation, and activation. We previously showed that B cell linker protein (BLNK) is a physiological substrate of SHP-1 and that B cell receptor (BCR)-induced activation of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) is significantly enhanced in cells expressing a form of SHP-1 lacking phosphatase activity (SHP-1-C/S). In this study, we confirmed that SHP-1 also exerts negative regulatory effects on JNK activation in splenic B cells. To further clarify the role of SHP-1 in B cells, we examined how dephosphorylation of BLNK by SHP-1 affects downstream signaling events. When a BLNK mutant (BLNK Delta N) lacking the NH(2)-terminal region, which contains four tyrosine residues, was introduced in SHP-1-C/S-expressing WEHI-231 cells, the enhanced JNK activation was inhibited. Among candidate proteins likely to regulate JNK activation through BLNK, Nck adaptor protein was found to associate with tyrosine-phosphorylated BLNK and this association was more pronounced in SHP-1-C/S-expressing cells. Furthermore, expression of dominant-negative forms of Nck inhibited BCR-induced JNK activation. Finally, BCR-induced apoptosis was suppressed in SHP-1-C/S-expressing cells and coexpression of Nck SH2 mutants or a dominant-negative form of SEK1 reversed this phenotype. Collectively, these results suggest that SHP-1 acts on BLNK, modulating its association with Nck, which in turn negatively regulates JNK activation but exerts a positive effect on apoptosis.

Many fish rely on sounds for communication, yet the peripheral structures containing the hair cells are simple, without the morphological specializations that facilitate frequency analysis in the mammalian cochlea. Despite this, neurons in the midbrain of sound-producing fish (Pollimyrus) have complex receptive fields, extracting features from courtship sounds. Here we present an analysis of the initial encoding of sounds by the primary afferents and demonstrate that the representation of sound undergoes a substantial transformation as it ascends to the midbrain. Afferents were isolated as they coursed from the sacculus through the medulla. Tones (100 Hz-1.2 kHz) elicited synchronized spikes [vector strength (VS) &gt;0.9] on each stimulus cycle [coefficient of variation (CV) &lt;1.1], with little spike rate adaptation. Most afferents (67%) were spontaneously active and began synchronizing 10 dB below rate threshold. Rate thresholds for the most sensitive afferents (65 dB) were close to behavioral thresholds. The distribution of characteristic frequencies and best sensitivities was matched to the spectrum of sounds of this species and to its audiogram. Three clusters of afferents were identified, one including afferents that generated spike bursts and had v-shaped response areas (bursters), and two others that included entrained afferents with broad response areas (entrained types I and II). All afferents encoded the timing of clicks within click trains with time-locked spikes, and none showed selectivity for interclick intervals. Understanding the computations that yield complex receptive fields is an essential goal for auditory neuroscience, and these data on primary encoding advance this goal, allowing a comparison of inputs with feature-extracting midbrain neurons.
Although the convergence of neural and humoral afferent information onto paraventricular neuroendocrine corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons is a major determinant for adaptive stress responses, the underlying integrative mechanisms are poorly understood. To dissect the relative contributions made by neural afferents and corticosterone to these processes, we determined how the concurrent application of two heterotypic physiological stressors, chronic dehydration (produced by drinking hypertonic saline) and sustained hypovolemia (produced by subcutaneous injections of polyethylene glycol), is interpreted by the synthetic and secretory activity of CRH neurons using in situ hybridization and plasma ACTH measurements. These two stressors are encoded by relatively simple, distinct, and well defined sets of neural afferents to CRH neurons. Both increase plasma corticosterone, but they have opposing actions on CRH gene expression when applied separately. In the first experiment, we showed that chronic dehydration suppresses CRH gene transcription after hypovolemia, but not the preproenkephalin and c-fos mRNA responses or ACTH secretion. In the second, we showed that negative feedback actions of corticosterone do not suppress CRH gene activation after hypovolemia, but instead determine the prestress lower limit of a range within which the CRH gene then responds. Collectively, these data show that at least two processes are integrated to control how the CRH gene responds to multiple stimuli. First, the presence of corticosterone, which although permissive for appropriately activating the CRH gene during hypovolemia, does not mediate the suppressed gene response. Second, neural afferent-driven processes that encode dehydration play a central role in suppressing CRH activation.
Respiratory long-term facilitation (LTF) is a form of serotonin-dependent plasticity induced by intermittent hypoxia. LTF is manifested as a long-lasting increase in respiratory amplitude (and frequency) after the hypoxic episodes have ended. We tested the hypotheses that LTF of phrenic amplitude requires spinal serotonin receptor activation and spinal protein synthesis. A broad-spectrum serotonin receptor antagonist (methysergide) or protein synthesis inhibitors (emetine or cycloheximide) were injected intrathecally in the cervical spinal cord of anesthetized rats. Control rats, injected with vehicle (artificial CSF), exhibited an augmented phrenic burst amplitude after three 5 min episodes of hypoxia (78 +/- 15% above baseline, 60 min after hypoxia; p &lt; 0.05), indicating LTF. Pretreatment with methysergide, emetine, or cycloheximide attenuated or abolished phrenic LTF (20 +/- 4, 0.2 +/- 11, and 20 +/- 2%, respectively; all p &gt; 0.05). With protein synthesis inhibitors, phrenic LTF differed from control by 15 min after intermittent hypoxia. As an internal control against unintended drug distribution, we measured respiratory LTF in hypoglossal (XII) motor output. At 60 min after intermittent hypoxia, all treatment groups exhibited similar XII LTF (artificial CSF, 44 +/- 10%; methysergide, 40 +/- 5%; emetine, 35 +/- 9%; and cycloheximide, 57 +/- 29%; all p &lt; 0.05), suggesting that drugs were restricted at effective doses to the spinal cord. We conclude that phrenic LTF requires spinal serotonin receptor activation and protein synthesis. Serotonin receptors on phrenic motoneuron dendrites may induce new protein synthesis, thereby giving rise to phrenic LTF.
The present study examined the levels of NMDA receptor NR2 subunit tyrosine phosphorylation in a rat model of inflammation and correlated it with the development of inflammation and hyperalgesia. Hindpaw inflammation and hyperalgesia were induced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. Proteins from the spinal cord (L4-L5) were immunoprecipitated with anti-NR2A or anti-NR2B antibodies and used for subsequent analysis using 4G-10, a specific anti-phosphotyrosine antibody. Compared with naive rats, there was a rapid and prolonged increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2B, but not NR2A, subunit after inflammation. The increase in NR2B tyrosine phosphorylation was dependent on primary afferent drive because (1) the phosphorylation correlated with the temporal profile of inflammation and hyperalgesia, (2) shorter-duration noxious stimulation produced a rapid and shorter-lasting increase in phosphorylation, and (3) local anesthetic block of the injected paw reversibly blocked inflammation-induced NR2B tyrosine phosphorylation and delayed hyperalgesia. The increase in NR2B tyrosine phosphorylation was abolished by intrathecal pretreatment with genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor; PP2, an Src family tyrosine kinase inhibitor; AIDA, a group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist; L733,060, an NK1 tachykinin receptor antagonist, and chelerythrine, a protein kinase C inhibitor. In addition, intrathecal PP2 delayed the onset of mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia. These findings correlate in vivo NMDA receptor tyrosine phosphorylation with the development and maintenance of inflammatory hyperalgesia and suggest that signal transduction upstream to NR2B tyrosine phosphorylation involves G-protein-coupled receptors and PKC and Src family protein tyrosine kinases.
Edge-like and line-like features result from spatial phase congruence, the local phase agreement between harmonic components of a spatial waveform. Psychophysical observations and models of early visual processing suggest that human visual feature detectors are specialized for edge-like and line-like phase congruence. To test whether primary visual cortex (V1) neurons account for such specificity, we made tetrode recordings in anesthetized macaque monkeys. Stimuli were drifting equal-energy compound gratings composed of four sinusoidal components. Eight congruence phases (one-dimensional features) were tested, including line-like and edge-like waveforms. Many of the 137 single V1 neurons (recorded at 45 sites) could reliably signal phase congruence by any of several response measures. Across neurons, the preferred spatial feature had only a modest bias for line-like waveforms. Information-theoretic analysis showed that congruence phase was temporally encoded in the frequency band present in the stimuli. The most sensitive neurons had feature discrimination thresholds that approached psychophysical levels, but typical neurons were substantially less sensitive. In single V1 neurons, feature discrimination exhibited various dependences on the congruence phase of the reference waveform. Simple cells were over-represented among the most sensitive neurons and on average carried twice as much feature information as complex cells. However, the distribution of the indices of optimal tuning and discrimination of relative phase was indistinguishable in simple and complex cells. Our results suggest that phase-sensitive pooling of responses is required to account for human psychophysical performance, although variation in feature selectivity among nearby neurons is considerable.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is induced immediately after insults to the brain, and elevated levels of IL-1 have been strongly implicated in the neurodegeneration that accompanies stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and multiple sclerosis. In animal models, antagonizing IL-1 has been shown to reduce cell death; however, the basis for this protection has not been elucidated. Here we analyzed the response to penetrating brain injury in mice lacking the type 1 IL-1 receptor (IL-1R1) to determine which cellular and molecular mediators of tissue damage require IL-1 signaling. At the cellular level, fewer amoeboid microglia/macrophages appeared adjacent to the injured brain tissue in IL-1R1 null mice, and those microglia present at early postinjury intervals retained their resting morphology. Astrogliosis also was mildly abrogated. At the molecular level, cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) and IL-6 expression were depressed and delayed. Interestingly, basal levels of Cox-2, IL-1, and IL-6 were significantly lower in the IL-1R1 null mice. In addition, stimulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 mRNA was depressed in the IL-1R1 null mice, and correspondingly, there was reduced diapedesis of peripheral macrophages in the IL-1R1 null brain after injury. This observation correlated with a reduced number of Cox-2+ amoeboid phagocytes adjacent to the injury. In contrast, several molecular aspects of the injury response were normal, including expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and the production of nerve growth factor. Because antagonizing IL-1 protects neural cells in experimental models of stroke and multiple sclerosis, our data suggest that cell preservation is achieved by abrogating microglial/macrophage activation and the subsequent self-propagating cycle of inflammation.
Negative guidance molecules are important for guiding the growth of axons and ultimately for determining the wiring pattern in the developing nervous system. In tissue culture, growth cones at the tips of growing axons collapse in response to negative guidance molecules, such as ephrin-A2 and semaphorin 3A. The small GTPase Rac1 is involved in growth cone collapse, but the nature of its role is not clear. Rac1 activity assays showed that Rac1 is transiently inactivated after treatment with ephrin-A2. Ephrin-induced growth cone collapse, however, correlated with resumption of Rac1 activity. We demonstrate that Rac1 is required for endocytosis of the growth cone plasma membrane and reorganization of F-actin but not for the depolymerization of F-actin during growth cone collapse in response to ephrin-A2 and semaphorin 3A. Rac1, however, does not regulate constitutive endocytosis in growth cones. These findings show that in response to negative guidance molecules, the function of Rac1 changes from promoting actin polymerization associated with axon growth to driving endocytosis of the plasma membrane, resulting in growth cone collapse. Furthermore, Rac1 antisense injected into the embryonic chick eye in vivo caused the retinotectal projection to develop without normal topography in a manner consistent with Rac1 having an obligatory role in mediating ephrin signaling.
Cerebellar granule cells exhibit distinct modes of migration in different cortical layers. The role of external cues in controlling these alterations has been suggested, but the significance of internal programs is not well understood. In the present study, we examined autonomous changes of migratory behavior of isolated granule cells in microexplant cultures of the postnatal mouse cerebellum. We found that isolated granule cells sequentially go through three characteristic phases of migration without cell-cell contact. In the first phase (0-20 hr in vitro) granule cells exhibit the highest rate of turning behavior and have multiple short processes. The length of the movement cycle is shortest. In the second phase (20-40 hr in vitro), granule cells extend a long and thick process and exhibit an elongated cycle of movement. Their speed is fastest, whereas the rate of turning is lowest. In the third phase (40-60 hr in vitro), granule cells slow down their movement and slightly increase their turnings. The length of the movement cycle further increases. At the end, the cells become permanently stationary, extend a lamellipodium around the soma, and emit several thin processes. Interestingly, granule cells sequentially develop four different modes of turning. These results indicate that internal (intrinsic) programs control alterations of granule cell behavior in a stage-dependent manner, suggesting that such programs independent of local cell-cell contacts may be essential for granule cell translocation in the developing cerebellum.
P2X(7) receptor subunits form homomeric ATP-gated, calcium-permeable cation channels. In this study, we used Western blots and immunocytochemistry to demonstrate that P2X(7) receptors are abundant on presynaptic terminals of mossy fiber synapses in the rat hippocampus. P2X(7)-immunoreactive protein was detected using a specific P2X(7) antibody in Western blots of protein isolated from whole hippocampus and from a subcellular fraction containing mossy fiber synaptosomes. P2X(7) immunoreactivity was colocalized with syntaxin 1A/B-immunoreactivity in mossy fiber terminals in the dentate hilus and stratum lucidum of CA3. Extracellular and whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in CA3 revealed that bath application of the potent P2X(7) agonist 2',3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP (Bz-ATP) caused a long-lasting inhibition of neurotransmission at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses. Consistent with a presynaptic action at mossy fiber synapses, Bz-ATP had no significant effect on neurotransmission at associational-commissural synapses in CA3 but increased paired-pulse facilitation during depression of mossy fiber evoked currents. In addition, Bz-ATP had no postsynaptic effect on holding current or conductance of CA3 neurons. Bz-ATP-induced mossy fiber synaptic depression was blocked by the P2X(7) antagonist oxidized ATP but not by the P2X(1-3,5,6) antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid or the P2Y antagonist reactive blue 2. Finally, an antagonist of p38 MAP kinase activation [4-(4-fluorophenyl)2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)5-(4-pyridyl)imidazole] but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 MAP kinase (2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone) blocked the synaptic depression mediated by Bz-ATP, suggesting that this presynaptic inhibition was mediated by activation of p38 MAP kinase. The results of the present study demonstrate that activation of presynaptic P2X(7) receptors depresses mossy fiber-CA3 synaptic transmission through activation of p38 MAP kinase.
The causes and mechanisms underlying multidrug resistance (MDR) in epilepsy are still elusive and may depend on inadequate drug concentration in crucial brain areas. We studied whether limbic seizures or anticonvulsant drug treatments in rodents enhance the brain expression of the MDR gene (mdr) encoding a permeability glycoprotein (P-gp) involved in MDR to various cancer chemotherapeutic agents. We also investigated whether changes in P-gp levels affect anticonvulsant drug concentrations in the brain. Mdr mRNA measured by RT-PCR increased by 85% on average in the mouse hippocampus 3-24 hr after kainic acid-induced limbic seizures, returning to control levels by 72 hr. Treatment with therapeutic doses of phenytoin or carbamazepine for 7 d did not change mdr mRNA expression in the mouse hippocampus 1-72 hr after the last drug administration. Six hours after seizures, the brain/plasma ratio of phenytoin was reduced by 30% and its extracellular concentration estimated by microdialysis was increased by twofold compared with control mice. Knock-out mice (mdr1a/b -/-) lacking P-gp protein showed a 46% increase in phenytoin concentrations in the hippocampus 1 and 4 hr after injection compared with wild-type mice. A significant 23% increase was found in the cerebellum at 1 hr and in the cortex at 4 hr. Carbamazepine concentrations were measurable in the hippocampus at 3 hr in mdr1a/b -/- mice, whereas they were undetectable at the same time interval in wild-type mice. In rats having spontaneous seizures 3 months after electrically induced status epilepticus, mdr1 mRNA levels were enhanced by 1.8-fold and fivefold on average in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, respectively. Thus, changes in P-gp mRNA levels occur in limbic areas after both acute and chronic epileptic activity. P-gp alterations significantly affect antiepileptic drugs concentrations in the brain, suggesting that seizure-induced mdr mRNA expression contributes to MDR in epilepsy.
Detergent-insoluble, glycosphingolipid-cholesterol-enriched microdomains (lipid rafts) have been implicated in both protein trafficking and signal transduction. Previously we identified in oligodendrocytes and myelin the lipid raft-associated, integral membrane protein myelin vesicular protein of 17 kDa (MVP17)/rMAL. Here we have examined the subcellular localization and/or detergent insolubility of native and recombinant MVP17/rMAL in transfected oligodendrocytes and COS-7 cells and purified myelin. Consistent with our previous report regarding the insolubility of MVP17/rMAL in the zwitterionic detergent 3-[(3-chloramidopropyl)-dimethylammonio]-1-propane-sulfonate (CHAPS), MVP17/rMAL from purified myelin and oligodendrocytes in culture was mostly insoluble upon extraction at 4 degrees C with the non-ionic detergent Triton X-100 and floated to a low density in sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation, but became detergent soluble at 37 degrees C. Data obtained by immunofluorescence microscopy of the expression of epitope-tagged MVP17/rMAL transfected into oligodendrocytes and COS-7 cells were consistent with a model in which both the N- and C-termini of this protein face the cytoplasm. Mutational analysis identified domains of MVP17/rMAL important for its subcellular localization and for its detergent solubility profile. In particular, insertional mutagenesis of loop II prevented the insertion of the mutant protein into the plasma membrane of COS-7 cells and rendered it insoluble in TX-100. Expression of full-length constructs of MVP17/rMAL in COS-7 cells resulted in an enlargement of transfected COS-7 cells, consistent with a proposed role of rMAL in vesicular trafficking.
The structural properties of brain extracellular space (ECS) are summarised by the tortuosity (lambda) and the volume fraction (alpha). To determine if these two parameters were independent, we varied the size of the ECS by changing the NaCl content to alter osmolality of bathing media for rat cortical slices. Values of lambda and alpha were extracted from diffusion measurements using the real-time ionophoretic method with tetramethylammonium (TMA+). In normal medium (305 mosmol kg(-1)), the average value of lambda was 1.69 and of alpha was 0.24. Reducing osmolality to 150 mosmol kg(-1), increased lambda to 1.86 and decreased alpha to 0.12. Increasing osmolality to 350 mosmol kg(-1), reduced lambda to about 1.67 where it remained unchanged even when osmolality increased further to 500 mosmol kg(-1). In contrast, alpha increased steadily to 0.42 as osmolality increased. Comparison with previously published experiments employing 3000 M(r) dextran to measure lambda, showed the same behaviour as for TMA+, including the same constant lambda in hypertonic media but with a steeper slope in the hypotonic solutions. These data show that lambda and alpha behave differently as the ECS geometry varies. When alpha decreases, lambda increases but when alpha increases, lambda rapidly attains a constant value. A previous model allowing cellular shape to alter during osmotic challenge can account qualitatively for the plateau behaviour of lambda.
The whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique, immunoprecipitation experiments and unilateral naris occlusions were used to investigate whether the voltage-gated potassium channel Kv1.3 was a substrate for neurotrophin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and subsequent functional modulation of current properties in cultured rat olfactory bulb (OB) neurons. Membrane proteins of the OB included all three Trk receptor kinases, but the truncated form of the receptor, lacking an intact kinase domain, was the predominant form of the protein for TrkA and TrkC, while TrkB was predominantly found as the full-length receptor. Acute (15 min) stimulation of OB neurons with bath application of 50 ng ml(-1) brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is a selective ligand for TrkB, caused suppression of the whole-cell outward current and no changes in the kinetics of inactivation or deactivation. Acute stimulation with either nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 failed to evoke any changes in Kv1.3 function in the OB neurons. Chronic exposure to BDNF (days) caused an increase in the magnitude of Kv1.3 current and speeding of the inactivation and deactivation of the channel. Acute BDNF-induced activation of TrkB receptors significantly increased tyrosine phosphorylation of Kv1.3 in the OB, as shown using a combined immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis. With unilateral naris occlusion, the acute BDNF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Kv1.3 was increased in neurons lacking odour sensory experience. In summary, the duration of neurotrophin exposure and the sensory-dependent state of a neuron can influence the degree of phosphorylation of a voltage-gated ion channel and its concomitant functional modulation by neurotrophins.
Here we report the identification and functional characterization of a novel mitochondrial tricarboxylate carrier protein, designated BBG-TCC, in rat brain. The cDNA encodes the predicted protein of 342-amino acid residues with five putative membrane-spanning domains. The protein has apparent similarity with a mitochondrial tricarboxylate carrier TCC, but is distinct from the other mitochondria anion transporters. BBG-TCC shows a citrate transport activity. It is specifically expressed in the brain and localizes in the mitochondria of Bergmann glial cells. In contrast, the expression of TCC is rather ubiquitous and strong in neuronal cells in the brain. This new family of proteins may contribute to biosynthesis and bioenergetics in the brain.
Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) is an extrapyramidal disorder caused by deficit of 5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), cofactor for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). In these patients the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons normally express TH and the cellular machinery for the dopamine uptake. LA-N-1 is a human neuroblastoma cell line expressing tyrosine hydroxylase. Here we show that LA-N-1 cells are able to take up exogenous dopamine (DA) by an high-affinity mechanism; significant amounts of serotonin and its metabolite 5HIAA, but neither DA nor its metabolites, DOPAC and HVA, could be measured in the cell culture homogenate. 5,6,7,8-Tetrahydrobiopterin, cofactor for both tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylases, is able to activate dopamine synthesis and also decreases the content of 5HIAA by 50%, indicating that LA-N-1 might be a useful model for studying dopamine-serotonin interaction in cultured cells and the neuronal mechanism of DRD.
There are discrete subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons in the basolateral amygdala (ABL) that contain particular neuropeptides or calcium-binding proteins (calbindin-D28k, parvalbumin (PV), or calretinin). The present study employed a dual-labeling immunofluorescence technique combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy to investigate the neurochemical characteristics of the interneuronal subpopulation containing somatostatin (SOM). The great majority of SOM+ neurons in the ABL exhibited GABA immunoreactivity (66-82% depending on the nucleus). These SOM+ neurons constituted 11-18% of the GABA+ population. There was also extensive colocalization of SOM with calbindin (CB) in all nuclei of the ABL, but no colocalization of SOM with parvalbumin, calretinin, or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In the basolateral nucleus more than 90% of SOM+ neurons also exhibited CB immunoreactivity, whereas in the lateral nucleus about two-thirds of SOM+ neurons contained significant levels of CB. These SOM/CB neurons constituted about one quarter of the CB+ population in the basolateral nucleus and about one third of the CB+ population in the lateral nucleus. These results, in conjunction with the findings of previous studies, indicate that there are at least three major subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons in the ABL: (i) SOM+ neurons (most of which also contain CB and/or neuropeptide Y); (ii) PV+ neurons (most of which also contain CB); and (iii) CR+ neurons (most of which also contain vasoactive intestinal polypeptide).
Transgenic mice expressing human APPswe and PS1-A264E mutations mimic certain neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). These mice have elevated levels of the highly fibrillogenic amyloid beta1-42 peptide (Abeta42) and develop amyloid plaques around the age of 9 months. Our aim was to find whether these transgenic mice differ electrophysiologically from non-transgenic mice and whether the alteration in EEG activity progresses with the accumulation of Abeta. The APP/PS1 mice had reduced cortical theta activity and enhanced beta and gamma activity, but these changes were not age-dependent. APP single mutant mice had similar EEG alterations in theta, beta and gamma bands as APP/PS1 double mutant mice while PS1 single mutant mice did not differ from non-transgenic controls. Insoluble Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels were robustly increased in APP/PS1 double mutant mice and insoluble Abeta40 moderately increased also in APP single mutant mice. Soluble Abeta42 was found in all APP mutant mice but also in lower concentrations in PS1 single mutant mice. Plaques were deposited in 13-month-old APP/PS1 double mutant mice but not in 8-month-old double mutant or 13-month-old single mutant mice. We conclude that the alteration of EEG activity in APP/PS1 double mutant and APP single mutant mice is related to their APP genotype rather than to deposition of beta-amyloid in the brain.
Oligosaccharides play significant roles in trafficking, folding, and sorting of membrane proteins. Sulfonylurea receptors (SURx), members of the ATP binding cassette family of proteins, associate with the inward rectifier Kir6.x to form ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K(ATP)). These channels are found on the plasma membrane in many tissues and play a pivotal role in synchronizing electrical excitability with cell metabolic state. Trafficking defects resulting from three independent SUR1 mutations involved in the disease persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy have been described. Two of these mutations displayed notable decreases in glycosylation. Here we have investigated the relationship between the two N-linked glycosylation sites (Asn(10) and Asn(1050)) and SUR1 trafficking. Using patch clamp analysis, surface biotinylation, and immunofluorescence microscopy, we demonstrate a significant decrease in surface expression of SUR1 single or double glycosylation site mutants (N10Q,N1050Q) when co-expressed with Kir6.2. Additionally, we show prominent retention within the ER of the SUR1 double glycosylation mutant under the same conditions. Further investigation revealed that mutation of the ER retention signal was able to partially restore surface expression of the SUR1 double glycosylation mutant. These studies suggest that SUR1 glycosylation is a key element for the proper trafficking and surface expression of K(ATP) channels.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is highly expressed in hippocampus and in cholinergic projection neurons from the basal forebrain, structures that are particularly vulnerable to the ravages of Alzheimer's disease. Previous work suggests that beta-amyloid peptide can interact with alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, although the nature of this interaction has not been well characterized. To test whether beta-amyloid peptide can activate alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, we expressed these receptors in Xenopus oocytes and performed two-electrode voltage clamp recordings, characterizing the response to beta-amyloid peptide 1-42 applied at concentrations ranging from 1 pm to 100 nm. In alpha7-expressing oocytes, beta-amyloid peptide 1-42 elicits inward currents at low concentrations (1-100 pm), whereas at higher concentrations (nm), less effective receptor activation is observed, indicative of receptor desensitization. Preincubation with the alpha7-selective agents, the antagonist methyllycaconatine, and the agonist 4-OH-GTS-21 blocked beta-amyloid peptide-induced receptor activation. beta-amyloid peptide 1-42 at low concentrations was able to activate the L250T mutant alpha7 receptor. The endogenous Ca(2+)-activated chloride current in Xenopus oocytes is recruited upon receptor activation since replacing Ca(2+) with Ba(2+) in the recording solution reduced current amplitude. Thus, when beta-amyloid peptide activation of alpha7 receptors occurs, these currents are comprised, at least in part, of Ca(2+).
The majority of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) deposited in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients is N-truncated, especially Abeta starting with pyroglutamate at position 3 (Abeta(3(pE))). To develop a system in which Abeta(3(pE)) is generated in primary neurons and to clarify the cyclization mechanism of N-terminal glutamate, we constructed amyloid precursor protein complementary DNAs which encoded a potential precursor for Abeta(3(pE)) by amino acid substitution and deletion. Among them, expression of NLQ construct by Sindbis virus resulted in secretion of Abeta(3(pE)) from primary neurons, whereas the N-termini of Abeta derived from NL and NLE constructs were intact. Therefore, the NLQ construct would be useful in establishing an animal model which produces Abeta(3(pE)).
The cerebellum was recently proposed to play a role in cognition and sensation in addition to motor phenomena. We have shown that the cerebellum is involved in the processing of sensory nociceptive information. In this study, the activity of neurons in the dorsal column nuclei (DCN) was tested following stimulation in the rat fastigial nucleus. The results showed an enhancement of the extracellularly recorded responses of DCN neurons to somatic non-noxious stimuli following injection of D,L-homocysteic acid (0.1 M, 1 microl) into the area of the fastigial nucleus. We conclude that the cerebellum influences the processing of non-noxious somatosensory information at the level of the DCN, an important relay and a center for the processing of fine tactile and vibratory information. This observation is not yet supported by clinical data.


Pattern completion, the ability to retrieve complete memories on the basis of incomplete sets of cues, is a crucial function of biological memory systems. The extensive recurrent connectivity of the CA3 area of hippocampus has led to suggestions that it might provide this function. We have tested this hypothesis by generating and analyzing a genetically engineered mouse strain in which the N-methyl-D-asparate (NMDA) receptor gene is ablated specifically in the CA3 pyramidal cells of adult mice. The mutant mice normally acquired and retrieved spatial reference memory in the Morris water maze, but they were impaired in retrieving this memory when presented with a fraction of the original cues. Similarly, hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells in mutant mice displayed normal place-related activity in a full-cue environment but showed a reduction in activity upon partial cue removal. These results provide direct evidence for CA3 NMDA receptor involvement in associative memory recall.
The promoter regions of several neuron-specific structural proteins (e.g. neurofilaments, peripherin, Talpha1-tubulin) have revealed potential regulatory elements that could contribute to the choice of a neuronal phenotype during development. We initiated study of the 5'-flanking region of the rat Class III neuron-specific beta-tubulin gene (betaIII-tubulin) because this gene is expressed at the time of terminal mitosis only in neurons and thus its promoter should be an excellent tool for studying neuron-specific gene expression during the transition from proliferative progenitor cell to early neuronal differentiation. We identified the minimal promoter region needed to drive expression of the betaIII-tubulin gene. This minimal region contains multiple putative binding sites for the transcription factors SP1 and AP2, as well as a central nervous system enhancer regulatory element and an E-box. A primer extension analysis identifies a single transcription start site. We highlight several putative regulatory elements that may modulate the expression of the betaIII-tubulin gene in a stage- and tissue-specific manner. In addition, we show that the first 490 bp of the promoter are sufficient to regulate betaIII-tubulin gene expression during neuronal differentiation of PCC7 cells.

Hyperpolarization-activated nonselective cation channels (Ih channels) play an important role in the control of membrane excitability and rhythmic neuronal activity. The functional relevance of presynaptic Ih channels in regulating synaptic function, however, is not well established. Recently, it has been proposed [Mellor, J., Nicoll, R. A. &amp; Schmitz, D. (2002) Science 295, 143-147] that presynaptic Ih channels are necessary for hippocampal mossy fiber long-term potentiation (LTP). This observation challenges an alternative model that suggests presynaptic forms of LTP are caused by a direct modification of the transmitter release machinery. Here, we assess the role of Ih in hippocampal mossy fiber LTP as well as cerebellar parallel fiber LTP, forms of potentiation that share common mechanisms. Our results show that after Ih blockade neither mossy fiber LTP nor parallel fiber LTP are affected. Furthermore, Ih does not significantly modify basal excitatory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus, whereas the organic Ih blockers ZD7288 and DK-AH 269 induce a large Ih-independent depression of synaptic transmission. In summary, our results indicate that Ih-mediated persistent changes in presynaptic excitability do not underlie presynaptic forms of LTP.
The aim of this work was to study the relationship between cortical activity and visual perception. To do so, we developed a psychophysical technique that is able to dissociate the visual percept from the visual stimulus and thus distinguish brain activity reflecting the perceptual state from that reflecting other stages of stimulus processing. We used dichoptic color fusion to make identical monocular stimuli of opposite color contrast &quot;disappear&quot; at the binocular level and thus become &quot;invisible&quot; as far as conscious visual perception is concerned. By imaging brain activity in subjects during a discrimination task between face and house stimuli presented in this way, we found that house-specific and face-specific brain areas are always activated in a stimulus-specific way regardless of whether the stimuli are perceived. Absolute levels of cortical activation, however, were lower with invisible stimulation compared with visible stimulation. We conclude that there is no terminal &quot;perceptual&quot; area in the visual brain, but that the brain regions involved in processing a visual stimulus are also involved in its perception, the difference between the two being dictated by a higher level of activity in the specific brain region when the stimulus is perceived.
Mutations in the Parkin gene cause juvenile and early onset Parkinsonism. While Parkin-related disease is presumed to be an autosomal-recessive disorder, cases have been reported where only a single Parkin allele is mutated and raise the possibility of a dominant effect. In this report, we re-evaluate twenty heterozygous cases and extend the mutation screening to include the promoter and intron/exon boundaries. Novel deletion, point and intronic splice site mutations are described, along with promoter variation. These data, coupled with a complete review of published Parkin mutations, confirms that not only is recessive loss of Parkin a risk factor for juvenile and early onset Parkinsonism but that Parkin haplo-insufficiency may be sufficient for disease in some cases.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of serotonin, and association and linkage studies of its variants in suicidal and impulsive-aggressive behavior have brought conflicting results. This pilot study was designed to investigate whether TPH A218C genotypes could be associated with impulsive behavioral tendencies (IBTs) in consecutively admitted nonpsychotic nonorganic inpatients. Patients (20 females and 34 males; age, 38.8 +/- 11.8) did not differ from healthy nonimpulsive controls (16 females and 11 males; age, 35.2 +/- 10.2) regarding TPH genotypes, but in the patients, the number of IBT was related to the presence of the 218C allele. It was concluded that impulsive-aggressive behavior may be associated with the TPH genotype in well-characterized impulsive patients and that the present results stress the importance of considering impulsiveness-aggressiveness in studies investigating the relationship between suicidal behavior and TPH genotypes.
A series of novel 4,4-disubstituted cyclohexylamines as NK(1) receptor antagonists is described: modifications to the amine moiety retain NK(1) receptor binding affinity whilst disrupting I(Kr) affinity.
A series of novel 4,4-disubstituted cyclohexylamine based NK(1) antagonists is described. The effect of changes to the C(1)-C(4) relative stereochemistry on the cyclohexane ring and replacements for the flexible linker are discussed, leading to the identification of compounds with high affinity and good in vivo duration of action.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in insect central and peripheral nervous systems. Although much work has focused on the downstream targets of GABA, signal termination at insect GABAergic synapses has received very little attention. One of the major mechanisms of terminating synaptic transmission involves transport of the neurotransmitter molecules into presynaptic neurons or surrounding glia. Here we report the immunolocalization of a GABA transporter in the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta (MasGAT), using an affinity-purified antibody developed to the C-terminus. This is the first demonstration of an insect neurotransmitter transporter immunolocalization study. Results showed strong staining in the neuropil regions of embryonic, larval, and pharate adult central nervous system. Expression pattern in the pharate adult brain mostly mimicked that observed for GABA, with staining in parts of the optic and antennal lobes, mushroom body, lateral protocerebrum, and central complex. Certain longitudinal and lateral connectives of ganglia were observed to have immunostained fibers representing axons. These data support the view that GABA is involved in visual and olfactory processing in the insect brain.
To date, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides have been found to influence feeding, locomotor activity, and conditioned place preference. A common brain structure that could mediate these effects is the ventral tegmental area (VTA). For a better understanding of the anatomical substrates that might underlie CART peptides' role in these behaviors, we performed a series of experiments to elucidate the source, synaptic connectivity, and neurochemical content of CART peptide-immunoreactive (CARTir) terminals in the rat VTA. Double-labeling immunofluorescence revealed that approximately 15% of CARTir terminals in the VTA contain the hypothalamic neuropeptide, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). Furthermore, CART peptides were also found to colocalize with GABA and, to a small extent, with dynorphin in nerve terminals in both the VTA and the substantia nigra (SN). In the VTA, CARTir terminals form both symmetric and asymmetric synapses onto dopaminergic and nondopaminergic distal dendrites, suggesting that various sources contribute to this innervation. About 30% of CARTir terminals in the VTA and only 15% in the SN appose or form synaptic contact with DA neurons, which support our previous data showing that GABAergic basal ganglia output neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) receive strong CARTir input from the accumbens core. Results of these studies suggest that the most significant behavioral states influenced by CART peptides, feeding and locomotion, may be mediated by direct and/or indirect modulation of VTA dopaminergic neuronal activity.
The developing mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (nucleus of the fifth cranial nerve; Mes5) is composed of four neuron populations: 1) the medial group, located at the tectal commissure; 2) the lateral group distributed along the optic tectum hemispheres; 3) a group outside the neural tube; and 4) a population located at the posterior commissure. The present work aims to elucidate the site of appearance, temporal evolution, and spatial distribution of the four Mes5 populations during development. According to detailed qualitative observations Mes5 neurons appear as a primitive unique population along a thin dorsal medial band of the mesencephalon. According to quantitative analyses (changes in cell density along defined reference axes performed as a function of time and space), the definitive spatial pattern of Mes5 neurons results from a process of differential cell movements along the tangential plane of the tectal hemispheres. Radial migration does not have a relevant developmental role. Segregation of medial and lateral group populations depends on the intensity of the lateral displacements. The mesenchymal population appears as an outsider subset of neurons that migrate from the cephalic third of the neural tube dorsal midregion to the mesenchymal compartment. This process, together with the intensive lateral displacements that the insider subset undergoes, contributes to the disappearance of this transient population. We cannot find evidence indicating that neural crest-derived precursors enter the neural tube and differentiate into Mes5 neurons. Our results can be better interpreted in terms of the notion that a dorsal neural tube progenitor cell population behaves as precursor of both migrating peripheral descendants (neural crest) and intrinsic neurons (Mes5).


Following intraocular injection of cholera toxin subunit B (CTB), optic afferents to the dorsal pontine region were observed in Mongolian gerbils, Chilean degus, and laboratory rats. CTB-positive optic axons emerge at the caudal pole of the superior colliculus, descend through the periaqueductal gray, and innervate the lateral parabrachial nucleus. This projection appears to be a continuation of the retinal pathway that innervates the dorsal raphe nucleus in these same species.
The overactivation of glutamate receptors is a major cause of Ca(2+) overload in cells, potentially leading to cell damage and death. There is an abundance of agents and mechanisms by which glutamate receptor activation can be prevented or modulated in order to control these effects. They include the well-established, competitive and non-competitive antagonists at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and modulators of desensitisation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors. More recently, it has emerged that some compounds can act selectively at different subunits of glutamate receptors, allowing a differential blockade of subtypes. It is also becoming clear that a number of endogenous compounds, including purines, can modify glutamate receptor sensitivity. The kynurenine pathway is an alternative but distinct pathway to the generation of glutamate receptor ligands. The products of tryptophan metabolism via the kynurenine pathway include both quinolinic acid, a selective agonist at NMDA receptors, and kynurenic acid, an antagonist at several glutamate receptor subtypes. The levels of these metabolites change as a result of the activation of inflammatory processes and immune-competent cells, and may have a significant impact on Ca(2+) fluxes and neuronal damage. Drugs which target some of these various sites and processes, or which change the balance between the excitotoxin quinolinic acid and the neuroprotective kynurenic acid, could also have potential as neuroprotective drugs.
Activation of purinoceptors by extracellular ATP is an important component of the glial response to injury in the central nervous system (CNS). ATP has been shown to evoke raised cytosolic [Ca(2+)] in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia, the three major glial cell types in the CNS. Glial cells express a heterogenous collection of metabotropic P2Y and ionotropic P2X purinoceptors, which respectively mobilise Ca(2+) from intracellular stores and trigger Ca(2+) influx across the plasmalemma. It is likely that different receptors have distinct roles in glial cell physiology and pathology. Our studies on optic nerve glia in situ indicate that P2Y(1) and P2Y(2/4) receptors are activated at low ATP concentrations, suggesting they are the predominant purinoceptors mediating physiological Ca(2+) signalling. Glia also express P2X(1) and P2X(3) purinoceptors, which mediate fast, rapidly desensitising current and may also be important in signalling. At high concentrations, such as occur in CNS injury, ATP induces large and prolonged increases in glial [Ca(2+)](i) with a primary role for P2Y purinoceptors and inositol trisphosphate (IP(3))-dependent release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. In addition, we found that high concentrations of ATP activated a significant P2X component that did not desensitise or saturate and was dependent on extracellular Ca(2+). These are characteristic properties of the P2X(7) subtype, and we provide in situ evidence that application of the P2X(7) receptor agonist benzoyl-benzoyl ATP (BzATP) evokes raised [Ca(2+)](i) in optic nerve glia, and that the dye YO-PRO-1, which passes through pore-forming P2X(7) receptors, is taken up by astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia. Glia also express P2X(2) and P2X(4) receptors that are also pore-forming in the presence of sustained high ATP concentrations and which may also be important in the glial injury response. There is evidence that activation of P2 purinoceptors is a key step in triggering reactive changes in glial cells, including expression of immediate early genes, induction of extracellular signal regulated kinase and cyclooxygenase-2, synthesis of phospholipase A(2), release of arachidonic acid, production of prostaglandins and release of interleukins. We show that the ATP-mediated increase in glial [Ca(2+)](i) is potentiated by arachidonic acid and reduced by the inhibition of phospholipase A(2) inhibition. Together, the results implicate ATP as a primary signalling molecule in glial cells and indicate specific roles for P2Y and P2X purinoceptors in glial cell pathology.
The epilepsies encompass diverse seizure disorders afflicting as many as 50 million people worldwide. Many forms of epilepsy are intractable to current therapies and there is a pressing need to develop agents and strategies to not only suppress seizures, but also cure epilepsy. Recent insights from molecular genetics and pharmacology now point to an important role for voltage-dependent calcium channels in epilepsy. In this article, I first provide an introduction to the classification of the epilepsies and an overview of neuronal Ca(2+) channels. Next, I attempt to review the evidence for a role of Ca(2+) channels in epilepsy and the insights gained from genetics and pharmacology. Lastly, I describe new avenues for how such information might be exploited in the development of therapeutic reagents.
The Ca(2+) hypothesis of brain ageing and dementia may account for part of the available data on the pathogenesis of dementia and certain neurodegenerative disorders. The hypothesis proposes that disturbances in the homeostasis of neuronal cytosolic free Ca(2+) are part of a final common pathway, ultimately leading to neuronal dysfunction and cell death. The hypothesis also proposes that a small change in cytosolic free Ca(2+) sustained over a long period of time will result in similar damage as a large change over a short period. Diabetes mellitus is associated with neurological complications in the peripheral and central nervous system, as reflected in peripheral neuropathy, modest cognitive impairments and an increased risk of dementia. In animal models of diabetes, learning impairments are associated with alterations in Ca(2+) -dependent forms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Disturbances in the homeostasis of cytosolic free Ca(2+) may present a final common pathway in the multifactorial pathogenesis of neurological complications of diabetes, which involves vascular changes, oxidative stress, and non-enzymatic protein glycation. In line with the Ca(2+) hypothesis of neurodegenerative disorders, a prolonged, small increase in basal cytosolic Ca(2+) levels indeed exists in sensory neurones of diabetic animals. In addition, Ca(2+) dynamics are affected. Ca(2+) channel blockers, such as nimodipine, have been shown to improve experimental peripheral neuropathy, through a vascular mechanism, possibly in combination with direct neuronal effects. Preliminary studies indicate that nimodipine may also improve Ca(2+)-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus of diabetic rats.
Calcium influx through voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) mediates a variety of functions in neurons and other excitable cells, but excessive calcium influx through these channels can contribute to neuronal death in pathological settings. Oxyradical production and membrane lipid peroxidation occur in neurons in response to normal activity in neuronal circuits, whereas excessive lipid peroxidation is implicated in the pathogenesis of of neurodegenerative disorders. We now report on a specific mechanism whereby lipid peroxidation can modulate the activity of VDCCs. The lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxy-2,3-nonenal (4HN) enhances dihydropyridine-sensitive whole-cell Ca2+ currents and increases depolarization-induced increases of intracellular Ca2+ levels in hippocampal neurons. Prolonged exposure to 4HN results in neuronal death, which is prevented by treatment with glutathione and attenuated by the L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nimodipine. Tyrosine phosphorylation of alpha1 VDCC subunits is increased in neurons exposed to 4HN, and studies using inhibitors of tyrosine kinases and phosphatases indicate a requirement for tyrosine phosphorylation in the enhancement of VDCC activity in response to 4HN. Phosphorylation-mediated modulation of Ca2+ channel activity in response to lipid peroxidation may play important roles in the responses of neurons to oxidative stress in both physiological and pathological settings.
The specific biochemical steps required for glucose-regulated insulin exocytosis from beta-cells are not well defined. Elevation of glucose leads to increases in cytosolic [Ca2+]i and biphasic release of insulin from both a readily releasable and a storage pool of beta-granules. The effect of elevated [Ca2+]i on phosphorylation of isolated beta-granule membrane proteins was evaluated, and the phosphorylation of four proteins was found to be altered by [Ca2+]i. One (a 18/20-kDa doublet) was a Ca2+-dependent increase in phosphorylation, and, surprisingly, three others (138, 42, and 36 kDa) were Ca2+-dependent dephosphorylations. The 138-kDa beta-granule phosphoprotein was found to be kinesin heavy chain (KHC). At low levels of [Ca2+]i KHC was phosphorylated by casein kinase 2, but KHC was rapidly dephosphorylated by protein phosphatase 2B beta (PP2Bbeta) as [Ca2+]i increased. Inhibitors of PP2B specifically reduced the second, microtubule-dependent, phase of insulin secretion, suggesting that dephosphorylation of KHC was required for transport of beta-granules from the storage pool to replenish the readily releasable pool of beta-granules. This is distinct from synaptic vesicle exocytosis, because neurotransmitter release from synaptosomes did not require a Ca2+-dependent KHC dephosphorylation. These results suggest a novel mechanism for regulating KHC function and beta-granule transport in beta-cells that is mediated by casein kinase 2 and PP2B. They also implicate a novel regulatory role for PP2B/calcineurin in the control of insulin secretion downstream of a rise in [Ca2+]i.
To examine the effect of CTP, GTP, ITP, and UTP on calcium binding of Ca2+-ATPase molecules of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, the calcium dependence of the Ca2+-activated hydrolysis activities of these NTPs of the enzyme molecules was examined by comparison with that of calcium binding of the molecules in the absence of the NTPs at pH 7.40. In the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane, CTP, GTP, and ITP did not affect the noncooperative (Hill value (n(H)) of approximately 1, apparent calcium affinity (K(0.5)) of 2-6 microm)) and cooperative (n(H) approximately 2, K(0.5) approximately 0.2 microm) calcium binding of the molecules, whereas UTP caused the molecules to highly cooperatively (n(H) approximately 4) bind calcium ions with a lowered K(0.5) of approximately 0.04 microm. When the enzyme molecules were solubilized with detergent, all of these NTPs reversibly degraded the calcium affinity of the molecule (from K(0.5) = 3-5 to &gt;40 microm), although the effect of the NTPs on the negatively cooperative manner (n(H) approximately 0.5) of calcium binding was not experimentally obtained. Taking into account the first part of this study (Nakamura, J., Tajima, G., Sato, C., Furukohri, T., and Konishi, K. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 24180-24190) showing the improving effect of ATP on calcium binding of the membranous and solubilized molecules, the results show that ATP is the only intrinsic substrate for the enzyme molecule. This NTP regulation is discussed in terms of the oligomeric structure of the molecules.
The effect of ATP on calcium binding of the Ca2+-ATPase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum has not been clarified. By comparing the calcium dependence of the ATPase activity and of phosphorylation of the ATPase molecules with that of calcium binding in the absence of ATP, we show the existence of two types of regulatory site of the enzyme molecules at which ATP binding variously improves the calcium binding performance of the molecules depending on the aggregation state of the molecules and pH; the two regulatory sites bind ATP at submillimolar (0.25 mm) and millimolar (5 mm) ATP, respectively. The results are discussed based on a model of two conformational variants (A and B forms) of the chemically equivalent ATPase molecules (Nakamura, J., and Furukohri, T. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 30818-30821). For example, in the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane at pH 7.40, submillimolar ATP converted the calcium binding manner of the A form from noncooperative (Hill number (n(H)) of approximately 1) to cooperative (n(H) approximately 2), concurrent with a decrease in the apparent calcium affinity (K(0.5)) from 2-6 to 0.1-0.3 microm. The binding of the A form became almost the same as that of the B form (n(H) approximately 2, K(0.5) approximately 0.2 microm), which was not affected by ATP. Millimolar ATP further decreased the K(0.5) of the cooperative binding of the two forms to approximately 0.05 microm. Regulation of the calcium binding performance by ATP is discussed in terms of monomeric and oligomeric pathway models.
Both collagenase-3 and osteocalcin mRNAs are expressed maximally during the later stages of osteoblast differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that collagenase-3 mRNA expression in differentiating MC3T3-E1 cells is dependent upon the presence of ascorbic acid, is inhibited in the presence of the collagen synthesis inhibitor, 3,4-dehydroproline, and is stimulated by growth on collagen in the absence of ascorbic acid. Transient transfection studies show that collagenase-3 promoter activity increases during cell differentiation and requires the presence of ascorbic acid. Additionally, we show that, in differentiating MC3T3-E1 cells, collagenase-3 gene expression increases in the presence of an anti-osteopontin monoclonal antibody that binds near the RGD motif of this protein, whereas osteocalcin expression is inhibited. Furthermore, an RGD peptidomimetic compound, designed to block interaction of ligands to the alpha(v) integrin subunit, increases osteocalcin expression and inhibits collagenase-3 expression, suggesting that the RGD peptidomimetic initiates certain alpha(v) integrin signaling in osteoblastic cells. Overall, these studies demonstrate that stimulation of collagenase-3 expression during osteoblast differentiation requires synthesis of a collagenous matrix and that osteopontin and alpha(v) integrins exert divergent regulation of collagenase-3 and osteocalcin expression during osteoblast differentiation.
Several neuronal cell lines were screened for endogenous expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) protein using Western blot analysis. Detectable levels of the nNOS protein were evident in the SK-N-SH, SH-SY5Y, and N1E-115 neuroblastoma cell lines, as well as the NG108-15 neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid. Only trace amounts were visible in Neuro2A human neuroblastoma cells. The presence of endogenously expressed nNOS in these cells may allow for the study of the interaction between nNOS and the endogenous receptor systems expressed in the same cells.
Mental imagery, the generation and manipulation of mental representations in the absence of sensory stimulation, is a core element of numerous cognitive processes. We investigate the cortical mechanisms underlying imagery and spatial analysis in the visual domain using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging during the mental clock task. The time-resolved analysis of cortical activation from auditory perception to motor response reveals a sequential activation of the left and right posterior parietal cortex, suggesting that these regions perform distinct functions in this imagery task. This is confirmed by a trial-by-trial analysis of correlations between reaction time and onset, width, and amplitude of the hemodynamic response. These findings pose neurophysiological constraints on cognitive models of mental imagery.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) induces dramatic axon growth from responsive embryonic peripheral neurons. However, the roles of the various NGF-triggered signaling cascades in determining specific axon morphological features remain unknown. Here, we transfected activated and inhibitory mutants of Trk effectors into sensory neurons lacking the proapoptotic protein Bax. This allowed axon growth to be studied in the absence of NGF, enabling us to observe the contributions of individual signaling mediators. While Ras was both necessary and sufficient for NGF-stimulated axon growth, the Ras effectors Raf and Akt induced distinct morphologies. Activated Raf-1 caused axon lengthening comparable to NGF, while active Akt increased axon caliber and branching. Our results suggest that the different Trk effector pathways mediate distinct morphological aspects of developing neurons.

Robust axon regeneration occurs after peripheral nerve injury through coordinated activation of a genetic program and local intracellular signaling cascades. Although regeneration-associated genes are being identified with increasing frequency, most aspects of regeneration-associated intracellular signaling remain poorly understood. Two independent studies now report that upregulation of cAMP is a component of the PNS regeneration program that can be exploited to enhance axon regeneration through the normally inhibitory CNS environment.
LIM kinase 1 regulates actin filament dynamics through inhibition of ADF/cofilins. Surprisingly, nervous system development in LIM kinase 1 knockout mice is grossly normal, but the animals have deficits in spatial learning, alterations in LTP, and abnormalities in hippocampal dendritic spine structure. The findings are consistent with a role for LIMK-1 in synapse formation and function.


The Commission of European Affairs of the International League Against Epilepsy published 'Appropriate Standards for Epilepsy Care Across Europe' which contained recommendations for the use of electroencephalography (EEG) in the diagnosis of epilepsy (Brodie et al. Epilepsia 1997; 38:1245). The need for a more specific basic document of EEG methodology was recognized and the Subcommission on European Affairs was asked to produce more detailed guidelines to be used across Europe recognizing the range of practices in EEG laboratories. There are many general guidelines published on EEG methodology but this document focuses on the diagnosis of epilepsy. Details from previously published guidelines are included in references and in an appendix. These guidelines are not meant to be used as minimal standards but recommendations that can be applied to all EEG laboratories despite variations in equipment.

The aim of this study was to examine the anatomical landmarks of the retrotympanum using two different techniques, virtual endoscopy (VE) and fiberoptic endoscopy, and to correlate the results furnished by the two methods. Ten otosclerotic patients who were due to undergo stapedectomy were scanned using high-resolution spiral CT. Selected CT datasets were processed with Navigator 2.0 software to obtain virtual endoscopic views of the retrotympanum. Subsequently, during the surgical procedure, fiberoptic endoscopy was performed with 2.7-mm 0 degrees and 30 degrees rigid endoscopes. The ability of the two imaging methods to identify specific anatomical structures was then compared. In all cases the pyramidal eminence, pyramidal crest and sinus tympani were clearly identified in both VE images and otoendoscopy recordings, while fiberoptic endoscopy seemed to be less satisfactory than VE for studying the facial sinus, sinus of Proctor and fossula of Grivot. The two techniques proved to be equally sensitive for visualizing the ponticulus and subiculum, while the stapedius tendon could be visualized only by means of fiberoptic endoscopy. Overall, VE imaging appears promising for rendering important anatomical details of the retrotympanum, allowing identification of osseous landmarks and exploring recesses that are difficult to visualize via otoendoscopy.
In order to examine the influence exerted by an irrelevant semantic variable in a comparative judgment task, we employed a Stroop-like paradigm. The stimuli were pairs of animal names that were different in their physical and semantic sizes (e.g., ant lion). Participants were asked to judge which of the two words was larger either in physical or in semantic size. Size congruity effect (i.e., faster reaction times with congruent than with incongruent stimuli) appeared in both semantic and physical judgments. The semantic distance effect (i.e., large semantic distances are processed faster than smaller ones), appeared only when the semantic dimension was relevant to the task. The findings indicate that when a word (animal name) is presented, its meaning is accessed automatically. Part of this meaning (at least with our stimuli) relates to the size of the animal in real life. Processing of meaning of the size of the words is carried out in parallel with the extraction of the physical features of the presented stimuli.



Both alcohol abuse and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection have deleterious effects on brain structure, metabolism and function. In individuals with both afflictions these effects are doubtless additive and may interact to produce synergistic adverse effects. Further, the normal processes of aging produce brain degeneration that leaves older people especially vulnerable to the untoward effects of alcohol abuse and HIV infection. Advances in in vivo brain imaging now make practical the clinical study of the interaction of alcoholism and HIV infection and the potential of increased vulnerability produced by advancing age. In addition to structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which provides quantitative assessments of brain macrostructure, are diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), which assesses microstructural integrity, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), which provides assessment of brain chemical moieties related to neuronal viability, and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which provides assessment of localized blood oxygenation state association with performance of specific cognitive or motor tasks. Here, we first review postmortem observations on patients with HIV infection and with alcoholism to identify the cell types and brain regions most affected by the end stage of the disease. We then review in vivo neuroimaging studies of brain changes associated with HIV infection, chronic alcohol use, their interaction, and the potentiating effects of age. While there are many studies of people with either HIV infection or chronic alcohol use alone currently little has been published on the interactive effects of these variables, despite the high prevalence of overlap. We conclude with a consideration of the methodological issues such studies must address.


We describe the prevalence of cognitive impairment in a population aged 65 and older requiring urgent medical services and to propose global evaluation, involving cognitive, functional and social aspects, during the emergency department (ED) visit to define an individualized care protocol. A total of 150 patients aged 65 and older attended at the ED were screened for cognitive impairment using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Patients with an MMSE score lower or equal to 23 were included in the second step of the study, namely evaluation involving neuropsychological instruments to assess cognitive and functional status and a questionnaire exploring socioeconomic conditions and type of support need. Cognitive impairment was detected in 24 patients (16%). In no case of mild impairment had a cognitive deficit already been diagnosed. The functional and socioeconomic profile enabled proposing a strategy for better management of the patients discharged by the ED.
Children who fail to develop language normally-in the absence of explanatory factors such as neurological disorders, hearing impairment, or lack of adequate opportunity-are clinically described as having specific language impairment (SLI). SLI has a prevalence of approximately 7% in children entering school and is associated with later difficulties in learning to read. Research indicates that genetic factors are important in the etiology of SLI. Studies have consistently demonstrated that SLI aggregates in families. Increased monozygotic versus dizygotic twin concordance rates indicate that heredity, not just shared environment, is the cause of the familial clustering. We have collected five pedigrees of Celtic ancestry that segregate SLI, and we have conducted genomewide categorical linkage analysis, using model-based LOD score techniques. Analysis was conducted under both dominant and recessive models by use of three phenotypic classifications: clinical diagnosis, language impairment (spoken language quotient &lt;85) and reading discrepancy (nonverbal IQ minus non-word reading &gt;15). Chromosome 13 yielded a maximum multipoint LOD score of 3.92 under the recessive reading discrepancy model. Simulation to correct for multiple models and multiple phenotypes indicated that the genomewide empirical P value is &lt;.01. As an alternative measure, we also computed the posterior probability of linkage (PPL), obtaining a PPL of 53% in the same region. One other genomic region yielded suggestive results on chromosome 2 (multipoint LOD score 2.86, genomic P value &lt;.06 under the recessive language impairment model). Our findings underscore the utility of traditional LOD-score-based methods in finding genes for complex diseases, specifically, SLI.
The human colon can dilate, often to life-threatening proportions. Our aim was to explore nitrergic mechanisms underlying colonic dilation in conscious dogs with enterically isolated ileocolonic loops either extrinsically innervated (n = 4) or extrinsically denervated (n = 4). We recorded phasic pressures in ileum and ileocolonic sphincter (ICS), colonic tone, compliance, and relaxation during ileal distension. By NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, we assessed effects of extrinsic denervation and enteric isolation on nitrergic fibers. Extrinsic denervation increased phasic pressures in ileum, ICS, and colon and abolished ICS and colonic relaxation in response to ileal distension. The nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) increased phasic pressures at all sites and ICS tone but did not abolish colonic relaxation during ileal distension in innervated loops. L-NNA reduced compliance and induced colonic high-amplitude propagated contractions in denervated loops. The NOS substrate donor L-arginine reversed effects of L-NNA. The number of NADPH-diaphorase fibers increased in both enterically isolated preparations. Nonnitrergic extrinsic nerve pathways mediate reflex colonic relaxation during ileal distension. Enteric isolation augments the number of NOS fibers, an effect not modified by extrinsic denervation.
In rat cultured pulmonary arterial (PA), microvascular, and venous endothelial cells (ECs), the rate of mitochondrial (mt) DNA repair is predictive of the severity of xanthine oxidase (XO)-induced mtDNA damage and the sensitivity to XO-mediated cell death. To examine the importance of mtDNA damage and repair more directly, we determined the impact of mitochondrial overexpression of the DNA repair enzyme, Ogg1, on XO-induced mtDNA damage and cell death in PAECs. PAECs were transiently transfected with an Ogg1-mitochondrial targeting sequence construct. Mitochondria-selective overexpression of the transgene product was confirmed microscopically by the observation that immunoreactive Ogg1 colocalized with a mitochondria-specific tracer and, with an oligonucleotide cleavage assay, by a selective enhancement of mitochondrial Ogg1 activity. Overexpression of Ogg1 protected against both XO-induced mtDNA damage, determined by quantitative Southern analysis, and cell death as assessed by trypan blue exclusion and MTS assays. These findings show that mtDNA damage is a direct cause of cell death in XO-treated PAECs.
The present study examined possible interactions between central glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and oxytocin (OT) neural systems by determining whether blockade of GLP-1 receptors attenuates OT-induced anorexia and vice versa. Male rats were acclimated to daily 4-h food access. In the first experiment, rats were infused centrally with GLP-1 receptor antagonist or vehicle, followed by an anorexigenic dose of synthetic OT. Access to food began 20 min later. Cumulative food intake was measured every 30 min for 4 h. In the second experiment, rats were infused with OT receptor blocker or vehicle, followed by synthetic GLP-1 [(7-36) amide]. Subsequent food intake was monitored as before. The anorexigenic effect of OT was eliminated in rats pretreated with the GLP-1 receptor antagonist. Conversely, GLP-1-induced anorexia was not affected by blockade of OT receptors. In a separate immunocytochemical study, OT-positive terminals were found closely apposed to GLP-1-positive perikarya, and central infusion of OT activated c-Fos expression in GLP-1 neurons. These findings implicate endogenous GLP-1 receptor signaling as an important downstream mediator of anorexia in rats after activation of central OT neural pathways.



Disease management is an approach to patient care that coordinates medical resources for the patient across the entire healthcare delivery system throughout the lifetime of the patient with the disease. Stroke is suitable for disease management as it is a well-known disease with a high prevalence, high cost, variable practice pattern, poor clinical outcome, and managed by a non-integrated healthcare system. It has measurable and actionable outcomes, with available local expertise and support of the Ministry of Health. Developing the programme requires a multidisciplinary team, baseline data on target populations and healthcare services, identification of core components, collaboration with key stakeholders, development of evidence-based clinical practice guidelines and carepaths, institution of care coordinators, use of information technology and continuous quality improvement to produce an effective plan. Core components include public education, risk factor screening and management, primary care and specialist clinics, acute stroke units, inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation facilities, and supportive community services including medical, nursing, therapy, home help and support groups for patients and carers. The family physician plays a key role. Coordination of services is best done by a network of hospital and community-based care managers, and is enhanced by a coordinating call centre. Continuous quality improvement is required, with audit of processes and outcomes, facilitated by a disease registry. Pitfalls include inappropriate exclusion of deserving patients, misuse, loss of physician and patient independence, over-estimation of benefits, and care fragmentation. Collaboration and cooperative among all parties will help ensure a successful and sustainable programme.
To investigate the effects of traumatic brain injury on working memory in children, we administered semantic (letter identity) and phonological (letter rhyme) N-back tasks to children who were on average 5 years post-mild (n = 54) or -severe (n = 26) traumatic brain injury and 44 typically developing children who were comparable in age. The correct detection of targets and false alarms were measured for each task. Memory load (which varied from 0 to 3 letters back) and age significantly affected the detection of targets and false alarms in both tasks. The severity of traumatic brain injury affected the correct detection of letters on the identity task and false alarms on the rhyme task. Traumatic brain injury severity also interacted with memory load in its effect on false alarms on the rhyme task. Traumatic brain injury results in impaired working memory and diminished inhibition in children. The N-back working memory task is feasible for administration to brain-injured children and potentially could be useful for studying brain activation associated with working memory and effects of drug therapy in this group of patients.
The toxicity and antitumor activity of the novel organotin compound triethyltin(IV)lupinylsulfide hydrochloride (IST-FS 29), administered by the oral route, have been evaluated against three transplantable murine tumor models: P388 lymphocytic leukemia, B16F10 melanoma and 3LL Lewis lung carcinoma. Mild and reversible signs of acute toxicity such as behavioral symptoms, weight loss and histological alterations were mainly reported at the highest single dose of 28 mg/kg. Conversely, lower concentrations of compound ranging from 7 to 21 mg/kg did not result in major toxic effects, even after repeated dosing. The antitumor activity studies showed that fractionation dosing, rather than single bolus administration, over 1 week, might prove more active and better tolerated by allowing the achievement of the highest therapeutic total dose of IST-FS 29 (42 mg/kg). Indeed, repeated administrations of IST-FS 29 resulted in marked significant improvement of antitumor activity against B16F10 (50% of tumor volume inhibition, p = 0.0003) and, to a greater extent, 3LL (90% of tumor volume inhibition, p = 0.0001) tumors. These results indicate that IST-FS 29 might be a suitable candidate as an orally administrable anticancer drug and support its further development in human tumor xenografts.
The authors discuss 6 challenges facing the recruitment and retention of physician scientists as career mental health researchers. These challenges include (1) early identification and recruitment at the undergraduate and medical student level; (2) recruitment of a more diverse group of trainees; (3) safety nets for reducing attrition; (4) strategies to promote successful competition for K awards; (5) definition of appropriate roles and career development opportunities in multisite clinical trials; and (6) strategies for the mentoring &quot;cost.&quot; A coalition of stakeholders--federal, academic, foundational, and in the pharmaceutical industry--is needed to meet these challenges.


The purpose of medical interventions today is to favor the duration of life and to assure its quality. For a proper evaluation of the quality of life (QoL) of the elderly, it is important to assess not only the health status, but also psychological, functional and existential domains. Up to now, QoL of the dependent older living at home does not seem to have received sufficient attention. This study is a population based, cross-sectional health survey, and tries to give a picture of the QoL conditions of a group of dependent elderly living at home, using a specifically designed structured interview. In addition to this interview the Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Index and the Zung rating scale for Anxiety and Depression (AD) were administered to a total of 167 elderly (60 males and 107 females). The most interesting results of the study are the following: (1) the definition of dependence is often worsen by cultural prejudices; (2) psychopathological factors show a deep negative effect on 'attitudes towards life' of the dependent elderly; (3) QoL of the dependent elderly people in this sample is mainly negatively influenced by the degree of depression. We believe that the 'QoL-oriented' therapeutic strategy should consider more articulated and multidisciplinary geriatric and psychosocial interventions in this population.
In order to compare spatial attention and visual processing capabilities of humans and rhesus macaques, we developed a visual maze task both could perform. Maze stimuli were constructed of orthogonal line segments displayed on a monitor. Each was octagonal in outline and contained a central square (the 'start box'). A single ('main') path, containing a random number of turns, extended outward from the start box, and either reached an exit in the maze's perimeter, or a blind ending within the maze. Subjects maintained ocular fixation within the start box, and indicated their judgment whether the path reached an exit or not by depressing one of two keys (humans) or foot pedals (monkeys). Successful maze solution by human subjects required a minimum viewing time. Replacing the maze with a masking stimulus after a variable interval revealed that the percent correct performance increased systematically with greater viewing time, reaching a plateau of approximately 85% correct if mazes were visible for 500 ms or more. A multiple linear regression analysis determined that the response time of both species depended upon several parameters of the main path, including the number of turns, total length, and exist status. Human and nonhuman primates required comparable time to process each turn in the path, whereas monkeys were faster than humans in processing each unit of path length. The data suggest that a covert analysis of the maze proceeds from the center outward along the main path in the absence of saccadic eye movements, and that both monkeys and humans undertake such an analysis during the solution of visual mazes.
We have adjusted and validated models of the lines of action of six human shoulder muscles. Compared to other models of the shoulder mechanism (e.g., 9, 11, 17, 24) ours is greatly simplified in that the scapula and its many muscles are largely neglected, and the action of each of six broad muscles is summarized by a single line segment. The close correspondence between measured and predicted moment direction over a wide range of postures suggests that this latter simplification was reasonable. We found that assignment of two via points (one fixed to the origin and one fixed to the insertion) was adequate to represent the measured actions, and our sensitivity analysis highlights the importance of via point placement. Because our model predicts the action of each muscle over a very large range of arm postures, it should be useful for future investigations of the control of muscle forces.
This study has begun to test the hypothesis that aspects of hand/object shape are represented in the discharge of primary motor cortex (M1) neurons. Two monkeys were trained in a visually cued reach-to-grasp task, in which object properties and grasp forces were systematically varied. Behavioral analyses show that the reach and grasp force production were constant across the objects. The discharge of M1 neurons was highly modulated during the reach and grasp. Multiple linear regressions models revealed that the M1 discharge was highly dependent on the object grasped, with object class, volume, orientation and grasp force as significant predictors. These findings are interpreted as evidence that the CNS controls the hand as a unit.
We have reviewed evidence that suggests that the target for limb motion is encoded in a retinocentric frame of reference. Errors in pointing that are elicited by an illusion that distorts the perceived motion of a target are strongly correlated with errors in gaze position. The modulations in the direction and speed of ocular smooth pursuit and of the hand show remarkable similarities, even though the inertia of the arm is much larger than that of the eye. We have suggested that ocular motion is constrained so that gaze provides an appropriate target signal for the hand. Finally, ocular and manual tracking deficits in patients with cerebellar ataxia are very similar. These deficits are also consistent with the idea that a gaze signal provides the target for hand motion; in some cases limb ataxia would be a consequence of optic ataxia rather than reflecting a deficit in the control of limb motion per se. These results, as well as neurophysiological data summarized here, have led us to revise a hypothesis we have previously put forth to account for the initial stages of sensorimotor transformations underlying targeted limb motions. In the original hypothesis, target location and initial arm posture were ultimately encoded in a common frame of reference tied to somatosensation, i.e. a body-centered frame of reference, and a desired change in posture was derived from the difference between the two. In our new scheme, a movement vector is derived from the difference between variables encoded in a retinocentric frame of reference. Accordingly, gaze, with its exquisite ability to stabilize a target image even under dynamic conditions, would be used as a reference signal. Consequently, this scheme would facilitate the processing of information under conditions in which the body and the target are moving relative to each other.
Repeated training in a stimulus response task can lead to adaptive changes in the resulting behavior. Using a simple saccade task, we investigated the effect that the location of the target in the preceding trial had on the saccadic reaction time (SRT) of the current trial. To determine the time course of this effect, we varied the intertrial interval (ITI). Finally, we examined the pretarget discharge of single neurons in the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus (SC) during the task. Our data reveal that monkeys have a robust repetition effect in which there was an overall decrease in SRT and increase in SC pretarget activity when the target of the previous saccade was in the same location as that of the current trial. Additionally, we have shown a robust time course of this repetition effect, revealing that it exists for only a limited amount of time.
Earlier work from our laboratory showed that principal component waveforms (PCs) from an ensemble of DSCT movement responses correlated with either the waveform of the limb axis length or orientation trajectories, suggesting that DSCT circuitry might elaborate an explicit representation of limb endpoint kinematics independent from limb geometry. In this study, we tested this idea by decoupling limb geometry from endpoint position with mechanical constraints that blocked the motion of the knee joint during step-like movements applied passively to the hindlimb of anesthetized cats. Only about half of the 50 cells studied showed statistically different response patterns when the limb was constrained compared to the unconstrained condition (control). However, the PC waveforms extracted from responses that showed significant changes with the knee constrained were found to be identical to those extracted from control responses. Instead, the differences between constrained and control responses could be accounted for by changes in the weighting of PCs suggesting a modulation of global response components rather than an explicit representation of local parameters.


Self-injurious skin picking is characterized by repetitive, ritualistic, or impulsive skin picking that leads to tissue damage and causes significant distress or impairment in daily functioning. Little is known about effective behavioral or cognitive-behavioral treatments for self-injurious skin picking. As described by Azrin and colleagues, habit reversal is a promising behavioral treatment for modifying nervous habits or tics. To the authors' knowledge, only one case series currently exists in the literature that shows self-injurious skin picking, in the absence of an underlying dermatological condition or without psychiatric comorbidity, can be successfully treated with habit reversal. In the current article, the authors describe the implementation and outcome of cognitive-behavior therapy for three patients with severe self-injurious skin picking, two of which had psychiatric comorbidity.
The objectives of this study were to investigate a nuclear factor-kappa B (NFkappaB) decoy oligonucleotide (ODN) strategy on the inhibition of glioblastoma (GBM) cell line growth and to evaluate a poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticle delivery system for the NFKB decoy ODNs in vitro. We have demonstrated that NFkappaB activation is important in regulating GBM cell line growth. Aberrant nuclear expression of NFkappaB was found in a panel of GBM cell lines, while untransformed glial cells did not display NFkappaB activity. Nuclear translocation of NFkappaB was inhibited by using a 'decoy&quot; ODN strategy. NFkappaB decoy ODNs designed to inhibit NFkappaB resulted in a significant reduction in cell number (up to 45%) compared to control cultures after 2 days. The reduction in cell number correlated with a decrease in cyclin D1 protein expression and a commensurate decrease in Cdk-4 activity. These results provide evidence suggesting that NFkappaB mediates cell cycle progression and demonstrates a mechanism linking increased NFkappaB activity with GBM cell growth and cell cycle disregulation. Decoy ODNs were encapsulated at a yield of 66% in PLGA microparticles and released in a controlled manner in phosphate buffered saline for up to 28 days. Approximately 83% of entrapped ODNs were released by day 28. During 3 days of GBM cell line culture, the released decoy ODNs retained their biologic activity and led to significantly reduced cell number as compared to control cultures. These findings offer a potential therapeutic strategy in the control of human GBM cell line growth in vitro and suggest that PLGA microparticles may be appropriate as delivery vehicles for the &quot;decoy&quot; ODN strategy.
In order to identify new subtype-selective (S)-glutamate (Glu) receptor ligands we have synthesized (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-1,2,5-thiadiazol-4-yl)propionic acid [(RS)-TDPA]. Resolution of (RS)-TDPA by chiral chromatography was performed using a Crownpac CR(+) column affording (R)- and (S)-TDPA of high enantiomeric purity (enantiomeric excess=99.9%). An X-ray crystallographic analysis revealed that the early eluting enantiomer has R-configuration. Both enantiomers showed high affinity as well as high agonist activity at (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid (AMPA) receptors, determined using a [(3)H]AMPA binding assay and an electrophysiological model, respectively. The affinities and agonist activities obtained for (R)-TDPA (IC(50)=0.265 microM and EC(50)=6.6 microM, respectively) and (S)-TDPA (IC(50)=0.065 microM and EC(50)=20 microM, respectively) revealed a remarkably low AMPA receptor stereoselectivity, (S)-TDPA showing the highest affinity and (R)-TDPA the most potent agonist activity. In addition, (S)-TDPA was shown to interact with synaptosomal Glu uptake sites displacing [(3)H](R)-aspartic acid (IC(50 ) approximately 390 microM). An enantiospecific and subtype-selective agonist activity was observed for (S)-TDPA at group I metabotropic Glu (mGlu) receptors (EC(50)=13 microM at mGlu(5) and EC(50)=95 microM at mGlu(1)).
1. In this study in vitro and in vivo approaches were combined in order to investigate if the anti-epileptic mechanism(s) of action of levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra) may involve modulation of inhibitory neurotransmission. 2. GABA- and glycine-gated currents were studied in vitro using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques applied on cultured cerebellar granule, hippocampal and spinal neurons. Protection against clonic convulsions was assessed in vivo in sound-susceptible mice. The effect of LEV was compared with reference anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs): carbamazepine, phenytoin, valproate, clonazepam, phenobarbital and ethosuximide. 3. LEV contrasted the reference AEDs by an absence of any direct effect on glycine-gated currents. At high concentrations, beyond therapeutic relevance, it induced a small reduction in the peak amplitude and a prolongation of the decay phase of GABA-gated currents. A similar action on GABA-elicited currents was observed with the reference AEDs, except ethosuximide. 4. These minor direct effects contrasted with a potent ability of LEV (EC(50)=1 - 10 microM) to reverse the inhibitory effects of the negative allosteric modulators zinc and beta-carbolines on both GABA(A) and glycine receptor-mediated responses. 5. Clonazepam, phenobarbital and valproate showed a similar ability to reverse the inhibition of beta-carbolines on GABA-gated currents. Blockade of zinc inhibition of GABA responses was observed with clonazepam and ethosuximide. Phenytoin was the only AED together with LEV that inhibited the antagonism of zinc on glycine-gated currents and only clonazepam and phenobarbital inhibited the action of DMCM. 6. LEV (17 mg kg(-1)) produced a potent suppression of sound-induced clonic convulsions in mice. This protective effect was significantly abolished by co-administration of the beta-carboline FG 7142, from a dose of 5 mg kg(-1). In contrast, the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (up to 10 mg kg(-1)) was without any effect on the protection afforded by LEV. 7. The results of the present study suggest that a novel ability to oppose the action of negative modulators on the two main inhibitory ionotropic receptors may be of relevance for the anti-epileptic mechanism(s) of action of LEV.
The effect of postoperative housing conditions on functional outcome and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression was evaluated 1 month after a distal ligation of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Two days postoperatively the rats were randomized into four groups; individually housed with no equipment (deprived group), individually housed with free access to a connected running wheel (running group), housed together in a large cage with no equipment (social group) or in the same size of cage furnished with bars, chains and various things to manipulate (enriched group). The enriched rats had significantly higher scores when crossing a rotating horizontal rod than deprived and running rats. The social group performed significantly better than the deprived group. The BDNF gene expression in the ipsi- and contralateral cortex, thalamus, hippocampus and cerebellum did not significantly differ between the groups. The weight of the adrenal glands was significantly increased in running rats suggesting that postischemic running may be stressful. We conclude that the beneficial effect of postischemic environmental enrichment is likely to be a combination of social and various physical activities, and that BDNF gene expression 1 month after a cortical infarct did not correlate with functional outcome.
This paper presents the MBO model for the perceived intensity of odour mixtures. This model is based on an equation previously reported by our team, intended to model the whole stimulus-response intensity curve of pure odorous compounds. The MBO model was applied to a set of published data, and compared to other published models. The results show a high modelling efficiency of the MBO model compared to other proposed equations, especially for binary mixtures exhibiting significant asymmetry of intensity for different ratios of the two components. Furthermore, the MBO model includes parameters specific to the respective effects of each component in the mixture, which may help to clarify the masking and synergy effects that are often sought in odour mixtures.

The syndrome of heart failure is still imperfectly understood. It is defined as effort intolerance caused by heart disease, often with a neuroendocrine response that leads to fluid retention and promotes an adverse vicious circle. The cause of this response is generally thought to be a low blood pressure, leading to adrenergic and rennin-angiotensin activation. The result is increased peripheral vasoconstriction, which maintains the blood pressure while punishing the already failing myocardium by demanding more work against the increased afterload. The evolution of heart failure is traced out from an initial pressure or volume overload that initiates a series of growth signals to cause myocardial growth. Why the apparently well-compensated LV should degenerate into failure is not clear, but impaired coronary flow reserve and excess angiotensin II activity with fibrosis and apoptosis all probably play a role. The collagen matrix normally limits cardiac chamber expansion so that matrix remodeling under the influence of matrix metalloproteinases is required for the LV to enlarge in volume. Regarding the neuroendocrine responses, excess adrenergic activity promotes failure by myocardial membrane damage and calcium overload, and by increasing the myocardial oxygen demand and the afterload. Beta2- adrenergic stimulation may (unexpectedly) be anti-apoptotic and cardioprotective. Activation of the rennin-angiotensin system (RAS) is clearly very harmful, as shown by numerous studies in which inhibiting agents have reduced human mortality. Specific adverse consequences of RAS activation include (1) excessive peripheral vasoconstriction; (2) aldosterone-mediated sodium retention and myocardial fibrosis; (3) increased endothelial damage; and (4) excessive angiotensin II effects at intracellular sites. Other neuroendocrine changes are increased levels of endothelin and of cytokines such as tumour necrosis factor-alpha. Ergoreflexes from the ailing skeletal muscle may further promote adrenergic and RAS activation. Conversely, increased release of natriuretic peptides from the left heart is cardioprotective by limiting fluid retention and promoting vasodilation. Current therapies of heart failure are largely based on inhibition of the neuroendocrine response.
Dynamic cellular rearrangements involving the actin cytoskeleton are required of both Sertoli and germ cells during spermatogenesis. Rho family small G proteins have been implicated in the control of the actin cytoskeleton in numerous cell types. Therefore, RhoA and Rac1 were investigated in Sertoli and germ cells. RhoA and Rac1 have been detected at both the mRNA and protein levels in these cells. In addition, Sertoli cell L-selectin is shown to interact with actin binding proteins, potentially providing a link between L-selectin and Rac1 signaling. Finally, inactivation of Sertoli cell Rho family proteins yields disruption of the actin cytoskeleton.
To investigate the function of the centrosome protein PCM-1, antibodies against PCM-1 were microinjected into either germinal vesicle stage meiotic oocytes or fertilized mouse eggs, and cell cycle progression events (i.e., microtubule assembly, chromosome and centrosome organization, meiotic maturation) were assayed. These studies determined that microinjected PCM-1 antibodies arrested cell cycle progression, with anti-PCM-1 arresting fertilized eggs at the pronucleate stage when injected during G1. Analysis of the injected eggs determined that centrosome disruption and microtubule cytaster disorganization accompanied the cell cycle arrest. Anti-PCM-1 blocked neither pronuclear centration, completion of mitosis when microinjected into zygotes at G2, nor meiotic maturation when microinjected into immature oocytes. These results identify a novel role for PCM- 1 in cell cycle regulation, and indicate that PCM-1 must fulfill an essential function for cells to complete interphase.
Many physiological, cellular, and biochemical parameters in the retina of vertebrates show daily rhythms that, in many cases, also persist under constant conditions. This demonstrates that they are driven by a circadian pacemaker. The presence of an autonomous circadian clock in the retina of vertebrates was first demonstrated in Xenopus laevis and then, several years later, in mammals. In X. laevis and in chicken, the retinal circadian pacemaker has been localized in the photoreceptor layer, whereas in mammals, such information is not yet available. Recent advances in molecular techniques have led to the identification of a group of genes that are believed to constitute the molecular core of the circadian clock. These genes are expressed in the retina, although with a slightly different 24-h profile from that observed in the central circadian pacemaker. This result suggests that some difference (at the molecular level) may exist between the retinal clock and the clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of hypothalamus. The present review will focus on the current knowledge of the retinal rhythmicity and the mechanisms responsible for its control.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains a biological clock that generates timing signals that drive daily rhythms in behaviors and homeostatic functions. In addition to this pacemaker function, the SCN gates its own sensitivity to incoming signals, which permits appropriate temporal adjustment to achieve synchrony with environmental and organismic states. A series of time-domains, in which the SCN restricts its own sensitivity to a limited set of stimuli that adjust clock phase, can be distinguished. Pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) and cAMP directly reset clock phase during the daytime domain; both cause phase advances only during the clock's day-time domain, but are without effect at night. In contrast, acetylcholine and cGMP analogs phase advance the clock only when applied during the night. Sensitivity to light and glutamate arises concomitant with sensitivity to acetylcholine and cGMP. Light and glutamate cause phase delays in the early night, by elevating intracellular Ca(2+) via neuronal ryanodine receptors. In late night, light and glutamate utilize a cGMP-mediated mechanism to induce phase advances. Nocturnal responses of SCN primed by light or glutamate can be modulated by effectors of phase-resetting in daytime, namely, PACAP and cAMP. Finally, the dusk and dawn domains are characterized by sensitivity to the pineal hormone, melatonin, acting through protein kinase C. These changing patterns of sensitivities demonstrate that the circadian clock controls multiple intracellular gates, which ensures that they can be opened selectively only at specific points in the circadian cycle. Discerning the molecular bases of these changes is fundamental to understanding integrative and regulatory mechanisms in the circadian system.
Research over the past decade has provided overwhelming evidence that photoreception in the vertebrate eye is not confined to the rod and cone photoreceptors. It appears that photoreceptor cells within the inner retina provide irradiance information to a wide variety of different photosensory tasks including photoentrainment, pupillary constriction and masking behaviour. Action spectra in mice lacking all rod and cone photoreceptors ( rd/rd cl) have demonstrated the existence of a previously uncharacterised, opsin/vitamin-A-based photopigment with peak sensitivity at 479 nm (opsin photopigment/OP(479)). The review addresses the question: has the gene encoding OP(479) already been isolated, and if not, what type of gene should we be seeking and where in the eye might this gene be expressed? On the basis of available data, the gene that encodes OP(479) remains unidentified, and two broad possibilities exist. On the assumption that OP(479) will be like all of the other vertebrate photopigments (ocular and extraocular) and share a close phylogenetic relationship based upon amino acid identity and a conserved genomic structure, then the gene encoding OP(479) has yet to be isolated. Alternatively, there may have been a separate line of photopigment evolution in the vertebrates that has given rise to the melanopsin family. If true then the mammalian melanopsin gene may encode OP(479). Only when melanopsin and other candidates for OP(479) have been functionally expressed, and shown to encode a photopigment that matches the action spectrum of OP(479), can firm conclusions about the identity of the non-rod, non-cone ocular photoreceptor of mammals be made.
The discovery of clock genes and the general principle of their oscillation has stimulated research on biological clocks and this research has had a major impact on the field of life sciences. The mammalian circadian core oscillator is thought to be composed of an autoregulatory transcription-(post)translation-based feedback loop involving a set of clock genes. The real time monitoring of clock gene oscillation at the levels of genes, cells, tissues, and systems will clarify the issue of how the time signal is born and how it is integrated into the organismic level. Investigations of circadian systems in various organisms employ multiple methods including ethology, physiology, neuroscience, molecular biology, cell biology and genetics. The circadian system has thus become a unique example in the elucidation of the general principles of how genes control cellular, systemic and behavioral functions.
5-HT1D (but not 5-HT1B)-receptor immunoreactivity (i.r.) can be detected on trigeminal fibres within the spinal trigeminal tract of the human brainstem. The present study used immunohistochemical and morphometric techniques to determine the proportions of trigeminal fibres expressing substance P, CGRP or 5-HT1D-receptor immunoreactivities. Co-localization studies between 5-HT1D-receptor and substance P- or CGRP-i.r. were also performed. Brainstem material was obtained with consent (four donors) and the total number of immunoreactive fibres within the trigeminal tract was estimated using random field sampling. A greater proportion of fibres (&gt;1 microm diameter) expressed CGRP-i.r. (80 +/- 6%) compared with substance P-i.r. (46 +/- 7%) or 5-HT1D-receptor-i.r. (25 +/- 1%). 5-HT1D-receptor-i.r. was co-localized on some CGRP- or substance P-i.r. fibres. This suggests that 5-HT1D-receptors can regulate the release of CGRP and substance P and may be relevant to the clinical effectiveness of 5-HT1B/1D-receptor agonists in the treatment of migraine and other cranial pain syndromes.
Variation in hemispheric asymmetry of the planum temporale (PT) has been related to verbal ability. The degree to which genetic and environmental factors mediate PT asymmetry is not known. This study examined the heritability for planar asymmetry in 12 dizygotic (DZ) and 27 monozygotic (MZ) male twin pairs who were between 6 and 16 years of age. There was weak but positive evidence for heritability of planar asymmetry. Co-twin similarity for planar asymmetry and Sylvian fissure morphology increased when excluding twins discordant for writing hand and when excluding twins exhibiting birth weight differences &gt;20% from the analyses. Birth weight differences were also related to twin differences in total cerebral volume, but not central sulcus asymmetry. These results suggest that exogenous perinatal factors affect the epigenesis of planar asymmetry development.
The macaque medial superior temporal area (MST) is proposed to be specialized for analyzing complex 'optic flow' information. Such space-varying motion patterns provide a rich source of information about self motion, scene structure and object shape. We report the performance of rhesus macaques on a two-alternative 'heading' task, in which they reported whether horizontally varying, simulated trajectories were to left or right of center. Monkeys were sensitive to small heading angles; thresholds averaged 1.5-3 degrees. Heading estimates were stable in the face of changing stimulus location and smooth pursuit eye movements. In addition, we tested the role of area MST in heading judgements by electrically activating columns of neurons in this area while the monkeys performed the heading task. Activation of MST frequently affected performance, usually causing choice biases. These induced biases were often large and usually concordant with the preference of the neurons being activated. In addition, the induced biases were often larger in the presence of smooth pursuit eye movements. These results favor the hypothesis that MST is involved in recovering self-motion direction from optic flow cues and in the process by which heading perception is compensated for ongoing eye movements.








The sesquiterpene germacrene D (GD) activates a major type of olfactory receptor neuron on the antennae of the heliothine moths. In Heliothis virescens females, 80% of the recordings have shown activity of one neuron type responding with high sensitivity and selectivity to GD. With the aim of determining the behavioural significance of this sesquiterpene, we have used a two-choice wind-tunnel to study the preference of mated H. virescens females for host plants with and without (-)-GD added. Tobacco plants containing dispensers with low release rate of (-)-GD had a greater attractiveness than tobacco plants without this substance. In addition, a significant increase of oviposition was found on the plants with (-)-GD.
Affective neuroscience allows investigators to study the biologic basis of psychologic phenomena such as emotion and mood. Understanding the components of emotion, valence, and arousal and their physiologic correlates is the starting point for studies that quantify emotional and physiologic reactions. This information could provide insight into the biologic foundations of numerous psychiatric conditions. Understanding the normal development of emotions and regulation of emotion will provide new avenues of research into the complex problem of severe mood disorders.


1. Gap junctions, which are comprised of members of a family of membrane proteins called connexins (Cx), permit the transfer of electrical and chemical information between adjacent cells in a wide variety of tissues. The aim of the present study was to compare the expression of Cx37, 40 and 43 in the smooth muscle and endothelium of a large elastic artery and two smaller muscular arteries of the rat. Serial section electron microscopy was also used to determine the presence of pentalaminar gap junctions in the smooth muscle and the incidence of myoendothelial gap junctions between the smooth muscle and endothelial cells in muscular arteries of different size. 2. Using immunohistochemistry, Cx37, 40 and 43 were found in the endothelium of the aorta, caudal and basilar arteries, with Cx43 being the least abundant. Connexin 43 was readily observed throughout the muscle layers of the aorta, but was not detected in the media of the caudal or basilar arteries. Connexin 40 was not detected in the media of any of the arteries, while very fine punctate staining was observed with Cx37 antibodies in the media of the caudal and basilar arteries, but not in the aorta. 3. Real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that the expression of mRNA for Cx43 was 15-fold greater in the aorta than in the caudal artery of the rat. 4. At the ultrastructural level, small pentalaminar gap junctions (&lt; 100 nm) were found between the fine processes of adjacent smooth muscle cells and also between the smooth muscle and endothelial cells. The incidence of myoendothelial gap junctions in the mesenteric vascular bed and in the caudal artery increased as vessel size decreased. 5. In summary, heterogeneity exists within the vascular system with regard to the distribution of gap junctions and their constituent Cx. Such variation will have important consequences for the coordination and propagation of vascular responses. In muscular arteries, in comparison with elastic arteries, Cx37 may be more important than Cx43 for cell coupling within the smooth muscle layers. The correlation between the incidence of myoendothelial gap junctions and the role of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor, relative to nitric oxide, in vasodilatory responses suggests that myoendothelial gap junctions play an important physiological role in the regulation of vascular tone.


Among methylating agents of clinical interest, temozolomide is a novel antitumor compound that has raised particular interest due to its acceptable safety profile and activity against tumors poorly responsive to conventional chemotherapy, such as malignant glioma and metastatic melanoma. Moreover, the drug has recently shown promising antitumor activity in a patient affected by primary brain lymphoma and is currently under phase II clinical trials for leptomeningeal metastases from leukemia and lymphoma or for brain metastases from lung and breast cancers. The antitumor activity of TMZ, that generates different types of methyl adducts (70% N7-methylguanine, 10% N3-methyladenine and 9% O6-methylguanine), has been mainly attributed to the formation of O6-methylguanine adducts. Indeed, tumor cell susceptibility to TMZ is strongly affected by the functional status of DNA repair systems, involved either in the removal of methyl adducts from O6G or in the apoptotic signaling triggered by O6-methylG:T mispairs. This review will focus on the different pharmacological strategies aimed at overcoming tumor resistance to TMZ such as new formulations of the drug or dosing schedules, and combined treatments with other chemotherapeutic agents, modulators of DNA repair systems, or gene therapy. The potential use of N3-methyladenine selective agents in the case of tumors tolerant to O6-methylguanine will be also discussed.
The receptor tyrosine kinases ErbB3 and ErbB4, which bind to various variants of neuregulin (NRG), play fundamental roles in neural development and in organs, which form through epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. Here, we demonstrate that NRG-1 and the receptors ErbB3 and ErbB4 are expressed locally during rodent tooth development. However, the mRNA expression patterns of ErbB3 and ErbB4 were distinctly different during odontogenesis. Examinations of teeth in genetically heart-rescued ErbB4-/- mice did not reveal any obvious deviation from the normal phenotype. The results suggest that ErbB3 and ErbB4 may participate in tooth morphogenesis. The specific interactions between NRG isoforms and ErbB receptors during this process remain to be determined.
Infantile bilateral striatal necrosis (IBSN) is characterized by a dystonic movement disorder and basal ganglia imaging abnormalities. Acute IBSN often occurs after upper respiratory tract infections although no specific micro-organism which may cause IBSN has been identified. We present 2 children (1 year 2 months and 4 years) with acute IBSN after clinical pharyngitis. Both IBSN patients had serological evidence of recent beta-haemolytic streptococcal infection. Due to the association of post-streptococcal disorders with anti-basal ganglia antibodies (ABGA), we examined both patients for anti-neuronal antibodies. For comparison, 20 children with dystonia (9 females, 11 males; mean age 4 years 1 month), and 20 children with uncomplicated streptococcal infection (12 females, 8 males; mean age 5 years 9 months) were examined. Both IBSN patients had antibodies reactive against basal ganglia constituents of molecular weight 40 kDa. Immunohistochemistry showed antibody reactivity against large striatal neurons only. Other anti-neuronal antibodies were negative, supporting striatal specificity. All controls were negative for ABGA. Acute IBSN is part of the poststreptococcal autoimmune neuropsychiatric spectrum. An autoimmune aetiology should be considered in this phenotype, as immunomodulatory therapies may reduce morbidity and mortality.
Autism is a neurobiological disorder that is diagnosed through careful behavioral assessment in early childhood. In this paper, we review recent studies that have attempted to reveal the underlying causes of autism using a variety of techniques. Particular emphasis is placed on techniques that have been used by a number of different laboratories, including structural magnetic resonance imaging and postmortem studies of neuroanatomy. Neurobiological and neuropsychological data from individuals across a wide age range are examined from a neurodevelopmental perspective. We discuss how these recent advances have led us to develop a growth dysregulation hypothesis of autism. Finally, we discuss how this hypothesis may lead to new innovations in autism research.
Achieving progress in understanding the cause, nature, and treatment of autism requires an integration of concepts, approaches, and empirical findings from genetic, cognitive neuroscience, animal, and clinical studies. The need for such integration has been a fundamental tenet of the discipline of developmental psychopathology from its inception. It is likely that the discovery of autism susceptibility genes will depend on the development of dimensional measures of broader phenotype autism traits. It is argued that knowledge of the cognitive neuroscience of social and language behavior will provide a useful framework for defining such measures. In this article, the current state of knowledge of the cognitive neuroscience of social and language impairments in autism is reviewed. Following from this, six candidate broader phenotype autism traits are proposed: (a) face processing, including structural encoding of facial features and face movements, such as eye gaze; (b) social affiliation or sensitivity to social reward, pertaining to the social motivational impairments found in autism; (c) motor imitation ability, particularly imitation of body actions; (d) memory, specifically those aspects of memory mediated by the medial temporal lobe-prefrontal circuits; (e) executive function, especially planning and flexibility; and (f) Language ability, particularly those aspects of language that overlap with specific language impairment, namely, phonological processing.
Developmental language learning impairments (LLI) are one of the most prevalent of all developmental disabilities, can occur in children for a wide variety of reasons, and have been shown to co-occur frequently with other developmental social, emotional and behavioral disorders, as well as with academic achievement problems. Research pertaining to developmental LLI of unknown origin, with an emphasis on the continuum between oral and written language impairment, is the focus of this review. Given the complexity of language learning, research has focused on multiple levels of analysis, including linguistic, neuropsychological, genetic, neurobiological, and remediation studies. To date, the vast majority of data on LLI derive from studies focused on a single level of analysis. Although attempts have been made to integrate data across studies and multiple levels of analysis, this has proven to be problematic, given the heterogeneity of the subject populations used to study LLI, as well as the differences in ages, degree of impairment, and types of impairment included in each study. Given that LLI is a complex developmental disability, it is suggested that future research would benefit from taking a multiple levels of analysis approach with the same individuals, incorporating mathematical models designed to analyze dynamically changing complex systems, and studying individual differences in language learning, prospectively and longitudinally, throughout the most dynamic stages of the process.
The study of brain development and that of behavioral development have historically proceeded independently of one another. This is an unfortunate set of circumstances, given that the disciplines concerned with development-for example, developmental psychology, pediatrics, psychiatry, clinical psychology, and the neurosciences-have much to learn from each other. Drawing on recent advances in the developmental brain and behavioral sciences, we illustrate the transdisciplinary approach our group has adopted in the service of uniting the research on brain and behavior in the context of development. We specifically report on our nonhuman primate and human studies that collectively illustrate our &quot;genes to behavior&quot; approach to the study of development. Our goal in summarizing our research in this fashion is to promote discussion about promising templates for how research on brain, behavior, and development might proceed into the 21st century.

Regeneration of diabetic axons has delays in onset, rate, and maturation. It is possible that microangiopathy of vasa nervorum, the vascular supply of the peripheral nerve, may render an unfavorable local environment for nerve regeneration. We examined local nerve blood flow proximal and distal to sciatic nerve transection in rats with long-term (8 month) experimental streptozotocin diabetes using laser Doppler flowmetry and microelectrode hydrogen clearance polarography. We then correlated these findings, using in vivo perfusion of an India ink preparation, by outlining the lumens of microvessels from unfixed nerve sections. There were no differences in baseline nerve blood flow between diabetic and nondiabetic uninjured nerves, and vessel number, density, and area were unaltered. After transection, there were greater rises in blood flow in proximal stumps of nondiabetic nerves than in diabetic animals associated with a higher number, density, and caliber of epineurial vessels. Hyperemia also developed in distal stumps of nondiabetic nerves but did not develop in diabetic nerves. In these stumps, diabetic rats had reduced vessel numbers and smaller mean endoneurial vessel areas. Failed or delayed upregulation of nerve blood flow after peripheral nerve injury in diabetes may create a relatively ischemic regenerative microenvironment.

Peripheral neuropathy with or without agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACCPN [MIM 2180000]) is an autosomal recessive disease characterised by progressive sensorimotor neuropathy, mental retardation, dysmorphic features and complete or partial agenesis of the corpus callosum. The ACCPN gene was mapped in 1996 to a 4 cM region on chromosome 15. We have since collected additional French Canadian (FC) families and typed a total of 11 polymorphic markers spanning approximately 18 cM on chromosome 15. Through the use of haplotype analysis we have confirmed the presence of a founder haplotype in the FC population, and identified critical recombinants which reduce the ACCPN candidate interval to a approximately 2 cM or 1000 Kb region flanked by markers D15S1040 and ACTC. Linkage disequilibrium analysis supports the haplotype data, and suggests that the ACCPN gene lies nearest to marker D15S1232.
Caffeine is the most widely consumed behaviourally active substance in the western world. Neuroprotective effects of caffeine in low doses, chronically administered, have been shown in different experimental models. If caffeine intake could protect against neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD), then higher levels of caffeine consumption in normal subjects as compared with AD patients should be detectable in the presumably long period before diagnosis when insidious pathogenic changes are taking place. A case-control study was used: cases were 54 patients with probable AD fulfilling the National Institute of Neurologic and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the AD and Related Disorders Association criteria, in a Dementia Clinics setting. Controls were 54 accompanying persons, cognitively normal, matched for age (+/-3 years) and sex. Patients with AD had an average daily caffeine intake of 73.9 +/- 97.9 mg during the 20 years that preceded diagnosis of AD, whereas the controls had an average daily caffeine intake of 198.7 +/- 135.7 mg during the corresponding 20 years of their lifetimes (P &lt; 0.001, Wilcoxon signed ranks test). Using a logistic regression model, caffeine exposure during this period was found to be significantly inversely associated with AD (odds ratio=0.40, 95% confidence interval=0.25-0.67), whereas hypertension, diabetes, stroke, head trauma, smoking habits, alcohol consumption, non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, vitamin E, gastric disorders, heart disease, education and family history of dementia were not statistically significantly associated with AD. Caffeine intake was associated with a significantly lower risk for AD, independently of other possible confounding variables. These results, if confirmed with future prospective studies, may have a major impact on the prevention of AD.
We have completed a survey of European neurological practice concerning cerebral vasculitis. Twenty-nine respondents from 15 countries provided information concerning the diagnosis and management. The results confirmed the anticipated low frequency of the disease, but also illustrated the power of any putative collaborative effort. Interestingly, there was a wide variation in clinical practice, in particular concerning the perceived importance of cerebral angiography as a diagnostic test and the very common use of steroids as first-line treatment, rather than more potent immunosuppressive agents. This variation is probably to be explained at least, in part, by the absence of any firm evidence base to inform clinical practice. A European collaborative effort--in which there has emerged considerable interest--offers a realistic opportunity to generate sound clinical evidence and thence scientifically robust practical guidelines.
Major depression is often associated with elevated glucocorticoid levels. High levels of glucocorticoids reduce neurogenesis in the adult rat hippocampus. Electroconvulsive seizures (ECS) can enhance neurogenesis, and we investigated the effects of ECS in rats where glucocorticoid levels were elevated in order to mimic conditions seen in depression. Rats given injections of corticosterone or vehicle for 21 days were at the end of this period treated with either a single or five daily ECSs. Proliferating cells were labelled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). After 3 weeks, BrdU-positive cells in the dentate gyrus were quantified and analyzed for co-labelling with the neuronal marker neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN). In corticosterone-treated rats, neurogenesis was decreased by 75%. This was counteracted by a single ECS. Multiple ECS further increased neurogenesis and no significant differences in BrdU/NeuN positive cells were detected between corticosterone- and vehicle-treated rats given five ECS. Approximately 80% of the cells within the granule cell layer and 10% of the hilar cells were double-labelled with BrdU and NeuN. We therefore conclude that electroconvulsive seizures can increase hippocampal neurogenesis even in the presence of elevated levels of glucocorticoids. This further supports the hypothesis that induction of neurogenesis is an important event in the action of antidepressant treatment.
Chronic inflammatory conditions are associated with an upregulation of both substance P (SP) and neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptors in the dorsal spinal cord. These receptors have been implicated in hyperalgesia as well as stress-induced analgesia. On the basis of the release of SP during chronic pain, and its rapid metabolism, we tested the hypothesis that SP metabolites regulate the synthesis of either SP or NK-1 receptors in the spinal cord. We measured expression of preprotachykinin mRNA and NK-1 receptor mRNA following intrathecally administered substance P(1-7) (SP1-7), the major metabolite of SP in rat, and following capsaicin, a compound known to induce release of endogenous SP. SP(1-7) and capsaicin each increased NK-1 receptor mRNA in the spinal cord (6 h) followed by an increase in NK-1 receptor-immunoreactivity (24 h and 1 week). D-SP(1-7), a D-isomer and antagonist of SP(1-7), did not mimic the effect of SP(1-7), indicating stereoselectivity. Instead, D-SP(1-7) prevented the upregulation of NK-1 receptor immunoreactivity that was induced by capsaicin injected intrathecally, suggesting that the effect of capsaicin is also mediated by SP N-terminal metabolites. In contrast, the decrease in SP synthesis produced by capsaicin was not dependent on SP metabolites as SP(1-7) failed to decrease either preprotachykinin mRNA content in dorsal root ganglia (6 h) or SP immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord (24 h and 1 week). In addition, the effects of capsaicin on SP synthesis were not prevented by D-SP(1-7). Thus, SP metabolites, at times and doses that are antinociceptive, appear to enhance SP-mediated signal transduction by upregulating NK-1 receptor expression without affecting SP synthesis.
Peripheral axotomy-induced sprouting of thick myelinated afferents (A-fibers) from laminae III-IV into laminae I-II of the spinal cord is a well-established hypothesis for the structural basis of neuropathic pain. However, we show here that the cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), a neuronal tracer used to demonstrate the sprouting of A-fibers in several earlier studies, also labels unmyelinated afferents (C-fibers) in lamina II and thin myelinated afferents in lamina I, when applied after peripheral nerve transection. The lamina II afferents also contained vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and galanin, two neuropeptides mainly expressed in small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and C-fibers. In an attempt to label large DRG neurons and A-fibers selectively, CTB was applied four days before axotomy (pre-injury-labelling), and sprouting was monitored after axotomy. We found that only a small number of A-fibers sprouted into inner lamina II, a region normally innervated by C-fibers, but not into outer lamina II or lamina I. Such sprouts made synaptic contact with dendrites in inner lamina II. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) was found in these sprouts in inner lamina II, an area very rich in Y1 receptor-positive processes. These results suggest that axotomy-induced sprouting from deeper to superficial layers is much less pronounced than previously assumed, in fact it is only marginal. This limited reorganization involves large NPY immunoreactive DRG neurons sprouting into the Y1 receptor-rich inner lamina II. Even if quantitatively small, it cannot be excluded that this represents a functional circuitry involved in neuropathic pain.
Although it is known that relatively large increases in local brain temperature can occur during behaviour and in response to various novel, stressful and emotionally arousing environmental stimuli, the source of this heat is not clearly established. To clarify this issue, we monitored the temperature in three brain structures (dorsal and ventral striatum, cerebellum) and in arterial blood at the level of the abdominal aorta in freely moving rats exposed to several environmental challenges ranging from traditional stressors to simple sensory stimuli (cage change, tail pinch, exposure to another male rat, a female rat, a mouse or an unexpected sound). We found that brain temperature was consistently higher than arterial blood temperature, and that brain temperature increased prior to, and to a greater extent than, the increase in blood temperature evoked by each test challenge. Thus, the local metabolic consequences of widely correlated neural activity appear to be the primary source of increases in brain temperature and a driving force behind the associated changes in body temperature.
Nicotine addiction is a major public health issue. The use of laboratory animal models is a crucial tool in research aiming at understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms of nicotine dependence and at proposing new therapies. In rodents, cessation of nicotine exposure or administration of the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine induces a nicotine withdrawal syndrome. Antagonist-precipitated withdrawal from other abused drugs such as opiates or cannabinoids has been associated with region-specific modifications of the activity of the cyclic AMP pathway. Here we show that mecamylamine-precipitated nicotine withdrawal in the rat is characterized by an increase in thigmotaxis (time spent in the periphery of an open field) that may be indicative of behavioural distress and can be associated with a selective up-regulation of adenylyl cyclase activity in the amygdala, a region implicated in the regulation of negative affect in response to aversive stimuli, including withdrawal. Adenylyl cyclase activity that is increased during precipitated nicotine withdrawal is stimulated by calcium/calmodulin, as is also the case for opioid and cannabinoid abstinence. This suggests that directly or indirectly mediated increases in the activity of the cyclic AMP pathway could constitute a possible common molecular mechanism underlying neuroadaptive changes following abstinence from different abused drugs.
An understanding of the neural mechanisms responsible for auditory information processing is incomplete without a careful examination of substantial descending pathways. This study focuses on the functional role of corticofugal projections. Our work with the house mouse reveals that the focal electrical stimulation of the primary auditory cortex leads to profound changes in auditory response properties in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus of the midbrain. Cortical stimulation does not impact on the collicular best frequencies when the best frequencies of stimulated cortical neurons and recorded collicular neurons are similar. Rather, collicular best frequencies are shifted toward the stimulated cortical best frequencies when cortical and collicular frequencies are different. Such a shift is unrelated to the differences in minimum thresholds between cortical and collicular neurons. In addition to frequency-specific shifts in collicular best frequencies, cortical stimulation elevates collicular minimum thresholds and reduces both dynamic ranges and response magnitudes if cortical and collicular best frequencies are different. If cortical and collicular best frequencies are similar but minimum thresholds are different, collicular minimum thresholds are shifted toward the stimulated cortical thresholds; dynamic ranges and response magnitudes may either increase or decrease in this scenario. Our results suggest that the corticofugal adjustment has a centre-surround organization with regard to both cortical best frequencies and cortical minimum thresholds. The midbrain processing of sound components in the centre of cortical feedback is largely enhanced while processing in the surround is suppressed.
Following axotomy, cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) do not elongate their axons, even in a favourable environment, and are resistant to death. They have no constitutive presence of common growth-associated proteins, such as GAP-43 and c-Jun. Previous experiments show that injured transgenic PCs overexpressing GAP-43 exhibit a profuse sprouting along the axon and at its severed end. Nevertheless, the lesioned axons are unable to regenerate either spontaneously or into growth-permissive environments. In addition, a considerable number of GAP-43 transgenic PCs degenerate after injury. c-Jun is an inducible transcription factor expressed in axotomized central neurons and regenerating peripheral neurons. It also contributes to programmed cell death during development. To test whether c-Jun could modify the response of PCs to axotomy or enhance the growth/death phenomena of GAP-43 Purkinje neurons, we generated transgenic mice overexpressing c-Jun in PCs. However, c-Jun upregulation did not affect the adult intact phenotype of these neurons and their regenerative and survival capabilities after axotomy. Also in the cross-bred GAP-43/c-Jun mice, c-Jun did not modify the response of GAP-43 PCs to axotomy. By contrast, in organotypic cultures of cerebellum taken from 9-day-old-pups, the survival capabilities of PCs overexpressing c-Jun decreased, in association with a consistent c-Jun phosphorylation. On the whole our data show that c-Jun alone is unable to trigger regenerative or degenerative phenomena in PCs and suggest that the cellular action of this early gene in developing and mature neurons strongly depends on interplaying intracellular signals.
Abstinent alcoholics often deny craving for alcohol but still show a high level of relapse. The eyeblink response to startling noise was used as an indicator of the emotional response to alcohol-related, positive, negative and neutral visual stimuli in abstinent alcoholics, social drinkers and rarely drinking controls. The cognitive evaluation of the stimuli was assessed by ratings of subjective craving, valence and arousal. The startle response of the alcoholics to alcohol-related stimuli was significantly inhibited despite an aversive overt stimulus-evaluation. These findings indicate that alcohol-related stimuli may have appetitive incentive salience for alcoholics in spite of verbal reports of craving and valence to the opposite.

Epidemiological data from retrospective and case-control studies have indicated that estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) can decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. In addition, ERT has been found to promote cellular correlates of memory and to promote neuronal survival both in vivo and in vitro. Phytoestrogens have been proposed as potential alternatives to ERT. To determine whether phytoestrogens exert estrogen agonist effect in neural tissue, investigations of neuroprotective and neurotrophic efficacy of phytoestrogens were conducted. Six phytoestrogens, genistein, genistin, daidzein, daidzin, formononetin, and equol, were tested for their neuroprotective efficacy against two toxic insults, glutamate excitotoxicity and beta-amyloid(25-35). Neuronal membrane damage was quantitatively measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, and neuronal mitochondrial viability was determined by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromid (MTT) assay. Results of these studies demonstrated that all phytoestrogens induced a modest but significant reduction in LDH release following exposure to glutamate and beta-amyloid(25-35). In contrast, none of phytoestrogens induced a significant increase in reduced MTT levels, which occurred in the presence of a full estrogen agonist, 17beta-estradiol. Analysis of the neurotrophic potential of genistein and daidzein, two phytoestrogens that exerted a significant reduction in LDH release, demonstrated that neither of these molecules promoted hippocampal neuron process outgrowth. Results of these analyses indicate that although phytoestrogens exert a neuroprotective effect at the plasma membrane, they do not sustain neuron mitochondrial viability nor do they induce cellular correlates of memory as neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis are putative mechanisms of memory. Data derived from these investigations would predict that phytoestrogens could exert some neuroprotective effects analogous to that of antioxidants, but that these molecules are not functional equivalents to endogenously active 17beta-estradiol or to estrogen replacement formulations and, therefore, would raise the concern that they may not reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease or sustain memory function in postmenopausal women.
We examined whether the frontal eye fields (FEF) are involved in the suppression of reflexive saccades. Simultaneous recording of horizontal eye movements and functional magnetic resonance imaging enabled us to perform a randomized pro- and antisaccade task and to sort blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) time series on the basis of task performance. Saccadic reaction time distributions were comparable across tasks indicating a similar effort in preprocessing of the saccades. Furthermore, we found similar BOLD activation in FEF during both correctly performed pro- and antisaccades. Frontal eye field activation started prior to target presentation and saccade generation. While we observed only few erroneous antisaccades, these were associated with a decrease in BOLD activity prior to target presentation, and increased BOLD activity after target presentation relative to correctly performed antisaccades. These findings are consistent with a role of the FEF in the suppression of reflexive saccades. The increase in activity after target presentation for antisaccade errors can only be indirectly linked to such a role but may also reflect activity related to the generation of a correction saccade. Frontal eye field BOLD activity may further represent general arousal, preparatory set, short-term memory, or salience-map related activity.
There is increasing evidence that the primary motor cortex is involved in the generation of electromyographic (EMG) oscillations at frequencies in the range of 15-30 Hz that are observed during performance of a precision grip task. Since the level of the corticomuscular coherence varies according to the nature of the object that is gripped, it seemed possible that somatosensory inputs from the hand might affect this coherence. The aim of this study was to investigate whether interrupting cutaneous inputs from the digits would affect the coherence between hand muscles during precision grip of a compliant object. Subjects performed a precision grip hold-ramp-hold task before, during and after digital nerve anaesthesia of the index finger and thumb. There were marked deficits in the performance of the task, particularly during the initial formation of the grip and first hold period. Local digital nerve anaesthesia reduced but did not abolish 14-31 Hz coherence between EMG activity recorded from different hand and forearm muscles. Coherence was measured during the second hold phase of the task. Digital nerve anaesthesia did not affect the predominant frequencies in the EMG power spectra compiled from the same phase of the task. We conclude that during a precision grip task, cutaneous input enhances oscillatory synchrony between pairs of hand muscles.
Language lateralization was assessed by two independent functional techniques, fMRI and a dichotic listening test (DLT), in an attempt to establish a reliable and non-invasive protocol of dominance determination. This should particularly address the high intraindividual variability of language lateralization and allow decision-making in individual cases. Functional MRI of word classification tasks showed robust language lateralization in 17 right-handers and 17 left-handers in terms of activation in the inferior frontal gyrus. The DLT was introduced as a complementary tool to MR mapping for language dominance assessment, providing information on perceptual language processing located in superior temporal cortices. The overall agreement of lateralization assessment between the two techniques was 97.1%. Conflicting results were found in one subject, and diverging indices in ten further subjects. Increasing age, non-familial sinistrality, and a non-dominant writing hand were identified as the main factors explaining the observed mismatch between the two techniques. This finding stresses the concept of an intrahemispheric distribution of language function that is obviously associated with certain behavioral characteristics.
Glutamate is a major neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain and glutamatergic neurotransmission in the frontal cortex is indicated to play important roles in cognitive operations. We previously examined changes in extracellular dopamine in the primate frontal cortex in cognitive tasks, and in this paper we extend this to glutamate. We employed, as cognitive tasks, a delayed alternation task where the animal must retain information in working memory, and a sensory-guided task in which there is no working memory requirement but there may be more sensory processing requirements. Using the in vivo microdialysis method, we examined changes in extracellular glutamate concentration in the dorsolateral, arcuate, orbitofrontal, and premotor areas of the primate frontal cortex. Compared to basal rest levels, we observed significant increases in glutamate concentration in dorsolateral and arcuate areas of the prefrontal cortex during the sensory-guided task, but did not find significant changes in any of the frontal areas examined during the delayed alternation task. When glutamate concentration was compared between the delayed alternation and sensory-guided tasks, difference was observed only in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, especially in the ventral lip area of the principal sulcus. The results indicate the importance of glutamate in processing sensory information but not in retaining information in working memory in the primate dorsolateral and arcuate prefrontal cortex. We also compared the concentration of glutamate and dopamine in the tasks. We found a double dissociation in the concentration of glutamate and dopamine in the dorsolateral area: there was an increase in glutamate but no change in dopamine during the sensory-guided task, whereas there was an increase in dopamine but no change in glutamate during the delayed alternation task. It is thus suggested that in the primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, increased glutamate tone without dopamine increase facilitates sensory-guided task performance, while increased dopamine tone without glutamate increase is beneficial for working memory task performance.
The olfactory system is functionally linked to the hippocampus, and odors can modify the activity of hippocampal neurons. Because hippocampal neurons are selectively vulnerable to death in several prominent neurodegenerative conditions, we tested the hypothesis that activity in olfactory pathways can modify the sensitivity of hippocampal neurons to excitotoxic damage. We report that rats subjected to olfactory bulbectomy exhibit a decrease in the vulnerability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons to excitotoxic injury. Four-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to bilateral olfactory bulbectomy or a sham operation. Three months later the rats were given a unilateral infusion of kainic acid in the dorsal hippocampus and were euthanized 24 h later. There was a threefold increase in the number of CA3 neurons that survived kainic acid administration in the bulbectomized rats compared to sham-operated rats. These findings provide the first evidence that olfactory input affects the vulnerability of neurons to excitotoxic death.
In the dentate gyrus, mu opioid receptors (MORs) and their enkephalin agonists have overlapping distributions and influence excitability and plasticity. Released endogenous enkephalins can activate at least some of these MORs; however, whether these interactions involve synaptically associated profiles or more distant associations and whether some subcellular compartments (e.g., terminals or dendrites) are more likely to be targeted than others are not known. To elucidate the relationships between potential sites of enkephalin release and MORs, MOR1 and leucine-enkephalin (LE) immunoreactivities were localized in the hilus by electron microscopy, using immunoperoxidase and immunogold markers. Of the 573 MOR-immunoreactive (ir) profiles analyzed, most were axons and terminals (51 and 30%, respectively), and fewer were dendrites (12%), glia (3%), or unclassifiable (4%). Most MOR-ir profiles resembled interneuron processes, while most LE-ir terminals resembled mossy fibers. One third of MOR-ir profiles were within 3 microm and approximately half were within 4 microm of the nearest LE-ir profile. In contrast, few (3%) MOR-ir profiles contacted LE-ir profiles; only 16% of these contacts included observable synapses, and very few profiles (0.5%) colocalized MOR and LE immunoreactivity. MOR-ir axons, terminals, and dendrites were not distributed differently relative to LE-ir profiles. These results suggest that activation of hilar MORs by LE usually involves short-range volume transmission and that dendritic MORs are as likely as axonal and terminal MORs to be activated by released LE. However, the greater abundance of MOR-ir axons and terminals compared to dendrites indicates that presynaptic profiles are a more prominent target for enkephalins and exogenous MOR agonists such as morphine.
Our past work indicates that growth-inhibiting chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) is abundant in the peripheral nerve sheaths and interstitium. In this study we tested if degradation of CSPG by chondroitinase enhances axonal regeneration through the site of injury after (a) nerve crush and (b) nerve transection and coaptation. Adult rats received the same injury bilaterally to the sciatic nerves and then chondroitinase ABC was injected near the injury site on one side, and the contralateral nerve was injected with vehicle alone. Nerves were examined 2 days after injury in the nerve crush model and 4 days after injury in the nerve transection model. Chondroitinase-dependent neoepitope immunolabeling showed that CSPG was thoroughly degraded around the injury site in the chondroitinase-treated nerves. Axonal regeneration through the injury site and into the distal nerve was assessed by GAP-43 immunolabeling. Axonal regeneration after crush injury was similar in chondroitinase-treated and control nerves. In contrast, axonal regrowth through the coaptation of transected nerves was markedly accelerated and the ingress of axons into the distal segment was increased severalfold in nerves injected with chondroitinase. On the basis of these results we concluded that growth inhibition by CSPG contributes critically to the poor regenerative growth of axons in nerve transection repair. In addition, degradation of CSPG by injection of chondroitinase ABC at the site of nerve repair increased the ingress of axonal sprouts into basal laminae of the distal nerve segment, presumably by enabling more latitude in growth at the interface of coapted nerve. This suggests that chondroitinase application may be used clinically to improve the outcome of primary peripheral nerve repair.
Heat shock proteins (hsps) are induced in a variety of cells following periods of stress, where they promote cell survival. In this study, we examined the effect of upregulating hsp expression by treatment with BRX-220, a co-inducer of hsps, on the survival of injured motoneurones. Following sciatic nerve crush at birth, rat pups were treated daily with BRX-220. The expression of hsp70 and hsp90, motoneurone survival, and muscle function was examined at various intervals later and the number of functional motor units was assessed by in vivo isometric tension recordings. Fourteen days after injury, significantly more motoneurones survived in the BRX-220-treated group (39 +/- 2.8%) compared to the saline-treated group (21 +/- 1.7%). Moreover, in the BRX-220-treated group no further loss of motoneurones occurred, so that at 10 weeks 42 +/- 2.1% of motoneurones survived compared to 15 +/- 0.6% in the untreated group. There were also more functional motor units in the hindlimb muscles of BRX-220-treated animals. In addition, treatment with BRX-220 resulted in a significant increase in the expression of hsp70 and hsp90 in glia and neurones. Thus, treatment with BRX-220, a co-inducer of hsps, protects motoneurones from axotomy-induced cell death.
Long-distance axon regeneration requires the activation of a specific set of neuronal growth-associated genes. Adult Purkinje cells fail to upregulate these molecules in response to axotomy and show extremely weak regenerative properties. Nevertheless, starting from several months after injury, transected Purkinje axons undergo spontaneous sprouting. Here, we asked whether long-term injured Purkinje cells acquire novel intrinsic growth properties that enable them to upregulate growth-associated genes and sustain axon regeneration. To test this hypothesis, we examined axon growth and cell body changes in adult rat Purkinje neurons following axotomy and implantation of embryonic neocortical tissue or Schwann cells into the injury track. Purkinje cells that survived over 6 months after injury/transplantation displayed profuse sprouting in the injured cerebellum and developed extensive networks of terminal branches into embryonic neocortical grafts. In addition, severed Purkinje axons exposed to these transplants 6 months after injury grew faster than their counterparts confronted with the same environment immediately after axotomy. Nevertheless, long-term injured Purkinje cells failed to regenerate stem neurites into Schwann cell grafts, and, under all experimental conditions, they did not upregulate growth-associated molecules, including c-Jun, GAP-43, SNAP-25, and NADPH-diaphorase. These results indicate that the long-term injured Purkinje cells remain unable to activate the gene program required to sustain axon regeneration and their plasticity is restricted to terminal arbor remodeling. We propose that the delayed growth of injured Purkinje cells reflects an adaptive phenomenon by which the severed axon stump develops a new terminal arbor searching for alternative connections with local partners.
Retinal detachment continues to be a significant cause of visual impairment, either through the direct effects of macular detachment or through secondary complications such as subretinal fibrosis or proliferative vitreoretinopathy. Animal models can provide us with an understanding of the cellular mechanisms at work that account for the retinopathy induced by detachment and for the generation of secondary effects. As we understand the mechanisms involved, animal models can also provide us with opportunities to test therapeutic agents that may reduce the damaging effects of detachment or improve the outcome of reattachment surgery. They may also reveal information of use to understanding other causes of blindness rooted in retinal defects or injuries. Understanding the effects of detachment (and reattachment) are likely to become even more important as surgeons gain skills in subretinal surgical techniques and macular translocation, both of which will generate short-lived detachments. Here we discuss the fundamental events that occur after detachment, present changes associated with reattachment, and discuss retinal changes that may affect the return of vision.
Lactation is a physiological model for studying how the hypothalamus integrates peripheral signals, such as sensory signals (suckling stimulus) and those denoting energy balance (leptin), to alter hypothalamic function regulating food intake/energy balance and reproduction. The characteristics of food intake/energy balance during lactation are extreme hyperphagia, coupled with negative energy balance. The arcuate nucleus Neuropeptide Y (ARH-NPY) system is activated by: (1) brainstem projections specifically activated by the suckling stimulus, and (2) the decrease in leptin in response to the metabolic drain of milk production. NPY neurons from the ARH make direct contact with GnRH neurons and with CRH neurons in the PVH. NPY neurons also make contact with orexin and MCH neurons in the LHA, which, in turn, make contacts with GnRH neurons. Thus, the ARH-NPY system provides a neuroanatomical framework by which to integrate changes in food intake/energy with the regulation of cyclic reproductive function.
The genetic analysis of life span has revealed many interesting genes and pathways; however, our understanding of aging has been limited by the lack of a way to assay the aging process itself. Here we show that the tissues of aging worms have a characteristic appearance that is easy to recognize and quantify using Nomarski optics. We have used this assay to determine whether life-span mutations affect the rate of aging, to identify animals that age more rapidly than normal, and to infer the cause of death in C. elegans. Mutations that reduce insulin/IGF-1 signaling double the life span of C. elegans, and we find that tissue decline is slowed in these mutants. Thus this endocrine system appears to influence the rate at which tissues age. This effect extends even to the germline, which is the only mitotically active tissue in the adult. We find that Nomarski microscopy also allows a ready distinction between short-lived mutants that age more rapidly than normal and those that are simply sick, and we have identified an RNAi clone that confers a dramatic rapid-aging phenotype. This clone encodes the C. elegans heat-shock factor (HSF), a transcription factor that regulates the response to heat and oxidative stress. This suggests that heat-shock proteins, many of which act as chaperones, may function in normal animals to slow the rate of aging. Finally, we have identified a cause of death of C. elegans: namely, proliferating bacteria. This suggests that increased susceptibility to bacterial infections contributes to mortality in these animals, just as it does in humans.
We have used a model of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in adult male C57BL/6 mice to study insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and IGF-binding protein (IGFBP) expression in response to cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (H/I) in the adult mouse. A period of 20 min of H/I that resulted in histopathology in cortex, striatum, and thalamus was correlated with induction of mRNA for IGF-I, IGFBP-2, IGFBP-3, IGFBP-5, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) by 4 days of recovery. Increased IGF-I mRNA was located within damaged regions and was surrounded by IGFBP-2 mRNA expression. The results of combined immunostaining/in situ hybridzation showed that the cells expressing IGFBP-2 mRNA were also GFAP-positive and comprised a subset of activated astrocytes immediately surrounding areas of damage. In contrast, staining within damaged regions showed high numbers of cells immunopositive for F4/80 and lectin B(4) indicative of microglia and macrophages but no cells immunopositive for the astrocytic proteins GFAP or S-100beta. Microglia/macrophages within the damaged areas expressed IGF-I mRNA and were also immunopositive for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen. To determine whether expression of IGF-I could contribute to proliferation of microglia, we treated purified cultures of adult brain microglia with IGF-I in the presence of (3)H-thymidine. IGF-I stimulated a twofold increase in DNA synthesis in cultures of adult brain microglia. Taken together with previous data demonstrating that IGF-I promotes proliferation of peripheral macrophages, these data support the hypothesis that IGF-I is an autocrine/paracrine mitogen for microglia/macrophages after H/I.
Immunostimulated astrocytes become highly vulnerable to glucose deprivation (Choi and Kim: J Neurosci Res 54:870-875, 1998a). The increased vulnerability is caused by the enhanced level of peroxynitrite endogenously produced in glucose-deprived immunostimulated astrocytes. In the present study, we report that the plant amino acid mimosine can attenuate the increased death by scavenging peroxynitrite. Treatment with mimosine blocked the increase of nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity, a marker of peroxynitrite, in glucose-deprived immunostimulated astrocytes. Furthermore, mimosine directly inhibited the nitration of tyrosine residues of bovine serum albumin and the oxidation of dihydrorhodamine-123 to rhodamine-123 by peroxynitrite. Mimosine has been used experimentally as a cell cycle G1/S phase transition blocker (Lalande: Exp Cell Res 186:332-339, 1990; Hoffman et al.: Cytometry 12:26-32, 1991). Flow cytometry analysis, however, showed that the cytoprotective effect of mimosine was not attributed to its inhibition of cell cycle progression. Furthermore, under our experimental conditions, mimosine did not alter the levels of cell cycle regulatory proteins, including p21(WAF1/CIP1), cyclins D1 and E, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen. In addition, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors olomoucine and roscovitine did not block the increased death. These results indicate that mimosine inhibits the augmented death of glucose-deprived immunostimulated astrocytes by scavenging peroxynitrite rather than suppressing the cell cycle progression.
Previous studies using pancreas from various mammals and freshly isolated islets from rat pancreas have provided evidence supporting possible involvement of the glycosphingolipid sulfatide in insulin processing and secretion. In this study, sulfatide expression and metabolism in the beta cell line RINr1046-38 (RIN-38), commonly used as a model for beta cell functional studies, were investigated and compared with previous findings from freshly isolated islets. RIN-38 cells expressed similar amounts (2.7 +/- 1.1 nmol/mg protein, n = 19) of sulfatide as isolated rat islets and also followed the same metabolic pathway, mainly through recycling. Moreover, in agreement with findings in isolated islets, the major species of sulfatide isolated from RIN-38 cells contained C16:0 and C24:0 fatty acids. By applying subcellular isolations and electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry techniques, sulfatide was shown to be located to the secretory granules, the plasma membrane and enriched in detergent insoluble microdomains. In the electron microscopy studies, Sulph I staining was also associated with mitochondria and villi structures. In conclusion, RIN-38 cells might be an appropriate model, as a complement to isolated islets where the amount of material often limits the experiments, to further explore the role of sulfatide in insulin secretion and signal transduction of beta cells.

The role of 5-HT agents in the modulation of lower gastrointestinal function is discussed. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are of potential benefit in functional gastrointestinal diseases although formal evidence is lacking. Novel pharmacological approaches include 5-HT(3) antagonists and 5-HT(4) agonists. These pharmacological classes have shown beneficial effects on a global efficacy end point, and ameliorated more than one symptom of lower gut function in clinical trials. They offer promise for the development of novel therapies for the treatment and control of irritable bowel syndrome.
Visceral hypersensitivity is widely regarded as the reason for the development of functional gastrointestinal disorders, including functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome. The principles and techniques involved in testing the hypothesis that visceral sensitivity is important are discussed, together with the controversies in the assumptions, methods, and interpretations of the data acquired to date.

To see if fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) might function in the central changes following auditory overstimulation we tracked immunostaining in the cochlear nucleus of adult mice with monoclonal antibodies to FGFs (FGF-1, FGF-2) and FGF receptor. After exposure nearly all outer hair cells died, while inner hair cell and fiber loss were restricted to a region midway along the cochlear spiral. FGFs staining in the cochlear nucleus appeared in hypertrophied astrocytes in the regions of nerve fiber degeneration only. For normal-sized astrocytes there was an increase in the number stained and the intensity of staining across all frequency domains, but not in neurons. The increases were modest at 3-7 days, pronounced at 14 days, modest again by 30 days, and back to control levels by 60 days. FGF receptor staining of neurons occurred equally in all mice, exposed or not. The findings suggest that astrocytes play a role in the central responses to acoustic overstimulation and cochlear damage, involving FGFs, possibly regulating the activity of intrinsic neurons or signaling axonal growth. Not limited to regions of cochlear nerve fiber and inner hair cell loss, the changes in FGFs may represent a reaction to outer hair cell damage which spreads broadly across the central pathways.
Plasma levels of thyroid hormones - triiodothyronine (T 3 ), thyroxin (T 4 ), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) were measured in male and female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) fed either ad libitum or a 30 % calorie-restricted (CR) diet (males for 11 years; females for 6 years). The same hormones were measured in another group of young male rhesus monkeys during adaptation to the 30 % CR regimen. Both long- and shorter-term CR diet lowered total T 3 in plasma of the monkeys. The effect appeared to be greater in younger monkeys than in older counterparts. No effects of CR diet were detected for either free or total T 4, although unlike T 3, levels of this hormone decreased with age. TSH levels also decreased with age, and were increased by long-term CR diet in older monkeys only. No consistent effects of shorter-term CR diet were observed for TSH. In the light of the effects of the thyroid axis on overall metabolism, these results suggest a possible mechanism by which CR diets may elicit their well-known beneficial 'anti-aging' effects in mammals.
Quantification of total and individual amino acids in biological fluids such as plasma, urine and cerebrospinal fluid has an important diagnostic implication in laboratory medicine. The present paper describes protocols for the assay of total amino acids by modified method based on dinitrophenyl and HPLC profile involving pre-column derivatization with o-pthalaldehyde (OPA) derivatization, respectively. The method, based on the alkylation of-SH groups prior to OPA derivatization of amino acids followed by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography, provide a comprehensive profile of more than twenty amino acids (including-SH group containing) in a single run lasting about 45 minutes. The present study, apart from establishing the normal profile of amino acids in plasma of Indian sub population, also presents HPLC profile for some of the rare amino acidopathies.
Caring for a family member with schizophrenia is an enduring stressor and causes considerable amount of burden. The aim of the present study was to examine burden and coping in parents and spouses of persons with schizophrenia. The sample comprised of 24 parents and 24 spouses. Patients were assessed on the Global Assessment Scale (GAS), and caregivers were assessed on the Burden Assessment Schedule (BAS) and the Coping Checklist (CCL). Spouses reported greater emotional burden. Parents used more of denial as a coping strategy, while spouses used more of negative distraction strategies. On stepwise regression analysis, patient's age, educational level, and level of functioning and caregiver's use of denial as a coping strategy emerged as significant predictors of caregiver burden. The study highlights the fact that family intervention programs need to address the specific concerns of caregivers.
There has been great interest in the neurobiological substrate of the different dimensions of schizophrenia. This has largely focused on structural and functional changes while it has been acknowledged that there is a relation between pharmacological response and neurotransmitter alteration on these dimensions. Atypical anti psychotics which affect both positive and negative symptoms mediate their action predominantly through dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors. The current study extends this further looking at CSF amines. 37 drug naive first episode psychosis patients with the duration of illness less than 2 years were included. Patients were assessed with SAPS (Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms) and SANS (Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms). Lumbar puncture was done under sterile conditions and CSF was analyzed by HPLC for dopamine, serotonin and their metabolites. Mean CSF 5- HIAA was 25.35ng/dl. Mean CSF 5 HT was 7.72 ng/dl. Mean CSFHVA was 36.99 ng/dl. Mean CSF 5-DA was 3.06 ng/dl. There was significant positive correlation between CSF5-HIAA and Negative and Disorganization dimensions. There was significant negative correlation between CSF HVA and Psychosis dimension. There is evidence to support that the implication of serotonin in Negative and Disorganization dimensions and the Serotonin- Dopamine interaction and dimensions of schizophrenia.
This study investigates the binaural masking level difference in both detection and recognition of speech embedded in noise when the signal is phase-shifted 180 degrees between the left and the right ear. Swedish spondaic words masked by noise werc presented binaurally to 10 normally hearing subjects. The results are presented in terms of speech detection threshold, speech recognition threshold, a psychometric function of speech recognition versus signal-to-noise ratio, and speech intelligibility as a function of binaural intelligibility level difference. Both speech detection threshold and speech intelligibility improved when the speech signal was phase-shifted 180 degrees. The binaural intelligibility level difference ranged from 5.7 to 7.7 dB.
Three particularly noteworthy articles addressing hypnosis have been published during the early portion of 2002. All, to a degree, address biological aspects of hypnotic response. One of these articles is a thoughtful summary and synthesis of neuroscience/hypnosis research to date, describing how neuroimaging techniques offer new opportunities to use hypnosis as a manipulation and to provide a means of studying hypnosis itself. A second article focuses on the physiology of sports and the usefulness of hypnosis in the practice of sport and exercise psychology. Finally, the third article describes a study of brain activation during actual and imagined handgrip during hypnosis.

The objective of this study was to discover how narrow-band spectral measurements express emotional behavior. Electroencephalographic narrowband absolute and relative spectral powers were calculated for every 1 Hz of frequency from the recordings of 40 healthy male university students during emotional tasks. Sentences evoking positive, negative, and neutral emotional states were used as stimuli. Repeated multivariate analyses of variance were computed with IQ as covariate. The results showed only a few significant relations between absolute power and emotion. Relative power reflected better the differences determined by emotional states. The frequencies between 7.6 and 9.5 Hz showed differences between emotional states over the entire scalp with increased power during neutral state. Interaction between emotional states and cerebral regions revealed that all cerebral areas had an important role, especially frontal, parietal, and temporal regions. Hemispheric differences showed less power in the left hemisphere during positive emotional state (joy of love) in the 8.6 to 9.5 Hz band and in the right hemisphere during negative emotional state (frustration) in the 17.6 to 18.5 Hz band. Significant interaction between states, hemispheres, and electrode positions was observed in the frequency range of 17.6 to 19.5 Hz. As none of our results covered the range of any broad band, we may conclude that narrow-band calculations are more adequate for the study of emotions, because their use reduces the danger that frequency-specific effects go undetected or cancel each other.
The Hoffman reflex (H-reflex) has been widely used throughout neuroscience research, as it allows for the assessment of alpha motoneuron excitability arising from a specific motoneuron pool. Recently, a protocol has been developed allowing for the simultaneous examination of the soleus, peroneal, and tibialis anterior motoneuron pools elicited from a single peripheral stimulus. In order for this protocol to be useful, the reliability of the measures must be established. The purpose of the current study was to determine the intersession reliability of the soleus, peroneal, and tibialis anterior H-reflexes and their corresponding M-waves elicited from a single stimulus to the sciatic nerve. Ten healthy neurologically sound individuals (age: 23 +/- 7 yrs; height: 175 +/- 12 cm; mass: 76 +/- 22 kg) volunteered to participate in this investigation. To obtain the measurements, the sciatic nerve was stimulated just prior to its bifurcation into the tibial and common peroneal nerves in the popliteal fossa. A 1-ms square wave pulse was delivered in 0.2 V increments until the maximum M wave was seen in each muscle. The maximum H-reflex and M-waves were collected from each muscle and their ratios calculated. Intersession reliability over 2 consecutive days was estimated using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC [2.1]). Intersession reliability for the soleus Max H, Max M, and H:M ratio were 0.9953, 0.9514, and 0.9747, respectively. The peroneal reliability measurements were as follows: 0.9979 (Max H), 0.9924 (Max M), and 0.9664 (H:M ratio). Intersession reliability was 0.8591, 0.9968, and 0.7810 for the tibialis anterior Max H. Max M. and H:M ratio, respectively. These results indicate that the H-reflex measured from the soleus, peroneal, and tibialis anterior musculature elicited with a single peripheral stimulus to the sciatic nerve is reliable between sessions. This protocol allows the clinician/researcher to reliably investigate the alpha motoneuron excitability of multiple motoneuron pools about the ankle at a single point in time.
Despite an almost universal policy of community care, placing a relative in a care home will be an increasingly common event as population ageing continues. Studies suggest that most families wish to remain involved in care following placement but that they often experience difficulties in establishing relationships with staff. This paper reports on the fifth phase of a Swedish study exploring the experience of placement from a temporal perspective and including the views of all the key actors (relatives, staff in the community, staff in care homes). The focus here is placed on the perceptions of care home staff and their perceived role in relation to spouses who have recently placed a partner. The study adopted a grounded theory approach and data were collected from in-depth interviews with 16 staff members of varying grades and positions. Analysis of the data suggested 3 levels of awareness amongst staff: empathic awareness, guarded awareness and limited awareness. The characteristics of empathic awareness are outlined and its implications briefly considered.
Behavioral interaction during social situations is a continuum of action, response, and reaction. The temporal nature of social interaction creates a series of stressful situations, such as aggression, displacement from resources, and the variable psychological challenge of adapting to dynamic social hierarchies. The ebb and flow of neurochemical and endocrine secretions during social stress provide a unique tool for understanding individualized responses to stress. Each social station is an adaptive response to a stressful social condition, resulting in unique neuroendocrine and behavioral responses. By examining the temporal changes of limbic monoamines and plasma glucocorticoids, aspects of mechanisms for adaptation emerge. The similarity of temporal patterns induced by social stress among fish, reptiles and primates are remarkable. Even different specific coping mechanisms point out the similarity of vertebrate stress responses. The lizard Anolis carolinensis exhibits a unique sign stimulus generated during social stress by the sympathetic nervous system that serves as a temporal landmark to distinguish neuroendocrine patterns. During social interaction dominant males have a shorter latency to eyespot darkening than opponents, inhibiting aggressive display. Eyespot coloration can be delayed using a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, causing dominant social status in many animals to be lost. Reversal of social status via serotonergic activation appears to mimic chronic serotonergic activity. The pattern of eyespot darkening, faster in dominant males, is coincident with that for serotonergic activity. The fundamental temporal relationship between dominant and subordinate limbic monoaminergic activity over a continuous course of social interaction appears to be a two-phase response, temporally specific to brain region, and always faster in dominant individuals.
Two experiments were conducted to ascertain the cardiovascular accompaniments of differential Pavlovian jaw movement (JM) conditioning. The first examined the blood pressure (BP) changes that accompany the tachycardiac conditioned responses (CRs) associated with JM conditioning. The BP response in all instances consisted of a depressor response that was greater to the reinforced CS+ than CS-, although the magnitude of the CR was quite small. The second experiment determined the effects of peripheral autonomic antagonists on the cardiac accelerations associated with JM conditioning. It was found that the peripheral vagal antagonist methyl scopolamine completely abolished responses to both CS+ and CS-, whereas atenolol, a beta adrenergic antagonist, augmented the response, compared to saline control injections. The JM responses were also affected by the autonomic blockades, with minimal responding occurring in the scopolamine group but slightly more JM CRs in the atenolol group, compared to saline control animals. These results suggest that the major cardiovascular response to an appetitive stimulus, which evokes JM conditioning, consists of cardiac accelerations with the BP depressor responses playing a minimal, if any, role. Moreover, these conditioned cardiac increases appear to be due solely to the release of vagal inhibition.
The learning of an association between a CS and a US can be retarded by unreinforced presentations of the CS alone (termed latent inhibition or LI) or by un-correlated presentations of the CS and US (termed learned irrelevance or LIRR). In rabbit eyeblink conditioning, there have been some recent failures to replicate LI. LIRR has been hypothesized as producing a stronger retardation effect than LI based on both empirical studies and computational models. In the work presented here, we examined the relative strength of LI and LIRR in eyeblink conditioning in rabbits and humans. In both species, a number of preexposure trials sufficient to produce LIRR failed to produce LI (Experiments 1 &amp; 3). Doubling the number of CS pre-exposures did produce LI in rabbits (Experiment 2), but not in humans (Experiment 4). LI was demonstrated in humans only after manipulations including an increased inter-trial interval or ITI (Experiment 5). Overall, it appears that LIRR is a more easily producible pre-exposure retardation effect than LI for eyeblink conditioning in both rabbits and humans. Several theoretical mechanisms for LI including the conditioned attention theory, stimulus compression, novelty, and the switching theory are discussed as possible explanations for the differences between LIRR and LI. Overall, future work involving testing the neural substrates of pre-exposure effects may benefit from the use of LIRR rather than LI.


Animal models used to study human aging and neurodegeneration do not display all symptoms of these processes as they are found in humans. Recently, we have shown that many cells in neocortical slices from adult human postmortem brain may survive for extensive periods in vitro. Such cultures may enable us to study age and disease related processes directly in human brain tissue. Here, we present observations on subcortical brain tissue.
The study aimed to elucidate the effects of cortical ischemia and postischemic environmental enrichment on hippocampal cell genesis. A cortical infarct was induced by a permanent ligation of the middle cerebral artery distal to the striatal branches in 6-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered as 7 consecutive daily injections starting 24 hours after surgery and animals were housed in standard or enriched environment. Four weeks after completed BrdU administration, BrdU incorporation and its co-localization with the neuronal markers NeuN and calbindin D28k, and the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein in the granular cell layer and subgranular zone of the hippocampal dentate gyrus were determined with immunohistochemistry and were quantified stereologically. Compared with sham-operated rats, rats with cortical infarcts had a five-to sixfold ipsilateral increase in BrdU-labeled cells. About 80% of the new cells were neurons. Differential postischemic housing did not influence significantly the total number of surviving BrdU-labeled cells or newborn neurons. However, postischemic environmental enrichment increased the ipsilateral generation of astrocytes normalizing the astrocyte-to-neuron ratio, which was significantly reduced in rats housed in standard environment postischemically.
Vesicle-associated membrane proteins (VAMPs) are involved in synaptic vesicle recycling and exocytosis in neurons. Here we report the changes in mRNA expression for VAMPs (VAMP1, -2 and -3) in the facial motor nucleus of adult rats following axotomy by in situ hybridization. Signals for VAMP2 and -3 mRNAs in the facial nucleus were increased from 3 to 28 days after axotomy. On the contrary, VAMP1 mRNA, which was abundantly expressed in the control facial nucleus, was transiently decreased from 3 to 21 days after axotomy. Differential regulation of VAMPs may reflect distinct roles in nerve regeneration.
Experimental and clinical studies suggest that GH and IGF-I may be involved in neovascularization of the retina in diabetes and retinopathy of prematurity. However, the role of GH and IGF-I has not been well established in normal retinal vessel development in humans. Therefore, we examined retinal vessel morphology by digital image analysis of ocular fundus photographs in 13 patients with genetic defects of the GH/IGF-I axis and low levels of IGF-I during and after normal retinal vessel growth. Eleven patients (four females and seven males aged 10-49 yr) had defects of the GH receptor (Laron syndrome). One male (20 yr) had a partial deletion of the IGF-I gene, and one female (14 yr) had a single allele deletion of the IGF-I receptor gene. Patients with defects in the GH/IGF-I axis had significantly less retinal vascularization as evidenced by lower number of vascular branching points (median 23, range 16-25), compared with the reference group of 100 normal controls (median 28, range 19-40, P &lt; 0.001). All 13 individuals had vascular branching points below the median of the reference group. This is the first study to provide genetic evidence for a role of the GH and IGF-I system in retinal vascularization in humans.
The validity of discharge diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and of the main procedures performed during hospitalization was assessed using as gold standard the data from the Piemonte and Valle d'Aosta Register for ALS (PARALS), a collaborative population-based registry aimed at determining prospectively the incidence and the factors related to ALS outcome. All patients discharged with ICD code 335.2 (primary and secondary diagnoses) in the period 1995-1996 in Piemonte, Italy, were considered. Out of the 1,049 cases identified, 433 remained after excluding patients not resident in Piemonte and repeated admissions. Of these, 258 had a correct diagnosis of ALS (168 incident and 90 prevalent cases) after a review of clinical records. The sensitivity of discharge diagnoses was 78.9%, and the positive predictive value was 38.8%. The sensitivity for main procedures (percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy, noninvasive ventilation, and tracheostomy) ranged between 76 and 100%. ICD codes allowed to identify 22 cases that had not been ascertained with other sources. In conclusion, hospital discharge records appear to poorly reflect the incidence of ALS, and can be used only after clinical verification of the diagnosis.


The purpose of this study was to explore eating, feeding and nutrition among stroke patients in nursing homes as described by their nurses and by assessments. Registered Nurses were interviewed about an individual stroke patient's state of health, care needs and nursing care received and nursing records were reviewed. Information on eating, feeding and nutrition was extracted from the interviews and nursing records. A comprehensive instrument, the Resident Assessment Instrument, was also used to assess these patients' state of health. The domains of eating, feeding and nutrition were focused on in this study. Manifest content analysis was used. The results showed that more than 80% of the stroke patients in nursing homes were assessed as having some sort of dependence in eating. According to the Registered Nurses, 22 out of 40 patients demonstrated different eating disabilities. The number of eating disabilities in individual patients ranged from 1 to 7, which emphasized the complexity of eating disabilities in stroke patients. Dysphagia was reported in almost one-fourth of the patients and 30% were described and/or assessed as having a poor food intake or poor appetite. The Registered Nurses' descriptions of the eating disabilities, nutritional problems and their care were often vague and unspecific. Only six weights were documented in the nursing records and there were no nutritional records. The findings highlight the importance of making careful observations and assessments, and of maintaining documentation about eating and nutrition early after a patient's arrival in the nursing home to enable appropriate care and promotion of health.
The role of community staff in placing a relative in a care home is a relatively unexplored area of practice. Interviews with a variety of community staff in Sweden suggest that they play a significant role in helping family carers, particularly spouses, research the decision about the need for placement. This role can include recognition that placement is required (seeing the need), initiating and sustaining discussions about placement (sowing the seed and nurturing the seed) and legitimating the decision. However, once the decision has been made relatively little attention is given to the emotional consequences of the move and attention is focused largely on instrumental aspects. Despite showing sensitivity in the decision-making phase, community staff could do more to help carers deal with the guilt they experience and to initiate contact with the care home.

Human concepts can be roughly divided into entities (prototypically referred to in language by nouns) and events (prototypically referred to in language by verbs). While much work in cognitive neuroscience has investigated how the brain represents different categories of entities, less attention has been given to the more basic distinction between entities and events. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine brain activity while subjects performed a conceptual matching task that required them to access knowledge of objects and actions, using either pictures or words. Since action events involve movement through space, we hypothesized that accessing knowledge of actions would cause greater activation in brain regions involved in motion or spatial processing. In comparison to objects, accessing knowledge of actions through pictures was accompanied by increased activity bilaterally in the human MT/MST and nearby regions of the lateral temporal cortex. Accessing knowledge of actions through words activated areas just anterior and dorsal to area MT/MST on the left, within the posterior aspect of the middle and superior temporal gyri. We propose that the lateral occipital-temporal cortex contains a mosaic of neural regions that processes different kinds of motion, ranging from the perception of objects moving in the world to the conception of movement implied in action verbs. The lateral occipital-temporal cortex mediates the perceptual and conceptual features of action events, similar to the way that the ventral occipital-temporal cortex processes the perceptual and conceptual features of entities.
Researchers have long debated whether knowledge about the self is unique in terms of its functional anatomic representation within the human brain. In the context of memory function, knowledge about the self is typically remembered better than other types of semantic information. But why does this memorial effect emerge? Extending previous research on this topic (see Craik et al., 1999), the present study used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate potential neural substrates of self-referential processing. Participants were imaged while making judgments about trait adjectives under three experimental conditions (self-relevance, other-relevance, or case judgment). Relevance judgments, when compared to case judgments, were accompanied by activation of the left inferior frontal cortex and the anterior cingulate. A separate region of the medial prefrontal cortex was selectively engaged during self-referential processing. Collectively, these findings suggest that self-referential processing is functionally dissociable from other forms of semantic processing within the human brain.
Fragmented pictures of an object, which appear meaningless when seen for the first time, can easily be identified after the presentation of an unfragmented version of the same picture. The neuronal mechanism for such a rapid perceptual learning phenomenon is largely unknown. Recently, induced gamma band responses (GBRs) have been discussed as a possible physiological correlate of activity in cell assemblies formed by learning. The present study was designed to investigate the modulation of induced GBRs in a perceptual learning task by using a 128-channel EEG montage. In the first sequence of the experiment, fragmented pictures from the Snodgrass and Vandervart inventory were presented. The fragmentation of the pictures was selected that subjects were unable to identify them. In the second experimental sequence - the perceptual learning sequence - half of the pictures were displayed in their unfragmented version. In the third sequence, all pictures were presented again in the fragmented version. Now, subjects had to rate whether or not they could identify the images. Results showed an increase in spectral gamma power at parietal electrode sites for identified pictures. In addition, neural activity in the gamma band was highly synchronized between posterior electrodes. For pictures not presented in their complete version, we found no such pattern in the third sequence. From our results, we concluded that induced GBRs might represent a signature of synchronized neural activity in a Hebbian cell assembly, activated by the fragmented picture after perceptual learning took place. No difference between identified and unidentified pictures was found in the visual evoked potential in the same time range and in the evoked GBR in the same frequency range as the induced response.
Musculoskeletal models have become important tools in understanding motor control issues ranging from how muscles power movement to how sensory feedback supports movements. In the present study, we developed the initial musculotendon subsystem of a realistic model of the frog Rana pipiens. We measured the anatomical properties of 13 proximal muscles in the frog hindlimb and incorporated these measurements into a set of musculotendon actuators. We examined whether the interaction between this musculotendon subsystem and a previously developed skeleton/joint subsystem captured the passive behavior of the real frog's musculoskeletal system. To do this, we compared the moment arms of musculotendon complexes measured experimentally with moment arms predicted by the model. We also compared sarcomere lengths measured experimentally at the starting and take-off positions of a jump with sarcomere lengths predicted by the model at these same limb positions. On the basis of the good fit of the experimental data, we used the model to describe the multi-joint mechanical effects produced by contraction of each hindlimb muscle and to predict muscle trajectories during a range of limb behaviors (wiping, defensive kicking, swimming and jumping). Through these analyses, we show that all hindlimb muscles have multiple functions with respect to accelerating the limb in its three-dimensional workspace and that the balance of functions depends greatly on limb configuration. In addition, we show that muscles have multiple, task-specific functions with respect to the type of contraction performed. The results of this study provide important data regarding the multifunctional role of hindlimb muscles in the frog and form a foundation upon which additional model subsystems (e.g. neural) and more sophisticated muscle models can be appended.
Pictorial faces looking left or right were presented to baboons (Papio papio) before the display of a target letter in the left or right hemifield of a monitor screen. Baboons had to provide go or no-go responses taking into account the identity of the target letter. The 1st 6 experiments showed no reliable effect of eye gaze on discrimination speed, using either schematic gazes or pictures of real gazes. Experiment 7 showed that eye gazes facilitated target processing when eye cues were perfect predictors of target location. Findings suggest that baboons do not spontaneously process eye-gaze direction but can learn to do so if the gaze has a predictive value. Implications of these findings on baboons' perspective-taking abilities are discussed.
In a large, well-characterized population of community-dwelling persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we investigated the emergence of behavioral symptomatology and its association with changes in cognitive, global-clinical, and functional status. Behavioral Rating Scale for Dementia (BRSD) item responses from 235 AD patients with varying levels of dementia severity and without significant behavioral disturbance were taken from the baseline and 12-month visits in a study of cognitive and behavioral instruments. Item-level analysis revealed new symptoms at every dementia severity level. The symptoms that emerged in the greatest proportion of patients were change in weight, change in appetite, diurnal confusion, uncooperativeness, restlessness, clingy behavior, loss of initiative, and change in sleeping pattern. Changes in cognitive status over the 12 months were associated with changes in functional status and not with the emergence of behavioral symptomatology; however, change in the latter two domains tended to be associated. The findings support the hypothesis that increasing behavioral disturbance is not strongly associated with decreasing cognitive status and that, except for psychotic symptoms, a previously observed association between dementia severity and behavioral status may have been mediated partly by changes in functional abilities.
The European Physiology Modules (EPM) Facility is one of the four major Space Station facilities being developed within the framework of ESA's Microgravity Facilities for Columbus (MFC) programme. In order to allow a wide spectrum of physiological studies in weightlessness conditions, the facility provides the infrastructure to accommodate a variable set of scientific equipment. The initial EPM configuration supports experiments in the fields of neuroscience, bone &amp; muscle research, cardiovascular research and metabolism. The International Space Life Science Working Group (ISLSWG) has recommended co-locating EPM with the 2 NASA Human Research Facility racks.
The maintenance of stable vision is a primary function of the neurovestibular and sensory-motor systems. There is, however, strong evidence suggesting that space flight results in a modification of the central nervous system and subsequent control of ocular-motor responses. These changes effect those neural mechanisms which are responsible for holding images steady on the retina during brief, self-initiated, head rotations or during the voluntary pursuit of moving targets. Recent studies have shown significant saccadic intrusions in both of these experimental paradigms, including an inability to null the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during the head/eye pursuit task. The maintenance of vision, while not entirely stable, both inflight and immediately postflight is now believed to be due to neural strategies that evolve for the purpose of assisting in directing the moving target onto the retina.
Sympathetic outflow increases during head-up tilt (HUT) to stabilize blood pressure in the presence of decreases in venous return and stroke volume (SV). Otherwise, orthostatic hypotension would develop. Gender differences in orthostatic tolerance have been noted but the mechanisms are still uncertain. More recently, Waters et al. reported in a limited sample, greater susceptibility of women to demonstrate orthostatic intolerance following space flight. Therefore, it is important to understand gender differences in reflex blood pressure regulation. Recently, we reported smaller increments in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in healthy women during graded HUT and a non-baroreflex cold pressor test. The purpose of this report is to examine the hypothesis that gender differences in blood pressure control during HUT are related to important variations in MSNA discharge patterns.
Two studies explored 1) the effect of instruction set upon the well known &quot;dumping&quot; of the vestibulo-ocular (VOR) post-rotatory nystagmus long time constant (TC) and 2) the effect of imaginary earth-fixed targets on postural control. Imaginary targets do not produce dumping and do not improve postural stability, with or without pitch head movements.
Short-radius centrifugation offers a promising countermeasure to the adverse effects of prolonged weightlessness. Head movements made in a rotating environment elicit Coriolis effects, which seriously compromise sensory and motor processes. We have previously found that, contrary to common belief, participants can adapt to the Coriolis effects associated with single-quadrant yaw head turns during 23-rpm short-radius centrifugation, while maintaining their adaptation to stationary environments. Here, we focus on motion sickness and illusory motion, the most problematic subjective side effects. We present encouraging data that such context-specific adaptation generalizes immediately to a different centrifuge environment. It also generalizes quickly to Coriolis forces in the opposite direction. Implications for AG implementation are discussed.
This study was undertaken to estimate the total number of cholinergic cells and the percentage of cholinergic cells that contain estrogen receptor-alpha (ER alpha) in the rat basal forebrain. Double immunostaining for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and ER alpha was carried out on 50-microm-thick free-floating sections. Because routine mounting method causes considerable flattening of the sections, we embedded immunostained sections in Durcupan, an epoxy resin known to cause virtually no shrinkage. When this procedure was used the section thickness was well preserved, individual cells could be clearly identified, and subcellular localization of ER alpha immunoreactivity was easy to verify. Cell counting in these sections revealed that the rat basal forebrain contains 26,390 +/- 1097 (mean +/- SEM) cholinergic neurons. This comprises 9674 +/- 504 in the medial septum-vertical diagonal band of Broca, 9403 +/- 484 in the horizontal diagonal band of Broca, and 7312 +/- 281 in the nucleus basalis. In these nuclei, 60%, 46%, and 14% of the cholinergic neurons were co-localized with ER alpha, respectively. We believe that our results are an improvement on existing data because of the better distinction of individual neurons that the Durcupan embedding method brings.
Parasitism of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, by the braconid wasp Cotesia congregata, induces developmental arrest of the host in the larval stage. During the final instar of the host, its juvenile hormone (JH) titer is elevated, preventing host metamorphosis. This study investigated the effects of hormonal manipulation of the host on the parasitoid's emergence behavior. The second larval ecdysis of the wasps coincides with their emergence from the host, and application of the juvenile hormone analogue methoprene to day 4 fifth instar hosts either delayed or totally suppressed the subsequent emergence of the wasps. Effects of methoprene were dose-dependent and no parasitoids emerged following treatment of host larvae with doses &gt;50 &amp;mgr;g. Parasitoids which failed to emerge eventually succumbed as unecydsed pharate third instar larvae in the hemocoel of the host. Effects of host methoprene treatment on parasitoid metamorphosis were also assessed, and metamorphic disruption occurred at much lower dosages compared with doses necessary to suppress parasitoid emergence behavior. The inhibitory effect of methoprene on parasitoid emergence behavior appears to be mediated by effects of this hormone on the synthesis or release of ecdysis-triggering hormone (ETH) in the parasitoid, the proximate endocrine cue which triggers ecdysis behavior in free-living insects. ETH accumulated in the epitracheal Inka cells of parasitoids developing in methoprene-treated hosts, suggestive of a lack of hormone release. Thus, the hormonal modulation of parasitoid emergence behavior appears to be complex, involving a suite of hormones including JH, ecdysteroid, and peptide hormones.
Previous studies have shown that sensory target tissues induce neuropeptides in nave sensory neurons, and that activin and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are capable of inducing neuropeptides associated with nociception in embryonic sensory neurons in vitro. The goal of the present study was to learn if these ligands were available in native sensory neuron target tissues at correct developmental periods to play this inductive role in vivo. Sensory neurons initially contact their peripheral target tissues and begin to express neuropeptides during late embryogenesis, and we demonstrate that activin and BMPs are present in the embryo and neonate to regulate sensory neuron differentiation. Native embryonic and neonatal target tissues were analyzed by immunoblot and immunohistochemical studies using ligand-specific antibodies. Although activin was easily solubilized, BMPs were detected only after high salt extraction, suggesting that BMPs were bound to extracellular moieties and were capable of acting only locally in native tissues. One inhibitor, noggin, was present in both embryonic skin and muscle. In combination, these data suggest that neuronal differentiation is unlikely to be regulated by simple expression of ligand, but that the functional availability of ligand is a critical component confering biological activity.
Acute cocaine can inhibit catecholamine biosynthesis by regulating the enzymatic activity of tyrosine hydroxylase via alterations in the phosphorylation state of the enzyme. The mechanisms underlying acute cocaine-dependent regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation have not been determined. In this study, 0, 15 or 30 mg/kg cocaine was administered intraperitoneally to rats and the phosphorylation state of tyrosine hydroxylase in the brain was examined using antibodies specific for the phosphorylated forms of serine-19, -31 and -40 in tyrosine hydroxylase. In the caudate and nucleus accumbens, cocaine dose-dependently decreased the levels of phosphorylated serine-19, -31 and -40. In the ventral tegmental area, the levels of phosphorylated serine-19, but not serine-31 and -40, were decreased by 15 and 30 mg/kg cocaine. In the amygdala, the levels of phosphorylated serine-19, but not serine-31 or -40, were decreased. The functional effects of these alterations in phosphorylation state were assessed by measuring tyrosine hydroxylase activity in vivo (accumulation of DOPA after administration of the decarboxylase inhibitor NSD-1015). Acute administration of 30 mg/kg cocaine significantly decreased l-DOPA production in caudate and accumbens but not in amygdala. These data suggest that the phosphorylation of serine-31 or -40, but not serine-19, is involved in the regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase activity by acute cocaine.
Antipsychotic drugs (APDs) have been primarily characterized for their effects on dopaminergic terminal regions in the brain, especially within the corpus striatum. Efferent GABA pathways are the primary outflow of striatal processing via their projections to the substantia nigra and the globus pallidus (GP). In the current study, we analyzed changes in pallidal GABA function following acute APD administration by means of in vivo microdialysis, followed by immunolabeling of presynaptic GABA terminal density in the contralateral hemisphere of the same animals. Acute administration of the atypical APD, clozapine (10 or 30 mg/kg, s.c.), produced a dose-dependent decrease in extracellular GABA. A corresponding dose-dependent increase in the density of presynaptic terminal GABA immunolabeling in the GP was found. In contrast, the typical APD, haloperidol (1 or 3 mg/kg, s.c.), had no significant effects on either measure, although a non-significant increase in extracellular GABA and decrease in the density of GABA terminal immunolabeling was noted. Paw retraction tests conducted during the time of microdialysis showed that haloperidol produced a typical pattern of highly pronounced motor impairment, while clozapine showed an atypical profile of minimal catalepsy. These complementary results obtained from in vivo neurochemistry and presynaptic neurotransmitter labeling suggest that systemic clozapine suppresses neuronal GABA release within the GP. This decrease in released pallidal GABA may play a role in the low motor side-effect liability of atypical APDs.
Exposure of mice to the copper chelator, cuprizone, results in CNS demyelination. There is remyelination after removal of the metabolic insult. We present brain regional studies identifying corpus callosum as particularly severely affected; 65% of cerebroside is lost after 6 weeks of exposure. We examined recovery of cerebroside and ability to synthesize cerebroside and cholesterol following removal of the toxicant. The temporal pattern for concentration of myelin basic protein resembled that of cerebroside. We applied Affymetrix GeneChip technology to corpus callosum to identify temporal changes in levels of mRNAs during demyelination and remyelination. Genes coding for myelin structural components were greatly down-regulated during demyelination and up-regulated during remyelination. Genes related to microglia/macrophages appeared in a time-course (peaking at 6 weeks) correlating with phagocytosis of myelin and repair of lesions. mRNAs coding for many cytokines had peak expression at 4 weeks, compatible with intercellular signaling roles. Of interest were other genes with temporal patterns correlating with one of the three above patterns, but of function not obviously related to demyelination/remyelination. The ability to correlate gene expression with known pathophysiological events should help in elucidating further function of such genes as related to demyelination/remyelination.
Toxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as hydrogen peroxide, nitric oxide, superoxide, and the hydroxyl radical are generated in a variety of neuropathological conditions and cause significant DNA damage. We determined the effects of 3-aminobenzamide (AB), an inhibitor of the DNA repair enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), on cell death in differentiated PC12 cells, a model of sympathetic neurons, after H(2) O(2) injury. Exposure to 0.5 mm H(2) O(2) resulted in a significant decrease in intracellular NAD(H), NADP(H), and ATP levels. This injury resulted in the death of 90% of the cells with significant necrosis early (2 h) after injury and increased apoptosis (12-24 h after injury), as measured by PS exposure and the presence of cytoplasmic oligonucleosomal fragments. Treatment with 2.5 mm AB restored pyridine nucleotide and ATP levels and ameliorated cell death (65% versus 90%) by decreasing the extent of both necrosis and apoptosis. Interestingly, we observed that H(2) O(2) -induced injury caused a delayed cell death exhibiting features of apoptosis but in which caspase-3 like activity was absent. Moreover, pretreatment with AB restored caspase-3-like activity. Our results suggest that apoptosis and necrosis are both triggered by PARP overactivation, and that maintenance of cellular energy levels after injury by inhibiting PARP shifts cell death from necrosis to apoptosis.
We report the cloning, genome mapping, functional expression, pharmacology and anatomical distribution of three melanocortin (MC) receptors from zebrafish (z). Phylogenetic analysis showed with high bootstrap support that these genes represent one MC4 receptor and two MC5 receptors. Chromosomal mapping showed conserved synteny between regions containing zMC4 and human (h) MC4 receptors, whereas the two zMC5 receptor genes map on chromosome segments in which the zebrafish has several genes with two orthologues of a single mammalian gene. It is likely that the two copies of zMC5 receptors arose through a separate duplication in the teleost lineage. The zMC4, zMC5a, and zMC5b receptors share 70-71% overall amino acid identity with the respective human orthologues and over 90% in three TM regions believed to be most important for ligand binding. All three zebrafish receptors also show pharmacological properties remarkably similar to their human orthologues, with similar affinities and the same potency order, when expressed and characterized in radioligand binding assay for the natural MSH) peptides alpha-, beta-, and gamma-MSH. Stimulation of transfected mammalian cells with alpha-MSH caused a dose-dependent increase in intracellular cAMP levels for all three zebrafish receptors. All three genes were expressed in the brain, eye, ovaries and gastrointestinal tract, whereas the zMC5b receptor was also found in the heart, as determined by RT-PCR. Our studies, which represent the first characterization of MC receptors in a nonamniote species, indicate that the MC receptor subtypes arose very early in vertebrate evolution. Important pharmacological and functional properties, as well as gene structure and syntenic relationships have been highly conserved over a period of more than 400 million years implying that these receptors participate in vital physiological functions.
In the adult CNS, antibodies to the NG2 chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan (CSPG) label a large population of glia that have the antigenic phenotype of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPC). However, NG2 expressing glia have the morphological phenotype of astrocytes, not OPC. We propose adult NG2 expressing glia are a distinct mature glial type, which we have called syantocytes or synantoglia after the Greek 'to contact', because they specifically contact neurons and axons at synapses and nodes of Ranvier, respectively. Synantocytes are highly complex cells that elaborate multiple branching processes and are an equally significant population in both white and grey matter. We provide evidence that phenotypically distinct synantocytes develop postnatally and that neither postnatal nor adult synantocytes depend on axons for their survival, indicating they respond with markedly different behaviours to the environmental cues and axonal signals that control the differentiation of OPC into oligodendrocytes. The primary response of synantocytes to changes in the CNS environment is a rapid and localised reactive gliosis. Reactive synantocytes interact intimately with astrocytes and macrophages at lesion sites, consistent with them playing a key role in the orchestration of scar formation that protects the underlying neural tissue. It is our hypothesis that synantocytes are specialised to monitor and respond to changes in the integrity of the CNS, by way of their cellular contacts, repertoire of plasmalemmal receptors and the NG2 molecule itself. To paraphrase Del Rio Hortega, we propose that synantocytes are the fifth element in the CNS, in addition to neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia.
Antibodies against the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan NG2 label a subpopulation of glial cells within the CNS, which have a small cell body and thin radiating processes. Physiological recordings from these small cells in acute brain slices have revealed that they possess unique properties, suggesting that they may comprise a class of glial cells distinct from astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, or microglia. NG2-expressing glial cells (abbreviated as &quot;NG2 cells&quot; here) have a moderate input resistance and are not dye- or tracer-coupled to adjacent cells. They express voltage-gated Na+, K+ and Ca2+ conductances, though they do not exhibit regenerative Na+ or Ca2+ action potentials due to the much larger K+ conductances present. In addition to voltage-gated conductances, they express receptors for various neurotransmitters. In the hippocampus, AMPA and GABAA receptors on these cells are activated by release of transmitter from neurons at defined synaptic junctions that are formed with CA3 pyramidal neurons and GABAergic interneurons. These rapid forms of neuron-glial communication may regulate the proliferation rate of NG2 cells or their development into mature oligodendrocytes. These depolarizing inputs may also trigger the release of neuroactive substances from NG2 cells, providing feedback regulation of signaling at neuronal synapses. Although the presence of Ca2+ permeable AMPA receptors provides a pathway to link neuronal activity to Ca2+ dependent processes within the NG2 cells, these receptors also put these cells at risk for glutamate-associated excitotoxicity. This vulnerability to the sustained elevation of glutamate may underlie ischemic induced damage to white matter tracts and contribute to cerebral palsy in premature infants.
We present evidence that NG2+ glia are an integral part of an oligodendrocyte/synantocyte (OS) lineage stream the progenitors of which begin to produce both glial phenotypes at about birth. The NG2 CSPG is differentially distributed within the OS lineage, being expressed in progenitors and synantocytes but not in oligodendrocytes. All cells in the OS lineage, except the primordial stem cells, express O4. The oligodendrocyte line reacts with CD9, but synantocytes are CD9-. Nonetheless, synantocytes are morphologically complex and specialised glia which contact axolemma in myelinated fibres at nodes of Ranvier and synaptic terminals, and form &gt;99% of all NG2+ glia in the adult CNS. Thus, the other NG2+ phenotype, the adult oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (AOPC), constitutes a small population of &lt;1% of all NG2+ glia in the mature CNS. AOPC are a heterogeneous set of cells probably originating from multiple sources which, by definition, produce oligodendrocytes in the adult to replace loss after trauma, demyelination and normal 'wear and tear'. The definitive functions of synantocytes remain undefined.
Our previous studies suggested that the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) of Brown Norway (BN) male rats is active independently of the presence of its ligands (i.e. constitutively active), and that glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-mediated mechanisms are more efficient in BN than in Fischer 344 (F344) male rats. Such functional differences in corticosteroid receptors led us to compare the effect of adrenalectomy (ADX) and MR/GR-mediated actions (treatments with deoxycorticosterone, DOC and RU 28362, respectively) on female rats from both strains, and, within the framework of a genetic study, to investigate how these differences were inherited in rats of the first generation (F1) born from the crossbreeding between BN and F344 inbred rats. This study extends our previous hypotheses of a constitutive activation of MR and of a greater efficiency of GR in males to females of the BN strain. In both strains, female rats were less sensitive to ADX and to treatments with DOC or RU 28362 than males. Globally, F1 hybrid BNxF344 rats inherited the functional characteristics of MR and GR of BN rats.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a disease model of multiple sclerosis (MS) that is characterized by remittance and relapse of the disease and autoimmune and demyelinating lesions in the central nervous system (CNS). To better understand the mechanism of disease relapse, we induced acute and chronic relapsing (CR)-EAE in Lewis rats and examined the differences between the two groups. An immunohistochemical study revealed that significantly higher numbers of macrophages infiltrated the spinal cord during the first and second attacks of CR-EAE than at the peak of acute EAE, whereas the number of infiltrating T cells was essentially the same in acute and CR-EAE. In accordance with this finding, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) mRNA, but not MIP-1alpha and RANTES mRNA, increased significantly in CR-EAE lesions rather than in acute EAE lesions. More importantly, the level of MCP-1 during the remission of CR-EAE was significantly higher than during the recovery phase of acute EAE, suggesting that this high level of MCP-1 in CR-EAE is associated with relapse of the disease. CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2), the main receptor for MCP-1, was expressed on astrocytes, macrophages and T cells and the number of positive cells was higher in CR-EAE than in acute EAE. Collectively, these findings suggest that high expression of MCP-1 and its receptor, CCR2, in the CNS play important roles in relapse of EAE.
Specific chemokines and chemokine receptors have been implicated in inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), including multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Amino-terminal modifications of chemokines can alter receptor interactions, converting agonists to specific antagonists. To examine the function in EAE of murine types 1 and 5 CC chemokine receptors (CCR1 and CCR5), we used Met-RANTES, a peptide that blocks both receptors; controls received heat-inactivated peptide. There was no effect of active treatment on acute-monophasic EAE, regardless whether compound was given at onset or in a pre-treatment regimen. Administered at disease onset, Met-RANTES modestly but significantly ameliorated fixed neurological disability at the endpoint of chronic-relapsing EAE. Met-RANTES treatment did not reduce CNS cellular infiltrates or up-regulation of CCR1 and CCR5 in affected CNS tissues. Analysis of a subset of mice suggested a trend towards reduced axonal pathology in those receiving active treatment. These data indicate that chemokine receptor blockade with Met-RANTES does not affect leukocyte trafficking in chronic-relapsing EAE. Further analysis of the effects of chemokine receptor blockade may need to focus on leukocyte activation within the affected CNS as well as trafficking events.
The brain water fraction (R), the brain water transverse relaxation time (T2), the atrophy index (alpha) and the absolute concentration of the principal brain metabolites (NAA, Cho and Cr) were measured by localized proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the occipito-parietal cortex (mainly gray matter) of 15 relapsing-remitting (R-R) multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, 15 secondary progressive (SP) MS patients and 8 healthy subjects. Significantly lower values of N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine (Cr) and the NAA/Cr ratio in the occipito-parietal cortex were detected in SP MS patients than in R-R MS and control subjects (p &lt; 0.01). Moreover, MS patients showed shorter T2 water relaxation times and reduced brain water fraction compared with controls. Higher atrophy indices were also detected in the mainly occipito-parietal gray matter of MS patients, particularly in those with the progressive form. These findings suggest that the pathological process in MS is not limited to either white matter lesions or normal-appearing white matter but extends into the cortical gray matter (occipito-parietal), particularly in the progressive form of the disease. This can involve changes in neural metabolism or neural shrinkage and neuron loss. The significant increase in atrophy indices could be the expression of the relatively higher cerebrospinal fluid signal from the occipito-parietal cortex, even in the absence of obvious cortical atrophy.
Previous diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) studies reported mean diffusivity () and fractional anisotropy (FA) changes in lesions and normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), but neglected the additional information which can be obtained by the analysis of the inter-voxel coherence (C). The present study is based on a large sample of patients with MS and it is aimed at assessing the potential role of C in the quantification of MS-related tissue damage of T2-visible lesions and NAWM. We obtained dual-echo, T1-weighted and DT-MRI scans from 78 patients with relapsing-remitting (RR), secondary progressive (SP), or primary progressive (PP) MS and from 26 healthy volunteers. We calculated, FA and C of T2-hyperintense lesions, T1-isointense lesions, T1-hypointense lesions and several areas of the NAWM. and FA of the majority of NAWM regions studied from MS patients were different from the corresponding quantities of the white matter from controls. NAWM C from patients was lower than white matter C from controls only for the parietal pericallosal areas. SPMS patients had higher corpus callosum and lower corpus callosum FA and C than patients with either RRMS or PPMS. Average lesion was higher, and average FA and C lower than the corresponding quantities measured in the NAWM. Average T1-hypointense lesion was higher and average FA lower than the corresponding quantities of T1-isointense lesions, whereas average C of these two lesion populations were not different. SPMS had higher average lesion than both PPMS and RRMS patients. NAWM and C of the corpus callosum were moderately correlated with disability. This study confirms the role of DT-MRI metrics to identify MS lesions with different amounts of tissue damage and to detect diffuse changes in the NAWM. It also shows that measuring C enables us to obtain additional information about tissue damage, which is complementary to that given by the analysis of and FA.
Protein deposition is a common event in age-related neurological diseases that are characterized by neuronal dysfunction and eventual cell death. Here, cultured hippocampal slices were infused with the lysosomal disrupter chloroquine to examine the link between abnormal protein processing/deposition and early synaptopathogenesis. Tau species of 55 to 69 kDa increased over several days of treatment with chloroquine, while the protein and message levels of synaptic markers were selectively reduced. Neurons of subfields CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus accumulated protein deposits recognized by antibodies against paired helical filaments and ubiquitin, and this was accompanied by tubulin fragmentation and deacetylation. The deposition filled the basal pole of pyramidal neurons, encompassing the area of the axon hillock and initial dendritic branching but without causing overt neuronal atrophy. Neurons containing the polar aggregates exhibited severely impaired transport along basal dendrites. Transport capability was also lost along apical dendrites, the opposite direction of deposited material in the basal pole; thus, perpetuating the problem beyond physical blockage must be the associated loss of microtubule integrity. These data indicate that transport failure forms a link between tau deposition and synaptic decline, thus shedding light on how protein aggregation events disrupt synaptic and cognitive functions before the ensuing cellular destruction.
Using high-field (3 Tesla) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we demonstrate that auditory and somatosensory inputs converge in a subregion of human auditory cortex along the superior temporal gyrus. Further, simultaneous stimulation in both sensory modalities resulted in activity exceeding that predicted by summing the responses to the unisensory inputs, thereby showing multisensory integration in this convergence region. Recently, intracranial recordings in macaque monkeys have shown similar auditory-somatosensory convergence in a subregion of auditory cortex directly caudomedial to primary auditory cortex (area CM). The multisensory region identified in the present investigation may be the human homologue of CM. Our finding of auditory-somatosensory convergence in early auditory cortices contributes to mounting evidence for multisensory integration early in the cortical processing hierarchy, in brain regions that were previously assumed to be unisensory.
Using whole cell voltage-clamp recordings we investigated the effects of a synthetic cannabinoid (WIN55,212-2) on inhibitory inputs received by layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in slices of the mouse auditory cortex. Activation of the type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) with WIN55,212-2 reliably reduced the amplitude of GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents evoked by extracellular stimulation within layer 2/3. The suppression of this inhibition was blocked and reversed by the highly selective CB1R antagonist AM251, confirming a CB1R-mediated inhibition. Pairing evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) at short interstimulus intervals while applying WIN55,212-2 resulted in an increase in paired-pulse facilitation suggesting that the probability of GABA release was reduced. A presynaptic site of cannabinoid action was verified by an observed decrease in the frequency with no change in the amplitude or kinetics of action potential-independent postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). When Cd(2+) was added or Ca(2+) was omitted from the recording solution, the remaining fraction of Ca(2+)-independent mIPSCs did not respond to WIN55,212-2. These data suggest that cannabinoids are capable of suppressing the inhibition of neocortical pyramidal neurons by depressing Ca(2+)-dependent GABA release from local interneurons.
The direct perforant path (PP) projection to CA3 is a major source of cortical input to the hippocampal region, yet relatively little is known about the basic properties of physiology and plasticity in this pathway. We tested whether PP long-term potentiation (LTP) in CA3 possesses the Hebbian property of associativity; i.e., whether the firing of fibers of different orders can induce PP LTP. We stimulated PP with weak trains of high-frequency stimulation (HFS), which by itself was below the threshold for LTP induction. The identical HFS was effective in inducing LTP when the mossy fiber pathway (MF) was activated simultaneously, thus demonstrating associative plasticity between the two pathways. We also demonstrated associative LTP between PP and recurrent collateral fibers (RC). PP LTP was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid in both the associative and homosynaptic induction conditions. Neither MF nor RC fiber HFS alone resulted in permanent changes in PP field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) amplitude. However, HFS delivered to either MF or RC alone led to transient heterosynaptic depression of the PP fEPSP. Our results support the conceptual framework that regards CA3 as an autoassociative memory network in which efficient retrieval of previously stored activity patterns is mediated by associative plasticity of the PP synapse.
This study addresses the integration of auditory and visual stimuli subserving the generation of saccades in a complex scene. Previous studies have shown that saccadic reaction times (SRTs) to combined auditory-visual stimuli are reduced when compared with SRTs to either stimulus alone. However, these results have been typically obtained with high-intensity stimuli distributed over a limited number of positions in the horizontal plane. It is less clear how auditory-visual interactions influence saccades under more complex but arguably more natural conditions, when low-intensity stimuli are embedded in complex backgrounds and distributed throughout two-dimensional (2-D) space. To study this problem, human subjects made saccades to visual-only (V-saccades), auditory-only (A-saccades), or spatially coincident auditory-visual (AV-saccades) targets. In each trial, the low-intensity target was embedded within a complex auditory-visual background, and subjects were allowed over 3 s to search for and foveate the target at 1 of 24 possible locations within the 2-D oculomotor range. We varied systematically the onset times of the targets and the intensity of the auditory target relative to background [i.e., the signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio] to examine their effects on both SRT and saccadic accuracy. Subjects were often able to localize the target within one or two saccades, but in about 15% of the trials they generated scanning patterns that consisted of many saccades. The present study reports only the SRT and accuracy of the first saccade in each trial. In all subjects, A-saccades had shorter SRTs than V-saccades, but were more inaccurate than V-saccades when generated to auditory targets presented at low S/N ratios. AV-saccades were at least as accurate as V-saccades but were generated at SRTs typical of A-saccades. The properties of AV-saccades depended systematically on both stimulus timing and S/N ratio of the auditory target. Compared with unimodal A- and V-saccades, the improvements in SRT and accuracy of AV-saccades were greatest when the visual target was synchronous with or leading the auditory target, and when the S/N ratio of the auditory target was lowest. Further, the improvements in saccade accuracy were greater in elevation than in azimuth. A control experiment demonstrated that a portion of the improvements in SRT could be attributable to a warning-cue mechanism, but that the improvements in saccade accuracy depended on the spatial register of the stimuli. These results agree well with earlier electrophysiological results obtained from the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) of anesthetized preparations, and we argue that they demonstrate multisensory integration of auditory and visual signals in a complex, quasi-natural environment. A conceptual model incorporating the SC is presented to explain the observed data.
Voltage-gated K(+) channels containing pore-forming subunits of the Kv3 subfamily have specific roles in the fast repolarization of action potentials and enable neurons to fire repetitively at high frequencies. Each of the four known Kv3 genes encode multiple products by alternative splicing of 3' ends resulting in the expression of K(+) channel subunits differing only in their C-terminal sequence. The alternative splicing does not affect the electrophysiological properties of the channels, and its physiological role is unknown. It has been proposed that one of the functions of the alternative splicing of Kv3 genes is to produce subunit isoforms with differential subcellular membrane localizations in neurons and differential modulation by signaling pathways. We investigated the role of the alternative splicing of Kv3 subunits in subcellular localization by examining the brain distribution of the two alternatively spliced versions of the Kv3.1 gene (Kv3.1a and Kv3.1b) with antibodies specific for the alternative spliced C-termini. Kv3.1b proteins were prominently expressed in the somatic and proximal dendritic membrane of specific neuronal populations in the mouse brain. The axons of most of these neurons also expressed Kv3.1b protein. In contrast, Kv3.1a proteins were prominently expressed in the axons of some of the same neuronal populations, but there was little to no Kv3.1a protein expression in somatodendritic membrane. Exceptions to this pattern were seen in two neuronal populations with unusual targeting of axonal proteins, mitral cells of the olfactory bulb, and mesencephalic trigeminal neurons, which expressed Kv3.1a protein in dendritic and somatic membrane, respectively. The results support the hypothesis that the alternative spliced C-termini of Kv3 subunits regulate their subcellular targeting in neurons.
Neurons in area MT, a motion-sensitive area of extrastriate cortex, respond to a step of target velocity with a transient-sustained firing pattern. The transition from a high initial firing rate to a lower sustained rate occurs over a time course of 20-80 ms and is considered a form of short-term adaptation. In the present paper, we compared the tuning of the adaptation to the neuron's tuning to direction and speed. The tuning of adaptation was measured with a condition/test paradigm in which a testing motion of the preferred direction and speed of the neuron under study was preceded by a conditioning motion: the direction and speed of the conditioning motion were varied systematically. The response to the test motion depended strongly on the direction of the conditioning motion. It was suppressed in almost all neurons by conditioning motion in the same direction and could be either suppressed or enhanced by conditioning motion in the opposite direction. Even in neurons that showed suppression for target motion in the nonpreferred direction, the adaptation and response direction tuning were the same. The speed tuning of adaptation was linked much less tightly to the speed tuning of the response of the neuron under study. For just more than 50% of neurons, the preferred speed of adaptation was more than 1 log unit different from the preferred response speed. Many neurons responded best when slow motions were followed by faster motions (acceleration) or vice versa (deceleration), suggesting that MT neurons may encode information about the change of target velocity over time. Finally, adaptation by conditioning motions of different directions, but not different speeds, altered the latency of the response to the test motion. The adaptation of latency recovered with shorter intervals between the conditioning and test motions than did the adaptation of response size, suggesting that latency and amplitude adaptation are mediated by separate mechanisms. Taken together with the companion paper, our data suggest that short-term motion adaptation in MT is a consequence of the neural circuit in MT and is not mediated by either input-specific mechanisms or intrinsic mechanisms related to the spiking of individual neurons. The circuit responsible for adaptation is tuned for both speed and direction and has the same direction tuning as the circuit responsible for the initial response of MT neurons.
Neurons in area MT, a motion-sensitive area of extrastriate cortex, respond to a step of target velocity with a transient-sustained firing pattern. The transition from a high initial firing rate to a lower sustained rate occurs over a time course of 20-80 ms and is considered a form of short-term adaptation. The present paper asks whether adaptation is due to input-specific mechanisms such as short-term synaptic depression or if it results from intrinsic cellular mechanisms such as spike-rate adaptation. We assessed the contribution of input-specific mechanisms by using a condition/test paradigm to measure the spatial scale of adaptation. Conditioning and test stimuli were placed within MT receptive fields but were spatially segregated so that the two stimuli would activate different populations of inputs from the primary visual cortex (V1). Conditioning motion at one visual location caused a reduction of the transient firing to subsequent test motion at a second location. The adaptation field, estimated as the region of visual space where conditioning motion caused adaptation, was always larger than the MT receptive field. Use of the same stimulus configuration while recording from direction-selective neurons in V1 failed to demonstrate either adaptation or the transient-sustained response pattern that is the signature of short-term adaptation in MT. We conclude that the shift from transient to sustained firing in MT cells does not result from an input-specific mechanism applied to inputs from V1 because it operates over a wider range of the visual field than is covered by receptive fields of V1 neurons. We used a direct analysis of MT neuron spike trains for many repetitions of the same motion stimulus to assess the contribution to adaptation of intrinsic cellular mechanisms related to spiking. On a trial-by-trial basis, there was no correlation between number of spikes in the transient interval and the interval immediately after the transient period. This is opposite the prediction that there should be a correlation if spikes cause adaptation directly. Further, the transient was suppressed or extinguished, not delayed, in trials in which the neuron emitted zero spikes during the interval that showed a transient in average firing rate. We conclude that the transition from transient to sustained firing in neurons in area MT is caused by mechanisms that are neither input-specific nor controlled by the spiking of the adapting neuron. We propose that the short-term adaptation observed in area MT emerges from the intracortical circuit within MT.
Single motoneurons and pairs of a presynaptic reticulospinal axon and a postsynaptic motoneuron were recorded in the isolated lamprey spinal cord, to investigate the role of calcium-dependent K(+) channels (K(Ca)) during the afterhyperpolarization following the action potential (AHP), and glutamatergic synaptic transmission on the dendritic level. The AHP consists of a fast phase due to transient K(+) channels (fAHP) and a slower phase lasting 100-200 ms (sAHP), being the main determinant of spike frequency regulation. We now present evidence that the sAHP has two components. The larger part, around 80%, is abolished by superfusion of Cd(2+) (blocker of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels), by intracellular injection of 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA; fast Ca(2+) chelator), and by apamin (selective toxin for K(Ca) channels of the SK subtype). While 80% of the sAHP is thus due to K(Ca) channels, the remaining 20% is not mediated by Ca(2+), either entering through voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels or released from intracellular Ca(2+) stores. This Ca(2+)-independent sAHP component has a similar time course as the K(Ca) portion and is not due to a Cl(-) conductance. It may be caused by Na(+)-activated K(+) channels. Glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by single reticulospinal axons give rise to a local Ca(2+) increase in the postsynaptic dendrite, mediated in part by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The Ca(2+) levels remain elevated for several hundred milliseconds and could be expected to activate K(Ca) channels. If so, this activation should cause a local conductance increase in the dendrite that would shunt EPSPs following the first EPSP in a spike train. We have tested this in reticulospinal/motoneuronal pairs, by stimulating the presynaptic axon with spike trains at different frequencies. We compared the first EPSP and the following EPSPs in the control and after blockade with apamin. No difference was observed in EPSP amplitude or shape before and after apamin, either in normal Ringer or in Mg(2+)-free Ringer removing the voltage-dependent block of NMDA receptors. In conclusion, the local Ca(2+) entry during reticulospinal EPSPs does not cause an activation of K(Ca) channels sufficient to affect the efficacy of synaptic transmission. Thus the integration of synaptic signals at the dendritic level in motoneurons appears simpler than would otherwise have been the case.
Suppression of the voltage-activated, noninactivating K(+) conductance (M conductance; g(M)) by muscarinic agonists, P(2Y) agonists or bradykinin increases neuronal excitability. All agonist effects are mediated, at least in part, via the Gq/(11) class of G protein. We found, using whole cell or perforated patch recording from bullfrog sympathetic B neurons that ATP-induced suppression of g(M) was attenuated by the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor, U73122 (IC(50) approximately 0.14 microM) but not by the inactive isomer, U73343. The ability of extracellularly applied U73122 to inhibit PLC was confirmed by its antagonism of ATP-induced elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) as measured by fura-2 photometry. ATP-induced g(M) suppression was not antagonized by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, chelerythrine (5 microM extracellular +10 microM intracellular), by the Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor, thapsigargin (5 microM), or by inositol trisphosphate (InsP(3)) receptor antagonists, heparin (approximaterly 300 microM) or xestospongin C (1.8 microM). The effect of ATP on g(M) was thus dependent on PLC yet independent of PKC and of InsP(3)-induced release of intracellular Ca(2+). We therefore tested the involvement of a PKC-independent action of diacylglycerol (DAG) that could occur via activation of Ras. This low-molecular-weight G protein is activated following DAG binding to Ras-GRP, a neuronal Ras-GTP exchange factor. However, impairment of Ras function by culturing neurons with isoprenylation inhibitors (perillic acid, 0.1 mM, or alpha-hydroxyfarnesyl-phosphonic acid, 10 microM) failed to affect ATP-induced g(M) suppression. Inhibition of MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase), a downstream target of Ras, by using PD 98059 (10 microM) was also ineffective. The transduction mechanism used by ATP to suppress g(M) in frog sympathetic neurons therefore differs from the PLC-independent mechanism used by muscarine and from the PLC and Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism used by bradykinin and UTP in mammalian ganglia. The possibility remains that &quot;lipid-signaling&quot; mechanisms, perhaps involving PLC-induced depletion of phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate, are involved in PLC-mediated inhibition of g(M) by ATP in amphibian sympathetic neurons.
The essential role of calcium in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) has been well established. In particular, calcium influx via the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) is important for LTP induction in many pathways. However, the specific roles of other calcium sources in hippocampal LTP are less clear. The aim of the present study was to determine the appropriate conditions and extent to which non-NMDAR Ca(2+) sources contribute to the induction of different forms of LTP in area CA1 of hippocampal slices. Increasing numbers of theta-burst trains (1, 4, and 8 TBS) induced LTP of increasing magnitude and persistence. Inhibition of ryanodine receptors caused inhibition of weak LTP induced by 1 TBS, but had no effect on more robust forms of LTP. Inhibition of IP3 receptors inhibited moderate LTP induced by 4 TBS, but had no effect when 1 TBS or 8 TBS were used. Inhibition of L-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels inhibited strong LTP induced by 8 TBS, but had no effect on weaker forms of LTP. These results show that different Ca(2+) sources have different thresholds for activation by TBS trains. Furthermore, each Ca(2+) source appears to be tuned to the induction of a different form of LTP. Such tuning could reflect an important link between different LTP induction and maintenance mechanisms.
Behavioral and anatomical studies by our group have suggested that the protein kinase A (PKA) signal transduction cascade contributes to long-term changes in nociceptive processing at the spinal cord level. In this study, we have examined the effects of activation of the PKA cascade on the responses of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons to peripheral mechanical stimuli in anesthetized and paralyzed monkeys. PKA in the spinal cord was activated by intra-spinal infusion of forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase, by microdialysis. There was a consistent increase in responses to mechanical pressure and pinch stimuli in all STT cells tested when forskolin was administered. Enhanced responses remained at relatively high levels when forskolin had been washed out for 30 min. However, in most STT cells tested (65%), the responses to brushing stimuli were not obviously changed when forskolin was given. Background activity was slightly increased when forskolin was administered. An inactive isomer of forskolin, D-forskolin, did not produce significant effects on cellular activity. The sensitization of STT cells to noxious mechanical stimuli produced by forskolin could be blocked by pretreatment of the spinal cord with the PKA inhibitor, N-[2-((p-bromocinnamyl)amino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamine (H89). The same dose of H89 did not affect the enhanced responses to mechanical stimuli produced by activation of protein kinase G by intra-spinal infusion of 8-bromo-cGMP, indicating that the effect of forskolin was selective. The present data suggest that activation of PKA can preferentially enhance the responses of STT cells to noxious mechanical stimuli without producing an increase in responses to innocuous brushing stimuli. We speculate that the PKA signal transduction cascade may contribute more to secondary mechanical hyperalgesia than to secondary mechanical allodynia.
Previous studies have implicated phospholipase C (PLC)-linked Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in regulating the excitability of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. We used intracellular recordings from rat hippocampal slices and specific antagonists to examine in more detail the mGluR receptor subtypes and signal transduction mechanisms underlying this effect. Application of the Group I mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) suppressed slow- and medium-duration afterhyperpolarizations (s- and mAHP) and caused a consequent increase in cell excitability as well as a depolarization of the membrane and an increase in input resistance. Interestingly, with the exception of the suppression of the mAHP, these effects were persistent, and in the case of the sAHP lasting for more than 1 h of drug washout. Preincubation with the specific mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), reduced but did not completely prevent the effects of DHPG. However, preincubation with both MPEP and the mGluR1 antagonist LY367385 completely prevented the DHPG-induced changes. These results demonstrate that the DHPG-induced changes are mediated partly by mGluR5 and partly by mGluR1. Because Group I mGluRs are linked to PLC via G-protein activation, we also investigated pathways downstream of PLC activation, using chelerythrine and cyclopiazonic acid to block protein kinase C (PKC) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-(IP(3))-activated Ca(2+) stores, respectively. Neither inhibitor affected the DHPG-induced suppression of the sAHP or the increase in excitability nor did an inhibitor of PLC itself, U-73122. Taken together, these results argue that in CA1 pyramidal cells in the adult rat, DHPG activates mGluRs of both the mGluR5 and mGluR1 subtypes, causing a long-lasting suppression of the sAHP and a consequent persistent increase in excitability via a PLC-, PKC-, and IP(3)-independent transduction pathway.

These retrospective analyses represent a pilot study of a potential new outcome, expected emergence. The Behavior Rating Scale for Dementia (BRSD) was administered at the baseline and 12-month visits of a multicenter study. The authors computed the rates at which each BRSD symptom emerged over 12 months in normal elderly control subjects (n=64). These normal rates were then applied as the expected emergent rate (EER) to a population of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (n=235). The comparison of expected emergence to observed emergence in Alzheimer's disease showed interpretable differences. EER assesses whether treatments limit emergence in the target, relative to the standard, population. The ratio of expected to observed emergence provides an intuitively appealing quantification of treatment efficacy and can be used with any instrument that uses categorical or frequency ratings.
Humans can make smooth, continuous transitions in walking direction from forward to backward. Thus, the processing of sensory input must allow a similar continuum of possibilities. Hip extension and reduced load are two important conditions that control the transition from the stance to swing phase during forward stepping in human infants. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the same factors also regulate the initiation of the swing phase in other directions of stepping. Thirty-seven infants between the ages of 5 and 13 months were studied during supported forward and sideways stepping on a treadmill. Disturbances were elicited by placing a piece of cardboard under the foot and pulling the cardboard in different directions. In this way, the leg was displaced in a particular direction and simultaneously unloaded. We observed whether the swing phase was immediately initiated after the application of disturbances in various directions. Electromyography, vertical ground reaction forces, and hip motion in frontal and sagittal planes were recorded. The results showed that the most potent sensory input to initiate the swing phase depends on the direction of stepping. Although low load was always necessary to initiate swing for all directions of walking, the preferred hip position was always one directly opposite the direction of walking. The results indicated the presence of selective gating of sensory input from the legs as a function of the direction of stepping.
Genetic disruption of calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) function alters hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory in mice. We used transgenic mice carrying a tetracycline-regulated, calcium-independent form of CaMKII (CaMKII-Asp286) to investigate the role of CaMKII activation on synaptic plasticity and behavior. Mice expressing low levels of a CaMKII-Asp286 transgene have facilitated low-frequency (5 Hz)-induced long-term potentiation (LTP), whereas mice with high levels of transgene expression have a deficit in this form of plasticity. Behavioral impairments on fear-conditioned memory and visible water maze correlate with the level of CaMKII-Asp286 expression. Mice with high levels of CaMKII-Asp286 have reversible, compensatory changes in the expression of genes associated with inhibitory neurotransmission. These results demonstrate that in the hippocampus, CaMKII activation facilitates the induction of low-frequency LTP, but at high levels of expression, compensatory mechanisms act to inhibit the induction of this form of LTP. The most severe behavioral impairments are associated with activation of this compensatory mechanism.
Pain and hyperalgesia from deep somatic tissue (i.e., muscle and joint) are processed differently from that from skin. This study examined differences between deep and cutaneous tissue allodynia and the role of cAMP in associated behavioral changes. Capsaicin was injected into the plantar aspect of the skin, plantar muscles of the paw, or ankle joint, and responses to mechanical and heat stimuli were assessed until allodynia resolved. Capsaicin injected into skin resulted in a secondary mechanical allodynia and heat hypoalgesia lasting approximately 3 hr. In contrast, capsaicin injection into muscle or joint resulted in a long-lasting bilateral (1-4 weeks) mechanical allodynia with a simultaneous unilateral heat hypoalgesia. The pattern and degree of inflammation were similar when capsaicin was injected into skin, muscle, or joint, with peak increases 24 hr after injection. Heat hypoalgesia that occurs after injection into deep tissue was reversed by spinal blockade of adenylate cyclase or protein kinase A (PKA). Interestingly, mechanical allodynia was reversed if adenylate cyclase or PKA inhibitors were administered spinally 24 hr, but not 1 week, after injection of capsaicin. Spinally administered 8-bromo-cAMP resulted in a similar pattern, with heat hypoalgesia and mechanical allodynia occurring simultaneously. Thus, injection of capsaicin into deep tissues results in a longer-lasting mechanical allodynia and heat hypoalgesia compared with injection of capsaicin into skin. The mechanical allodynia depends on early activation of the cAMP pathway during the first 24 hr but is independent of the cAMP pathway by 1 week after injection of capsaicin.
Mice deficient for dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors exhibit blunted c-fos responses to D(1) agonist stimulation. Stereologic cell counting revealed decreased numbers of medial prefrontal cortex neurons that express Fos immunoreactivity in all layers, particularly in the prelimbic and anterior cingulate subregions. Pretreatment of these mutants with a single, low dose of methamphetamine (METH) led to a sustained increase in the number of neurons that express Fos immunoreactivity in response to a D(1) agonist challenge, which was most significant in prelimbic and anterior cingulate subregions. The increased c-fos responses reached wild-type-like levels in METH-pretreated D(2) mutants but remained submaximal in METH-pretreated D(3) mutants. Additional studies tested the performance of wild type and mutants in a delayed alternation test, a cognitive task critically dependent on optimal activation of prefrontal cortical D(1) receptors by synaptically released dopamine. Both D(2) and D(3) mutants exhibited deficits in their spatial working memory, with increasing impairments at increasing delays. Whereas METH pretreatment rescued the spatial working memory of D(2) mutants, it had no effect on D(3) mutants. These data suggest that the sustained improvement of spatial working memory in METH-pretreated D(2) mutants is attributable to D(1) receptor-mediated mechanisms.
The alpha5 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor is localized mainly to the hippocampus of the mammalian brain. The significance of this rather distinct localization and the function of alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors has been explored by targeted disruption of the alpha5 gene in mice. The alpha5 -/- mice showed a significantly improved performance in a water maze model of spatial learning, whereas the performance in non-hippocampal-dependent learning and in anxiety tasks were unaltered in comparison with wild-type controls. In the CA1 region of hippocampal brain slices from alpha5 -/- mice, the amplitude of the IPSCs was decreased, and paired-pulse facilitation of field EPSP (fEPSP) amplitudes was enhanced. These data suggest that alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors play a key role in cognitive processes by controlling a component of synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus.
With the discovery of postnatal stem cells within the brain, it has become important to understand how extracellular factors might affect the maturation of neuronal precursors in the postnatal brain. Neurotrophic factors are known to play a role in neuronal development but display pleiotrophic effects, in part because of their physiological interactions with other factors. One factor positioned to interact with neurotrophins in the brains of postnatal animals is atrial C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP). In this study, we used olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) as a model, because their precursors demonstrate the most robust and functional postnatal neurogenesis of those systems thus far described. We examined the effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) and the interactions of these neurotrophins and CNP in postnatal olfactory neuronal precursors. Results obtained using mice with targeted deletion of the gene for BDNF indicated that BDNF is a neuroproliferation-inducing and survival factor for ORN precursors. These roles were confirmed in vitro using primary cultures of ORNs. NGF was found to be a proliferation-inducing factor but not a survival factor. The addition of CNP to either BDNF- or NGF-treated neuronal precursors resulted in an inhibition of proliferation and the promotion of maturation. These effects were accompanied by changes in cell-cycle proteins that suggest possible mechanisms for these effects. Thus, CNP may function in the postnatal brain to regulate the exit from the cell cycle in neuronal precursor cells.
The first mutations of the GABA(A) receptor channel linked to familial epilepsy in humans were reported recently (Baulac et al., 2001; Wallace et al., 2001). Preliminary functional analysis of alpha1beta2gamma2 GABA(A) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes suggested that the gamma2 subunit R43Q mutation abolished current enhancement by the benzodiazepine, diazepam, and that the gamma2 subunit K289M mutation decreased current amplitudes. We used single-channel recording and concentration jump techniques applied to outside out patches to evaluate the impact of these mutations on GABA(A) receptor channel function of the highly conserved rat ortholog subunits expressed in human embryonic kidney cells. When coexpressed with alpha1 and beta3 subunits, no differences were observed between wild-type and mutant GABA(A) receptor current activation rates or rates or extent of desensitization during prolonged (400 msec) GABA application (1 mm). Although deactivation after brief (5 msec) or prolonged (400 msec) GABA application was unaltered by the R43Q mutation, deactivation (a correlate of IPSC duration) was accelerated for the K289M mutation. Faster deactivation was likely a consequence of altered gating, because single-channel openings had shorter mean duration. Interestingly, the R43Q mutation did not alter diazepam potentiation. It did, however, substantially decrease current amplitude, which was not caused by decreased single-channel conductance or open time, suggesting reduced surface expression of functional receptors. The two gamma2 subunit mutations likely produce disinhibition and familial epilepsy by distinct mechanisms, suggesting that maintenance of neuronal inhibition depends not only on the peak amplitude of IPSCs, but also on their time course.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) causes calcium influx, intracellular calcium release, and elevation of cAMP in chromaffin cells. Calcium influx is required for PACAP-stimulated secretion of catecholamines and neuropeptides. The role of cAMP elevation in the action of PACAP at either sympathetic or adrenomedullary synapses, however, is unknown. Here, we show that PACAP-27-induced calcium influx through voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCCs), together with elevation of intracellular cAMP, was sufficient to stimulate vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) biosynthesis at least 40-fold. Combined treatment of chromaffin cells with 40 mm KCl, which elevates intracellular calcium, and 25 micrometer forskolin, which elevates intracellular cAMP, caused an increase in VIP peptide and mRNA much greater than that elicited by either agent alone, and comparable to the increase caused by 10-100 nm PACAP-27. Elevation of VIP mRNA by either KCl plus forskolin, or PACAP, (1) was independent of new protein synthesis, (2) was blocked by inhibition of calcium influx through voltage-sensitive calcium channels, (3) was calcineurin dependent, and (4) was dependent on MAP kinase activation but not activation of protein kinase A. The degree of activation of two different second-messenger pathways, calcium influx and cAMP elevation, appears to determine the magnitude of transcriptional activation of the VIP gene in chromaffin cells. Maximal stimulation of VIP biosynthesis by PACAP appears to require the coincident activation of both of these pathways.
Alternative splicing is a major mechanism by which potassium and calcium channels increase functional diversity in animals. Extensive alternative splicing of the para sodium channel gene and developmental regulation of alternative splicing have been reported in Drosophila species. Alternative splicing has also been observed for several mammalian voltage-gated sodium channel genes. However, the functional significance of alternative splicing of sodium channels has not been demonstrated. In this study, we identified three mutually exclusive alternative exons encoding part of segments 3 and 4 of domain III in the German cockroach sodium channel gene, para(CSMA). The splice site is conserved in the mouse, fish, and human Na(v)1.6 sodium channel genes, suggesting an ancient origin. One of the alternative exons possesses a stop codon, which would generate a truncated protein with only the first two domains. The splicing variant containing the stop codon is detected only in the PNS, whereas the other two full-size variants were detected in both the PNS and CNS. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, the two splicing variants produced robust sodium currents, but with different gating properties, whereas the splicing variant with the stop codon did not produce any detectable sodium current. Furthermore, these two functional splicing variants exhibited a striking difference in sensitivity to a pyrethroid insecticide, deltamethrin. Exon swapping partially reversed the channel sensitivity to deltamethrin. Our results therefore provide the first evidence that alternative splicing of a sodium channel gene produces pharmacologically distinct channels.
Cholinergic neurons acquire their neurotransmitter phenotype, in part, by expressing the cholinergic gene locus. Previous studies have indicated that the 5' flanking DNA of the locus contains both positive and negative regulatory elements important for expression in different subsets of cholinergic neurons in Drosophila and other animals. Approximately 300 bases of proximal 5' flanking DNA control expression in Drosophila CNS neurons essential for viability, whereas more distal regulatory elements are important for expression in PNS sensory neurons. In this study we identify the POU domain transcription factor abnormal chemosensory jump 6 (Acj6) as a necessary positive transcriptional regulator for cholinergic locus expression in primary olfactory neurons. Choline acetyltransferase enzyme activity, protein levels, mRNA, and a fluorescent cholinergic reporter gene are all decreased in olfactory neurons of acj6 mutants. Decreased cholinergic expression was observed in both adults and larvae. The presence of a specific Acj6 binding site has been identified in the cholinergic locus 5' flanking DNA, suggesting that Acj6 may play a direct role in specifying the cholinergic neurotransmitter phenotype of most olfactory neurons. Transgenic expression of two different isoforms of Acj6 restricted to olfactory neurons indicates that additional trans factors may be required for cholinergic locus expression. Transgenic expression in all cholinergic neurons, however, results in lethality when a POU IV box element is absent but is essentially benign when present, indicating the importance of this motif in specifying different functional roles for Acj6.
Long-term depression (LTD) is widely considered a mechanism for experience-induced synaptic weakening in the brain. Recent in vivo studies on glutamic acid decarboxylase [GAD 65 (-/-)] knock-out mice indicates that GABAergic synaptic inhibition is also required for the normal weakening of deprived inputs in the visual cortex. To better understand how GABAergic inhibition might control plasticity, we assessed the status of synaptic inhibition and LTD in visual cortical slices of GAD 65 knock-out mice. We found the following: (1) the efficacy of GABAergic synapses during repetitive activation is reduced in GAD 65 (-/-) mice; (2) the induction of LTD is impaired in the visual cortex of GAD 65 (-/-) mice; and (3) chronic, but not acute, treatment with the benzodiazepine agonist diazepam restores LTD in GAD 65 (-/-) mice. These results suggest that a certain inhibitory tone is required for the induction of LTD in visual cortex. We propose that the lack of visual cortical LTD in GAD 65 (-/-) may account for the lack of experience-dependent plasticity in these mice.
The neuroanatomical and functional relationships between dopamine (DA) and neurotensin (NT) and DA and neuropeptide Y (NPY) suggest a role for these neuropeptides in DA-related neuropsychiatric disorders. By employing a microdialysis technique in conjunction with radioimmunoassay (RIA), the effects of d-amphetamine per se or after pretreatment with DA receptor antagonists on NT and NPY outflow were determined in the ventral striatum (VSTR) of the rat. One hour after a subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of saline, the DA-D(1) receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.3 mg/kg), or the DA-D(2/3) receptor antagonist raclopride (1.0 mg/kg), animals were injected s.c. with either saline or d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg). d-Amphetamine significantly increased extracellular NT- and NPY-like immunoreactivity (LI) concentrations compared with control animals. Administration of SCH 23390 or raclopride did not significantly affect NT-LI or NPY-LI concentrations. However, pretreatment with either SCH 23390 or raclopride abolished the stimulatory effect of d-amphetamine on NT-LI and NPY-LI. These findings demonstrate that d-amphetamine increases extracellular concentrations of NT-LI and NPY-LI in the VSTR through a mechanism that initially involves stimulation of either DA-D(1) or DA-D(2/3) receptors but appears to require both. In conclusion, changes in dopaminergic neurotransmission via DA-D(1) and DA-D(2/3) receptors affect the outflow of both NT and NPY in the VSTR.
Sulfatide is a myelin component of the central (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) and is used extensively to identify oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. We have explored sulfatide expression in CNS gray matter (cerebellum, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus) and the PNS in adult rats using an anti-sulfatide antibody (Sulph I) and confocal microscopy. Biochemical analyses revealed two Sulph I antigens, sulfatide and seminolipid; sulfatide was present at about five times higher concentration, and the affinity of Sulph I for sulfatide was 2.5 times higher than that for seminolipid. Thus sulfatide was considered the dominant antigen. We found Sulph I immunostaining, in addition to that in myelinated areas in subpopulations of astrocytes and neurons. Astrocyte Sulph I staining was localized to the cell bodies and in some cases also to the processes. In the cerebellum, some Sulph I-positive astrocytes corresponded to Golgi epithelial cell bodies. We also found Sulph I staining in neuronal cell bodies, which in some neurons was clearly localized to the cytoplasm and in others to the nuclear membrane. Sulph I immunostaining in the PNS was located in the myelin sheath and paranodal end segments. These results demonstrate the expression of sulfatide in cell types other than oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells, showing that sulfatide is not a selective marker for adult oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Moreover, these findings show that sulfatide is localized also to intracellular compartments and indicate that other roles of sulfatide in astrocytes and neurons, compared to myelin, might be considered.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF), a potent bioactive phospholipid implicated in neuronal excitotoxic death, was assessed as a mediator of brain mitochondrial dysfunction. Carbamyl PAF, a non-hydrolyzable PAF analog, added to neurons in culture resulted in decreased mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(M)) as measured by the DeltaPsi(M)-sensitive fluorophore 5,5', 6,6'-tetrachloro-1, 1', 3,3'-tetraethylethylbenzimidazolo-carbocyanide iodide (JC-1). To investigate whether PAF has a direct effect on the mitochondria, the mediator was added to rat brain mitochondria preparations and an increase in the permeability of the mitochondrial membrane, termed permeability transition (PT), and cytochrome c release were measured. We report that PAF causes both dose-dependent PT and cytochrome c release from isolated mitochondria. Furthermore, the selective PAF antagonist tetrahydro-4,7,8,10 methyl-1 (chloro-2 phenyl)-6 (methoxy-4 phenyl-carbamoyl)-9 pyrido [4',3'-4,5] thieno [3,2-f] triazolo-1,2,4 [4,3-a] diazepine-1,4 (BN50730), which has affinity for intracellular binding sites, and the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligands 7-chloro-5- [4'-chlorophenyl]-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one (Ro5-4864) and 1-(-2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinolinecarboxamide (PK11195), inhibit PAF induction of PT and cytochrome c release. These results suggest that PAF excitotoxicity involves, at least in part, alterations of the mitochondrial membrane.
Several studies have shown that the progression of oligodendrocyte progenitors along the lineage correlates with increased susceptibility to death stimuli. The molecular basis of this phenomenon remains unclear. This study demonstrates that the protein levels of several proapoptotic molecules, including Bax, Bad (nonphosphorylated form), and certain caspase proforms, increase during oligodendrocyte development. In contrast, the steady-state levels of antiapoptotic molecules, such as Bcl2 and Bcl(XL), remain constant. This altered equilibrium between proapoptotic and antiapoptotic molecules correlates with increased cytochrome C in the cytosol. We conclude that, as oligodendrocytes mature, their susceptibility to apoptosis increases because of a change in the balance between protective mechanisms and proapoptotic pathways. This suggests the possible existence of a death susceptibility program, which is intrinsic to differentiating oligodendrocyte progenitors.
This study evaluated reflex excitability and locomotor changes during chronic intrathecal infusion of the GABAb agonist baclofen (ITB) and its withdrawal, in the rat. We observed sustained velocity dependent decreases in ankle torque during four weeks of ITB treatment. These changes were correlated with a significant reduction of the EMG burst magnitude time locked to the dynamic phase of ankle dorsiflexion during the first ITB treatment week. However, a considerable recovery of EMG magnitude was observed during the third and fourth weeks of treatment. During baclofen withdrawal, significantly increased velocity dependent ankle torque was observed for 4 weeks. These increases in ankle torque were correlated with increased magnitudes of EMG time locked to the dynamic phase of ankle rotation. Measures of hind limb axis and base of support were obtained using analysis of footprints on a treadmill during ITB treatment and withdrawal periods. During ITB treatment and for up to 7 weeks of withdrawal, hindlimb axis and base of support were significantly altered compared with vehicle controls. These studies were performed to provide a foundation for evaluation of treatment and withdrawal in the setting of experimental chronic contusion spinal cord injury.
The study evaluated the effect of a change of work site and organization on work environment and psychosocial parameters: the change involved health care personnel at a geriatric hospital. Another aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a structured psychoeducational intervention program. The study found few changes in the indices of interest on the experimental and control wards. There were, however, significant improvements in social climate, goal quality, and independence of work on the control ward. The investigators postulated that too much external support hampers a group's ability to actively cope with change and might actually lower a group's ability and self-esteem. In order to achieve successful organizational change, psychosocial intervention programs for personnel must be performed by a well-informed, well-chosen, and experienced counsellor who is well tailored to the local organization.
It has been established, using polymerase chain reaction (PCR), that herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1) is present in a high proportion of brains of elderly normal subjects and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. It was subsequently discovered that the virus confers a strong risk of AD when in brain of carriers of the type 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (apoE-epsilon4). This study has now sought, using PCR, the presence of three other herpesviruses in brain: human herpesvirus 6 (HHV6)-types A and B, herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV2) and cytomegalovirus (CMV). HHV6 is present in a much higher proportion of the AD than of age-matched normal brains (70% vs. 40%, p=0.003) and there is extensive overlap with the presence of HSV1 in AD brains, but HHV6, unlike HSV1, is not directly associated in AD with apoE-epsilon4. In 59% of the AD patients' brains harbouring HHV6, type B is present while 38% harbour both type A and type B, and 3% type A. HSV2 is present at relatively low frequency in brains of both AD patients and normals (13% and 20%), and CMV at rather higher frequencies in the two groups (36% and 35%); in neither case is the difference between the groups statistically significant. It is suggested that the striking difference in the proportion of elderly brains harbouring HSV1 and HSV2 might reflect the lower proportion of people infected with the latter, or the difference in susceptibility of the frontotemporal regions to the two viruses. In the case of HHV6, it is not possible to exclude its presence as an opportunist, but alternatively, it might enhance the damage caused by HSV1 and apoE-epsilon4 in AD; in some viral diseases it is associated with characteristic brain lesions and it also augments the damage caused by certain viruses in cell culture and in animals.
Since its discovery four decades ago, the satellite cell of skeletal muscle has been implicated as the major source of myogenic cells involved in growth and repair of muscle fibres. This review not only looks at the role of the satellite cell in these processes but discusses how cells derived from other sources and tissues have recently been implicated in muscle formation and regeneration. Muscle itself also yields cells that contribute to other cell lineages although it is currently debated as to whether these cells originate within muscle or have migrated there from other tissues. The reality of using cells from muscle or other tissues to repair diseased muscle fibres is also addressed.
Aripiprazole is the first next-generation atypical antipsychotic with a mechanism of action that differs from currently marketed typical and atypical antipsychotics. Aripiprazole displays properties of an agonist and antagonist in animal models of dopaminergic hypoactivity and hyperactivity, respectively. This study examined the interactions of aripiprazole with a single population of human D2 receptors to clarify further its pharmacologic properties. In membranes prepared from Chinese hamster ovary cells that express recombinant D2L receptors, aripiprazole bound with high affinity to both the G protein-coupled and uncoupled states of receptors. Aripiprazole potently activated D2 receptor-mediated inhibition of cAMP accumulation. Partial receptor inactivation using the alkylating agent N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) significantly reduced the maximum effect of aripiprazole on inhibition of cAMP accumulation. This effect was seen with concentrations of EEDQ that did not alter the maximal inhibitory effect of dopamine. Consistent with the expected effects of a partial agonist, increasing concentrations of aripiprazole blocked the action of dopamine with maximal blockade equal to the agonist effect of aripiprazole alone. The efficacy of aripiprazole relative to that of dopamine varied from 25% in cells that lacked spare receptors for dopamine to 90% in cells with receptor reserve. These results, together with previous studies demonstrating partial agonist activity at serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A receptors and antagonist activity at 5-HT2A receptors, support the identification of aripiprazole as a dopamine-serotonin system stabilizer. The receptor activity profile may underlie the unique activity of aripiprazole in animals and its antipsychotic activity in humans.
Loss of righting reflex (LRR) has traditionally been used to estimate hypnotic sensitivity to ethanol in rodents. Traditional methods of monitoring ethanol-induced sedation seems to lack accuracy in estimating blood ethanol concentration (BEC) at initial LRR, a measure of initial sensitivity. Herein, we present a novel method that improves detection of the onset of LRR by using a new apparatus and a loss-of-function criterion of 5 s. DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice were placed in cylindrical restrainers after injection of 3 g/kg (20% v/v) ethanol. Restrainers were then turned until mice were no longer able to right themselves within 5 s from a position on their back, which represented the endpoint of the initial loss of righting reflex. Initial sensitivity and acute functional tolerance (AFT) to ethanol were assessed in the same group of mice by quantifying BEC at the initial loss and subsequent recoveries of righting reflex over four sequential injections [3 g/kg + (3 x 0.5 g/kg)]. Initial brain sensitivity was calculated from BEC at the first LRR, using the parameters of ethanol uptake kinetics. These values of initial sensitivity were similar for the two strains. On the other hand, DBA/2J mice recovered at higher BEC than C57BL/6J animals. AFT calculated as a difference between the maximum BEC at any recovery and the value of initial sensitivity was greater in DBA/2J mice. These results show that the novel method is a sensitive tool for the measurement of initial sensitivity and detection of AFT to the hypnotic effects of ethanol.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is one of the principle components of the stress response. The physiological effects of CRF are mediated by two receptor subtypes, CRF(1) and CRF(2). Recent data obtained with the selective CRF(2) antagonist antisauvagine-30 (ASV-30) has begun to suggest that both CRF receptor subtypes may play a role in stress-related behaviors. Exactly how these two receptor subtypes interact to modulate the behavioral and endocrine responses to stress is not clear, however. We have attempted to understand the role of the CRF(2) receptor in the behavioral and endocrine responses to stress by comparing the effects of ASV-30 with the mixed CRF(1)/CRF(2) receptor antagonist astressin. Centrally administered ASV-30 reduced anxiety-like behavior in BALB/c mice in three models of anxiety: marble burying [minimal effective dose (MED) = 3 nmol], open field (MED = 3 nmol), and elevated plus maze (MED = 0.1 nmol). ASV-30 did not change locomotor activity or the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) response to restraint stress. The potent mixed CRF(1)/CRF(2) antagonist astressin not only reduced anxiety-like behavior in all three models with equivalent potency but also blunted the ACTH response to restraint stress. Finally, the new selective CRF(2) receptor agonist urocortin-II produced a dose-dependent increase in anxiety-like behavior in the plus maze test. Therefore, our data suggest that the CRF(2) receptor plays a role in the behavioral, but not the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, response to stress.
Elevated cAMP in NRK-52E and L6 cells causes a marked reduction in the phosphorylation of numerous phosphoproteins, as detected initially with phosphoserine-specific antibodies. Here, we show that elevation of cAMP in NRK cells by forskolin/3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) treatment decreased phosphorylation of substrates for different protein kinases, pointing to a common protein phosphatase as a target for cAMP-dependent regulation. Forskolin/IBMX treatment completely dephosphorylated a selective protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) substrate, elongation factor-2 (EF-2), at its Ca(2+) calmodulin-dependent kinase site, and decreased phosphorylation of substrates for cyclin-dependent kinases, including retinoblastoma (Rb) protein. As reported before, forskolin/IBMX also decreased phosphorylation of a protein kinase C substrate, the Na,K-ATPase. The cAMP-stimulated dephosphorylation was blocked by the protein phosphatases 1 (PP1) and PP2A inhibitor okadaic acid at concentrations selective for PP2A but was not blocked by tautomycin at concentrations selective for PP1. The data implicate PP2A as a cAMP-activated phosphatase. Contrary to expectation, we found evidence that cAMP-dependent activation of PP2A did not depend on protein kinase A (PKA). Pretreatment of cells with the PKA inhibitor H89 abolished PKA activity measured in cell extracts and significantly decreased cAMP-activated phosphorylation of a known PKA substrate, ARPP-19, in cells, but failed to block the cAMP-stimulated dephosphorylation of EF-2, Rb, and other proteins. This novel pathway of PP2A activation, acting on the time scale of minutes, represents yet another example of a cAMP-mediated, PKA-independent signaling mechanism. Because PP2A is active toward a variety of endogenous substrates, cAMP-stimulated dephosphorylation may have complicated the interpretation of many prior studies.
As the neurobiology of mood disorders and the mechanisms of action of antidepressant drugs continue to be elucidated, there has been a shift in emphasis from changes in neurotransmitter release and metabolism to regulation of gene expression and neuroprotection. Evidence from animal studies suggests that drug therapy may act on specific transcription factors and target genes that regulate processes such as neuroprotection and neuronal survival. Clinical studies consistently identify changes in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and amygdala that may be related to the course of illness and may be prevented with successful treatment. Together, these findings suggest that clinically relevant neurobiological correlations may ultimately be identified in patients who respond and remit to treatment. With these and future advances in the neuroscience of psychiatry, it may be possible to identify biological markers that will help in decisions about specific treatments for an individual patient.

Phantom-limb pain is a common sequela of amputation, occurring in up to 80% of people who undergo the procedure. It must be differentiated from non-painful phantom phenomena, residual-limb pain, and non-painful residual-limb phenomena. Central changes seem to be a major determinant of phantom-limb pain; however, peripheral and psychological factors may contribute to it. A comprehensive model of phantom-limb pain is presented that assigns major roles to pain occurring before the amputation and to central as well as peripheral changes related to it. So far, few mechanism-based treatments for phantom-limb pain have been proposed. Most published reports are based on anecdotal evidence. Interventions targeting central changes seem promising. The prevention of phantom-limb pain by peripheral analgesia has not yielded consistent results. Additional measures that reverse or prevent the formation of central memory processes might be more effective.

The mechanism by which knowledge enters into memory has been a source of debate for some time. Theorists have proposed several models that aim at explaining the sequence of events from the perception of a stimulus, to its entrance into long-term storage. Much of this work was prompted by early research into the nuances of classical conditioning where it was first firmly established that organisms are capable of detecting covariations of stimuli within their environment. Subsequent work in the field has shown that these covariations form the basis for the mental representation of our surroundings, as well as the basis of learning. Work within the field of classical conditioning, along with the advance of computer technology and neuroscience has made these architectural models even more complex. Furthermore, experiments designed to support some of these proposed models have revealed that there are several conditions that can either aid or inhibit the transition of information into permanent storage. In this review we explore a number of these models, along with some classic critiques that have been levied against them. We also provide some history into the form of knowledge, termed 'implicit knowledge', as well as some of the proposed mechanisms of implicit knowledge acquisition. We conclude by exploring the newly proposed theoretical framework within which implicit learning theory operates.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a method for quantitatively measuring biochemical and physiological processes in vivo by using radiopharmaceuticals labeled with positron-emitting radionuclides such as 11C, 13N, 15O, and 18F and by measuring the annihilation radiation using a coincidence technique. This technique is also used for measurement of the pharmacokinetics of labeled drugs and measurement of the effects of drugs on metabolism. Deviations from normal metabolism can be measured and insight into biological processes responsible for diseases can be obtained.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are neurodegenerative storage diseases characterized by mental retardation, visual failure, and brain atrophy as well as accumulation of storage material in multiple cell types. The diseases are caused by mutations in the ubiquitously expressed genes, of which six are known. Herein, we report that three NCL disease forms with similar tissue pathology are connected at the molecular level: CLN5 polypeptides directly interact with the CLN2 and CLN3 proteins based on coimmunoprecipitation and in vitro binding assays. Furthermore, disease mutations in CLN5 abolished interaction with CLN2, while not affecting association with CLN3. The molecular characterization of CLN5 revealed that it was synthesized as four precursor forms, due to usage of alternative initiator methionines in translation. All forms were targeted to lysosomes and the longest form, translated from the first potential methionine, was associated with membranes. Interactions between CLN polypeptides were shown to occur with this longest, membrane-bound form of CLN5. Both intracellular targeting and posttranslational glycosylation of the polypeptides carrying human disease mutations were similar to wild-type CLN5.
Glutamate toxicity is a major contributor to death of oligodendroglia in diverse CNS disorders. The goal of these studies was to investigate the mechanisms of glutamate toxicity and trophic factor protection of the immature pro-oligodendroblast (pro-OL). Glutamate induced time- and dose-dependent DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 activation in pro-OLs. IGF-I or NT-3, but not CNTF, prevented apoptosis of pro-OLs by 24 h via a PI3-kinase-dependent pathway; however, only IGF-I protected pro-OLs from glutamate toxicity through 48 h. Long-term protection of pro-OLs by IGF-I was correlated with sustained activation of Akt while NT-3 activation of Akt was transient. The differential ability of IGF-I and NT-3 to maintain Akt activation was due to differences in receptor activation and stability. In the presence of NT-3, TrkC phosphorylation and protein expression decreased significantly while activation of the IGF-IR was maintained in the pro-OLs in the presence of IGF-I.
Cell-type-specific transcription factors may regulate phenotypic diversity by conferring selective responsiveness to relatively nonspecific environmental cues. To test this hypothesis, we examined whether the homeodomain transcription factors Phox2a/2b play a role in activity-dependent expression of the dopaminergic phenotype using petrosal ganglion (PG) sensory neurons as a model. The timing of Phox2a/2b expression is precisely correlated with the ability of PG neurons to express the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), in response to depolarizing stimuli. Phox2a/2b expression is highest at embryonic day 16.5, when virtually all PG neurons exhibit activity-dependent TH induction, and subsequently falls in parallel with the loss of activity-dependent TH induction. Expression is maintained, however, in all dopaminergic neurons. Physiologic stimulation of PG neurons in vivo induces TH expression exclusively in Phox2a/2b(+) cells. Our data suggest that constitutive expression of Phox2a/2b defines the potential of neurons to become dopaminergic in response to membrane depolarization during a critical window of phenotypic plasticity.
The capacity of multipotential progenitor cells of the adult mammalian forebrain to generate myelin-forming oligodendrocytes was tested by grafting fragments of different regions of the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle and the striatum of 6-month-old wild-type mice into the brain of neonate shiverer and wild-type mice. Without growth factor treatment, only few cells of the rostral SVZ survived and formed myelin after engraftment. Treating donors prior to transplantation with a single intraperitoneal injection of epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2), and platelet-derived growth factor AB (PDGF(AB)) vigorously promoted the survival, migration, and differentiation of the grafted SVZ cells into myelin-forming oligodendrocytes. In situ, both growth factors expanded the constitutively proliferative PSA-NCAM+ population and favored their differentiation toward the neuronal and oligodendroglial cell fate. The adult central nervous system thus harbors a focal reservoir of FGF-2 and PDGF(AB)-responsive cells which are able to generate substantial amounts of myelin-forming oligodendrocytes in vivo, opening a new prospective area for therapy in demyelinating diseases.

R-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH23390) is a widely used, highly selective antagonist of D1 dopamine receptors. While investigating the crosstalk between D1 and D3 dopamine receptor signaling pathways, we discovered that in addition to being a D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 and related compounds inhibit G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels. We present evidence that SCH23390 blocks endogenous GIRK currents induced by either somatostatin or D3 dopamine receptors in AtT-20 cells (IC50, 268 nM). The inhibition is receptor-independent because constitutive GIRK currents in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing only GIRK channels are also blocked by SCH23390. The inhibition of GIRK channels is somewhat selective because members of the closely related Kir2.0 family of inwardly rectifying potassium channels, as well as various endogenous cationic currents present in AtT-20 cells, are not affected. In addition, in current clamp recordings, SCH23390 can depolarize the membrane potential and induce AtT-20 cells to fire action potentials, indicating potential physiological significance of the GIRK channel inhibition. To identify the chemical features that contribute to GIRK channel block, we tested several structurally related compounds [SKF38393, R-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (nor-methyl-SCH23390), and R-(+)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-8-iodo-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin-7-ol hydrochloride (iodo-SCH23390)], and our results indicate that the halide atom is critical for blocking GIRK channels. Taken together, our results suggest that SCH23390 and related compounds might provide the basis for designing novel GIRK channel-selective blockers. Perhaps more importantly, some studies that have exclusively used SCH23390 to probe D1 receptor function or as a diagnostic of D1 receptor involvement may need to be reevaluated in light of these results.
We studied the effect of cervical dystonia on quality of life in a cohort of 289 patients by using a generic health status measurement scale (SF36). Cervical dystonia had a significant negative impact on quality of life compared with age-matched general population data. This negative impact was comparable to that seen in multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and stroke.
We studied a polymorphism in the dopamine transporter (DAT) gene in 236 Japanese patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and compared the results with 220 controls. The 1215A/G genotype of the DAT gene was significantly different between PD patients and controls, suggesting a possible involvement of DAT in genetic susceptibility to PD.
We studied genetic polymorphisms in the promoter region at position -511 of the interleukin (IL) -1beta gene (IL-1B-511) and at position -889 of the IL-1alpha gene (IL-1A-889), in 111 Japanese patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) and 160 controls. The distribution of IL-1B-511 was significantly different between MSA patients and controls, because of the under-representation of patients with homozygotes for allele 2 (IL-1B-511*2), a high producer of IL-1beta. The frequency of IL-1A-889*2, a high secretor of IL-1alpha, was also decreased in MSA patients. Our findings suggest that abnormal cytokine expression may be implicated in the pathogenesis of MSA.
Paraoxonase1 (PON1) is an arylesterase mainly expressed in the liver that hydrolyzes organophosphates such as pesticides, reported risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD), and other neurotoxins. A Leu-Met 54 polymorphism in the gene for PON1-affecting enzyme activity was recently shown, employing a new restriction enzyme technique, to be associated with Parkinson's disease. We examined the same polymorphism by automated capillary sequencing in a sample of Caucasian subjects from the Stockholm area in Sweden (127 healthy individuals and 114 patients with PD) and found similar distributions and a similar difference in our sample. The genotype distribution in our PD material was LL 36.0%, LM 45.6%, and MM 18.4%; in our control material, it was LL 45.7%, LM 44.1%, and MM 10.2%. Based on the previously established increase in allele frequencies of the lower-activity Met-variant of PON1, we could confirm a significant association using a one-sided chi(2) test. Results remained significant with a two-sided chi(2) test, allowing for both increases and decreases in frequencies. Our data confirm an association between the PON1 Leu-Met 54 polymorphism and PD by demonstrating a similar association. The distribution between familial and nonfamilial PD patients was equal. No other synonymous or nonsynonymous polymorphisms were found in the sequenced coding region of PON1.

Tuning for the orientation of elongated, linear image elements (edges, bars, gratings), first discovered by Hubel and Wiesel, is considered a key feature of visual processing in the brain. It has been studied extensively in two dimensions (2D) using frontoparallel stimuli, but in real life most lines, edges and contours are slanted with respect to the viewer. Here we report that neurons in macaque area V4, an intermediate stage in the ventral (object-related) pathway of visual cortex, were tuned for 3D orientation--that is,for specific slants as well as for 2D orientation. The tuning for 3D orientation was consistent across depth position (binocular disparity) and position within the 2D classical receptive field. The existence of 3D orientation signals in the ventral pathway suggests that the brain may use such information to interpret 3D shape.
Ca(2+)-triggered dense-core vesicle exocytosis in PC12 cells does not require vesicular synaptotagmins 1 and 2, but may use plasma membrane synaptotagmins 3 and 7 as Ca(2+) sensors. In support of this hypothesis, C(2) domains from the plasma membrane but not vesicular synaptotagmins inhibit PC12 cell exocytosis. Ca(2+) induces binding of both plasma membrane and vesicular synaptotagmins to phospholipids and SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive attachment protein receptors), although with distinct apparent Ca(2+) affinities. Here we used gain-of-function C(2)-domain mutants of synaptotagmin 1 and loss-of-function C(2)-domain mutants of synaptotagmin 7 to examine how synaptotagmins function in dense-core vesicle exocytosis. Our data indicate that phospholipid- but not SNARE-binding by plasma membrane synaptotagmins is the primary determinant of Ca(2+)-triggered dense-core vesicle exocytosis. These results support a general lipid-based mechanism of action of synaptotagmins in exocytosis, with the specificity of various synaptotagmins for different types of fusion governed by their differential localizations and Ca(2+) affinities.
Severe dyskinesias during the 'off' phases (periods of increased Parkinson's disease (PD) disability) have been observed following intrastriatal transplantation of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue. Here we retrospectively analyzed 14 patients who were followed for up to 11 years after grafting, and found that dyskinesias (abnormal involuntary movements and postures) increased during postoperative off phases, but were generally of mild to moderate severity. Dyskinesia severity was not related to the magnitude of graft-derived dopaminergic re-innervation, as judged by (18)F-labeled 6-L-fluorodopa (FD) positron emission tomography (PET), indicating that off-phase dyskinesias probably did not result from excessive growth of grafted dopaminergic neurons.
Animal models of neurological deficits are essential for the assessment of new therapeutic options. It has been suggested that rats are not as appropriate as primates for the symptomatic modelling of disease, but a large body of data argues against this view. Comparative analyses of movements in rats and primates show homology of many motor patterns across species. Advances have been made in identifying rat equivalents of akinesia, tremor, postural deficits and dyskinesia, which are relevant to Parkinson's disease. Rat models of hemiplegia, neglect and tactile extinction are useful in assessing the outcome of ischaemic or traumatic brain injury, and in monitoring the effects of therapeutic interventions. Studies in rodents that emphasize careful behavioural analysis should continue to be developed as effective and inexpensive models that complement studies in primates.
Orchestrating a movement towards a sensory target requires many computational processes, including a transformation between reference frames. This transformation is important because the reference frames in which sensory stimuli are encoded often differ from those of motor effectors. The posterior parietal cortex has an important role in these transformations. Recent work indicates that a significant proportion of parietal neurons in two cortical areas transforms the sensory signals that are used to guide movements into a common reference frame. This common reference frame is an eye-centred representation that is modulated by eye-, head-, body- or limb-position signals. A common reference frame might facilitate communication between different areas that are involved in coordinating the movements of different effectors. It might also be an efficient way to represent the locations of different sensory targets in the world.
The elegant regularity of maps of variables such as ocular dominance, orientation, and spatial frequency in primary visual cortex has prompted many people to suggest that their structure could be explained by an optimization principle. Up to now, the standard way to test this hypothesis has been to generate artificial maps by optimizing a hypothesized objective function and then to compare these artificial maps with real maps using a variety of quantitative criteria. If the artificial maps are similar to the real maps, this provides some evidence that the real cortex may be optimizing a similar function to the one hypothesized. Recently, a more direct method has been proposed for testing whether real maps represent local optima of an objective function (Swindale, Shoham, Grinvald, Bonhoeffer, &amp; Hbener, 2000). In this approach, the value of the hypothesized function is calculated for a real map, and then the real map is perturbed in certain ways and the function recalculated. If each of these perturbations leads to a worsening of the function, it is tempting to conclude that the real map is quite likely to represent a local optimum of that function. In this article, we argue that such perturbation results provide only weak evidence in favor of the optimization hypothesis.
The international meeting Light, Endocrine Systems and Cancer--Facts and Research Perspectives was convened because recent research suggests that ubiquitous light may have more serious cancer consequences than expected. Beyond the established causal link between (over) exposure to sunlight and skin cancer, many scientists consider a causal relationship between light, endocrine systems and internal cancers as biologically plausible. To identify options to turn biological plausibility of mechanisms into true understanding and to assess the possible public health relevance we chose to bring together leading specialists from clinical, experimental laboratory and epidemiological studies of these issues to stimulate a critical, multi-disciplinary discussion of published and new results. Presentations at the symposium covered the physics of light and evolutionary aspects and provided intriguing information about chronobiology, physiology and patho-physiology of endocrine systems and carcinogenesis. Experimental and epidemiological findings on light and skin cancer, and of very recent investigations of relationships between light and internal cancers such as breast cancer were presented. The meeting concluded with a lively discussion of future research options. The symposium's essence and constructive atmosphere are captured in these proceedings [Neuroendocrinol Lett 2002 Jul;23 Suppl 2:1-104] which contain: (i) original presentation papers [Vladimir Anisimov, David Blask, Roland Bni, George Brainard, Thomas Erren, Alexander Lerchl, Sidney Perkowitz, Chris Portier, Russel Reiter, Richard Stevens, Gnter Vollmer]; (ii) abstracts of oral and poster presentations; (iii) four commentaries [Charles Poole, Chris Portier, Till Roenneberg and Rob Lucas, Vladimir Anisimov and Johnni Hansen] on the presentations at the meeting and possible implications for research and public health. In our view, the biological plausibility of mechanistic links between light and hormones and cancer can serve as a unique basis for syn-disciplinary research and we expect that investigations in this area will become a higher priority research focus.
To address the hypothesis that medulloblastoma or supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor (sPNET) can arise through infection by polyomaviruses, we examined genomic DNA isolated from 15 primary medulloblastoma and 5 sPNET biopsy specimens and from 2 medulloblastoma cell lines for the presence of DNA sequences from the polyomaviruses simian virus 40 (SV40), JC virus, and BK virus. These polyomaviruses have oncogenic potential in animals, and their DNA sequences have been detected in other surveys of various solid tumors, including childhood brain tumors. The tumor DNA samples were analyzed by Southern blot hybridization of polymerase chain reaction products that employed probes designed to detect specific polyomavirus sequences. Neither JC virus nor BK virus DNA sequences were detected in any of the specimens. None of the primary medulloblastoma or sPNET specimens contained SV40 sequences. However, SV40 DNA coding and noncoding sequences were detected in the D283-Med (medulloblastoma) cell line. Immunocytochemical studies of D283-Med revealed nuclear expression of SV40 large T antigen. In contrast to childhood ependymomas and choroid plexus tumors, medulloblastomas and sPNETs infrequently express evidence of polyomavirus infection.
In the senescence-accelerated mouse of the P8 line (SAMP8), age-related changes in circadian timing include a decrease in amplitude of the rhythm, a slower rate of re-entrainment following a phase advance, and a longer free-running period (tau). The present study extends previous research by investigating possible split activity rhythms in the SAMP8. Running wheel activity was examined in 2-, 7-, and 12-month SAMP8. Consistent with previous research, rhythms of older SAMP8 were decreased in amplitude and showed high levels of activity during the light phase of the light-dark cycle. Contrary to previous reports, lengthening of tau in constant darkness was not observed. Additionally, activity rhythms were &quot;split&quot; in older SAMP8, demonstrated by 1) the appearance of a secondary peak in the periodogram at approximately half the value of tau and 2) the perceptual classification of actograms by nave observers. This result differs from previous studies in hamsters demonstrating an age-related decrease in the incidence of rhythm splitting. Overall, the present findings provide further evidence for age-related disruption of circadian timing in SAMP8.
The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is currently based on clinical and neuropsychological examination. To date there is no blood test available that can discriminate dementia patients from healthy individuals. In the present paper, an overview of the current state of knowledge on biologic markers in serum (plasma) and CSF is presented. The combination of characteristic plaque markers tau and amyloid bta may constitute a specific and sensitive CSF marker for AD. Glial fibrillary acidic protein and antibodies in CSF may be a marker for severe neurodegeneration. CSF concentrations of the oxidative stress markers 3-nitrotyrosine, 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and isoprostanes are increased in AD patients. Serum 24S-OH-cholesterol may be an early whereas glial fibrillary acidic protein autoantibody level may be a late marker for neurodegeneration. To date, serum alpha(1)-Antichymotripsin concentration is the most convincing marker for CNS inflammation. Increased serum homocysteine concentrations have also been consistently reported in AD. In summary, a large overlap in mean concentrations has been observed in studies comparing AD patients with healthy controls for single markers. These studies together support the theory of testing several serum markers in combination for the diagnosis of AD.
In order to assess the role of striatal dopamine (DA) afferents in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, we have studied a large series of rats sustaining 2, 3, or 4 unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the lateral striatum. This type of lesion produced a dose-dependent depletion of DA fibers in the caudate-putamen, which was most pronounced in the lateral aspects of this structure. An additional group of rats was injected with 6-OHDA in the medial forebrain bundle to obtain complete DA denervation on one side of the brain. During a course of chronic L-DOPA treatment, rats with intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesions developed abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), which mapped onto striatal domains exhibiting at least approximately 90% denervation, as judged by DA transporter autoradiography. The denervated areas showed local upregulation of preproenkephalin and prodynorphin mRNA, and FosB-like immunoreactivity, which were highly correlated with the rats' AIM scores. When compared to completely DA-denervated animals, the rats with intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesions showed an overall lower incidence, lower severity and different topographic distribution of AIMs. The involvement of proximal limb and axial muscles in the abnormal movements was proportional to the spreading of the lesion from lateral towards medial aspects of the caudate-putamen. Locomotive AIMs were only seen in rats with complete lesions, but not in any of the animals with intrastriatal 6-OHDA (which showed &gt; 5% DA fiber sparing in the medial striatum). Intrastriatally 6-OHDA-lesioned rats had a larger therapeutic window for L-DOPA than did rats with complete bundle lesions, since they exhibited an overall lower predisposition to dyskinesia but a similar degree of drug-induced motor improvement in a test of forelimb stepping. Our results are the first to demonstrate that selective and partial DA denervation in the sensorimotor part of the striatum can confer cellular and behavioral supersensitivity to L-DOPA, and that the phenomenology of L-DOPA-induced rat AIMs can be accounted for by the topography of DA denervation within the caudate-putamen.
Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) have been linked to dominantly inherited forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). To test the hypothesis that the toxicity of mutant SOD1 originates in Cu(2+)-mediated formation of toxic radicals, we generated transgenic mice that express human SOD1 that encodes disease-linked mutations at two of the four histidine residues that are crucial for the coordinated binding of copper (H46R/H48Q). We demonstrate that mice expressing this mutant, which possesses little or no superoxide scavenging activity, develop motor neuron disease. Hence, mutations in SOD1 that disrupt the copper-binding site do not eliminate toxicity. We note that the pathology of the H46R/H48Q mice is dominated by fibrillar (Thioflavin-S-positive) inclusions and that similar inclusions were evident in mouse models that express the G37R, G85R, and G93A variants of human SOD1. Overall, our data are consistent with the hypothesis that the aberrant folding/aggregation of mutant SOD1 is a prominent feature in the pathogenesis of motor neuron disease.
Hippocampal (HF)-lesioned pigeons display impaired homing ability when flying over familiar terrain, where they are presumably relying on a map-like representation of familiar landmarks to navigate. However, research carried out in the field precludes a direct test of whether hippocampal lesions compromise the ability of homing pigeons to navigate by familiar landmarks. To examine more thoroughly the relationship between hippocampus and landmark spatial learning, control, neostriatum-lesioned, and HF-lesioned homing pigeons were trained on two open field, laboratory, conditional discrimination tasks. One was a visual landmark array task, and the other was a room color discrimination task. For the tasks, the correct of three differently colored food bowls was determined by the spatial relationship among a group of five landmarks and room color, respectively. Intact control birds successfully learned both tasks, while neostriatum-lesioned birds successfully learned the landmark array task-the only task on which they were trained. By contrast, HF-lesioned birds successfully learned the room color task but were unable to learn the landmark array task. The data support the hypothesis that homing performance deficits observed in the field following hippocampal lesions are in part a consequence of an impairment in the ability of lesioned pigeons to use familiar visual landmarks for navigation.
Prion diseases are fatal neurodegenerative disorders of the CNS of men and animals, characterized by spongiform degeneration of the CNS, astrogliosis and deposition of amyloid into the brain. The conversion of a cellular glycoprotein (the prion protein, PrP(C)) into an altered isoform (the prion scrapie, PrP(Sc)), which accumulates within the brain tissue by virtue of its resistance to the intracellular catabolism, is currently believed to represent the etiologic agent responsible for these diseases. Synthetic or recombinant polypeptides are commonly used to elucidate the mechanism of proteins involved in neurodegenerative diseases. Here we describe a procedure, which allows the synthesis and purification in its native folding, of the human prion protein fragment 90-231, corresponding to the protease resistant core of PrP(Sc). We synthesized the polypeptides 90-231 of both the wild type and the E200K mutant isoforms of PrP. Using a gluthatione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein approach, milligram amounts of polypeptides were obtained after expression in E. coli. The recovery of the purified fusion protein was monitored following the evaluation of the GST activity. The PrP fragment was released from the fusion protein immobilized on a glutathione-coupled agarose resin by direct cleavage with thrombin. The recombinant protein was identified by comassie stained acrylamide gel and by immunoblotting employing a monoclonal anti-PrP antibody. The peptide purified by gel filtration chromatography showed mainly an alpha-helix structure, as analysed by circular dichroism (CD) and an intact disulfide bridge. The same procedure was also successfully employed to synthesize and purify the E200K mutant PrP fragment.
The present findings show that an atypical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, such as acetaminophen, retains the ability to recover amyloid beta-peptides driven neuronal apoptosis through the impairment of oxidative stress. Moreover, this compound reduces the increased NF-kappaB binding activity, which occurs in these degenerative conditions. Therapeutic interventions aimed at reducing the inflammatory response in Alzheimer's disease (AD) recently suggested the application of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Although the anti-inflammatory properties of acetaminophen are controversial, it emerged that in an amyloid-driven astrocytoma cell degeneration model acetaminophen proved to be effective. On these bases, we analyzed the role of acetaminophen against the toxicity exerted by different Abeta-peptides on rat primary hippocampal neurons and on a rat pheochromocytoma cell line. We found a consistent protection from amyloid beta-fragments 1-40 and 1-42-induced impairment of mitochondrial redox activity on both cell cultures, associated with a marked reduction of apoptotic nuclear fragmentation. An antioxidant component of the protective activity emerged from the analysis of the reduction of phospholipid peroxidation, and also from a significant reduction of cytoplasmic accumulation of peroxides in the pheochromocytoma cell line. Moreover, activation of NF-kappaB by amyloid-derived peptides was greatly impaired by acetaminophen pre-treatment in hippocampal cells. This evidence points out antioxidant and anti-transcriptional properties of acetaminophen besides the known capability to interfere with inflammation within the central nervous system, and suggests that it can be exploited as a possible therapeutic approach against AD.
Previous studies have shown the Fennoscandian region to be a high-risk area for multiple sclerosis (MS). In order to investigate the distribution of MS in Sweden, mortality (1952-1992) and disability pensioning statistics (1971-1994) were studied. A total of 11,414 cases with a disability pension and 5,421 cases with MS on their death certificate were analysed according to county and time period and the results were compared with the mortality figures for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and disability pensioning statistics for Parkinson's disease. We found increasing rates of both MS mortality and disability pensioning. Disability pensioning correlated well with mortality 10 years later (r = 0.42, p = 0.04). We also found a marked geographical variation. Vrmland county had the highest mortality, with 14 out of its 16 municipalities having higher rates than the national mean. Unexpectedly, we found a high correlation between mortality due to MS and ALS (r = 0.60, p = 0.002).
The &quot;intentional stance&quot; is the disposition to treat an entity as a rational agent, possessing particular beliefs, desires, and intentions, in order to interpret and predict it's behavior. The intentional stance is a component of a broader social cognitive function, mentalizing. Here we report a study that investigates the neural substrates of &quot;on-line&quot; mentalizing, using PET, by asking volunteers to second-guess an opponent. In order to identify brain activity specifically associated with adoption of an intentional stance, we used a paradigm that allowed tight control of other cognitive demands. Volunteers played a computerised version of the children's game &quot;stone, paper, scissors.&quot; In the mentalizing condition volunteers believed they were playing against the experimenter. In the comparison condition, volunteers believed they were playing against a computer. In fact, during the actual scanning, the &quot;opponent&quot; produced a random sequence in both conditions. The only difference was the attitude, or stance, adopted by the volunteer. Only one region was more active when volunteers adopted the intentional stance. This was in anterior paracingulate cortex (bilaterally). This region has been activated in a number of previous studies involving mentalizing. However, this is the first study suggesting a specific link between activity in this brain region and the adoption of an intentional stance.
We examined the effects of difficulty of sentential integration on blood oxygenation level-dependent contrast changes. Difficulty of integration was operationalized as the degree to which sentence-final nouns matched the expectations generated by preceding context. Nine young adults read short sentence fragments (e.g., &quot;The pilot flies.&quot;) which were completed by highly expected nouns (e.g., &quot;the plane&quot;), unexpected yet semantically legal nouns (e.g., &quot;the kite&quot;), nouns that violated the verbs' selection restriction rules (e.g., &quot;the book&quot;), and pseudowords (e.g., &quot;the foop&quot;) and made quick lexical decisions on the sentence-final item. Overall, word completions resulted in higher changes in activation than pseudoword completions. The largest of those changes were observed in left angular and posterior middle temporal gyri, suggesting that despite the lexical nature of the task, word stimuli embedded in sentence contexts triggered integrative-semantic processes beyond a lexical level. A region-of-interest analysis in left inferior frontal and left posterior middle temporal areas revealed activation for both unexpected and anomalous completions when compared to expected completions. Thus, while the underlying processing mechanisms may differ, sentential integration appears similarly effortful for these two types of completions. Our findings are consistent with previous reports of local increases in activation as a function of (syntactic) complexity, while extending the findings to processing demands of semantic integration. Because of its sensitivity to changes in semantic congruence and the implicit nature of the task involved, we argue that the present paradigm is well suited to study patients with potential semantic deficits after brain damage.
The way in which meaning is represented and processed in the brain is a key issue in cognitive neuroscience, which can be usefully addressed by functional imaging techniques. In contrast to previous imaging studies of semantic knowledge, which have primarily used blocked designs, in this study we use an event-related fMRI (erfMRI) design, which has the advantage of enabling events to be presented pseudorandomly, thus reducing strategic processes and enabling more direct comparison with psychological behavioral studies. We used a semantic categorization task in which events were words representing either artifact or natural kinds concepts. Significant areas of activation for semantic processing included inferior frontal lobe bilaterally (BA 47) and left temporal regions, both inferior (BA 36 and 20) and middle (BA 21). These are areas that have been identified in previous neuroimaging studies of semantic knowledge. However, there were no significant differences between artifact and natural kinds concepts. These results are consistent with our previous imaging studies using blocked designs and suggest that conceptual knowledge is represented in a unitary, distributed neural system undifferentiated by domain of knowledge. These findings demonstrate that event-related designs can generate activations that are similar to those seen in blocked designs investigating semantics and, moreover, offer a greater capacity for interpretation free from the confounds of block effects.
Distributed linear solutions have frequently been used to solve the source localization problem in EEG. Here we introduce an approach based on the weighted minimum norm (WMN) method that imposes constraints using anatomical and physiological information derived from other imaging modalities. The anatomical constraints are used to reduce the solution space a priori by modeling the spatial source distribution with a set of basis functions. These spatial basis functions are chosen in a principled way using information theory. The reduced problem is then solved with a classical WMN method. Further (functional) constraints can be introduced in the weighting of the solution using fMRI brain responses to augment spatial priors. We used simulated data to explore the behavior of the approach over a range of the model's hyperparameters. To assess the construct validity of our method we compared it with two established approaches to the source localization problem, a simple weighted minimum norm and a maximum smoothness (Loreta-like) solution. This involved simulations, using single and multiple sources that were analyzed under different levels of confidence in the priors.
MagnetoEncephaloGraphy (MEG) relies on the detection of cortical current flow by measurement of the associated magnetic field outside the head. The amplitude of this magnetic field depends strongly on the depth of the electrical brain activity. Additionally, radially orientated sources are magnetically silent in a concentrically homogeneous volume conductor, giving rise to the anecdotal assumptions that MEG is insensitive to both deep and gyral sources. Utilising cortical surfaces extracted from Magnetic Resonance Images (MRIs) of two adult brains we constructed all possible single source elements and examined the proportion of active neocortex that is actually detectable with a whole-head MEG system. We identified those electrically active regions to which MEG is maximally sensitive by analytically computing the probability of detecting a source within a specified confidence volume. Our findings show that source depth, and not orientation, is the main factor that compromises the sensitivity of MEG to activity in the adult human cortex. There are thin strips (approximately 2 mm wide) of poor resolvability at the crests of gyri; however, these strips account for only a relatively small proportion of the cortical area and are abutted by elements with nominal tangential component yet high resolvability due to their proximity to the sensor array. Finally, we varied the extent of the patches of cortical activity, showing that small patches have a small net-current moment and are therefore less visible whereas large patches have a strong net-current moment, are generally more visible to the MEG system, yet are less appropriately modelled as single dipoles.
This paper proposes to extend independent component analysis (ICA) of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from single subjects to simultaneous analysis of data from a group of subjects. This results in a set of time courses which are common to the whole group, together with an individual spatial response pattern for each of the subjects in the group. The method is illustrated using data from two fMRI experiments. The results show that: (a) ICA is capable of extracting nontrivial task related components without any a priori information about the fMRI experiment; (b) in analysis of group data, ICA identifies components common to the whole group as well as components manifested in single subjects only.
The genetic basis of a number of epilepsy syndromes has been identified but the precise mechanism whereby these mutations produce seizures is unknown. Three mutations of the alpha(4) subunit of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) have been identified in autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. In vitro studies of two mutations suggest an alteration of receptor function resulting in decreased ion channel current flow. We investigated the response of alpha(4) nAChR subunit knockout mice to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor antagonists; pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) and bicuculline (BIC), the glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid (KA), the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine and the K(+) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). Mutant (Mt) mice had a greater sensitivity to PTZ and BIC, with an increase in major motor seizures and seizure-related deaths. Furthermore, Mt mice were more sensitive to KA and strychnine, but the effects were much smaller compared to those seen with the GABA receptor antagonists. Paradoxically, Mt mice appeared to be relatively protected from 4-AP-induced major motor seizures and death. The results show that a functional deletion of the alpha(4) nAChR subunit in vivo is associated with a major increase in sensitivity to GABA receptor blockers.
Comprehending language in context requires inferencing, particularly for the establishment of local coherence. In the neurolinguistic literature, an inference deficit after right hemisphere brain damage has been postulated, but clinical observation and imaging data suggest that left-frontal lesions might also result in inference deficits. In the present experiment, 25 nonaphasic patients performed a coherence judgment task requiring them to indicate a pragmatic connection between 2 successively presented sentences. Patients with left-temporal or right-frontal lesions performed the task well. In contrast, patients with left- and bifrontal lesions exhibited the most severe deficit. Both error rates and response times were elevated for coherent trials as compared with incoherent trials. These results confirm that the left-frontal lobe contributes to inference processes.
The regulated secretion of bioactive peptides requires the coordinated actions of a variety of gene products ranging from peptide precursors to post-translational processing enzymes and the cytosolic machinery involved in vesicle exocytosis. To evaluate the role of plasticity of peptidergic processes in the clinical response to electroconvulsive treatment, we monitored expression of a peptide (neuropeptide Y, NPY), a post-translational processing enzyme (peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase, PAM) and a cytosolic component involved in peptide secretion and neurite extension (kalirin) in the hippocampus. Adult male rats were subjected to single or repeated electroconvulsive shock. In general, levels of NPY, PAM and kalirin mRNA showed similar transient increases after acute and repeated electroconvulsive shock. In contrast, repeated, but not acute, electroconvulsive shock brought about widespread changes in protein expression. Increased amounts of NPY and PAM accumulated in mossy fibers, and dentate granule cell dendrites contained increased amounts of NPY, PAM and kalirin. CA1 pyramidal neurons expressed increased amounts of PAM and kalirin, with an accumulation of both proteins in their dendrites. Scattered interneurons contained increased levels of NPY and PAM after acute and repeated shocks. However, scattered interneurons contained increased levels of kalirin only after repeated shocks. The distinctly different effects of repeated vs. acute electroconvulsive shock support an important role for peptidergic plasticity in the therapeutic effects observed following electroconvulsive treatment.
The paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT), the most dorsal component of the thalamic midline, is known to be strongly activated following a variety of stressors and thus might be suggested to play a role as a relay for stress-related information targeted for viscerolimbic areas in the brain. This thalamic midline nucleus, however, lacks significant direct connections with the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH), which is a key player in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis whose activation and subsequent glucocorticoid secretion are clearly crucial for homeostasis under 'stressful' conditions. The present study was designed to identify afferents of the PVT, which are activated by an immobilization stress, one type of the 'neurogenic' stress paradigms, using combined Fos immunohistochemistry and retrograde tracing experiments with cholera toxin B subunit. Dual immunohistochemistry revealed that immobilization stress induced expression of Fos immunoreactive nuclei was constantly observed in many regions of the neuraxis. Dually-labeled neurons in the cerebral cortex were mainly observed in the hippocampus, exclusively in the pyramidal layer of the caudal part of the ventral subiculum. In diencephalons a small number of dually labeled neurons was observed in the rostromedial zona incerta. In the midbrain, many of the retrogradely labeled neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus were also immunoreactive for Fos protein. Mesencephalic periaqueductal gray contained a substantial number of dually labeled neurons. In the pons, the parabrachial nuclei, locus ceruleus, Barrington's nucleus and raphe nucleus contained only small numbers of dually labeled neurons. Within the medulla, nearly all of the retrogradely labeled neurons in the caudal part of the ventrolateral medulla were also immunoreactive for Fos antigen. Dually labeled neurons in the medulla were also observed in the nucleus of the solitary tract, exclusively in its commissural part. Given the known fact that most of the regions mentioned above provide important inputs to the HPA axis, our results suggest that a diencephalic network, presumably implicated in behavioral responses to given stress, might be activated by the parallel projection system that activate the HPA axis and might add some important insights to the understanding of animal and human stress-related HPA pathology.
The ocular-following response is a slow tracking eye movement that is elicited by sudden drifting movements of a large-field visual stimulus in primates. It helps to stabilize the eyes on the visual scene. Previous single unit recordings and chemical lesion studies have reported that the ocular-following response is mediated by a pathway that includes the medial superior temporal (MST) area of the cortex and the ventral paraflocculus (VPFL) of the cerebellum. Using a linear regression model, we systematically analyzed the quantitative relationships between the complex temporal patterns of neural activity at each level with sensory input and motor output signals (acceleration, velocity, and position) during ocular-following. The results revealed the following: (1) the temporal firing pattern of the MST neurons locally encodes the dynamic properties of the visual stimulus within a limited range. On the other hand, (2) the temporal firing pattern of the Purkinje cells in the cerebellum globally encodes almost the entire motor command for the ocular-following response. We conclude that the cerebellum is the major site of the sensory-to-motor transformation necessary for ocular-following, where population coding is integrated into rate coding.




The congenital absence of the right radius, scaphoid, trapezium, thumb and hypoplasia of the lunate are described in a 9-year-old boy. He had full extension of his elbow, while flexion motion was limited to 90 degrees. His hand was radially deviated. The thumb was absent. The index and middle fingers were united and immobile. The ring finger had movement only at the metacarpophalangeal joint, while the little finger had full motion. Complete blood count fell within normal ranges. He had no other malformations or mental retardation. No hereditary family history was found and there was no consanguineous marriage. This case is different from cases mentioned in the literature due to lunate hypoplasia and the anomalies of the index, middle and ring fingers.
The prompt use of computerized tomography has significantly enhanced the early localization of traumatic posterior fossa hematoma of the brain. Consequently, timely surgical intervention has been possible before irreversible damage has set in. The result is an overall improvement in the survival of patients with this condition. The clinical presentations of 2 children who developed traumatic posterior fossa epidural hematoma after a fall and were successfully operated upon, are presented. Computerized tomography scan of the brain of the first child was carried out on the day of admission and did not show any hematoma. The emergency computerized tomography scan of the brain that was carried out on the 3rd day when the patient became unresponsive localized the left epidural hematoma. Even though the 2nd patient was brought for treatment a week after the fall, his level of consciousness was good, an indication of the greatest prognostic factor, which with timely initiation of surgical intervention ensured a good outcome.
We report a female premature infant with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and Sandhoff disease. The clue for diagnosis was the fundoscopy examination. We discuss this rare disease with unusual presentation of intrauterine growth retardation, premature delivery, and bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
This article reports the occurrence of Guillain-Barre syndrome in a critically ill patient manifesting as a &quot;difficult-to-wean&quot; patient. This uncommon but possible etiology is worth noting by physicians in the intensive care unit.
A 10-year-old girl with Fischer`s variant of acute Guillain-Barre syndrome is described. She had predominantly sensory involvement with autonomic dysfunction, ophthalmoplegia and myoclonic jerks. Myoclonus persisted for 2 weeks and the pupillary involvement was evident even after 2 months. The association of myoclonus with Guillain-Barre syndrome has not been previously reported.






Behcet disease is a rare multi-system immune related vasculitis which may involve the central nervous system, usually during the course of the illness. Magnetic resonance imaging is currently the modality of choice for the detection of the parenchymal lesions in their different phases, as well as the dural sinus venous thrombosis.
Annual incidence rates of extrapulmonary tuberculosis have been increasing over the last few years in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. True rates may even be higher due to incomplete reporting. Diagnosis of this condition requires high clinical suspicion, special diagnostic procedures, special staining, and culture media for acid fast bacilli. Delayed diagnosis results in increasing morbidity, mortality, and cost to the health care system. Particularly in areas of high endemicity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, clinicians should be aware of the various forms of extrapulmonary tuberculosis. The available epidemiology and patterns of various forms of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are presented in this review.
Dendritic spines are discrete membrane protrusions from dendritic shafts where the large majority of excitatory synapses are located. Their highly heterogeneous morphology is thought to be the morphological basis for synaptic plasticity. Electron microscopy and time-lapse imaging studies have suggested that the shape and number of spines can change after long-term potentiation (LTP), although there is no evidence that morphological changes are necessary for LTP induction and maintenance. An increasing number of proteins have been found to be morphogens for dendritic spines and provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms regulating spine formation and morphology.
The cloning of the opioid-receptor-like 1 (ORL(1)) receptor and the identification of nociceptin as its endogenous agonist have revealed a new G-protein-coupled receptor signalling system. The structural and functional homology of ORL(1) to the opioid receptor systems has posed a number of challenges in understanding the often competing physiological responses elicited by these G-protein-coupled receptors. Thus, this review will attempt to summarize recent research by many groups that has revealed numerous subtleties of the ORL(1) receptor and its signalling pathways, as well as document the efforts to produce high-affinity selective ligands for the ORL(1) receptor that may be of value as research and therapeutic tools.
The efficacy of surgical treatment of ICH remains unproven and controversial [40]. Although open surgery does not appear to improve the patient's outcome [2], less invasive methods of hematoma evacuation seem to show promising results in improving patient outcome and survival. To date, the only two clinical trials that have demonstrated benefit from surgical treatment over medical therapy for ICH have used minimally invasive techniques [27,38]. Randomized controlled clinical trials comparing minimally invasive surgical techniques versus best medical treatment are needed to determine the best management of ICH.


Recent advances in the technology of non-invasive neuroimaging techniques, include X-ray CT, magnetic resonance imaging, positron CT, etc. The trend of neuroimaging is from the diagnosis of the brain structural change to the functional localization of the brain function with accurate topographical data. Brain activation studies disclosed the responsible regions in the brain for various kinds of paradigms, including motor, sensory, cognitive functions. Another aspect of brain imaging shows the pathophysiological changes of the neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease by abnormal CBF or metabolism changes. It is very important to note that the neurotransmitter receptor imaging is now available for various kinds of transmitters. We recently developed a new tracer for nicotinic type acetylcholine receptor, which might be involved in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and its treatment. In the near future, we will be able to visualize the proteins in the brain such as amyloid protein, which will make us to diagnose Alzheimer's patients accurately, and with respect to neuroscience research, not only neuronal functional localizations but also relationship between them will become important to disclose the functional aspects of the brain.
A case of pituitary adenoma associated is neurofibromatosis type 1 is reported. On June 6, 2000, a 49-year-old man was admitted to the Department of Neurological Surgery, Okayama University Hospital, for bitemporal hemianopsia. Twenty-nine years previously, he had been operated on for a left inguinal tumor that proved to be a neurofibroma. Based on the presence of other manifestations, such as caf-au-lait spots and subcutaneous nodules, he had been diagnosed with neurofibromatosis type 1, the same as his father, sister, and daughter. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated an intrasellar mass lesion with a cystic portion in the suprasellar region. Endocrinologically, almost all of his basic hormone levels were normal. A right front-temporal craniotomy was performed for a preoperative diagnosis of craniopharyngioma, and total intracapsular tumor extirpation was achieved. The histological diagnosis was clinically silent corticotroph pituitary adenoma. Neurofibromatosis is sometimes associated with neoplasms of the central nervous system, usually optic gliomas. Associations between pituitary adenomas and NF 1 are very rare and have been reported in only four cases, including the present case.

Abstract An alternative to the use of printed grading scales for assessing the severity of contact lens-induced ocular pathology is to use computer-generated grading morphs. This technique involves manipulation of a continuously variable movie sequence until this matches the severity of the condition being observed. To validate the use of computer morphs, nine experienced optometrists were each invited to grade - to the nearest 0.1 increment - an image of each of 16 contact lens complications, using printed scales (Efron Grading Scales for Contact Lens Complications) and computer morphs (Efron Grading Morphs). This entire procedure was repeated approximately 2 weeks later, yielding a total data base comprising of 576 individual grading estimates. Good accuracy was achieved using computer morphs, as evidenced by the similarity between the mean of the test and retest grading estimates for the printed scales (2.8 +/- 0.7) and the computer morphs (2.6 +/- 0.8) (F1,8 = 2.7, p = 0.14). There was no difference in median reliability between the printed scales (+/- 0.41) and the computer morphs (+/- 0.43) (Z = 0.1, p = 0.95). Computer morphs are thus considered to have been validated in view of their accuracy and reliability compared with printed scales. In addition, computer morphs offer considerable utility in terms of computer-based clinical record keeping, teaching and learning, and clinical research.

While the short- and medium-term refractive and acuity results of excimer laser refractive surgery may now be generally satisfactory, the relatively brief history of the procedures involved (around 10 years or less) means that those concerned with eye care must remain vigilant to the possibility of longer-term problems. This paper reviews some relevant studies of potential post-surgical effects, including imperfect corneal healing and recovery of innervation, reduced corneal sensitivity and dry eye problems, changes in corneal rigidity leading to slow refractive change, possibly misleading reductions in measured intraocular pressure, and retinal and vitreous pathology.

Two unilateral injections of pH 4.0 saline into the gastrocnemius muscle result in a bilateral decrease in mechanical withdrawal threshold after the second injection. This decrease is significant by 4h and lasts through 1 week. The purpose of this study was to characterize the involvement of both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA glutamate receptors in the spinal cord dorsal horn in the development and maintenance of mechanical hyperalgesia from repeated intramuscular injections of acidic saline. 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5) (2-20 nmol, 10 microl, pH 7) or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX) (1-10 nmol, 10 microl, pH 8-9) was administered intrathecally to the lumbar spinal cord to block NMDA and non-NMDA ionotropic glutamate receptors in the dorsal horn, respectively. Drugs were administered at one of three different time points: (1) prior to the first intramuscular injection of pH 4.0 saline on Day 0, (2) prior to the second intramuscular injection of pH 4.0 saline on Day 5, and (3) 1 week after the second injection. Mechanical withdrawal thresholds were measured with von Frey filaments before, 4h, and 24h after injection 1 and before, 4h, 24h, and 1 week after injection 2. AP5 had no effect on mechanical withdrawal thresholds when administered prior to the first intramuscular injection of pH 4.0 saline. When AP5 was administered before the second intramuscular injection, the bilateral decrease in mechanical withdrawal thresholds was delayed for up to 24h. Intrathecal administration of AP5 1 week after the second intramuscular injection of pH 4.0 saline produced a bilateral increase in mechanical withdrawal thresholds. Blockade of non-NMDA glutamate receptors in the spinal cord dorsal horn prior to either the first or second intramuscular injection of pH 4.0 saline had no effect on the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. However, spinal injection of NBQX 1 week after the second intramuscular injection of pH 4.0 saline resulted in an increase in mechanical withdrawal thresholds when compared to vehicle controls. These data suggest that both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors are involved in the maintenance of chronic, muscle-induced hyperalgesia.

Amyloid beta protein (AbetaP) is the major fibrillar constituent of senile plaques. However, no causative role for AbetaP-fibers in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology is established. Globular AbetaPs are continuously released during normal cellular metabolism at pico- to nano-molar concentration. We used atomic force microscopy (AFM) to examine aggregation of freshly prepared AbetaP(1-42) and to examine the role of AbetaP concentration, imaging medium (air, water, or PBS) and agonists/antagonists on AbetaP-fibrillogenesis. At even very high and non-physiological AbetaP concentrations, 24-48 h of real-time AFM imaging (a) in water show only multiple layers of globular aggregates and no fibrils and (b) in PBS show mainly the globular structures and some short fibrils. On-line addition of Zn, an agonist for AbetaP-fibrillogenesis, induced a slow but non-fibrillar aggregation of globular AbetaPs. EDTA, a chelator of Zn and calcium (a modulator of AbetaP-mediated toxicity) induced a reversible change in the Zn-mediated aggregation. These results strongly suggest that no AbetaP-fibers are formed for the physiologically relevant concentration and thus the plaque-associated fibers may not account for the AD pathophysiology.
Abeta25-35, a fragment of the neurotoxic amyloid beta protein Abeta1-42 found in the brain of Alzheimer patients, possesses amyloidogenic, neurotoxins and channel forming abilities similar to that of Abeta1-42. We have previously reported that Abeta25-35 formed voltage-dependent, relatively nonselective, ion-permeable channels in planar lipid bilayers. Here, we show that Abeta25-35 formed channels in both solvent-containing and solvent-free bilayers. We also report that for Abeta25-35, channel forming activity was dependent on ionic strength, membrane lipid composition, and peptide concentration, but not on pH. Lower ionic strength and negatively charged lipids increased channel formation activity, while cholesterol decreased activity. The nonlinear function relating [Abeta25-35] and membrane activity suggests that aggregation of at least three monomers is required for channel formation.
The assembly and permanent sealing of tight junctions (TJs) depend crucially on cell-cell contacts containing E-cadherin. This poses a puzzling problem because, while TJs can be established between epithelial cells from different tissues and even different animal species (&quot;heterotypic TJs&quot;; Gonzalez-Mariscal et al. 1989, J Membr Biol 107:43), the cell-cell binding mediated by E-cadherin is a highly specific one (Takeichi 1995, Curr Opin Cell Biol 7:619). Yet the demonstration that TJs can be established at heterotypic borders is open to two distinct challenges. First, it is based on transepithelial electrical resistance (TER) and restriction to ruthenium red permeation only, which today are known to be just two of the many characteristics of TJs; and second some attributes of the TJs (e.g. the presence of specific molecules) have been found even in cells that do not establish these structures. This raised the question of whether heterotypic TJs were not true or full TJs. In the present work we demonstrate that heterotypic TJs in mixed monolayers of MDCK cells with a different cell type (LLC-PK1) are true TJs through several criteria, such as TER, the ability to stop the membrane diffusion of fluorescent sphingomyelin from the apical to the lateral domain, the presence of ZO-1, ZO-2, occludin, claudin-1 and claudin-2. We then turn to the presence of E-cadherin at heterotypic borders, and observe that it cannot be detected by the highly specific DECMA-1 antibody, in spite of the fact that this antibody does reveal the presence of E-cadherin at homotypic contacts of the same cell. Yet, ECCD-2, an antibody against another domain of E-cadherin, reveals that this molecule may be present at both types of borders. Thus, E-cadherin is present at heterotypic borders, yet it seems to be in a conformation unable to bind DECMA-1. Our results suggest: (1) that heterotypic borders can establish fully developed TJs; (2) that the sealing of these heterotypic TJs depends on E-cadherin; (3) but that this dependence is mediated through a cascade of chemical reactions involving two different G-proteins, PLC, PKC and calmodulin, which we have characterized elsewhere (Balda et al. 1991, J Membr Biol 122:193); and (4) hence molecules of E-cadherin that trigger junction formation can act from a distant homotypic contact.
Melissa officinalis (lemon balm) is a traditional herbal medicine, which enjoys contemporary usage as a mild sedative, spasmolytic and antibacterial agent. It has been suggested, in light of in vitro cholinergic binding properties, that Melissa extracts may effectively ameliorate the cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease. To date, no study has investigated the effects on cognition and mood of administration of Melissa to healthy humans. The present randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced-crossover study investigated the acute effects on cognition and mood of a standardised extract of M. officinalis. Twenty healthy, young participants received single doses of 300, 600 and 900 mg of M. officinalis (Pharmaton) or a matching placebo at 7-day intervals. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) computerised test battery and two serial subtraction tasks immediately prior to dosing and at 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 h thereafter. In vitro IC(50) concentrations for the displacement of [3H]-(N)-nicotine and [3H]-(N)-scopolamine from nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in human occipital cortex tissue were also calculated. Results, utilising the cognitive factors previously derived from the CDR battery, included a sustained improvement in Accuracy of Attention following 600 mg of Melissa and time- and dose-specific reductions in both Secondary Memory and Working Memory factors. Self-rated &quot;calmness,&quot; as assessed by Bond-Lader mood scales, was elevated at the earliest time points by the lowest dose, whilst &quot;alertness&quot; was significantly reduced at all time points following the highest dose. Both nicotinic and muscarinic binding were found to be low in comparison to the levels found in previous studies.
The GABA(A) receptor positive modulator allopregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one) is a potent neurosteroid with behavioral and biochemical characteristics similar to ethanol, barbiturates, and benzodiazepines. This suggests that neurosteroids may provide an alternative class of sedative/hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and anxiolytic pharmacotherapies. However, there is evidence from animal models that neurosteroids may be susceptible to abuse by humans. Thus, the present study evaluated the reinforcing effects of orally administered allopregnanolone in rats. In the first experiment, male Long-Evans rats (n=9) were allowed to voluntarily consume a 50-microg/ml allopregnanolone (50A) solution or water in an unlimited-access two-bottle choice procedure for 10 days. Subsequently, the same animals were trained to lever-press to receive a 50A solution in daily 30-min operant sessions using a sucrose substitution procedure. In the two-bottle choice procedure, rats consumed significantly more allopregnanolone than water, suggesting that allopregnanolone was serving as a reinforcer. In the operant self-administration procedure, allopregnanolone did not maintain levels of responding that were different from water, suggesting that allopregnanolone did not function as a reinforcer in this procedure. These results suggest that orally administered allopregnanolone possesses reinforcing properties; however, additional studies are necessary to determine whether operant oral self-administration will be a viable index of allopregnanolone's reinforcing effects.
In a previous experiment [Eur J Neurosci 12 (2000) 79], combined intracerebroventricular injections of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT; 150 microg) and 192 IgG-saporin (2 microg) in female rats produced working memory impairments, which neither single lesion induced. In the present experiment, we report on an identical approach in male rats. Behavioral variables were locomotor activity, T-maze alternation, beam-walking, Morris water-maze (working and reference memory) and radial-maze performances. 192 IgG-saporin reduced cholinergic markers in the frontoparietal cortex and the hippocampus. 5,7-DHT lesions reduced serotonergic markers in the cortex, hippocampus and striatum. Cholinergic lesions induced motor deficits, hyperactivity and reduced T-maze alternation, but had no other effect. Serotonergic lesions only produced hyperactivity and reduced T-maze alternation. Beside the deficits due to cholinergic lesions, rats with combined lesions also showed impaired radial-maze performances. We confirm that 192 IgG-saporin and 5,7-DHT injections can be combined to produce concomitant damage to cholinergic and serotonergic neurons in the brain. In female rats, this technique enabled to show that interactions between serotonergic and basal forebrain cholinergic mechanisms play an important role in cognitive functions. The results of the present experiment in male rats are not as clear-cut, although they are not in obvious contradiction with our previous results in females.
Prenatal cocaine exposure has been shown to produce attentional changes in human infants and children, as well as in preweanling and young adult animals. The aim of the current study was to determine whether attentional effects of in utero cocaine exposure persist into middle adulthood. Sprague-Dawley dams received twice-daily subcutaneous (sc) administration of either 20 mg/kg cocaine HCl or 0.9% saline vehicle from Gestational Day 8 to 20. Saline-injected dams were pair-fed to cocaine-injected subjects during prenatal treatment. A second control group received no treatment and had ad lib access to food. One-year-old female offspring were tested for latent inhibition (LI) of a context conditioning task, using freezing and vertical nose crossing (VNC) as behavioral measures of fear. Although freezing did not reveal any differences between prenatal treatment groups, a cocaine-dependent reduction in baseline VNC indicated that cocaine-exposed adult offspring were less explorative than controls. In addition, cocaine-exposed animals showed enhanced LI as measured by greater levels of VNC than controls in the context preexposed condition of the task. These results provide insight into the nature of attentional contributions to prenatal cocaine effects on learning and indicate that such effects persist well into adulthood.
We report a case of Meige syndrome with apraxia of lid opening that lasted for about seven months after discontinuation of sulpiride treatment. To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating that Meige syndrome with apraxia of lid opening is induced by sulpiride, and that the condition persists.
Photolabile protecting groups enable biochemists to control the release of bioactive compounds in living tissue. 'Caged compounds' (photoactivatable bioagents) have become an important tool to study the events that follow chemical signalling in, e.g., cell biology and the neurosciences. The possibilities are by no means exhausted. Progress will depend on the development of photoremovable protecting groups that satisfy the diverse requirements of new applications--a challenging task for photochemists.
Dehydrated dogs inhibit secretion of vasopressin (VP) within minutes after drinking water, before plasma osmolality (pOsm) diminishes. In recent studies, we found that water ingestion by rats similarly inhibits VP and oxytocin (OT) secretion rapidly, before pOsm is diluted. Adult male rats were infused with 1 M NaCl (2 ml/h iv) for 240 min to stimulate VP and OT secretion. After 220 min of infusion, rats were given water or isotonic saline (IS) to drink for 5 min, and blood samples were taken 5 and 15 min later. Plasma levels of VP (pVP) and OT (pOT) were much lower when rats ingested water instead of IS, even though rats drank comparable amounts of both fluids ( approximately 5.5 ml) and pOsm was not significantly affected in either case. In another study, rats were infused with 1 M NaCl (2 ml/h iv) for 120 min before receiving 4-ml gastric loads of either 0.5 M NaCl (HS) or IS; blood samples taken 25 min later showed that pVP and pOT were much higher when rats were given gastric loads of HS instead of IS, even though pOsm was not significantly altered. Comparable results were obtained when gastric loads of HS or IS were given to rats that had been deprived of drinking water overnight. Other dehydrated rats treated similarly but given access to drinking water consumed much more when they had been given gastric loads of HS instead of IS. Collectively, these and other findings suggest the importance of early signals, perhaps from hepatoportal osmoreceptors or Na(+) receptors, in the control of VP and OT secretion and water intake in rats.
Glucose homeostasis is of paramount concern to the brain since glucose is its primary fuel. Thus, the brain has evolved mechanisms to sense and respond to changes in glucose levels. The efferent aspects of the central nervous system response to hypoglycemia are relatively well understood. In addition, it is accepted that the brain regulates food intake and energy balance. Obesity and diabetes both result from and cause alterations in the central nervous system function. Thus, it is reasonable to hypothesize that the brain also regulates daily glucose homeostasis and energy balance. However, little is known about how the brain actually senses and responds to changes in extracellular glucose. While there are neurons in the brain that change their action potential frequency in response to changes in extracellular glucose, most studies of these neurons have been performed using glucose levels that are outside the physiologic range of extracellular brain glucose. Thus, the physiologic relevance of these glucose-sensing neurons is uncertain. However, recent studies show that glucose-sensing neurons do respond to physiologic changes in extracellular glucose. This review will first investigate the data regarding physiologic glucose levels in the brain. The various subtypes of physiologically relevant glucose-sensing neurons will then be discussed. Based on the relative glucose sensitivity of these subtypes of glucose-sensing neurons, possible roles in the regulation of glucose homeostasis are hypothesized. Finally, the question of whether these neurons are only glucose sensors or whether they play a more integrated role in the regulation of energy balance will be considered.
Multiple molecular, cellular, structural, and functional changes occur in the brain during aging. Neural cells may respond to these changes adaptively, or they may succumb to neurodegenerative cascades that result in disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Multiple mechanisms are employed to maintain the integrity of nerve cell circuits and to facilitate responses to environmental demands and promote recovery of function after injury. The mechanisms include production of neurotrophic factors and cytokines, expression of various cell survival-promoting proteins (e.g., protein chaperones, antioxidant enzymes, Bcl-2 and inhibitor of apoptosis proteins), preservation of genomic integrity by telomerase and DNA repair proteins, and mobilization of neural stem cells to replace damaged neurons and glia. The aging process challenges such neuroprotective and neurorestorative mechanisms. Genetic and environmental factors superimposed upon the aging process can determine whether brain aging is successful or unsuccessful. Mutations in genes that cause inherited forms of Alzheimer's disease (amyloid precursor protein and presenilins), Parkinson's disease (alpha-synuclein and Parkin), and trinucleotide repeat disorders (huntingtin, androgen receptor, ataxin, and others) overwhelm endogenous neuroprotective mechanisms; other genes, such as those encoding apolipoprotein E(4), have more subtle effects on brain aging. On the other hand, neuroprotective mechanisms can be bolstered by dietary (caloric restriction and folate and antioxidant supplementation) and behavioral (intellectual and physical activities) modifications. At the cellular and molecular levels, successful brain aging can be facilitated by activating a hormesis response in which neurons increase production of neurotrophic factors and stress proteins. Neural stem cells that reside in the adult brain are also responsive to environmental demands and appear capable of replacing lost or dysfunctional neurons and glial cells, perhaps even in the aging brain. The recent application of modern methods of molecular and cellular biology to the problem of brain aging is revealing a remarkable capacity within brain cells for adaptation to aging and resistance to disease.
A theoretical framework for understanding movement preparation is proposed. Movement parameters are represented by activation fields, distributions of activation defined over metric spaces. The fields evolve under the influence of various sources of localized input, representing information about upcoming movements. Localized patterns of activation self-stabilize through cooperative and competitive interactions within the fields. The task environment is represented by a 2nd class of fields, which preshape the movement parameter representation. The model accounts for a sizable body of empirical findings on movement initiation (continuous and graded nature of movement preparation, dependence on the metrics of the task, stimulus uncertainty effect, stimulus-response compatibility effects, Simon effect, precuing paradigm, and others) and suggests new ways of exploring the structure of motor representations.
C. R. Gallistel and J. Gibbon (2000) presented quantitative data on the speed with which animals acquire behavioral responses during autoshaping, together with a statistical model of learning intended to account for them. Although this model captures the form of the dependencies among critical variables, its detailed predictions are substantially at variance with the data. In the present article, further key data on the speed of acquisition are used to motivate an alternative model of learning, in which animals can be interpreted as paying different amounts of attention to stimuli according to estimates of their differential reliabilities as predictors.
In mirror reflections, visual stimuli in near peripersonal space (e.g., an object in the hand) can project the retinal image of far, extrapersonal stimuli &quot;beyond&quot; the mirror. We studied the interaction of such visual reflections with tactile stimuli in a cross-modal congruency task. We found that visual distractors produce stronger interference on tactile judgments when placed close to the stimulated hand, but observed indirectly as distant mirror reflections, than when directly observed in equivalently distant far space, even when in contact with a dummy hand or someone else's hand in the far location. The stronger visual-tactile interference for the mirror condition implies that near stimuli seen as distant reflections in a mirror view of one's own hands can activate neural networks coding peripersonal space, because these visual stimuli are coded as having a true source near to the body.
A large response range can be observed in both behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to environmental challenges. This variation can arise from central mechanisms such as those involved in the shaping of general response tendencies (temperaments) or involves only one or the other output system (behavioral vs. endocrine response). The participation of genetic factors in this variability is demonstrated by family and twin studies in humans, the comparison of inbred strains and selection experiments in animals. Those inbred strains diverging for specific traits of stress reactivity are invaluable tools for the study of the molecular bases of this genetic variability. Until recently, it was only possible to study biological differences between contrasting strains, such as neurotransmitter pathways in the brain or hormone receptor properties, in order to suggest structural differences in candidate genes. The increase of the power of molecular biology tools allows the systematic screening of significant genes for the search of molecular variants. More recently, it was possible to search for genes without any preliminary functional hypothesis (mRNA differential expression, nucleic acid arrays, QTL search). The approach known as quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis is based on the association between polymorphic anonymous markers and the phenotypical value of the trait under study in a segregating population (such as F2 or backcross). It allows the location of chromosomal regions involved in trait variability and ultimately the identification of the mutated gene(s). Therefore, in a first step, those studies skip the 'black box' of intermediate mechanisms, but the knowledge of the gene(s) responsible for trait variability will point out to the pathway responsible for the phenotypical differences. Since variations in stress-related responses may be related to numerous pathological conditions such as behavioral and mood disorders, drug abuse, cardiovascular diseases or obesity, and production traits in farm animals, these studies can be expected to bring significant knowledge for new therapeutic approaches in humans and improved efficiency of selection in farm animals.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a chronic disorder that often precedes the development of, and is comorbid with, depression. Investigation of the neurobiological basis of GAD has provided suggestive evidence to implicate dysfunction of serotonergic and noradrenergic systems in the expression of GAD, as well as the depressive disorders. Hence, there may be a neurobiological link between GAD and depression through the activity of the serotonin and norepinephrine systems. The use of various anxiolytics and antidepressants, including benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors in the treatment of GAD is reviewed. The neurobiological relationship between GAD and depression, and the frequent comorbidity of these disorders, suggests that agents with a dual action on the serotonin and norepinephrine systems may potentially offer superior benefits in the management of patients with anxiety and depressive disorders.


Differential aversive Pavlovian conditioning with a foul odor as unconditioned stimulus (US) and neutral faces as conditioned stimuli (CS) was compared between 9 noncriminal psychopaths as defined by the Hare Psychopathy Checklist Revised and 12 healthy controls. Event-related potentials (ERP), heart rate, skin conductance response, corrugator EMG, and startle response potentiation as well as valence, arousal, and contingency of the CS were assessed. Whereas the healthy controls (HC) showed significant CS +/CS- differentiation, the psychopaths (PP) failed to exhibit a conditioned response although unconditioned responses were comparable between the groups. N100, P200, and P300 to the CSs revealed that psychopaths were not deficient in information processing and showed even better anticipatory responding than the HC group indicated by the terminal contingent negative variation (tCNV), that lacked, however, CS+ and CS- differentiation. These data indicate a deficit in association formation in psychopaths that may be related to deficient interaction of limbic-subcortical and cortical structures.

The present paper examines the ability to evaluate prices in a familiar currency (French francs, Portugese escudos, or Irish punt) and in an unfamiliar currency (euro). Participants evaluated prices for different items either by selecting the most appropriate price from a set of alternatives (in a timed or not-timed version) or by directly producing a price estimate for each item. The results followed Weber's law: The standard deviation of estimated prices was proportional to their mean. The Weber fraction was stable for the familiar currency in different countries, but was significantly higher for the unfamiliar currency. We suggest that price estimation relies on a learned mapping between items and their prices as represented by distributions of activation on an internal number line. The observed Weber fraction reflects the degree of expertise with a given currency as well as a minimal variability intrinsic to the number line itself.

Santiago Ram n y Cajal entered the Medical Corps after graduating in Medicine in 1873. His marked Spanish nationalist character and his excellent physical condition led him to serve in the third Carlist war as a medical lieutenant and later in the Cuban War as a captain. His stay in Cuba, however, was marked by hardship and illness. The decline of Spain s colonialist policy, the war that was fought in a hostile climate and atmosphere, and the corruption of the military officers led to Santiago being posted to the frontlines on a fixed logistics system of trails. All this was to end in military failure and the subsequent loss of the colony. Disillusioned and seriously ill from malaria, which nearly killed him, he returned to Spain after being discharged for illness. Shortly afterwards, thanks to Dr. Jenaro Casas, he became a university lecturer, which put an end to his military career

An 18-year old woman, presenting with seizures, had an MRI of the head which suggested the presence of a malignant lesion. Interestingly, biopsy of this lesion ultimately confirmed cortical neuronal dysgenesis.
A distinctive scalp electroencephalographic (EEG) pattern of focal fast rhythmic epileptiform discharges (FREDs) in a 23-year-old man with symptomatic localization related epilepsy is presented. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed cortical dysplasia over the right temporal region where the peculiar EEG abnormality was detected. We suggest that this characteristic EEG pattern may be predictive of focal cortical dysplasia (FCD). A brief review of the rhythmic EEG abnormalities in FCDs is also presented.



Cholestasis is a feature of many chronic human liver diseases. Previous studies pointed out an impairment of mitochondrial function as a cause of hepatocyte dysfunction leading to cholestatic liver injury. This study was aimed to evaluate liver mitochondrial bioenergetics of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate-treated Wistar rats, an experimental model of cholestasis. Serum markers of liver injury and endogenous adenine nucleotides were measured. Changes in membrane potential, mitochondrial respiration, and alterations in mitochondrial permeability transition pore induction were monitored. In rats injected with alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate, liver injury with cholestasis developed within 48 h, as indicated by both serum enzyme activities and total bilirubin concentration. Liver mitochondria isolated from alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate-treated rats had a higher state 3 respiration, respiratory control ratio, ADP/O, and endogenous ATP/ADP ratio compared to controls. No change in state 4 respiration was observed. Associated with these parameters, cholestatic mitochondria exhibited an increased resistance to disruption of mitochondrial calcium homeostasis due to permeability transition pore induction. Hepatic mitochondria isolated from alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate-treated rats exhibited an improved efficiency. These data indicate that an adaptive response to resist cell death occurs during alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate-induced acute cholestasis.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that components in mainstream (MS) and sidestream (SS) cigarette smoke inhibit growth and angiogenesis using the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). Varying doses of whole or gas-phase MS and SS smoke solutions were placed on day 5 CAMs, and their effects on angiogenesis were evaluated on day 6. All parameters evaluated (CAM area, major blood vessel area, major blood vessel diameter, blood vessel pattern formation, and capillary plexus formation) were inhibited to different degrees in a dose-dependent manner by both MS and SS smoke treatment. Inhibition of growth and vessel development was correlated with inhibition of cell proliferation. Inhibition of capillary plexus formation was caused by failure of mesodermal blood vessels to migrate to the ectoderm. SS smoke solution was more inhibitory than MS smoke solution in all assays, except for capillary plexus formation. In all assays, the toxicants in SS smoke partitioned mainly with the gas phase, whereas those in MS smoke were deduced to be mainly in the particulate phase in the proliferation-dependent assays (CAM area, blood vessel area, blood vessel diameter) and in both the gas and particulate phase in the pattern formation and plexus formation assays. Some of the inhibitory doses of MS and SS smoke solutions had nicotine concentrations within the range found in human smokers. Taken together, these data demonstrate that exposure to complex mixtures of chemicals in MS and SS cigarette smoke adversely affect growth, vessel development, vessel migration, and cell proliferation.
The amygdala receives multi-modal sensory inputs and projects to virtually all levels of the central nervous system. Via these widespread projections, the amygdala facilitates consolidation of emotionally arousing memories. How the amygdala promotes synaptic plasticity elsewhere in the brain remains unknown, however. Recent work indicates that amygdala neurons show theta activity during emotional arousal, and various types of oscillations during sleep. These synchronized neuronal events could promote synaptic plasticity by facilitating interactions between neocortical storage sites and temporal lobe structures involved in declarative memory.
It has been hypothesized that the human visual system can use temporal synchrony for the perceptual grouping of image regions into unified objects, as proposed in some neural models. It is argued here, however, that previous psychophysical evidence for this hypothesis is due to stimulus artifacts, and that earlier studies do not, therefore, support the claims of synchrony-sensitive grouping mechanisms or processes.
Functional imaging methods exploit the relationship between neuronal activity, energy demand and cerebral blood flow to functionally map the brain. Despite the increasing use of these imaging tools in basic and clinical neuroscience, the neurobiological processes underlying the imaging signals remain unclear. Recently, interest has been focused on uncovering the signals that trigger the metabolic and vascular changes accompanying variations in neuronal activity. Advances in this field have demonstrated that release of the major excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate initiates diverse signaling processes between neurons and astrocytes, and that this signaling could be crucial for the occurrence of brain imaging signals. In this article we review the hypothesis that glutamate represents a common trigger for both neurometabolic and neurovascular coupling.
Inducing null mutations by means of homologous recombination provides a powerful technique to investigate gene function and has found wide application in many different fields. However, it was realized some time ago that the specific way in which such knockout mutants are generated can be confounding, making it impossible to separate the effects of the induced null mutation from those of alleles originating from the embryonic stem cell donor. In addition, effects from null mutations can be altered on different genetic backgrounds. Here we present some simple breeding strategies to test for flanking gene effects that are compatible with the recommendations of the Banbury Conference on Genetic Background in Mice and with common practices of creating and maintaining mouse knockout lines.
Ganglion cells in an isolated wholemount preparation of the rat retina were labeled using the &quot;DiOlistic&quot; labeling method (Gan et al., 2000) and were classified according to their morphological properties. Tungsten particles coated with a lipophilic dye (DiI) were propelled into the wholemount retina using a gene gun. When a dye-coated particle contacted the cell membrane, the entire cell was labeled. The ganglion cells were classified into four types based on their soma size, dendritic-field size, branching pattern, and level of stratification. Broadly monostratified cells were classified into three types: RG(A) cells (large soma, large dendritic field); RG(B) cells (small- to medium-sized soma, small- to medium-sized dendritic field); and RG(C) cells (small- to medium-sized soma, medium-to-large dendritic field). Bistratified cells were classified as RG(D). Several subtypes were identified within each ganglion cell group. A number of new subtypes were discovered and added into the existing catalog, among them were two types of bistratified cells. This study therefore represents the most complete morphological classification of rat retinal ganglion cells available to date.
Clinical tests have a poor sensitivity to low to moderate degrees of neuro-visual damage, possibly because their test targets involve numerous receptive fields. A new test used briefly exposed microdots of high contrast. Multiple visual field areas were probed repeatedly, with ever-new microdot positions. Normal subjects responded to a median 96.0% of probes. Patients with different visual field defects missed larger numbers of probes within defects and the deeper the defects, the larger the number of misses. Patients with minor chiasmal lesions averaged 1.8 times larger defects in microdot perimetry than in high-pass resolution perimetry, indicating superior sensitivity to minor damage.

1. The aims were to study the sulfation of R-(-)-apomorphine (hereafter apomorphine) in the human liver and duodenum, and to study the rate of inhibition of apomorphine sulphation by mefenamic acid, salicylic acid and quercetin also in the human liver and duodenum. 2. A rapid and sensitive method was developed to measure the sulfation rate of apomorphine in the human liver and duodenum. The method was based on the use of 0.4 micro M 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate-[(35)S] (PAPS) and 50 micro M apomorphine. The unreacted PAPS was precipitated with barium hydroxide, barium acetate and zinc sulfate. 3. The rate of apomorphine sulfation (mean +/- SD and median) was 261 +/- 82 and 242 pmol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively (liver), and 433 +/- 157 and 443 pmol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively (duodenum). The apomorphine sulfation rate was higher in the duodenum than in the liver (p = 0.0005). 4. Apomorphine sulfation was correlated with SULT1A1 activity in the liver (r(2) = 0.363, p = 0.005) and duodenum (r(2) = 0.494, p = 0.0005), but it did not correlate with SULT1A3 activity both in the liver and duodenum. 5. The K(m) estimate of apomorphine sulfation rate was 20 +/- 3.6 (liver) and 6.5 +/- 0.2 microM (duodenum, p = 0.024), and the V(max) estimate was 248 +/- 99 (liver) and 636 +/- 104 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (duodenum, p = 0.018). 6. Mefenamic acid, salicylic acid and quercetin were potent inhibitors of apomorphine sulfation rate in the liver, and the IC(50) estimates were 16 +/- 0.2 nM, 54 +/- 8.6 microM and 18 +/- 2.8 nM, respectively. These compounds were poor inhibitors of apomorphine sulfation in the duodenum. 7. Apomorphine is sulfated by the human liver and duodenum, the highest activity being associated with the duodenum. The K(m) of apomorphine sulfotransferase is in the order of micro M both in the liver and duodenum. The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug mefenamic acid and the natural flavonoid quercetin inhibit the hepatic sulfation of apomorphine with an IC(50) in the order of nM.
1. The aim of this investigation was to see whether 7-OH-flavone, 5-OH-flavone and 3-OH-flavone, which are present in edible vegetables, fruit and wine, are substrates or inhibitors of human liver and duodenum sulfotransferase. 2. An assay was set up to study the sulfation of 7-OH-flavone, and using this assay, it was observed that 7-OH-flavone was sulfated and the rate of sulfation (mean +/- SD) was 324 +/- 87 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (liver) and 584 +/- 164 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (duodenum; p &lt; 0.0001). 3. 7-OH-flavone sulfotransferase followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics and the K(m) (mean +/- SD) was 0.2 +/- 0.04 microM (liver) and 1.1 +/- 0.3 microM (duodenum; p = 0.008). V(max) (mean +/- SD) was 392 +/- 134 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (liver) and 815 +/- 233 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) (duodenum; p = 0.016). 4. 5-OH-flavone and 3-OH-flavone were not sulfated and were inhibitors of human liver and duodenum SULT1A1 activity and 7-OH-flavone sulfation rate. 5. The IC50 of 5-OH-flavone for SULT1A1 was 0.3 +/- 0.06 microM (liver) and 0.3 +/- 0.1 microM (duodenum; n.s.) and those of 3-OH-flavone were 1.0 +/- 0.1 microM (liver) and 1.6 +/- 0.03 microM (duodenum; p = 0.0006). 6. There was inhibition of 7-OH-flavone sulfation rate by 5-OH-flavone and 3-OH-flavone. The IC(50) of 5-OH-flavone for the sulfation rate of 7-OH-flavone was 3.5 +/- 0.5 microM (liver) and 69 +/- 18 microM (duodenum; p &lt; 0.0001) and for 3-OH-flavone it was 18 +/- 3.4 microM (liver) and 213 +/- 47 microM (duodenum; p &lt; 0.0001). 7. The position of the hydroxy group confers to the molecules of OH-flavones the quality of substrate or inhibitor of sulfotransferase.
Cation chloride cotransporters are considered to play pivotal roles in controlling the intracellular and extracellular ionic environments of neurons, hence controlling neuronal function. To establish how these cotransporters are involved in cerebellum development, we investigated the expression of KCC1, KCC2 and NKCC1 mRNAs in the developing rat cerebellum using in situ hybridization histochemistry. In the external germinal layer, where premature cells exist, we found substantial KCC1 and NKCC1 mRNA expression on P7 and P14, while KCC2 mRNA was not detected. In contrast, KCC2 mRNA was already expressed in Purkinje cells on P1. We also observed KCC2 mRNA expression in postmigratory granule cells after P7. The expression of KCC1, KCC2, and NKCC1 mRNAs reached adult patterns by P21. In the adult cerebellum, KCC2 mRNA was expressed in most neurons, including Purkinje cells, granule cells, and stella/basket cells, while KCC1 and NKCC1 mRNAs were only detected in granule cells and glial cells. These findings suggest that in the rat cerebellum KCC2 mRNA expression is induced when neurons arrive their final destinations.
Cytochrome P4502D6, an important isoform of cytochrome P450, mediates the metabolism of several psychoactive drugs in liver. Quantitatively, liver is the major drug metabolizing organ, however metabolism of drugs in brain could modulate pharmacological and pharmacodynamic effects of psychoactive drugs at their site of action and explain some of the variation typically seen in patient population. We have measured cytochrome P450 content and examined constitutive expression of CYP2D mRNA and protein in human brain regions by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, Northern and immunoblotting and localized it by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. CYP2D mRNA was expressed constitutively in neurons of cerebral cortex, Purkinje and granule cell layers of cerebellum, reticular neurons of midbrain and pyramidal neurons of CA1, CA2 and CA3 subfields of hippocampus. Immunoblot studies demonstrated the presence of cytochrome P4502D protein in cortex, cerebellum, midbrain, striatum and thalamus of human brain. Immunohistochemical localization showed the predominant presence of cytochrome P4502D not only in neuronal soma but also in dendrites of Purkinje and cortical neurons. These studies demonstrate constitutive expression of cytochrome P4502D in neuronal cell population in human brain, indicating its possible role in metabolism of psychoactive drugs directly at or near their site of action, in neurons, in human brain.
A quantitative evaluation of the thresholds of changes in the firing rate/pattern and depolarizing block of the neuron and the bradycardiac response by pressure microinjection of 10 mM glutamate (Glu) into the region of the nucleus ambiguus (NA) of the ventral medulla was performed in anesthetized rats. A change in neuronal activity was shown with injection of about 2 pmol of Glu. A depolarizing block of single-unit activity could be observed at 2.9 +/- 0.3 nl (approximately 30 pmol, n = 22). Maximal bradycardiac response (-50 +/- 5%) was elicited with 4.4 +/- 0.7 nl (approximately 50 pmol, n = 10), which is significantly smaller than the ranges used in previous studies. Based on these results, a safe and effective use of 10 mM Glu to induce neuronal or physiological response should be in the range of a few nanoliters and less than 100 pmol, especially for the NA.
We describe a simple microdrive device appropriate for chronic microelectrode recording in rats. No precision machining is required; all parts are stock or cut from standard stock material with hand tools and assembled with epoxy. The device together with its electrodes can be discarded at the completion of the experiment.
Autonomic dysreflexia (AD) occurs in a majority of high paraplegic and quadriplegic patients and is particularly characterized by a paroxysmal hypertension elicited by somatic or visceral stimuli. We have previously shown that plasma adrenaline and noradrenaline levels were significantly increased during episodes of AD in the 30-day spinal cord-injured (SCI) rats, suggesting the participation of adrenal catecholamines in the cardiovascular changes associated to AD. Thus, adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) could be activated by visceral afferences leading to AD. The aim of this study was then to demonstrate whether visceral stimulation that induces AD activates adrenal SPN in chronic SCI rats. To this end, a retrograde tracer, the cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), was combined with the immunocytochemical detection of Fos protein after visceral stimulation. Chronic SCI rats received a CTB injection into the adrenal gland and, 3 days later, were stimulated by repetitive distension of the colon. Results showed that this stimulation elicited typical hypertensive episodes of AD and a significant increase in the number of double-labeled neurons (CTB/Fos immunoreactive neurons) in the thoracic spinal cord below the level of injury (T4 segment) when compared to the stimulated non-SCI rats. In conclusion, visceral stimulations in the chronic SCI rats activate adrenal SPN, which could induce release of catecholamines by the adrenal medulla. The present study brings new data on the spinal mechanisms of AD cardiovascular dysfunctions.
Immunoreactivity for calbindin-D28K (calbindin) occurs in some bulbospinal vasopressor neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and calbindin-immunoreactive terminals form synapses in the intermediolateral cell column (IML), where the cell bodies of sympathetic preganglionic neurons are located. In this study, we used post-embedding immunogold labelling to determine whether calbindin terminals in the IML contained the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate. We also assessed GABA immunoreactivity in semi-serial sections through the same terminals since this inhibitory amino acid transmitter is present in the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons that lack glutamate. Analysis of 42 calbindin-positive terminals whose postsynaptic targets were not identified revealed two major groups on the basis of amino acid content. One group was immunoreactive for glutamate; and the other, for GABA. In addition, about 20% of the calbindin terminals were positive for both glutamate and GABA. Our anatomical methods cannot differentiate whether this third group is a subset of the GABAergic terminals or a separate population capable of co-releasing the two amino acids.
Identification of the brain areas that contribute to pain is an essential undertaking towards understanding persistent pain. Areas of the basal ganglia have been proposed to play important roles in nociception as previous studies have determined the involvement of the substantia nigra pars compacta and the dorsolateral striatum in pain. The purpose of the present study was therefore to expand upon these findings by determining the involvement of other areas of the basal ganglia such as the nucleus accumbens shell and core in formalin-induced nociception. It was found that injection of a local anaesthetic (bupivacaine) into the nucleus accumbens shell had no effect on formalin-induced nociception. However, injection into the nucleus accumbens core enhanced formalin-induced nociception. These results implicate the nucleus accumbens in the processing of pain and provide additional evidence for the involvement of the basal ganglia and possibly dopamine in pain.
Neuromedin B (NMB) is a mammalian bombesin-like peptide distributed widely in the central nervous system. This peptide exerts its function via the NMB receptor (NMB-R). Female NMB-R-deficient mice were used to study the role that NMB/NMB-R may play in 5-HT neuron function since this relationship was suggested in previous in vitro studies. As 5-HT neurons are thought to modulate marble burying behavior, a role for NMB-R in this behavior was assessed. Relative to wild-type mice, NMB-R-deficient mice showed decreased marble burying behavior. However, depletion of 5-HT by treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (p-CPA) increased burying behavior in NMB-R-deficient mice suggesting that increased levels of 5-HT in the brain cause a decrease in burying behavior in NMB-R-deficient mice. While HPLC analysis showed that 5-HT content in the whole brain does not differ between NMB-R-deficient and wild-type mice, an immunohistochemical analysis of brain sections showed that 5-HT expression in the dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus is elevated in NMB-R-deficient mice. Furthermore, a quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that 5-HT(1A)-receptor gene expression is downregulated in NMB-R-deficient mice at the whole brain level. These behavioral and biological results suggest that NMB/NMB-R may modulate 5-HT neuronal activity by affecting DR function.
S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is the sole methyl donor in the CNS where it is involved in a multitude of biochemical reactions. Peripherally administered SAM has been shown to increase SAM levels in cerebrospinal fluid and is reported to be effective in the treatment of numerous neurological disorders suggesting SAM crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The mechanism of SAM entry into the brain remains unknown, but the presence of adenosyl and methionine residues in the molecule suggests probable entry via carrier mediated transport. We have investigated whether SAM utilises endogenous transport systems in cerebral endothelial cells, using RBE4 cells, an in vitro model of the BBB. SAM did not influence the transport of [(3)H]-methionine and only marginally reduced the uptake of [(3)H]-leucine in RBE4 cells. The inhibition constant for the latter was 2.11+/-0.29 mM (mean+/-S.E.M.). However, increasing concentrations of SAM strongly inhibited the transport of [3H]-adenosine in RBE4 cells in both the presence and the absence of sodium in the medium, with K(i) values of 199+/-32 and 139+/-8.4 microM, respectively. Lineweaver-Burk plots suggest a competitive mode of inhibition. The findings suggest that SAM is not recognised by the L-system transporter for large neutral amino acids at the brain endothelium. A significant interaction with the transport of adenosine, however, indicates that SAM has affinity for the nucleoside carrier systems; this is within the range of K(m) values of natural substrates and suggest that SAM may enter the CNS via the Na(+)-independent nucleoside carrier systems at the brain capillary endothelium.
Members of the semaphorin family of secreted and transmembrane proteins utilize plexins as neuronal receptors to signal repulsive axon guidance. It remains unknown how plexin proteins are directly linked to the regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics. Here, we show that Drosophila MICAL, a large, multidomain, cytosolic protein expressed in axons, interacts with the neuronal plexin A (PlexA) receptor and is required for Semaphorin 1a (Sema-1a)-PlexA-mediated repulsive axon guidance. In addition to containing several domains known to interact with cytoskeletal components, MICAL has a flavoprotein monooxygenase domain, the integrity of which is required for Sema-1a-PlexA repulsive axon guidance. Vertebrate orthologs of Drosophila MICAL are neuronally expressed and also interact with vertebrate plexins, and monooxygenase inhibitors abrogate semaphorin-mediated axonal repulsion. These results suggest a novel role for oxidoreductases in repulsive neuronal guidance.
Although several serotonin (5-HT) receptor subtypes influence ethanol consumption, the motivational mechanisms underlying these changes remain unclear. The present experiments characterized the rewarding, aversive and stimulant effects of ethanol in combination with a specific 5-HT1A receptor antagonist (pindobind-5HT1A). In a place conditioning study, adult male Swiss-Webster mice received 6 parings of a distinctive tactile stimulus with either 2 g/kg ethanol, 2.5 mg/kg pindobind-5HT1A, or both drugs in combination. Ethanol-conditioned preference for the tactile cue was enhanced in mice also receiving pindobind-5HT1A, which did not produce cue preference in the absence of ethanol. In a taste conditioning study, Swiss-Webster mice received 4 trials consisting of access to a distinctive NaCl flavor followed by either 4 g/kg ethanol, 2.5 mg/kg pindobind-5HT1A, or both drugs. As expected, ethanol produced avoidance of the flavor. Pindobind-5HT1A did not reduce or enhance ethanol-conditioned flavor aversion. In a study characterizing locomotor activity, 2 g/kg ethanol produced stimulation, which was enhanced after 10 daily treatments. Locomotor sensitization was not altered by co-treatment with pindobind-5HT1A. Overall, the present results show specific effects of 5-HT1A blockade on ethanol reward.
We developed a mouse model of optic neuropathy caused by mitochondrial complex I dysfunction by intravitreal administration of rotenone, a complex I inhibitor, in CBA/J mice. Retinal thickness was measured in sections stained histochemically for complex I enzymatic activity. The retinal ganglion cell layer of eyes injected with rotenone was significantly thinner than that of the control eyes injected with the vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide at 1, 24, and 48-h survival time groups. The largest reduction was 43% at 24-h post-injection. This effect is consistent with the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells in Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. This is the first animal model of optic neuropathy caused by mitochondrial dysfunction, and it could be used as a quick and convenient way to test new treatments for mitochondrial neurodegenerative diseases.
Resistive loaded breathing (RL) can modulate the electromyogram pattern during an isometric arm flexion or leg extension at 70-80% of voluntary maximal contraction (MVC). This study tested the hypothesis that an interaction between the respiratory muscle afferent activity during RL and the descending motor drive may also have a functional impact on voluntary maximal performance. Therefore, muscle contractions (100% of MVC) were performed with four muscles during phase specific expiratory (ERL) or inspiratory (IRL) resistive loading and force or the steadiness of the force produced were compared with non-RL controls. Both IRL and ERL reduced MVC in leg muscles, especially biceps femoris. IRL caused a reduction in steadiness in the same muscle. These results suggest a hitherto understated impact of RL on functional performance in leg muscles.
A hallmark of the human motor system is its ability to adapt motor patterns for different environmental conditions, such as when a skilled ice-hockey player accurately shoots a puck with or without protective equipment. Each object (stick, shoulder pad, elbow pad) imparts a distinct load upon the limb, and a key problem in motor neuroscience is to understand how the brain controls movement for different mechanical contexts. We addressed this issue by training non-human primates to make reaching movements with and without viscous loads applied to the shoulder and/or elbow joints, and then examined neural representations in primary motor cortex (MI) for each load condition. Even though the shoulder and elbow loads are mechanically independent, we found that some neurons responded to both of these single-joint loads. Furthermore, changes in activity of individual neurons during multi-joint loads could be predicted from their response to subordinate single-joint loads. These findings suggest that neural representations of different mechanical contexts in MI are organized in a highly structured manner that may provide a neural basis for how complex motor behaviour is learned from simpler motor tasks.
The inhibitory activity associated with myelin is a major obstacle for successful axon regeneration in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). In addition to myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and Nogo-A, available evidence suggests the existence of additional inhibitors in CNS myelin. We show here that a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored CNS myelin protein, oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein (OMgp), is a potent inhibitor of neurite outgrowth in cultured neurons. Like Nogo-A, OMgp contributes significantly to the inhibitory activity associated with CNS myelin. To further elucidate the mechanisms that mediate this inhibitory activity of OMgp, we screened an expression library and identified the Nogo receptor (NgR) as a high-affinity OMgp-binding protein. Cleavage of NgR and other GPI-linked proteins from the cell surface renders axons of dorsal root ganglia insensitive to OMgp. Introduction of exogenous NgR confers OMgp responsiveness to otherwise insensitive neurons. Thus, OMgp is an important inhibitor of neurite outgrowth that acts through NgR and its associated receptor complex. Interfering with the OMgp/NgR pathway may allow lesioned axons to regenerate after injury in vivo.
Recent evidence from individuals born with a profound musical impairment suggests that the ability to process pitch information is normally present from birth. This finding supports the idea that the perception and appreciation of music, both of which critically depend on pitch processing, have a biological basis in the brain.


The discovery of stem cells in the adult central nervous system raises questions concerning the neurotrophic factors that regulate postnatal neuronal development. Olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) are a useful model, because they are capable of robust neurogenesis throughout adulthood. We have investigated the role of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) in postnatal neuronal development by using ORNs as a model. LIF is a multifunctional cytokine implicated in various aspects of neuronal development, including phenotype determination, survival, and in response to nerve injury. LIF-deficient mice display significant increases, both in the absolute amount and in the number of cells expressing olfactory marker protein, a marker of mature ORNs. The maturation of ORNs was significantly inhibited by LIF in vitro. LIF activated the STAT3 pathway in ORNs, and transfection of ORNs with a dominant negative form of STAT3 abolished the effect of LIF. These findings demonstrate that LIF negatively regulates ORN maturation via the STAT3 pathway. Thus, LIF plays a critical role in controlling the transition of ORNs to maturity. Consequently, a population of ORNs is maintained in an immature state to facilitate the rapid repopulation of the olfactory epithelium with mature neurons during normal cell turnover or after injury.
Veratridine, a blocker of inactive gate of sodium channel, was used to perfuse L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) topically. Afferent activities of type A single fiber from these DRGs were recorded. It was found that after a 10-min bath of veratridine (1.8-3 micromol/L), some of the primary silent DRG neurons were triggered by touch or pressure on the receptive fields or by electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve to produce high-frequency firing, which was termed triggered oscillation presenting a U-type of interspike intervals (ISI) or other types of oscillations. The longer the intervals between stimulating pulses, the more stimulating pulses were needed to trigger the oscillation. The oscillation, triggered by electric stimuli with different duration or patterns, had no significant difference in their patterns. The duration of the inhibitory period after a triggered oscillation was generally 30-90 s. It was also observed that this kind of triggered oscillation was induced by afferent pulses of the same neurons. These results suggest that triggered oscillation, which may contribute to the fit of triggered pain, can be produced in primary sensory neurons after application of veratridine.
Dynamic regulation of the cell surface expression of adhesion molecules is an important mechanism for controlling neuronal growth cone motility and guidance. Clathrin-mediated vesicular internalization of L1 via the tyrosine-based endocytosis motif YRSL regulates adhesion and signaling by this Ig superfamily molecule. Here, we present evidence that tyrosine-1176 (Y1176) of the YRSL motif is phosphorylated in vivo. The nonreceptor tyrosine kinase (p60src) is implicated in L1-mediated neurite outgrowth, and we find that p60src phosphorylates Y1176 in vitro. Phosphorylation of Y1176 prevents L1 binding to AP-2, an adaptor required for clathrin-mediated internalization of L1. mAb 74-5H7 recognizes the sequence immediately NH2-terminal to the tyrosine-based motif and binds L1 only when Y1176 is dephosphorylated. 74-5H7 identifies a subset of L1 present at points of cell-cell contact and in vesicle-like structures that colocalize with an endocytosis marker. L1-L1 binding or L1 cross-linking induces a rapid increase in 74-5H7 immunoreactivity. Our data suggest a model in which homophilic binding or L1 cross-linking triggers transient dephosphorylation of the YRSL motif that makes L1 available for endocytosis. Thus, the regulation of L1 endocytosis through dephosphorylation of Y1176 is a critical regulatory point of L1-mediated adhesion and signaling.
In the primate prefrontal cortex, the axon terminals of the chandelier class of inhibitory local circuit neurons have a distinctive time course of postnatal development. In this study, we sought to determine whether the axon terminals of other classes of local circuit neurons are also refined during postnatal development. We examined postnatal changes in the density of punctate structures immunoreactive for the calcium binding protein parvalbumin, which identifies a subset of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) -containing terminals, in the prefrontal cortex of 35 rhesus monkeys ranging in age from newborn to adult. In area 46, the density of parvalbumin- immunoreactive puncta in the superficial and middle layers was extremely low in the newborn animals, then increased more than 10-fold to adult levels, which were achieved by 3 to 4 years of age. In layer V, a band of labeled puncta present in the newborn animals also increased in density until 3 to 4 years of age. Developmental changes of parvalbumin-immunoreactive puncta in area 9 were similar to those in area 46. In contrast, the density of punctate structures labeled with an antibody against a GABA membrane transporter (GAT-1) did not change across development, suggesting that the number of GABAergic terminals is stable over time, but that the level of parvalbumin protein within the terminals varies. The time course of the observed changes in these parvalbumin-labeled terminals is markedly different from that of parvalbumin-immunoreactive chandelier cell terminal clusters. These findings suggest that morphologically specialized classes of inhibitory interneurons assume prominence within the prefrontal cortical network at different stages of postnatal development.
Behavioural studies on normal and brain-damaged individuals provide convincing evidence that the perception of objects results in the generation of both visual and motor signals in the brain, irrespective of whether or not there is an intention to act upon the object. In this paper we sought to determine the basis of the motor signals generated by visual objects. By examining how the properties of an object affect an observer's reaction time for judging its orientation, we provide evidence to indicate that directed visual attention is responsible for the automatic generation of motor signals associated with the spatial characteristics of perceived objects.
LAP1s (lamina-associated polypeptide 1s) are type 2 integral membrane proteins with a single membrane-spanning region of the inner nuclear membrane. We report here on the cloning of the full-length cDNA of human LAP1B (huLAP1B) that encodes 584 amino acids. The sequence homology between the predicted rat LAP1B and huLAP1B was found to be 73.6%. A topological analysis was carried out by transiently expressing N-terminal GFP fused deletion mutants of huLAP1B in cells. The transmembrane (TM) domain (aa 346-368) is required for the localization of the nuclear and endoplasmic reticulum membrane and that the TM domain and the C-terminal half of the nucleoplasmic domain (aa 190-331) are sufficient for the proper localization of LAP1B. In contrast, the well-conserved lumenal domain of the nuclear membrane is not required for its topological function. Biochemical analysis showed that huLAP1B is retained within the nucleus via interactions of the nucleoplasmic portion with nuclear components.
Chemosensory stimuli are essential for mating in male hamsters but either main olfactory or vomeronasal input is sufficient in sexually experienced males. Activation in central chemosensory pathways and medial preoptic area, after stimulation with female chemosignals or after mating, was estimated by counting neurons expressing Fos protein in experienced and naive males, with or without vomeronasal organ lesions. Regions counted included main and accessory olfactory bulbs, corticomedial amygdala, bed nucleus stria terminalis and medial preoptic area. Chemosensory stimulation was more effective in activating medial preoptic area in experienced than in naive males. In experienced males with vomeronasal organs removed, main olfactory input was as effective in activating medial preoptic area as was the combination of main and accessory input available to intact animals. As previously reported, the main olfactory input remaining after vomeronasal lesions in naive males was poorly effective in activating medial preoptic area, and these animals had impaired mating behavior. The change in access of chemosensory input to medial preoptic area after experience suggests that an experience-dependent synaptic modulation in this pathway, perhaps in the amygdala, may underlie some changes in mating behavior with experience.
Modafinil, a novel non-amphetamine stimulant recently approved for the treatment of narcolepsy, has been shown to increase waking in both animals and humans. However, its mechanism of action is currently unknown. Earlier research into the brain structures responsible for the wake-producing actions of modafinil implicated the central nucleus of the amygdala (ACe) as a possible site of action [Neuroscience 87 (1998) 905-911; Neurosci. Lett. 241 (1998) 95-98]. The present experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that the ACe is, at least in part, involved in the wake-producing actions of modafinil. In the first experiment, rats with lesions of the ACe were injected systemically with varying doses of modafinil and sleep was recorded. At the highest dose, modafinil significantly increased waking and decreased sleep. However, there was no interaction between the lesion and the effect of the drug. In the second experiment, varying doses of modafinil were injected directly into the ACe and sleep was recorded. Injection of modafinil into the ACe did not affect sleep architecture. Thus, ACe does not play a simple role in modafinil's wake-promoting action. We suggest that more complex testing will be required to elucidate its role.
Familial Alzheimer's disease-associated mutations in presenilin 1 or 2 or amyloid precursor protein result in elevated beta-amyloid, beta-amyloid accumulation, and plaque formation in the brains of affected individuals. By crossing presenilin 1 transgenic mice carrying the A246E mutation with plaque-producing amyloid precursor protein K670N/M671L transgenic mice (Tg2576), we show that co-expression of both mutant transgenes results in acceleration of amyloid accumulation and associative learning deficits. At 5 months of age with no detectable plaque pathology, amyloid precursor protein transgenic animals are impaired in contextual fear learning following two pairings of conditioned and unconditioned stimuli but appear normal following a more robust five-pairing training. At 9 months of age when beta-amyloid deposition is evident, these mice are impaired following both two-pairing and five-pairing protocols. Mice carrying both transgenes are impaired in contextual fear conditioning at either age. All transgenic animal groups performed as well as controls in cued fear conditioning, indicating that the contextual fear learning deficits are hippocampus-specific. The associative learning impairments are coincident with elevated alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor protein in the dentate gyrus. These findings provide two robust and rapid assays for beta-amyloid-associated effects that can be performed on young animals: impaired contextual fear learning and up-regulation of alpha 7 nicotinic receptors.
The gene encoding the beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 2 (BACE2) has been determined to be located on the long arm of chromosome 21 at 21q22.3. BACE2 cleaves the amyloid precursor protein at the beta-secretase site and is thought to contribute to amyloid beta protein production. In the present study, changes in the expression of BACE2 were investigated immunohistochemically in the frontal cortex of patients with Down syndrome (DS). The immunoreactivity for BACE2 was detected in neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neurons from the elderly DS brains with Alzheimer-type neuropathology, but were not detected in those of DS brains without Alzheimer-type neuropathology or of control brains of any age. This suggests the possibility that the elevated expression of BACE2 is involved in the Alzheimer-type neuropathology of DS.
Peripheral inflammation sensitizes primary afferent fibers causing lowered thresholds and increased responses to noxious input. One mechanism for sensitization might be increased expression of receptors whose activation results in nociceptor activity. Accordingly, the present study demonstrates that 15.6% of unmyelinated primary afferent axons in rat glabrous skin express the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor. At 48 h following hindpaw inflammation with complete Freund's adjuvant, the proportion of unmyelinated axons expressing NK1 receptors significantly increases to 23.6%. This implies a considerable upregulation of NK1 receptor synthesis in the dorsal root ganglia with subsequent transport to peripheral nociceptive terminals. Antagonizing peripheral NK1 receptors locally would be effective in reducing inflammatory pain by reducing neural transduction in NK1-expressing nociceptors as well as lessening the inflammatory vascular effects of peripheral substance P.
Neurosteroids are important modulators of synaptic activity in the mammalian central nervous system. We have shown previously that the neurosteroid, pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS) enhances paired-pulse facilitation at the Schaffer collateral-to-CA1 synapse in rat hippocampal slices. Here we show that PREGS enhances the facilitation of postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) during a 300 ms train of repetitive stimuli at frequencies between 10 and 50 Hz. At higher or lower frequencies, however, PREGS does not affect the PSPs produced by repetitive stimuli. This enhancement of the bandpass filtering characteristic of a central synapse by a naturally occurring neurosteroid could selectively influence transmission at bursting or other highly active synapses.
Place cells in hippocampal area CA1 may receive positional information from the intrahippocampal associative network in area CA3 or directly from the entorhinal cortex. To determine whether direct entorhinal connections support spatial firing and spatial memory, we removed all input from areas CA3 to CA1, thus isolating the CA1 area. Pyramidal cells in the isolated CA1 area developed sharp and stable place fields. Rats with an isolated CA1 area showed normal acquisition of an associative hippocampal-dependent spatial recognition task. Spatial recall was impaired. These results suggest that the hippocampus contains two functionally separable memory circuits: The direct entorhinal-CA1 system is sufficient for recollection-based recognition memory, but recall depends on intact CA3-CA1 connectivity.

alpha-Synuclein (alpha S) is a neuronal protein that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The present report demonstrates that the protein tyrosine kinase Pyk2/RAFTK is involved in cell stress-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of alpha S. Hyperosmotic stress induced tyrosine phosphorylation of alpha S via Pyk2/RAFTK at tyrosine residue 125. Pyk2/RAFTK-mediated phosphorylation of alpha S was primarily achieved with Src-family kinases. In addition, osmotic stress-induced phosphorylation of alpha S was dependent on Pyk2/RAFTK activation. Accordingly, such results indicate that Pyk2/RAFTK lies upstream of Src-family kinases in the signaling cascade by which osmotic stress induces tyrosine phosphorylation of alpha S.
In Drosophila, the frizzled gene plays a critical role in the establishment of tissue polarity, but the function of the Frizzled family of proteins in mammals is largely unknown. Recent evidence suggested that Frizzleds are receptors for the Wnt family of secreted glycoproteins which are involved in cell fate determination. However, it is unclear how Frizzled receptors transduce Wnt signals to intracellular signaling components. Here we show that the mouse Frizzled-1, -2, -4 and -7 can bind to proteins of the PSD-95 family, which are implicated in the assembly and localization of multiprotein signaling complexes in the brain. Moreover, PSD-95 can form a ternary complex with Frizzled-2 and the adenomatous polyposis coli protein, a negative regulator of Wnt signaling, suggesting that members of the PSD-95 family may serve to recruit intracellular signaling molecules of the Wnt/Frizzled pathway into the vicinity of the receptor.
The enzyme Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is widely distributed in the nervous system. A previous report describes immunostaining for CaMKII alpha in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. In this study, CaMKII alpha is colocalized in the rat with three putative markers of nociceptive DRG neurons, isolectin Griffonia simplicifolia (I-B4), identifying small-diameter, &quot;peptide-poor&quot; neurons; calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), identifying &quot; peptide-rich&quot; neurons; or the vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1), identifying neurons activated by heat, acid, and capsaicin. Lumbar 4 and 5 DRG sections were labeled using immunofluorescence or lectin binding histochemistry, and percentages of single and double-labeled CaMKIIalpha neurons were determined. Stereological estimates of total neuron number in the L4 DRG were 13,815 +/- 2,798 and in the L5 DRG were 14,111 +/- 4,043. Percentages of single-labeled L4 DRG neurons were 41% +/- 2% CaMKII alpha, 38% +/- 3% I-B4, 44% +/- 3% CGRP, and 32% +/- 6% VR1. Percentages of single-labeled L5 DRG neurons were 44% +/- 5% CaMKII alpha, 48% +/- 2% I-B4, 41% +/- 7% CGRP, and 39% +/- 14% VR1. For L4 and L5, respectively, estimates of double-labeled CaMKII alpha neurons showed 34% +/- 2% and 38% +/- 17% labeled for I-B4, 25% +/- 14% and 19% +/- 10% labeled for CGRP, and 37% +/- 7% and 38% +/- 5% labeled for VR1. Conversely, for L4 and L5, respectively, 39% +/- 14% and 38% +/- 7% I-B4 binding neurons, 24% +/- 12% and 23% +/- 10% CGRP neurons, and 42% +/- 7% and 35% +/- 7% VR1 neurons labeled for CaMKIIalpha. The mean diameter of CaMKII alpha - labeled neurons was approximately 27 microm, confirming that this enzyme was preferentially localized in small DRG neurons. The results indicate that subpopulations of DRG neurons containing CaMKII alpha are likely to be involved in the processing of nociceptive information. Thus, this enzyme may play a critical role in the modulation of nociceptor activity and plasticity of primary sensory neurons.

The preferred procedure for estimating neuron number has been the subject of intense discussion. Sampling error, systematic bias, and the physical properties of the tissue examined all contribute to the possibility that estimates may not reflect actual neuron number. Even when restricting analysis to a particular, well-defined structure such as dorsal root ganglia, these factors act in a manner that varies with maturity of the animal, species, fixation, processing, and neuron size. These considerations reinforce the necessity of comparing estimates with the actual number of neurons as determined by three-dimensional reconstructions.
The activity of single units in prefrontal cortex (prelimbic and anterior cingulate subregions) was recorded as rats performed a 'pellet-chasing' task in a cue-controlled, open-field environment in which the position of a single salient cue card was manipulated. Spike train analyses revealed three different types of unit. The first type was characterized by rhythmic bursts of spiking with inter-burst intervals of approximately 200 ms (66% of units), the second by bursts with inter-burst intervals of approximately 80 ms (33% of units), and the third by non-rhythmic firing characteristics (33% of units). None of the units had spatially-selective firing characteristics, nor were their discharge patterns affected by manipulation of the cue card. Instead, the firing of the units had multiple behavioural correlates that occurred as the rat explored the environment. These results are in line with previous studies that suggest that prefrontal cortex unit discharge is not related to spatial processing but to behaviours necessary for exploration.
The actions of bradykinin (BK) in mammals are mediated through the activation of the B1 and B2 BK receptors. The only BK receptor that has been cloned from a non-mammalian species is a B2-like receptor from the chicken (termed the ornithokinin receptor). Pharmacological studies have demonstrated the presence of BK receptors in tissues of teleost fishes, such as trout and cod, but the ligand-binding properties of these receptors differ appreciably from those of the mammalian and chicken receptors. We report here the cloning of a B2-like receptor in zebrafish that shares 35% identity with human B2 and 30% identity with human B1. Phylogenetic analyses confirm a closer relationship with B2 than B1. The receptor gene was mapped to linkage group 17, which is syntenic to the human B2-B1 gene region. After functional expression of the zebrafish B2 receptor in mammalian cells, nanomolar concentrations of trout BK ([Arg0,Trp5,Leu8]-BK) and the derivative [des-Arg0,Trp5,Leu8]-BK (where 'des' indicates a missing amino acid) induced a significant transient rise in intracellular free Ca2+. The B1-selective analogue [Arg0,Trp5,Leu8,des-Arg9]-BK was inactive at nanomolar concentrations. Taken together, these results strongly support the gene's identity as a piscine orthologue of the mammalian B2 receptor.
The human KCNK4 gene encodes several transcripts that generate two-pore K+ channel subunits. We describe the identification and cloning of two transcripts of this gene: human KT4.1a (HKT4.1a) and HKT4.1b. They encode proteins of 393 and 419 amino acids, respectively. HKT4.1a and mouse TRAAK (mTRAAK) are 83% identical, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) experiments performed with rat and human samples as well as the comparison of the HKT4.1 and mTRAAK UTRs strongly suggest that both the human and mouse cDNAs are products of ortholog genes. In contrast to the reported exclusive expression mTRAAK in the nervous system, human and rat KCNK4 gene products are expressed widely in several tissues. Northern blot analysis revealed the presence of three bands of 1.9, 3.0, and 4.8 kb in human, while in rat four bands of 1.8, 3.6, 5.2 and 8.6 kb were observed. Human KCNK4 transcripts were expressed mainly in the heart and brain but also in the liver, skeletal muscle, kidney and pancreas. In rat, the transcripts were strongly expressed in the brain but were also detected in the lung, kidney, liver, spleen, skeletal muscle, testes and at lower levels in the heart. Expression of HKT4.1b in Xenopus oocytes drives the resting potential close to the potassium equilibrium voltage. The expressed channels are not gated by voltage and are permanently open. The channels are not blocked by the classical K+ channel blockers TEA, 4-AP, Cs+, Ba++, quinine or quinidine. Analysis of genomic sequences reveals that seven exons participate to produce HKT4.1a and 11 exons to produce HKT4.1b cDNAs. The KCNK4 gene maps to chromosome 11q13.
Accumulation of unfolded and malfolded proteins causes endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, stimulating unfolded protein response (UPR) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation and activating caspase-12 located on the ER. Little is known about the relationship between the ER stress and polyglutamine [poly(Q)] aggregates. Poly(Q)72 repeats [poly(Q)(72)] induced the stimulation of ER stress signals such as JNK activation, upregulation of Grp78/Bip and caspase-12 activation in C2C5 cells. We prepared antiserum against the cleavage site of mouse caspase-12 at D(318) (anti-m12D318), and showed that poly(Q)(72) with perinuclear aggregates, cytoplasmic inclusions and nuclear inclusions stimulated JNK activation and anti-m12D318 immunoreactivity, but poly(Q)(72) with dispersed aggregates and small nuclear aggregates showed a significantly less effect. Poly(Q)(72) and poly(Q)(11) dispersed in cytoplasm did not. Anti-m12D318-positive cells showed apoptotic features. Unlike anti-m8D387 immunoreactivity, the anti-m12D318 immunoreactivity was not coaggregated with poly(Q). Ac-IETD-fmk (caspase-8 inhibitor) and Ac-DEVD-CHO (caspase-3 inhibitor) did not prevent the anti-m12D318 immunoreactivity induced by poly(Q)(72) aggregates. Anti-m12D318 immunoreactivity was detected in caspase-8(-/-) and caspase-3(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts expressing poly(Q)(72) aggregates. Thus, caspase-12 was activated by poly(Q)(72) aggregates via a pathway independent of caspase-8 and caspase-3 activation, and caspase-12 activation was closely associated with poly(Q) aggregate-mediated cell death. Stimulation of ER stress signals may be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders with poly(Q) expansion.
Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are expressed on the endoplasmic reticulum of many cells, where they form intracellular Ca2+-release channels that participate in the generation of intracellular Ca2+ signals. Here we report studies on the intracellular localisation and functional properties of transfected RyR1 or RyR3 channels in HEK 293 cells. Immunofluorescence studies indicated that both RyR1 and RyR3 did not form clusters but were homogeneously distributed throughout the endoplasmic reticulum. Ca2+ release experiments showed that transfected RyR1 and RyR3 channels responded to caffeine, although with different sensitivity, generating a global release of Ca2+ from the entire endoplasmic reticulum. However, video imaging and confocal microscopy analysis revealed that, in RyR3-expressing cells, local spontaneous Ca2+ release events were observed. No such spontaneous activity was observed in RyR1-expressing cells or in control cells. Interestingly, the spontaneous release events observed in RyR3-expressing cells were restricted to one or two regions of the endoplasmic reticulum, suggesting the formation of a further subcellular organisation of RyR3 in Ca2+ release units. These results demonstrate that different RyR isoforms can engage in the generation of distinct intracellular Ca2+ signals in HEK 293 cells.
With the scleral search coil technique, we recorded ocular following responses elicited by either grating or plaid pattern motions. Grating motion elicited tracking responses at short latencies ( approximately 85 msec). Type I plaid motion made by summing two orthogonal moving gratings elicited ocular following with identical short latencies. Trial-by-trial vector decomposition showed that plaid-driven responses were best predicted by a vector average of the component-driven responses. Similar results were found with micropatterns made of 16 Gabor patches with drifting carriers of two different orientations. &quot;Unikinetic&quot; plaids were constructed by summing a moving and stationary grating, with a 45 degrees orientation difference, so that component and pattern motion directions were separated by 45 degrees. Eye movements exhibited two components. Ocular following was first initiated in the grating motion direction, at ultra-short latency. A second component was initiated approximately 20 msec later, curving the responses toward the pattern motion direction. The later component was specifically, and independently, affected by both relative spatial frequency and contrast between component gratings. The early response components showed a much steeper contrast response function than the late component. These results suggest that initial ocular following is underpinned by parallel processing of component- and pattern-related velocities followed by an integrative stage that computes the two-dimensional surface motion.
Because environmental information is often suboptimal, visual perception must frequently rely on the brain's reconstruction of contours absent from retinal images. Illusory contour (IC) stimuli have been used to investigate these &quot;filling-in&quot; processes. Intracranial recordings and neuroimaging studies show IC sensitivity in lower-tier area V2, and to a lesser extent V1. Some interpret these data as evidence for feedforward processing of IC stimuli, beginning at lower-tier visual areas. On the basis of lesion, visual evoked potentials (VEP), and neuroimaging evidence, others contend that IC sensitivity is a later, higher-order process. Whether IC sensitivity seen in lower-tier areas indexes feedforward or feedback processing remains unresolved. In a series of experiments, we addressed the spatiotemporal dynamics of IC processing. Centrally presented IC stimuli resulted in early VEP modulation (88-100 msec) over lateral-occipital (LOC) scalp--the IC effect. The IC effect followed visual response onset by 40 msec. Scalp current density topographic mapping, source analysis, and functional magnetic resonance imaging results all localized the IC effect to bilateral LOC areas. We propose that IC sensitivity described in V2 and V1 may reflect predominantly feedback modulation from higher-tier LOC areas, where IC sensitivity first occurs. Two additional observations further support this proposal. The latency of the IC effect shifted dramatically later (approximately 120 msec) when stimuli were laterally presented, indicating that retinotopic position alters IC processing. Immediately preceding the IC effect, the VEP modulated with inducer eccentricity--the configuration effect. We interpret this to represent contributions from global stimulus parameters to scene analysis. In contrast to the IC effect, the topography of the configuration effect was restricted to central parieto-occipital scalp.
Dopamine effects in the striatum are mediated principally through the D1 and D2 dopamine receptor subtypes, which are segregated to the direct and indirect striatal projection neurons. After degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine system, direct pathway neurons display a supersensitive response to D1 dopamine receptor agonists, which is demonstrated by the induction of immediate early genes (IEGs), such as c-fos. Here we show, using analysis of receptor-mediated signal transduction, including protein phosphorylation and induction of IEGs, that D1 dopamine receptor supersensitivity is attributable to a switch to ERK1/2/MAP kinase (extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) in direct pathway neurons. Normally, in the dopamine-intact striatum, activation of ERK1/2/MAP kinase is shown to be restricted to indirect and not direct pathway neurons in response to stimulation of corticostriatal afferents. Moreover, in the dopamine-intact striatum, treatment with full D1 dopamine receptor agonists or stimulation of nigrostriatal dopaminergic afferents, both of which result in the induction of IEGs in direct striatal projection neurons, does not activate ERK1/2/MAP kinase. However, after degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, ERK1/2/MAP kinase is activated in direct pathway neurons in response to D1 dopamine receptor agonists either alone or when combined with stimulation of corticostriatal afferents. Inhibitors of MEK (MAP kinase kinase), which is responsible for phosphorylation of ERK1/2/MAP kinase, blocks D1 dopamine receptor agonist activation of ERK1/2/MAP kinase in the dopamine-depleted striatum, as well as the supersensitive induction of IEGs. These results demonstrate that dopamine input to the striatum maintains distinct forms of protein kinase-mediated gene regulation in the direct and indirect striatal projection neurons.
Growing axons during development are guided to their targets by the activity of their growth cones. Growth cones integrate positive and negative guidance cues in deciding the direction in which to extend. We demonstrated previously that treatment of embryonic retinal ganglion cells with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protects their growth cones from collapse induced by nitric oxide (NO). BDNF stabilizes growth-cone actin filaments against NO-induced depolymerization. In the present study, we examined the signaling mechanism involved in BDNF-mediated protection. We found that BDNF causes transient activation of protein kinase A (PKA) during the first 5 min of treatment. Treatment with PKA inhibitors before or in conjunction with BDNF treatment blocked the protective effects of BDNF. The effects of BDNF, however, were not blocked when addition of PKA inhibitors was delayed as little as 15 min after BDNF treatment. When cultures raised overnight in BDNF were treated with PKA inhibitors, BDNF-mediated protection did not end, demonstrating that the maintenance of the protective effects of BDNF is independent of PKA activity. The BDNF-induced activation of PKA was required for BDNF-mediated stabilization of growth-cone actin filaments against depolymerization by cytochalasin D. Finally, the initiation and maintenance of the protective effects of BDNF required protein synthesis. Collectively, these data demonstrate that PKA signaling is required only for an early phase of BDNF-mediated protection from NO-induced growth-cone collapse.
The class IV neuronal intermediate filament (IF) family proteins includes the neurofilament (NF) triplet proteins NF-L, NF-M, and NF-H and also the more recently characterized alpha-internexin-NF66. It is well established that NF-L, -M, and -H protein and mRNA are downregulated after peripheral nerve injury. We examined alpha-internexin protein expression after three facial nerve lesion paradigms: crush, transection, and resection. Alpha-internexin immunoreactivity was absent in the perikarya of uninjured facial motoneurons but increased dramatically in all three injury paradigms, with maximum immunoreactivity observed at 7 d after injury. Twenty-eight days after nerve crush or transection, there was a dramatic decrease in the number of alpha-internexin-positive cells. In contrast, alpha-internexin remained elevated 28 d after nerve resection, an injury that hinders regeneration and target reinnervation. In situ hybridization studies showed an increase in alpha-internexin mRNA expression in the facial nucleus at 7 and 14 d after injury. Retrograde transport of fluorogold from the whisker pads to the facial nucleus was seen only in motoneurons that lacked alpha-internexin immunoreactivity, supporting the idea that target reinnervation and inhibitory signals from the periphery regulate the expression of alpha-internexin. Blockage of axonal transport through local colchicine application induced strong immunoreactivity in motoneurons. Alpha-internexin expression was also examined after central axotomy of rubrospinal neurons, which constitutively show alpha-internexin immunoreactivity. After rubrospinal tractotomy, alpha-internexin immunoreactivity transiently increased by 7 d after injury but returned to control levels by 14 d. We conclude that alpha-internexin upregulation in injured motoneurons suggests a role for this IF protein in neuronal regeneration.
Glutamate released onto retinal ON bipolar neurons binds to a metabotropic receptor to activate a heterotrimeric G-protein (G(o)) that ultimately closes a nonspecific cation channel. Signaling requires the alpha subunit (Galpha(o)), but its effector is unknown. Because Galpha(o) is transcribed into two splice variants (alpha(o1) and alpha(o2)) that differ in the key GTPase domain, the next step in elucidating this pathway was to determine which splice variant carries the signal. Here we show by reverse transcription-PCR and Western blots that retina expresses both splice variants. Furthermore, in situ hybridization and immunostaining on mouse retina deficient in one splice variant or the other show that both alpha(o1) and alpha(o2) are expressed by ON bipolar cells but that alpha(o1) is much more abundant. Finally, electroretinography performed on mice deficient for one splice variant or the other shows that the positive b-wave (response of ON bipolar cells to rod and cone input) requires alpha(o1) but not alpha(o2). Thus, the light response of the ON bipolar cell is probably carried by its strongly expressed splice variant, Galpha(o1).
We investigated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) modulation of dendritic, A-type K+ channels in CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. Activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC) leads to an increase in the amplitude of backpropagating action potentials in distal dendrites through downregulation of transient K+ channels in CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. We show here that both of these signaling pathways converge on extracellular-regulated kinases (ERK)-specific MAPK in mediating this reduction in dendritic K+ current, which is confirmed, in parallel, by biochemical assays using phosphospecific antibodies against the ppERK and pKv4.2. Furthermore, immunostaining indicates dendritic localization of ppERK and pKv4.2. Taken together, these results demonstrate that dendritic, A-type K+ channels are dually regulated by PKA and PKC through a common downstream pathway involving MAPK, and the modulation of these K+ channels may be accounted for by the phosphorylation of Kv4.2 subunits.
Transgenic mouse models of Huntington's disease (HD) were examined following the onset of overt behavioral symptoms. The HD transgenic mice demonstrated profound striatal losses in D1, D2, and D3 dopamine (DA) receptor proteins in comparison with their nonsymptomatic, age-matched littermate controls. In parallel, a robust increase in the striatal D5 DA receptor subtype occurred in the transgenic compared with the wild-type control mice. This receptor elevation was accompanied by heightened cyclic AMP levels, which may be induced by the adenylyl cyclase-linked D5 receptor. This is a unique result; normal striatal D5 protein levels are modest and not thought to contribute substantially to cyclic AMP-mediated DA signaling mechanisms. Simple compensatory up-regulation of D5 DA receptors in response to D1 receptor subtype loss does not explain our findings, because genetic inactivation of the D1 DA receptor does not alter levels of D5 DA receptor expression. Immunofluorescent detection of tyrosine hydroxylase showed that nigrostriatal DA containing terminals were reduced, further supporting that disturbances in DA signaling occurred in HD transgenic models. The substance P-containing striatal efferent pathway was more resistant to the HD mutation than met-enkephalin-producing striatal projection neurons in the transgenics, based on neuropeptide immunofluorescent staining. Analogous findings in multiple transgenic models suggest that these changes are due to the presence of the transgene and are not dependent on its composition, promotor elements, or mouse strain background. These findings suggest modifications in the striatal DA system and that its downstream signaling through cyclic AMP mechanisms is disrupted severely in HD following onset of motor symptoms.
Glial cells recently are being appreciated as supporters of brain neurons. This review addresses their role as growth factor providers. While the function of astrocytes in this capacity is known, new data indicate that oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the brain, exhibit similar abilities. Oligodendrocytes provide trophic signals to nearby neurons and synthesize defined growth factors. Expression of growth factors is influenced by neural signals. The review summarizes these roles and their implications in brain function.
We investigated whether stimulation of the pyramidal tract (PT) could reset the phase of 15-30 Hz beta oscillations observed in the macaque motor cortex. We recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and multiple single-unit activity from two conscious macaque monkeys performing a precision grip task. EMG activity was also recorded from the second animal. Single PT stimuli were delivered during the hold period of the task, when oscillations in the LFP were most prominent. Stimulus-triggered averaging of the LFP showed a phase-locked oscillatory response to PT stimulation. Frequency domain analysis revealed two components within the response: a 15-30 Hz component, which represented resetting of on-going beta rhythms, and a lower frequency 10 Hz response. Only the higher frequency could be observed in the EMG activity, at stronger stimulus intensities than were required for resetting the cortical rhythm. Stimulation of the PT during movement elicited a greatly reduced oscillatory response. Analysis of single-unit discharge confirmed that PT stimulation was capable of resetting periodic activity in motor cortex. The firing patterns of pyramidal tract neurones (PTNs) and unidentified neurones exhibited successive cycles of suppression and facilitation, time locked to the stimulus. We conclude that PTN activity directly influences the generation of the 15-30 Hz rhythm. These PTNs facilitate EMG activity in upper limb muscles, contributing to corticomuscular coherence at this same frequency. Since the earliest oscillatory effect observed following stimulation was a suppression of firing, we speculate that inhibitory feedback may be the key mechanism generating such oscillations in the motor cortex.
At distal dendritic locations, the threshold for action potential generation is higher and the amplitude of back-propagating spikes is decreased. To study whether these characteristics depend upon Na+ channels, their voltage-dependent properties at proximal and distal dendritic locations were compared in CA1 hippocampal neurons. Distal Na+ channels activated at more hyperpolarized voltages than proximal (half-activation voltages were -20.4 +/- 2.4 mV vs. -12.0 +/- 1.7 mV for distal and proximal patches, respectively, n = 16, P &lt; 0.01), while inactivation curves were not significantly different. The resting membrane potential of distal regions also appeared to be slightly but consistently more hyperpolarized than their proximal counterpart. Staurosporine, a non-selective protein kinase inhibitor, shifted the activation curves for both proximal and distal Na+ channels to the left so that they overlapped and also caused the resting potentials to be comparable. Staurosporine affected neither the inactivation kinetics of Na+ currents nor the reversal potential for Na+. These results suggest that the difference in the voltage dependence of activation of distal and proximal Na+ channels can be attributed to a different phosphorylation state at the two locations.
Several brain-imaging studies have found associations between aberrant functioning in the frontal and temporal lobes and violent offending. We have previously reported decreased frontotemporal perfusion unrelated to psychosis, substance abuse, or current medication in 21 violent offenders. In the present study, we compared the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in a new group of 32 violent offenders to scores on the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R), which rates two aspects of psychopathy: disturbed interpersonal attitudes (Factor 1) and impulsive antisocial behavior (Factor 2). A recently proposed model has split Factor 1 into a new Factor 1 (deceitful interpersonal style), a new Factor 2 (affective unresponsiveness), and a Factor 3, which approximately corresponds to the old Factor 2. The rCBF was assessed by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with technetium-99m-d,l-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) in regions of interest (ROIs) placed in accordance with fusioned magnetic resonance images (MRI) and SPECT scans. Significant negative correlations were found between interpersonal features of psychopathy (the old and especially the new Factor 1) and the frontal and temporal perfusion. The two most clearly associated ROIs were the head of the caudate nuclei and the hippocampi. These findings in a group of violent offenders living under the same conditions, which reduced the number of state-related confounders, add to the evidence indicating that aberrant frontotemporal activity may be a factor in violent behavior.
The melanocortin 3 and 4 receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors found in the hypothalamus with important role in regulation of the energy balance. In this study, we performed pharmacological comparison of the rat and human melancortin (MC) 3 and MC4 receptors. We transiently expressed the genes for these receptors individually in a mammalian cell line and determined the binding affinities to several MSH peptides. The results showed no major difference between the rat and human MC3 receptors while the rat MC4 receptor had higher affinity to several peptides compared with the human MC4 receptor. NDP-, alpha-, beta-, gamma-MSH, ACTH(1-24), HS014 and MTII had from 5- to 34-fold higher affinity for the rat MC4 receptor, while SHU9119, HS024 and HS028 had similar affinity for both the MC4 receptors. Pharmacological species difference have earlier been reported for the MC1 and MC5 receptors but this is the first report showing important differences between the rat and human MC4 receptors.

An important role for the reactive gas nitric oxide (NO) in regulating striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission was identified shortly after initial observations indicated that this unorthodox neurotransmitter mediates many of the influences of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the cerebellum, cortex, and hippocampus. While the precise actions of NO on striatal presynaptic and postsynaptic elements remain to be fully characterized, the recent application of sophisticated anatomical, neurochemical, and electrophysiological approaches to the study of nitrergic signaling has revealed that NO exerts a powerful influence both on tonic extracellular dopamine (DA) levels and phasic DA neuron spike activity via the modulation of intrinsic striatal mechanisms and striatonigral feedback loops. Although the nature of the NO-mediated modulatory influence on DA neurotransmission was initially clouded by seemingly conflicting neurochemical observations, a growing body of literature and understanding of the diverse signaling mechanisms and effector pathways utilized by NO indicates that NO exerts a primary facilitatory influence over tonic and phasic dopaminergic neurotransmission under physiological conditions. A review of neurochemical and electrophysiological studies examining the influence of endogenous and exogenous NO on DA neurotransmission indicates that NO signaling exerts multiple effects on local striatal circuits and projection neurons involved in regulating basal ganglia output and nigrostriatal DA neuron activity. In addition to summarizing these influences, the current review focuses on the mechanisms utilized by striatal NO signaling pathways involved in modulating DA transmission at the level of the terminal and cell body and attempts to integrate these observations into a functional model of NO-dependent regulation of basal ganglia systems.
Head and neck cancer in advanced stages are difficult to treat. Therefore, development of new treatment modalities and preventive measures are required. We now report the identification of human head and neck cancer antigens recognized by the humoral immune system. We used the serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression libraries (SEREX) approach. cDNA libraries from cell lines of squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck (SCCHN) and a normal testicle tissue were screened using sera from six allogeneic SCCHN patients. Total 28 positive clones belonging to 19 different genes were identified, including 12 known genes and 7 unknown ones. Expression analysis on 13 normal tissues and 13 cancer tissues using reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) revealed eight ubiquitously expressed genes, nine of which were expressed preferentially in cancer tissues and two cancer/testis antigens. These antigens we defined may be pertinent candidate antigens for future cancer-diagnosis and related immunotherapy.
Substantial evidence has shown that extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (Erk1/2) and serine/threonine kinase (Akt) play important roles in regulating cell survival. We examined the activities of these kinases in astrocytes under ischemia in an anaerobic chamber. The level of phosphorylated Erk1/2 in astrocytes began to increase after 1 h ischemia, reached a maximum after 4 h ischemia, before decreasing from 5 to 6 h. Akt was activated later than Erk1/2. It was significantly increased after 4 h ischemia before declining steadily afterwards. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay and Hoechst nucleic staining indicated that U0126, which inhibits Erk1/2 phosphorylation, enhanced ischemia-induced cell death, whereas LY294002, which inhibits Akt phosphorylation, delayed cell death. These effects were dose-dependent. At 4 and 6 h ischemia, U0126-treated astrocytes expressed a lower level of Bcl-2 than controls. In contrast, LY294002-treated astrocytes expressed a higher level of Bcl-2 than controls as shown by Western blots. Bcl-x(L) expression level was not affected by either treatment. These data suggest that activation of the MAPK/Erk1/2 pathway might protect astrocytes from ischemic injury, but activation of the PI3-K/Akt pathway does not. The effect may involve Bcl-2 but not Bcl-x(L) expression.
Using a universal signaling assay employing G-protein chimeras comprising the C-terminal five amino acids of Gi1/2, Gi3, Go, and Gz fused to Gq, the calcium mobilizing G-protein, we explored the role of the C-terminus of Gi family G-proteins as a determinant for 5-HT(1A) receptor functional coupling. Co-expression of the 5-HT(1A) receptor with each of the Gq/Gi family chimeras resulted in a concentration-dependent increase in calcium upon addition of 5-HT, although the coupling efficiency differed dramatically. Gq/Gi3 resulted in the most efficient coupling based on both potency and relative maximum response to 5-HT. Gq/Go also produced efficient coupling in terms of relative 5-HT efficacy (76% of the Gq/Gi3 maximum response), although 5-HT exhibited 4-fold lower agonist potency, and Gq/Gz and Gq/Gi1/2 conferred poor functional coupling. Agonist potencies and relative efficacies determined for a number of 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists using Gq/Gi3 coupling were significantly weaker than those described previously for coupling through the native G-protein. These results indicate the C-terminus of Gi3 as an important determinant for coupling to the 5-HT(1A) receptor, while the reduced functional agonist activities suggest additional motifs participate in receptor/G-protein coupling.
Vitamin B6 derivatives protect the retinal neurons from excitotoxic injury in vitro. However, their in vivo role in a process involving excitotoxicity, such as ischemia, remains unknown. We studied potential protective effects of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) and pyridoxal hydrochloride (pyridoxal) on the retinal neurons in a monkey model of transient global ischemia. Daily intravenous injections (15 mg/kg) of pyridoxal and PLP were performed for consecutive 10 days. On the sixth day, whole brain complete ischemia was produced by clipping the innominate and the left subclavian arteries for 20 min. The monkeys were sacrificed 5 days after ischemia and their retinas were processed for histological analysis. The ischemia induced a marked cellular injury in the retina as shown by the loss of ganglion cells and the reduction of thickness of the ganglion cell, inner plexiform, and inner nuclear layers. PLP significantly prevented the ganglion cell loss and the reduction of thickness of the ganglion cell layer. Pyridoxal significantly prevented the ganglion cell loss as well as the reduction of thickness of ganglion cell, inner plexiform and inner nuclear layers. These results suggest that PLP and pyridoxal counteract the postischemic neuronal death in the adult primate retina, offering a potential for a novel pharmacotherapy of retinal ischemic injury.
A report from the 14th Biennial Meeting of the International Society for Developmental Neuroscience, Sydney, Australia, 31 January to 4 February 2002.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent proinflammatory phospholipid with multiple pathological and physiological effects. We have shown that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) supplementation induces rapid proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), which is reduced upon removal of bFGF or by bFGF immunoneutralization. The PAF receptor antagonist LAU-8080 inhibited bFGF-stimulated HUVEC proliferation, indicating the involvement of PAF in the bFGF-mediated signaling of HUVEC. Although FGF receptor phosphorylation was not affected by LAU-8080, the bFGF-mediated prolonged phosphorylation, and activation of Erk-1 and -2 were attenuated. Phosphorylation of STAT-3 was observed in the presence of PAF or bFGF, which was attenuated by PAFR antagonists. PAF-induced STAT-3 phosphorylation observed in HUVEC pretreated with either Src inhibitor PP1 or JAK-2 inhibitor AG-490 indicated (i) immediate (1 min) phosphorylation of STAT-3 is dependent on Src, (ii) JAK-2-dependent STAT-3 phosphorylation occurs after the delayed (30 min) PAF exposure, and (iii) prolonged (60 min) STAT-3 phosphorylation may be either through Src and/or JAK-2. Attenuation of the STAT-3 phosphorylation by the PAFR antagonists indicated signaling through the PAF receptor. Taken together, these findings suggest the production of PAF is important for bFGF-mediated signaling and that a dual kinase mechanism is involved in the PAF-mediated signal transduction cascade.
Recent studies suggest an association between caffeine consumption and tremor. However, the available literature is scanty and inconclusive. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of acute caffeine treatment on harmaline induced tremors in the rat. Four groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats (six animals in each group) weighing 88+/-2 g were administered harmaline (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) for inducing experimental tremors. The rats in group 1 served as controls and received normal saline, whereas the animals in groups 2, 3 and 4 were given caffeine (i.p.) at doses of 50, 100 and 150 mg/kg, respectively 60 min after harmaline administration. The latency of onset, intensity and duration of tremor and electromyographic (EMG) responses were recorded. Treatment of rats with caffeine resulted in a significant increase in the intensity and duration of harmaline induced tremors. Caffeine also enhanced the EMG amplitude in harmaline treated animals. In conclusion, the results of this study suggest that acute treatment with caffeine significantly potentiates the severity of harmaline induced tremors in rats.
Using 3-6-year-old children as subjects, we describe the neural plasticity accompanying the concurrent learning of a foreign language in a natural environment. Children were monitored for 6 months as they either enrolled in schools or daycare centers where only Finnish was spoken (Control group) or as they joined a French school or a daycare center where French was spoken 50-90% of the time (Experimental group). Whereas mismatch negativity (MMN)--a brain's electrical change-detection response--for a French speech contrast was initially absent or very small in both groups, it was conspicuous 2 months after Finnish children had joined a French kindergarten. Consequently, the data suggest that youngsters can learn to distinguish non-native speech sounds in natural language environment without any special training in just a couple of months. Accordingly, these data herald the vast potential MMN may entail for studying language learning, especially in situations where behavioral responses cannot be readily elicited.

In the vast majority of brain areas, the firing rates of neurons, averaged over several hundred milliseconds to several seconds, can be strongly modulated by, and provide accurate information about, properties of their inputs. This is referred to as the rate code. However, the biophysical laws of synaptic plasticity require precise timing of spikes over short timescales (&lt;10 ms). Hence it is critical to understand the physiological mechanisms that can generate precise spike timing in vivo, and the relationship between such a temporal code and a rate code. Here we propose a mechanism by which a temporal code can be generated through an interaction between an asymmetric rate code and oscillatory inhibition. Consistent with the predictions of our model, the rate and temporal codes of hippocampal pyramidal neurons are highly correlated. Furthermore, the temporal code becomes more robust with experience. The resulting spike timing satisfies the temporal order constraints of hebbian learning. Thus, oscillations and receptive field asymmetry may have a critical role in temporal sequence learning.
According to the temporal coding hypothesis, neurons encode information by the exact timing of spikes. An example of temporal coding is the hippocampal phase precession phenomenon, in which the timing of pyramidal cell spikes relative to the theta rhythm shows a unidirectional forward precession during spatial behaviour. Here we show that phase precession occurs in both spatial and non-spatial behaviours. We found that spike phase correlated with instantaneous discharge rate, and processed unidirectionally at high rates, regardless of behaviour. The spatial phase precession phenomenon is therefore a manifestation of a more fundamental principle governing the timing of pyramidal cell discharge. We suggest that intrinsic properties of pyramidal cells have a key role in determining spike times, and that the interplay between the magnitude of dendritic excitation and rhythmic inhibition of the somatic region is responsible for the phase assignment of spikes.
We studied the transformation of sensory input as it progresses from vibrissa primary sensor (S1) to motor (M1) cortex. Single-unit activity was obtained from alert adult rats that did not to whisk upon application of punctate, rhythmic stimulation of individual vibrissae. The spike response of units in S1 cortex largely reproduced the shape of the stimulus. In contrast, the spiking output of units in M1 cortex were modulated solely as a sinusoid at the repetition rate of the stimulus for frequencies between 5 and 15 Hz; this range corresponds to that of natural whisking. Thus, the S1 to M1 transformation extracts the fundamental frequency from a spectrally rich stimulus. We discuss our results in terms of a band-pass filter with a center frequency that adapts to the change in stimulation rate.
We report that CaM kinase IV and CREB play a critical role in mediating calcium-induced dendritic growth in cortical neurons. Calcium-dependent dendritic growth is suppressed by CaM kinase inhibitors, a constitutively active form of CaM kinase IV induces dendritic growth in the absence of extracellular stimulation, and a kinase-dead form of CaM kinase IV suppresses dendritic growth induced by calcium influx. CaM kinase IV activates the transcription factor CREB, and expression of a dominant negative form of CREB blocks calcium- and CaM kinase IV-induced dendritic growth. In cortical slice cultures, dendritic growth is attenuated by inhibitors of voltage-sensitive calcium channels and by dominant negative CREB. These experiments indicate that calcium-induced dendritic growth is regulated by activation of a transcriptional program that involves CaM kinase IV and CREB-mediated signaling to the nucleus.
Neurogenesis proceeds throughout life in the higher vocal center (HVC) of the adult songbird neostriatum. Testosterone induces neuronal addition and endothelial division in HVC. We asked if testosterone-induced angiogenesis might contribute importantly to HVC neuronal recruitment. Testosterone upregulated both VEGF and its endothelial receptor, VEGF-R2/Quek1/KDR, in HVC. This yielded a burst in local HVC angiogenesis. FACS-isolated HVC endothelial cells produced BDNF in a testosterone-dependent manner. In vivo, HVC BDNF rose by the third week after testosterone, lagging by over a week the rise in VEGF and VEGF-R2. In situ hybridization revealed that much of this induced BDNF mRNA was endothelial. In vivo, both angiogenesis and neuronal addition to HVC were substantially diminished by inhibition of VEGF-R2 tyrosine kinase. These findings suggest a causal interaction between testosterone-induced angiogenesis and neurogenesis in the adult forebrain.
The peripheral branch of primary sensory neurons regenerates after injury, but there is no regeneration when their central branch is severed by spinal cord injury. Here we show that microinjection of a membrane-permeable analog of cAMP in lumbar dorsal root ganglia markedly increases the regeneration of injured central sensory branches. The injured axons regrow into the spinal cord lesion, often traversing the injury site. This result mimics the effect of a conditioning peripheral nerve lesion. We also demonstrate that sensory neurons exposed to cAMP in vivo, when subsequently cultured in vitro, show enhanced growth of neurites and an ability to overcome inhibition by CNS myelin. Thus, stimulating cAMP signaling increases the intrinsic growth capacity of injured sensory axons. This approach may be useful in promoting regeneration after spinal cord injury.
Epilepsy is a common neurological condition that reflects neuronal hyperexcitability arising from largely unknown cellular and molecular mechanisms. In generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus, an autosomal dominant epilepsy syndrome, mutations in three genes coding for voltage-gated sodium channel alpha or beta1 subunits (SCN1A, SCN2A, SCN1B) and one GABA receptor subunit gene (GABRG2) have been identified. Here, we characterize the functional effects of three mutations in the human neuronal sodium channel alpha subunit SCN1A by heterologous expression with its known accessory subunits, beta1 and beta2, in cultured mammalian cells. SCN1A mutations alter channel inactivation, resulting in persistent inward sodium current. This gain-of-function abnormality will likely enhance excitability of neuronal membranes by causing prolonged membrane depolarization, a plausible underlying biophysical mechanism responsible for this inherited human epilepsy.
Glutamate is an important amino acid implicated in energy metabolism, protein biosynthesis and neurotransmission. The Na(+)-dependent high-affinity excitatory amino acid transporter EAAT3 (EAAC1) facilitates glutamate uptake into most cells. Recently, a novel rat EAAT3-interacting protein called GTRAP3-18 has been identified by a yeast two-hybrid screening. GTRAP3-18 functions as a negative modulator of EAAT3-mediated glutamate transport. In order to further understand the function and regulation of GTRAP3-18, we cloned the mouse orthologue to GTRAP3-18 and determined its gene structure and its expression pattern. GTRAP3-18 encodes a 188-residue hydrophobic protein whose sequence is highly conserved amongst vertebrates. Mouse and human GTRAP3-18 genes contain three exons separated by two introns. The GTRAP3-18 gene is found on mouse chromosome 6D3 and on human chromosome 3p14, a susceptibility locus for cancer and epilepsy. GTRAP3-18 protein and RNA were found both in neuronal rich regions of the brain and in non-neuronal tissues such as the kidney, heart and skeletal muscle. Mouse GTRAP3-18 inhibited EAAT3-mediated glutamate transport in a dose-dependent manner. These studies show that GTRAP3-18 is a ubiquitously expressed protein that functions as a negative regulator of EAAT3 function.
Damasio's somatic marker hypothesis is argued to be specifically applicable to psychopathy, though evidence has been meager until now. The principal evidence for the somatic marker hypothesis is based on findings in patients with orbitofrontal lesions, showing absent punishment learning on the Iowa gambling task. Interestingly, neuroimaging studies indicate orbitofrontal dysfunction in psychopathy also. Here we investigated the somatic marker hypothesis in subjects selected on low and high psychopathic behavioral characteristics from the outer extreme ranges of a large subject pool (n = 525). The low psychopathic subject group (n = 16) showed intact punishment learning, suggesting somatic markers came to guide their decisions in the course of the game. In contrast, such punishment learning was not observed in the high psychopathic subject group (n = 16), who mimicked the gambling behavior of orbitofrontal patients. These findings provide further evidence for the hypothesized link between psychopathy and orbitofrontal dysfunction.
Ahead of Print article withdrawn by publisher.
Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) binds to the nerve cell surface and inhibits nerve regeneration. The nerve cell surface ligand(s) for MAG are not established, although sialic acid-bearing glycans have been implicated. We identify the nerve cell surface gangliosides GD1a and GT1b as specific functional ligands for MAG-mediated inhibition of neurite outgrowth from primary rat cerebellar granule neurons. MAG-mediated neurite outgrowth inhibition is attenuated by (i) neuraminidase treatment of the neurons; (ii) blocking neuronal ganglioside biosynthesis; (iii) genetically modifying the terminal structures of nerve cell surface gangliosides; and (iv) adding highly specific IgG-class antiganglioside mAbs. Furthermore, neurite outgrowth inhibition is mimicked by highly multivalent clustering of GD1a or GT1b by using precomplexed antiganglioside Abs. These data implicate the nerve cell surface gangliosides GD1a and GT1b as functional MAG ligands and suggest that the first step in MAG inhibition is multivalent ganglioside clustering.
The vanilloid receptor VR1 is a nonselective cation channel that is most abundant in peripheral sensory fibers but also is found in several brain nuclei. VR1 is gated by protons, heat, and the pungent ingredient of &quot;hot&quot; chili peppers, capsaicin. To date, no endogenous compound with potency at this receptor comparable to that of capsaicin has been identified. Here we examined the hypothesis, based on previous structure-activity relationship studies and the availability of biosynthetic precursors, that N-arachidonoyl-dopamine (NADA) is an endogenous &quot;capsaicin-like&quot; substance in mammalian nervous tissues. We found that NADA occurs in nervous tissues, with the highest concentrations being found in the striatum, hippocampus, and cerebellum and the lowest concentrations in the dorsal root ganglion. We also gained evidence for the existence of two possible routes for NADA biosynthesis and mechanisms for its inactivation in rat brain. NADA activates both human and rat VR1 overexpressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK)293 cells, with potency (EC(50) approximately 50 nM) and efficacy similar to those of capsaicin. Furthermore, NADA potently activates native vanilloid receptors in neurons from rat dorsal root ganglion and hippocampus, thereby inducing the release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from dorsal spinal cord slices and enhancing hippocampal paired-pulse depression, respectively. Intradermal NADA also induces VR1-mediated thermal hyperalgesia (EC(50) = 1.5 +/- 0.3 microg). Our data demonstrate the existence of a brain substance similar to capsaicin not only with respect to its chemical structure but also to its potency at VR1 receptors.
Phenotypic modification of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons represents an important mechanism underlying neuropathic pain. However, the nerve injury-induced molecular changes are not fully identified. To determine the molecular alterations in a broader way, we have carried out cDNA array on the genes mainly made from the cDNA libraries of lumbar DRGs of normal rats and of rats 14 days after peripheral axotomy. Of the 7,523 examined genes and expressed sequence tags (ESTs), the expression of 122 genes and 51 expressed sequence tags is strongly changed. These genes encompass a large number of members of distinct families, including neuropeptides, receptors, ion channels, signal transduction molecules, synaptic vesicle proteins, and others. Of particular interest is the up-regulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) receptor alpha5 subunit, peripheral benzodiazepine receptor, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha7 subunit, P2Y1 purinoceptor, Na(+) channel beta2 subunit, and L-type Ca(2+) channel alpha2delta-1 subunit. Our findings therefore reveal dynamic and complex changes in molecular diversity among DRG neurons after axotomy. Sequences reported in this paper have been deposited in the GenBank database (accession numbers BG 662484-BG 673712)
We investigated the role of A-type K(+) channels for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) of Schaffer collateral inputs to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. When low-amplitude excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were paired with two postsynaptic action potentials in a theta-burst pattern, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor-dependent LTP was induced. The amplitudes of the back-propagating action potentials were boosted in the dendrites only when they were coincident with the EPSPs. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitors PD 098059 or U0126 shifted the activation of dendritic K(+) channels to more hyperpolarized potentials, reduced the boosting of dendritic action potentials by EPSPs, and suppressed the induction of LTP. These results support the hypothesis that dendritic K(+) channels and the boosting of back-propagating action potentials contribute to the induction of LTP in CA1 neurons.
Some cerebellar structures are known to be involved in the memorization of several conditioned responses. The role of the interpositus nucleus (IN) and the vermis (VE) in fear-conditioning consolidation was investigated by means of a combined behavioral and neurophysiological technique. The IN and VE were subjected to fully reversible tetrodotoxin (TTX) inactivation during consolidation in adult male Wistar rats that underwent acoustic conditioned stimulus (CS) and context fear training. TTX was injected in different groups of rats at increasing intervals after the acquisition session. Memory was assessed as conditioned freezing duration measured during retention testing, always performed 72 and 96 h after the stereotaxic TTX administration. This schedule ensures that there is no interference with normal cerebellar function during either the acquisition or the retrieval phase so that any amnesic effect may be due only to consolidation disruption. Our results show that IN functional integrity is necessary for acoustic CS fear response memory formation up to the 96-h after-acquisition delay. VE functional integrity was shown to be necessary for memory formation of both context (up to the 96-h after-acquisition delay) and acoustic CS (up to the 192-h after-acquisition delay) fear responses. The present findings help to elucidate the role of the cerebellum in memory consolidation and better define the neural circuits involved in fear memories.

We investigated the topographic and laminar organization of the efferent cortical projections of the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices. Area 36 of the perirhinal cortex projects preferentially to areas TE and TEO, whereas area TF of the parahippocampal cortex projects preferentially to the posterior parietal cortex and area V4. Area TF projects to many regions of the frontal lobe, whereas area 36 projects mainly to the orbital surface. The insular and cingulate cortices receive projections from areas 36 and TF, whereas only area TF projects to the retrosplenial cortex. Projections to the superior temporal gyrus, including the dorsal bank of the superior temporal sulcus, arise predominantly from area TF. Area 36 projects only to rostral levels of the superior temporal gyrus. Area TF has, in general, reciprocal connections with the neocortex, whereas area 36 has more asymmetric connections. Area 36, for example, projects to more restricted regions of the frontal cortex and superior temporal sulcus than it receives inputs from. In contrast, it projects to larger portions of areas TE and TEO than it receives inputs from. The efferent projections of areas 36 and TF are primarily directed to the superficial layers of the neocortex, a laminar organization consistent with connections of the feedback type. Projections to unimodal visual areas terminate in large expanses of the cortex, but predominantly in layer I. Projections to other sensory and polymodal areas, in contrast, terminate in a columnar manner predominantly in layers II and III. In all areas receiving heavy projections, the projections extend throughout most cortical layers, largely avoiding layer IV. We discuss these findings in relation to current theories of memory consolidation.
We have previously shown that not only motoneurons and dorsal root ganglion cells but also small neurons, presumably interneurons in the spinal cord, may undergo apoptotic cell death as a result of neonatal peripheral nerve transection in the rat. With the aid of electron microscopy, we have here demonstrated that apoptosis in the spinal cord is confined to neurons and does not involve glial cells at the survival time studied (24 hours). To define the relative importance of the loss of a potential target (motoneuron) and a potential afferent input (dorsal root ganglion cell) for the induction of apoptosis in interneurons in this situation, we have compared the distributions and time courses for TUNEL labeling, which detects apoptotic cell nuclei, in the L5 segment of the spinal cord and the L5 dorsal root ganglion after sciatic nerve transection in the neonatal (P2) rat. In additional experiments, we studied the effects on TUNEL labeling of interneurons after treatment of the cut sciatic nerve with either ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) to rescue motoneurons or nerve growth factor (NGF) to rescue dorsal root ganglion cells. The time courses of the TUNEL labeling in motoneurons and interneurons induced by the lesion show great similarities (peak at 8-48 hours postoperatively), whereas the labeling in dorsal root ganglion cells occurs later (24-72 hours). Both CNTF and NGF decrease the number of TUNEL-labeled interneurons, but there is a regional difference, in that CNTF preferentially saves interneurons in deep dorsal and ventral parts of the spinal cord, whereas the rescuing effects of NGF are seen mainly in the superficial dorsal horn. The results are interpreted as signs of a trophic dependence on both the target and the afferent input for the survival of interneurons neonatally.
Neurons from varied regions of the central nervous system can show widely divergent responses to electrical stimuli that are determined by cell-specific differences in ion channel composition. The well-ordered and highly characterized peripheral auditory system allows one to explore the significance of this diversity during the final stages of postnatal development. We examined the electrophysiological features of murine spiral ganglion neurons in vitro at a time when recordings could be made from the cell bodies before myelination. These cells carry information about sound stimuli from hair cell receptors in the basilar membrane and are arranged tonotopically. Spiral ganglion neuron responses to depolarizing current injection were assessed with whole-cell current clamp recordings from cells that were isolated separately from the apical and basal thirds of the mouse cochlea. These cells displayed systematic variation in their firing. Apex neurons (low frequency coding) showed longer latency, slowly adapting responses, whereas base neurons (high frequency coding) showed short latency, rapidly adapting responses to the same stimuli. This physiological diversity was mirrored by regional differences in ion channel content assessed immunohistochemically. Apex neurons had a preponderance of Kv4.2 subunits, whereas base neurons possessed greater levels of K(Ca), Kv1.1, and Kv3.1 subunits. Taken together, these results indicate that the distribution of a set of voltage-gated potassium channels may relate specifically to a particular range of coding frequencies. These studies also suggest that intrinsic properties of spiral ganglion neurons can contribute to the characteristic responses of the peripheral auditory system. Their potential role in development and adult function is discussed.
Two types of larval electroreceptors, type A and B, are described in the epidermis of the head of larvae of three mormyrid species, Campylomormyrus cassaicus, Mormyrus rume proboscirostris and Pollimyrus isidori, bred in captivity. In each of these electroreceptor organs, a single sensory cell is found inside an intraepidermal cavity, sitting on a platform of accessory cells. The cavity is filled with microvilli originating both from the sensory cell and from the epidermal covering cells lining the intraepidermal cavity. These two types of tuberous larval electroreceptors differ in their distribution in the epidermis of the head, in the composition of their accessory cells, and by their innervation. The innervation found in type B organs is similar to that already described for electroreceptors of adult mormyrids. The sensorineural junction is composed of primary afferent terminal boutons, which contact the base of the sensory cell. Opposite each terminal bouton, a ribbon-like synaptic bar surrounded by vesicles is found in the cytoplasm of the sensory cell. In contrast, the base of the sensory cell in type A larval electroreceptors is not contacted by nervous terminal boutons, but instead forms closed appositions with specialized prolongations of accessory cells of the platform. The base of the sensory cell presents membrane evaginations, with hemispheric synaptic structures and few synaptic vesicles. These two types of electroreceptor organs degenerate at the time of the degeneration of the larval electric organ and the functional differentiation of the adult electric organ. The functional role of two tuberous electroreceptor types is examined.

Stimulated neutrophils produced vascular permeability enhancing (VPE) activity in the presence of high molecular weight kininogen (HMWK), which was inhibited mainly by a neutrophil elastase (NE) inhibitor or a bradykinin (BK) B(2)-receptor antagonist. NE (&gt;3 nM) generated VPE activity from kininogens at normal plasma concentrations with the smaller protein being several fold more responsive than the larger protein, through releasing a new VPE peptide (E-kinin), SLMKRPPGFSPFRSSRI. Synthetic E-kinin, SLMKRPPGFSPFRSS and SLMKRPPGFSPFR had VPE and blood pressure lowering activities, which were comparable to the activities of BK and completely inhibited by B(2)-receptor antagonists. Interestingly, E-kinin and SLMKRPPGFSPFRSS did not induce smooth muscle contraction. These results suggest that E-kinin formed in vivo may be processed at the carboxy-terminus to give a peptide that can bind to the B(2)-receptor. The molecular mechanism for neutrophil-associated VPE may be explained by excision of E-kinin from kininogens by NE, followed by further processing of the peptide.
Dynamin 2 and dynamin 3 are highly expressed in testis. However, their functions in the tissue remain unclear. Considering that dynamin 1, neuron-specific isoform of dynamin, plays a pivotal role in endocytosis, functions of dynamin 2 and dynamin 3 in testis must be essential. Cellular expression and subcellular localization of dynamin 2 and dynamin 3 in testis were investigated. Dynamin 2 and dynamin 3 were highly expressed in germ cells and Sertoli cells, constituents of seminiferous tubules. By immunofluorescence it was revealed that dynamin 2 colocalizes with clathrin both at the plasmamembrane and at Golgi in a cell line of Sertoli cells. Immunoreactivity for dynamin 3, on the other hand, appeared as finer puncta, which did not colocalize with clathrin, suggesting that these two dynamins have distinct functions in Sertoli cells. In the klotho deficient mouse testis, which demonstrates disorder in spermatogenesis, expression of dynamin 2 and dynamin 3 was drastically reduced indicating possible association of these proteins with spermatogenesis.
The effects of Morris water maze training on brain metabolism and behavior were compared between aged (20-22 months) and young (2-4 months) Fischer 344 male rats. Each group had yoked controls, which swam the same amount of time as the trained rats but without the platform. This was followed after 9 days by quantitative histochemical mapping of brain cytochrome oxidase, the terminal enzyme for cellular respiration. The aged rats spent a significantly lower percent of time in the correct quadrant and had a longer latency to escape to the hidden platform, relative to the young rats. Metabolic differences between trained aged and young rats were found in regions related to escape under stress: perirhinal cortex, basolateral amygdala and lateral habenula; and vestibular nuclei that guide orientation in three-dimensional space. These differences were not found in the yoked swimming rats. The results suggest that, at the time point investigated, water maze training in aged Fischer 344 rats produces altered oxidative energy metabolism in task-relevant limbic and vestibular regions.
Hypothalamic 5-HT (serotonin) regulates food intake, energy expenditure and bodyweight. Using in vivo microdialysis, we determined the effects of various anorectic drugs on hypothalamic extracellular 5-HT levels during the dark phase when rats predominantly feed. Phentermine and aminorex, which were originally considered to be catecholaminergic drugs, markedly increased 5-HT efflux in rat hypothalamus. Their actions were less profound than D-fenfluramine, but considerably greater than that of the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine. This suggests that enhanced hypothalamic 5-HT function could be involved in their anorectic actions. Pharmacological characterization revealed that D-fenfluramine, aminorex and probably also phentermine potentiate synaptic 5-HT function predominantly by release, whereas fluoxetine acts exclusively by reuptake inhibition. The results also revealed that the combined actions of phentermine and D-fenfluramine on hypothalamic extracellular 5-HT levels were additive, but not synergistic. In contrast, there was a significant negative cooperative effect on extraneuronal 5-HT of combining phentermine with fluoxetine.
Exposure to irradiation leads to detrimental changes in several cell types. In this study we assessed the changes induced in hippocampus by exposure of rats to whole body irradiation; the findings reveal that irradiation leads to apoptotic cell death in hippocampus, and as a consequence, long term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses is markedly impaired. The evidence is consistent with the view that irradiation induced an increase in reactive oxygen species and that this leads to stimulation of the stress-activated protein kinase, JNK, and activation of the transcription factor, c-Jun. Consequent upon activation of JNK, a cascade of cell signaling events was stimulated that ultimately resulted in apoptosis, as suggested by parallel increases in cytochrome c translocation, caspase-3 activation, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage, and terminal dUTP nick-end labeling staining. Treatment of rats with eicosapentaenoic acid inhibited the irradiation-induced increase in reactive oxygen species production and the subsequent cellular signaling events, suggesting that oxidative stress triggered apoptotic cell death in the hippocampus of rats exposed to irradiation. Significantly, when the compromise in cell viability induced by irradiation was prevented by eicosapentaenoic acid, long term potentiation was sustained in a manner similar to that in the sham-treated control group.
Schizophrenia is a life shortening illness. Unnatural causes and natural causes are put forward as reasons for this excess mortality. In terms of the latter, a host of different physical disorders occur with increased frequency in schizophrenia. When taken together, some of these illnesses such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disorders constitute the Metabolic Syndrome; a characteristic phenotype of those with this syndrome is excessive visceral fat distribution. The exact reasons why this particular syndrome occurs in schizophrenia is as yet unclear though factors such as life style, poor diet and lack of exercise may contribute to it's development. Alternatively, overactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis leading to hypercortisolaemia can also result in excessive visceral fat accumulation. This minireview aims to explore the potential role of these issues and medication in terms of the increased morbidity and mortality observed in schizophrenia.

The transmembrane glycoprotein nicastrin is a component of presenilin (PS) protein complex that is involved in gamma-cleavage of beta APP and site-3 cleavage of Notch. PS undergoes endoproteolysis, and the proteolytic fragments are incorporated into the high molecular weight protein complexes that are highly stabilized. Here we show that Endo H-resistant, N-glycosylated form of nicastrin (p150-NCT) is highly stabilized and selectively bound to PS fragments. Moreover, loss-of-function mutations of nicastrin inhibited formation of fully glycosylated p150-NCT as well as stabilization of nicastrin, suggesting that glycosylation and stabilization of nicastrin polypeptides are tightly correlated with its function.
The olfactory organs on the head of Drosophila, antennae and maxillary palps, contain several hundred olfactory hairs, each with one or more olfactory receptor neurons. Olfactory hairs belong to one of three main morphological types, trichoid, basiconic, and coeloconic sensilla, and show characteristic spatial distribution patterns on the surface of the antenna and maxillary palps. Here we show that targeting expression of the cell-death gene reaper to basiconic sensilla (BS) causes the specific inactivation of most olfactory sensilla of this type with no detectable effect on other types of olfactory sensilla or the structure of the antennal lobe. Our data suggest that BS are required for a normal sensitivity to many odorants with a variety of chemical structures, through a wide range of concentrations. Interestingly, however, in contrast to other odorants tested, the behavioral response of ablated flies to intermediate concentrations of propionic and butyric acids is normal, suggesting the involvement of sensilla unaffected by ectopic reaper expression, probably coeloconic sensilla that respond strongly to these two organic acids. As inactivation of BS causes an underestimation of the concentration of both acids detectable at both the highest and lowest odorants concentrations, our results suggest that concentration coding for these two odorants relies on the integration of signals from different subsets of sensilla, most likely of different morphological types.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (CAM) L1 is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily that has been implicated in neuronal adhesion, neurite outgrowth, and axon guidance. The clinical importance of L1 is illustrated by pathological mutations that lead to hydrocephalus, mental retardation, motor defects, and early mortality. The L1 gene is composed of 28 exons, including exons 2 and 27 that are spliced alternatively, and mutations in exon 2 are associated with severe neurological abnormalities in humans. To elucidate the role of L1 exon 2, a recombinant Fc fusion protein called Delta2L1 was constructed lacking the second exon in the extracellular domain of L1. When bound to fluorescent beads, L1 exhibited homophilic binding while Delta2L1 did not. However, L1 beads coaggregated with the Delta2L1 beads. Similarly, in cell binding studies, L1 bound to L1 and Delta2L1 did not bind to Delta2L1 but it bound moderately to L1. Given the reduced binding of Delta2L1, we tested its effect on neurons. By comparison to L1, a lower percentage of dissociated neurons extended neurites on Delta2L1, and there was a modest decrease in the length of the neurites that grew. Neurite outgrowth from reaggregated neurons was much less robust on Delta2L1 than on L1. The combined results indicate that Delta2L1 does not bind homophilically but it can interact with L1 containing exon 2. The reduced binding and neurite promoting activity of Delta2L1 provides an explanation for certain pathological mutations in L1 that lead to clinically apparent disease in the absence of the normal form of L1 in the nervous system.

A novel series of tricyclic dihydropyrimidines was synthesized and evaluated for activity as K(ATP) channel openers. The functional activity of several compounds, for example 6A (EC(50)=30nM) and its enantiomers exceeded cromakalim.
Visceromotor neurons in mammalian prevertebral sympathetic ganglia receive convergent synaptic inputs from spinal preganglionic neurons and peripheral intestinofugal neurons projecting from the enteric plexuses. Vasomotor neurons in the same ganglia receive only preganglionic inputs. How this pathway-specific pattern of connectivity is established is unknown. We have used a combination of immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and electrophysiological techniques to investigate the development of synaptic inputs onto visceromotor and vasomotor neurons in the celiac ganglion of guinea pigs. Functional synaptogenesis occurred primarily from early fetal (F30-F35) to midfetal (F36-F45) stages, after the neurochemical differentiation of vasomotor and visceromotor neurons but before establishment of their electrophysiological phenotypes. Intestinofugal inputs were detected only on presumptive visceromotor neurons located primarily in medial regions of the ganglion. The number of ultrastructurally identified synaptic profiles increased in parallel with functional synaptogenesis, especially in medial regions, where dendritic growth rates also were higher. However, the expression of immunoreactivity to choline acetyltransferase in the terminals of inputs was very low until late fetal stages, after functional transmission already had been established. These results show that peripheral intestinofugal neurons directly establish appropriate functional connections with their target visceromotor neurons simultaneously with the development of functional preganglionic inputs to both visceromotor and vasomotor neurons. It seems likely that synaptogenesis occurs independently of the neurochemical differentiation of the target neurons but is closely related to the pathway-specific dendritic development of those neurons.
Zinc maintains a diverse array of functions in the mammalian central nervous system as a key component of numerous enzymes, via its role in the activation of transcription factors, and as a neuroregulator, modulating neuronal receptors such as N-methyl-D-aspartate and gamma-aminobutyric acid. Zinc has a dark side, however, with massive influx of Zn(2+) to neurons considered to be a key factor in neuronal death secondary to ischemia and seizure. Several different putative zinc transporters, ZnT-1-4, have recently been identified and characterized. Among them, ZnT-1 has been suggested to play a key role in reducing cellular Zn(2+) toxicity. In the present study, we describe the regional and cellular distribution of ZnT-1 in the adult mouse brain using an antibody raised against the C-terminal domain of mouse ZnT-1. The distribution of ZnT-1 was compared to that of chelatable Zn(2+), visualized by means of neoTimm histochemistry or N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-toluene-sulfonamide (TSQ) histofluorescence. Extracts from various brain regions specifically stained a 60-kDa peptide corresponding to the expected molecular weight of ZnT-1. The expression of ZnT-1 was highest in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum, moderate in the hippocampus, hypothalamus, and olfactory bulb, and lowest in the striatum and septum. In brain sections, ZnT-1-immunoreactive neurons, in particular principle neurons, in the somatosensory cortex, hippocampus, and olfactory bulb, were closely related to synaptic Zn(2+). Robust ZnT-1 immunoreactivity was also observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Although the function of the protein in these cells is unclear, in the forebrain, ZnT-1 is strikingly present in cells and regions where significant Zn(2+) homeostasis is required. This finding suggests a protective role for neuronal ZnT-1 in the context of both normal and pathophysiological activity.




As the child with Down syndrome enters the second decade of life, some of the original medical issues, such as cardiac, vision, and hearing problems, continue to concern parents. Dermatologic and podiatric problems may become particularly bothersome. Although the child may be doing well, monitoring for thyroid and celiac disease continues to be needed. Continued vigilance is needed for arthritis, diabetes, leukemia, neck subluxation, and seizures. Prevention and treatment of dental and obesity problems are important. Psychiatric and behavioral problems may compromise the adolescent's opportunities. Sexuality and the associated issues of abuse, pregnancy, and menstrual hygiene must be addressed.

Daily self-reports on six dimensions of mental well-being, with the use of the Swedish Mood Adjective Check List (sMACL), were investigated in 61 socially stable and physically and mentally healthy subjects with long-term excessive alcohol consumption (113 +/- 42 g of pure alcohol daily) during a 7-week study. At the start of the study, all subjects had low levels of mental well-being compared with those for a norm group, most markedly among those who did not complete the study period (n = 20). At the end of the investigation, subjects who completed the study (n = 41) had levels of mental well-being similar to those of a norm group. Subjects who reduced their alcohol consumption by 60% did not differ in levels of mental well-being compared with subjects without reduction in intake. No differences in levels of mental well-being were observed in subjects treated with citalopram compared with those given placebo.
In a sample of 149 emergency surgical patients, binge drinking was assessed through interviews. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values were calculated for three questionnaires-the Malm modification of brief MAST (Mm-MAST), CAGE, and the Trauma Scale-and two biological markers-carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT). Binge drinking was reported by 42% of male patients, aged 16-29 years; 66% of female patients, aged 16-29 years; 27% of male patients, aged 30-73 years; and 16% of female patients, aged 30-73 years. All alcohol biomarkers had low sensitivity to binge drinking among women. Mm-MAST alone and CAGE and CDT combined were sensitive to identifying binge drinking among men aged 30-73 years. The three questionnaires combined had a sensitivity of 0.82 to binge drinking among men aged 16-29 years.


At least 40% of families affected with cerebral cavernous malformation have a mutation in Krit1. We previously identified two point mutations in Krit1 leading to changes in amino acids (D137G and Q210E) in two different families. Further RNA analysis reveals that both point mutations actually activate cryptic splice-donor sites, causing aberrant splicing and leading to a frameshift and protein truncation. To date, no simple missense mutations have been detected in Krit1.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata cells express background K(+) channels (I(AC) channels) whose activity is potently inhibited by ACTH. In whole cell patch clamp recordings, it was discovered that the trivalent lanthanides (Ln(3+)s) lanthanum and ytterbium interact with two binding sites to modulate K(+) flow through these channels. Despite large differences in ionic radii, these Ln(3+)s inhibited I(AC) channels half-maximally with IC(50) values near 50 microM. In addition, these Ln(3+)s blocked and reversed ACTH-mediated inhibition of I(AC) K(+) channels at similar concentrations. The Ln(3+)s did not alter inhibition of I(AC) by angiotensin II or cAMP. Ln(3+)-induced uncoupling of ACTH receptor activation from I(AC) inhibition was prevented by raising the external Ca(2+) concentration from 2 to 10 mM. The divalent cation Ni(2+) (500 microM) also blocked ACTH-dependent inhibition of I(AC) through a Ca(2+)-sensitive mechanism. The results are consistent with a model in which Ln(3+)s produce opposing actions on I(AC) K(+) currents through two separate binding sites. In addition to directly inhibiting I(AC), Ln(3+)s (and Ni(2+)) bind with high affinity to a Ca(2+)-selective site associated with the ACTH receptor. By displacing Ca(2+) from this site, Ln(3+)s prevent ACTH from binding and accelerate its dissociation. These results identify Ln(3+)s as a relatively potent group of noncompetitive ACTH receptor antagonists. Allosteric actions of trivalent and divalent metal cations on hormone binding, mediated through Ca(2+)-specific sites, may be common to a variety of peptide hormone receptors.
Bed rest reduces orthostatic tolerance. Despite decades of study, the cause of this phenomenon remains unclear. In this report we examined hemodynamic and sympathetic nerve responses to graded lower body negative pressure (LBNP) before and after 24 h of bed rest. LBNP allows for baroreceptor disengagement in a graded fashion. We measured heart rate (HR), cardiac output (HR x stroke volume obtained by echo Doppler), and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) during a progressive and graded LBNP paradigm. Negative pressure was increased by 10 mmHg every 3 min until presyncope or completion of -60 mmHg. After bed rest, LBNP tolerance was reduced in 11 of 13 subjects (P &lt;.023), HR was greater (P &lt;.002), cardiac output was unchanged, and the ability to augment MSNA at high levels of LBNP was reduced (rate of rise for 30- to 60-mmHg LBNP before bed rest 0.073 bursts x min(-1) x mmHg(-1); after bed rest 0.035 bursts x min(-1) x mmHg(-1); P &lt; 0.016). These findings suggest that 24 h of bed rest reduces sympathetic nerve responses to LBNP.
We examined bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) for the functional expression of P2X receptors, the ATP-gated cation channels. We identified the P2X subtypes present in BAECs using RT-PCR. mRNA was present for only three of seven family members: P2X4, P2X5, and P2X7. We then characterized agonist-activated currents in whole cell and outside-out patch recordings using 2-methyl-thio-ATP (MeSATP) as a P2X4 and P2X5 receptor agonist and 2',3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)ATP (BzATP) as a P2X7 receptor agonist. MeSATP (10-20 microM) produced current with characteristics of P2X4 receptors. The current was an inwardly rectifying current, reversed near 0 mV, slowly desensitized, was not blocked by suramin (300 microM) or reactive blue (60 microM), and had a single channel conductance of 36 pS. BzATP (10-100 microM), on the other hand, activated a 9-pS channel with sustained activity in the continued presence of the agonist. BzATP-activated current was blocked by reactive blue (60 microM) and by suramin (approximately 50% block at 300 microM). We confirmed, by immunocytochemistry, the presence of P2X4 and P2X7 protein. The agonists failed, however, to induce significant uptake of the large molecule YO-PRO, indicating the lack of pore development that has been demonstrated for P2X7 and P2X4 in response to agonist in some cell types.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces fever that is mediated by pyrogenic cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-1 beta. We hypothesized that the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 modulates the febrile response to LPS by suppressing the production of pyrogenic cytokines. In rats, intravenous but not intracerebroventricular infusion of IL-10 was found to attenuate fever induced by peripheral administration of LPS (10 microg/kg iv). IL-10 also suppressed LPS-induced IL-1 beta production in peripheral tissues and in the brain stem. In contrast, central administration of IL-10 attenuated the febrile response to central LPS (60 ng/rat icv) and decreased IL-1 beta production in the hypothalamus and brain stem but not in peripheral tissues and plasma. Furthermore, intravenous LPS upregulated expression of IL-10 receptor (IL-10R1) mRNA in the liver, whereas intracerebroventricular LPS enhanced IL-10R1 mRNA in the hypothalamus. We conclude that IL-10 modulates the febrile response by acting in the periphery or in the brain dependent on the primary site of inflammation and that its mechanism of action most likely involves inhibition of local IL-1 beta production.
The present study sought to determine whether arterial baroreceptor afferents mediate the inhibitory effect of an acute increase in arterial blood pressure (AP) on thirst stimulated by systemically administered ANG II or by hyperosmolality. Approximately 2 wk after sinoaortic denervation, one of four doses of ANG II (10, 40, 100, or 250 ng. kg(-1) x min(-1)) was infused intravenously in control and complete sinoaortic-denervated (SAD) rats. Complete SAD rats ingested more water than control rats when infused with 40, 100, or 250 ng x kg(-1) x min(-1) ANG II. Furthermore, complete SAD rats displayed significantly shorter latencies to drink compared with control rats. In a separate group of rats, drinking behavior was stimulated by increases in plasma osmolality, and mean AP was raised by an infusion of phenylephrine (PE). The infusion of PE significantly reduced water intake and lengthened the latencies to drink in control rats but not in complete SAD rats. In all experiments, drinking behavior of rats that were subjected to sinoaortic denervation surgery but had residual baroreceptor reflex function (partial SAD rats) was similar to that of control rats. Thus it appears that arterial baroreceptor afferents mediate the inhibitory effect of an acute increase in AP on thirst stimulated by ANG II or hyperosmolality.
Cerebral osmoreceptors mediate thirst and neurohypophyseal secretion stimulated by increases in the effective osmolality of plasma (P(osmol)). The present experiments determined whether an intragastric load of hypertonic saline (ig HS; 0.5 M NaCl, 4 ml) would potentiate these responses before induced increases in P(osmol) in the general circulation could be detected by cerebral osmoreceptors. Adult rats deprived of water overnight and then given intragastric HS consumed much more water in 15-30 min than rats given either pretreatment alone, even though systemic P(osmol) had not yet increased significantly because of the gastric load. In other rats pretreated with an intravenous infusion of 1 M NaCl (2 ml/h for 2 h), plasma levels of vasopressin and oxytocin were considerably elevated 15 and 25 min after intragastric HS treatment, whereas systemic P(osmol) was not increased further. These and other findings are consistent with previous reports that hepatic portal osmoreceptors (or Na(+) receptors) stimulate thirst and neurohypophyseal hormone secretion in euhydrated rats given gastric NaCl loads and indicate that these effects are potentiated when animals are dehydrated.
Most previous stress-immune research focused on the immunosuppressive effects of stress on acquired immunity. More recently, it has become clear that acute stressor exposure can potentiate innate, as well as suppress acquired, immunity. For example, acute stress improves recovery from bacterial inflammation, a classic in vivo measure of innate immunity. The previous work was done in sedentary organisms. Physical activity status can modulate the impact of stress on immune function. The following studies tested the hypothesis that the effect of stress on inflammation after subcutaneous challenge with bacteria (Escherichia coli) is facilitated by physical activity. The results were that sedentary, stressed rats resolved their inflammation 1-2 days faster and have increased circulating neutrophils compared with their nonstressed, sedentary counterparts. In contrast, physically active, stressed rats resolve their inflammation 3-4 days faster and have increased circulating and inflammatory site neutrophils compared with their nonstressed counterparts. Importantly, the beneficial impact of stress on inflammation recovery and neutrophil migration was greater in the physically active, than sedentary, stressed rats. Thus physical activity status facilitates the positive effect of acute stress on innate immunity.

Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) is associated with massive endoneurial and extracellular deposition of amyloid, which isformed from a mutated transthyretin (TTR) protein. Ninety percent of TTR protein is produced in liver. Liver transplantation (LT) is the only treatment that can halt FAP clinical progression. We studied 35 LT patients. The mean age of the first symptoms was 36.6 years (ranging from 27 to 56), 19 were males, and 16 females, they underwent LT after a mean time of 5 years of symptomatic disease. Fifteen patients followed for more than 24 months after LT had periodic evaluations with clinical and neurophysiological scores (CS and NS). Ten were first evaluated before LT (mean follow-up time of 44 months after LT), and 5 were evaluated only after LT (or a mean time of 41 months). Five patients were followed periodically before LT (mean time of 44 months) to study the natural course of this condition. The mortality rate was of 14% in the first 6 months and was related to known complications of the surgery. No deaths occurred in the period 6 months to 1 year after LT. Five patients (14%) died 1-2 years after LT, 4 of whom were transplanted in advance stages. In the survival group, CS tended to stabilize shortly after LT and to remain invariable later on. The NSprogressed in the first year following LT, and subsequently it did not increase significantly. LT changed the natural course of FAP-I.
