

Sarcopenia, the age-related loss of muscle mass and function, imposes a dramatic burden on individuals and society. The development of preventive and therapeutic strategies against sarcopenia is therefore perceived as an urgent need by health professionals and has instigated intensive research on the pathophysiology of this syndrome. The pathogenesis of sarcopenia is multifaceted and encompasses lifestyle habits, systemic factors (e.g., chronic inflammation and hormonal alterations), local environment perturbations (e.g., vascular dysfunction), and intramuscular specific processes. In this scenario, derangements in skeletal myocyte mitochondrial function are recognized as major factors contributing to the age-dependent muscle degeneration. In this review, we summarize prominent findings and controversial issues on the contribution of specific mitochondrial processes - including oxidative stress, quality control mechanisms and apoptotic signaling - on the development of sarcopenia. Extramuscular alterations accompanying the aging process with a potential impact on myocyte mitochondrial function are also discussed. We conclude with presenting methodological and safety considerations for the design of clinical trials targeting mitochondrial dysfunction to treat sarcopenia. Special emphasis is placed on the importance of monitoring the effects of an intervention on muscle mitochondrial function and identifying the optimal target population for the trial. This article is part of a Directed Issue entitled: Molecular basis of muscle wasting.
Many pathological states characterized by muscle atrophy (e.g., sepsis, cachexia, starvation, metabolic acidosis and severe insulinopenia) are associated with an increase in circulating glucocorticoids (GC) levels, suggesting that GC could trigger the muscle atrophy observed in these conditions. GC-induced muscle atrophy is characterized by fast-twitch, glycolytic muscles atrophy illustrated by decreased fiber cross-sectional area and reduced myofibrillar protein content. GC-induced muscle atrophy results from increased protein breakdown and decreased protein synthesis. Increased muscle proteolysis, in particular through the activation of the ubiquitin proteasome and the lysosomal systems, is considered to play a major role in the catabolic action of GC. The stimulation by GC of these two proteolytic systems is mediated through the increased expression of several Atrogenes (&quot;genes involved in atrophy&quot;), such as FOXO, Atrogin-1, and MuRF-1. The inhibitory effect of GC on muscle protein synthesis is thought to result mainly from the inhibition of the mTOR/S6 kinase 1 pathway. These changes in muscle protein turnover could be explained by changes in the muscle production of two growth factors, namely Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF)-I, a muscle anabolic growth factor and Myostatin, a muscle catabolic growth factor. This review will discuss the recent progress made in the understanding of the mechanisms involved in GC-induced muscle atrophy and consider the implications of these advancements in the development of new therapeutic approaches for treating GC-induced myopathy. This article is part of a Directed Issue entitled: Molecular basis of muscle wasting.
The cerebral cortex comprises over three quarters of the brain, and serves as structural basis for the sophisticated perceptual and cognitive functions. It develops from common multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs) that line the neural tube. Development of the NSCs encompasses sequential phases of progenitor expansion, neurogenesis, and gliogenesis along with the progression of developmental stages. Interestingly, NSCs steadfastly march through all of these phases and give rise to specific neural cell types in a temporally defined and highly predictable manner. Herein, we delineate the intrinsic and extrinsic factors that dictate the progression and tempo of NSC differentiation during cerebral cortex development, and how epigenetic modifications contribute to the dynamic properties of NSCs.
A balance between rapid, short lived, neuronal responses and prolonged ones fulfill the biochemical and cellular requirements for creating a molecular memory. I provide an overview of epigenetic mechanisms in the brain and discuss their impact on synaptic plasticity, cognitive functions, and discuss a recent example of how they can contribute to neurodegeneration and the cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's disease.


When through the skin a foreign antigen enters it provokes an immune response and inflammatory reaction. Mast cells are located around small vessels that are involved in vasaldilation. They mature under the influence of local tissue to various cytokines. Human skin mast cells play an essential role in diverse physiological and pathological processes and mediate immediate hypersensitive reaction and allergic diseases. Injection of anti-IgE in the skin or other agents that directly activate mast cells may cause the decrease in vascular tone, leakage of plasma and may lead to a fall in blood pressure with fatal anaphylactic shock. Skin mast cells are also implicated as effector cells in response to multiple parasites such as Leishmania which is primarily characterized by its tissue cutaneous tropism. Activated macrophages by IFNgamma, cytotoxic T cells, activated mast cells and several cytokines are involved in the elimination of the parasites and immunoprotection. IL-33 is one of the latest cytokines involved in IgE-induced anaphylaxis and in the pathogenesis of allergic skin disorders. IL-33 has been shown in epidermis of patients with psoriasis and its skin expression causes atopic dermatitis and it is crucial for the development of this disease. Here we review the impact of mast cells on the skin.
Mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have been shown to be an important cause of sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). In this study, we performed a clinical and genetic analysis of 169 hearing-impaired patients and some of their relatives suffering from idiopathic SNHL, both familial and sporadic. The analysis of four fragments of their mtDNA identified several polymorphisms, the well known pathogenic mutation, A1555G, and some novel mutations in different genes, implying changes in the aminoacidic sequence. A novel sporadic mutation in 12S rRNA (MT-RNR1), not previously reported in the literature, was found in a case of possible aminoglycoside-induced progressive deafness.
Skeletal muscle biopsies require transecting the muscle fibers resulting, in structural damage near the cut ends. Classically, the optimal ultrastructural preservation has been obtained by the use of relatively large biopsies in which the tissue fibers are restrained by ligating to a suitable retaining support prior to excision, and by examining regions at some distance from the cut ends. However, these methods require invasive surgical procedures. In the present study, we present and substantiate an alternative approach that allows for the excellent ultrastructural preservation of needle biopsy samples, even the very small samples obtained through tiny percutaneous needle biopsy (TPNB). TPNB represents an advantage, relative to standard muscle biopsy techniques and to other needle biopsies currently in use, as in addition to not requiring a skin incision, it leaves no scars in the muscle and requires an extremely brief recovery period. It is most appropriate for obtaining repeated samples in horizontal studies, e.g., in order to follow changes with athletic training and/or aging in a single individual and for studies of sarcopenic muscles in elderly patients. Due to the small size of the sample, TPNB may present limited usefulness for classical pathology diagnostics. However, it offers the major advantage of allowing multiple samples within a single session and this may be useful under specific circumstances.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) and ventral subiculum (vSub) of the hippocampus convey emotion and context information, respectively, to the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Using in vivo extracellular recordings from NAc neurons, we examined how acute and repeated restraint stress alters the plasticity of the vSub and BLA afferent pathways. High-frequency (HFS) and low-frequency (LFS) stimulation was applied to the vSub to assess the impact on NAc responses to vSub and BLA inputs. In addition, iontophoretic application of the dopamine D2-antagonist sulpiride was used to explore the role of dopamine in the NAc in mediating the effects of stress on plasticity. Acute and repeated restraint caused disparate effects on BLA- and vSub-evoked responses in the NAc. Following repeated restraint, but not after acute restraint, HFS of the vSub failed to potentiate the vSubNAc pathway while instead promoting a long-lasting reduction of the BLANAc pathway and these effects were independent of D2-receptor activity. In contrast, LFS to the vSub pathway after acute restraint resulted in potentiation in the vSubNAc pathway while BLA-evoked responses were unchanged. When sulpiride was applied prior to LFS of the vSub after acute stress, there was a pronounced decrease in vSub-evoked responses similar to control animals. This work provides new insight into the impact of acute and repeated stress on the integration of context and emotion inputs in the NAc. These data support a model of stress whereby the hippocampus is inappropriately activated and dominates the information processing within this circuit via a dopaminergic mechanism after acute bouts of stress.
Dopamine modulates cognitive functions through regulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Thus, dopamine dysfunction in depression may be particularly relevant for the cognitive symptoms. The norepinephrine transporter inhibitor reboxetine facilitates memory processing in both healthy volunteers and in depressed patients and increases dopamine release in both the hippocampus and PFC. We investigated the potential involvement of the hippocampal and PFC dopamine D1/5 receptors in the cognitive effects of reboxetine using the object recognition test in rats. Infusion of the D1/5 antagonist SCH23390 into the dorsal hippocampus or medial PFC prior to the exploration of the objects impaired memory. Conversely, infusion of the D1/5 agonist SKF81297 into the dorsal hippocampus or medial PFC facilitated memory. Reboxetine similarly facilitated recognition memory in healthy rats and the D1/5 antagonist SCH23390 reversed this effect when infused into the dorsal PFC, but not when infused into the hippocampus. Moreover, systemic reboxetine increased the levels of the NMDA subunit GluN2A in the PFC but not in the hippocampus. Finally, we demonstrate that a single dose of reboxetine does not affect immobility in the forced swim test but improves recognition memory in the Flinders sensitive line (FSL) rat model for depression. The present data in rats are in line with effects of reboxetine on memory formation in healthy volunteers and depressed patients and indicate the involvement of PFC dopamine D1/5 receptors.
Orexins are hypothalamic neuropeptides which bind to two G-protein-coupled receptors, orexin-1 (OX(1)R) and orexin-2 (OX(2)R) receptor. While a role for OX(1)R has been established in both ethanol reinforcement and ethanol-seeking behaviour, the role of OX(2)R in these behaviours is relatively less-studied. The aim of this study was to determine the role of central OX(2)R in ethanol-taking and ethanol-seeking behaviour. Indiana ethanol-preferring rats were trained to self-administer ethanol (10% w/v) or sucrose (0.71% w/v) in the presence of reward-associated cues before being implanted with indwelling guide cannulae. The selective OX(2)R antagonist TCS-OX2-29 was administered i.c.v. to assess its effect on operant self-administration and cue-induced reinstatement following extinction. Following i.c.v. injection TCS-OX2-29 reduced self-administration of ethanol, but not sucrose. Despite reducing ethanol self-administration, TCS-OX2-29 had no impact on cue-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking. To determine where in the brain OX(2)R were acting to modulate ethanol self-administration, TCS-OX2-29 was microinjected into either the shell or core of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Intra-NAc core, but not shell, infusions of TCS-OX2-29 decreased responding for ethanol. Importantly, the doses of TCS-OX2-029 used were non-sedating. Collectively, these findings implicate OX(2)R in the NAc in mediating the reinforcing effects of ethanol. This effect appears to be drug-specific as antagonism of central OX(2)R had no impact on sucrose self-administration. Thus, OX(2)R in addition to OX(1)R may represent a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of ethanol-use disorders. However, unlike OX(1)R, no impact of OX(2)R antagonism was observed on cue-induced reinstatement, suggesting a more prominent role for OX(2)R in ethanol self-administration compared to cue-conditioned ethanol-seeking.
Marchiafava-Bignami disease (MBD) is a rare alcohol-associated disorder characterized by demyelization and necrosis of the corpus callosum. Diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI may reveal the lesions in patients showing serious clinical manifestations, high mortality rate and severe cognitive sequelae, though some cases with good outcome have been reported. We describe a case of a man with a history of chronic alcohol abuse associated with malabsorption; the man presented mild clinical signs on the first neurological exam, despite the presence of DW-MRI lesions, bilaterally involving entire corpus callosum, that are compatible with MBD diagnosis.
The aim is to investigate the effect of a comprehensive physical and psychosocial approach on functional outcome and cerebral glucose metabolism in poststroke vascular dementia (PSVaD). Ten PSVaD patients participated in the study. They were diagnosed according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and Association Internationale pour la Recherch et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) criteria and needed physical assistance in sit-to-stand transfer activities. Six were enrolled in a comprehensive program consisted of an individualized task-specific exercise regimen of transfer training and a psychosocial intervention program. The other 4 patients participated in the control group. The programs were undertaken over a period of 2 months. Outcomes were the scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Functional Independence Measure (FIM), and on cerebral glucose metabolism determined by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography performed before and at the end of the program. The score on the transfer mobility subscale of the FIM increased at the end of the program in all patients who received the comprehensive program. Regional glucose metabolism was increased in the right insular cortex at the end of the combined program. Control patients showed no change in FIM score or regional cerebral metabolism. A combined approach may be associated with an increase in glucose metabolism of the right insula cortex in PSVaD patients.
Berberine is a natural isoquinoline alkaloid with significant antitumor activity against many types of cancer cells, including ovarian tumors. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms by which berberine differently affects cell growth of cisplatin (cDDP)-sensitive and -resistant and polyamine analogue cross-resistant human ovarian cancer cells. The results show that berberine suppresses the growth of cDDP-resistant cells more than the sensitive counterparts, by interfering with the expression of folate cycle enzymes, dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and thymidylate synthase (TS). In addition, the impairment of the folate cycle also seems partly ascribable to a reduced accumulation of folate, a vitamin which plays an essential role in the biosynthesis of nucleic acids and amino acids. This effect was observed in both lines, but especially in the resistant cells, correlating again with the reduced tolerance to this isoquinoline alkaloid. The data also indicate that berberine inhibits cellular growth by affecting polyamine metabolism, in particular through the upregulation of the key catabolic enzyme, spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT). In this regard, berberine is shown to stimulate the SSAT induction by the spermine analogue N1, N12 bisethylspermine (BESpm), which alone was also able to downregulate DHFR mRNA more than TS mRNA. We report that the sensitivity of resistant cells to cisplatin or to BESpm is reverted to the levels of sensitive cells by the co-treatment with berberine. These data confirm the intimate inter-relationships between folate cycle and polyamine pathways and suggest that this isoquinoline plant alkaloid could be a useful adjuvant therapeutic agent in the treatment of ovarian carcinoma.
Freud's statement in The Ego and the Id (1923) that the ego is first and foremost a bodily ego is well known. This paper tempts to clarify the premises underlying Freud's thesis. Particular attention is paid to Freud's investigation of internal perceptions. Freud argued that internal perceptions are more primordial than perceptions arising externally. In Freud's opinion the roots of the ego, the id, are to be found in body sensations and feelings, but he had to admit that very little was known about these sensations and feelings. Only much later was neuroscience in a position to offer evidence that feelings can be the direct perception of the internal state of the body. Damasio (2010) has recently suggested that the core of the self might be found in what he, like Freud, terms primordial feelings. Not only was Freud able to conceive of the ego as the perception and feeling of our own body but also to conceive of knowing the mental life of another by means of recreating the bodily state of another through imitation.

Symptoms of depression are related to blunted cardiovascular reactions to acute stress tasks. However, it is unclear what factors might mediate this association and whether blunted responses are specific to mental stress tasks or are also evident with other forms of stress. The present study assessed cardiovascular reactivity to both mental and postural stress and the role of background stress exposure and stress perception. Undergraduate students (N=119, 81 females) were screened for depressive symptoms using the Beck Depression Inventory. Twenty-six participants with probable depression and 26 non-depressed controls underwent cardiovascular stress testing. Heart rate (HR), systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure were measured at rest and in response to a 5min orthostatic challenge and an 8min mental arithmetic task. Stress exposure was measured using the Undergraduate Stress Questionnaire. Perceptions of general life stress were assessed using the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) and perceptions of the stress task impact were measured using Threat Appraisal (TA). Symptoms of depression were associated with blunted HR, F(2,98)=5.26, p=.010, (2)=.097, and SBP, F(2,98)=6.47, p=.008, (2)=.117, reactions to the mental stress but not to postural challenge. HR reactions were mediated by PSS score, while both PSS score and TA emerged independently as mediators of SBP reactions. These results confirm a negative relationship between depressive symptoms and cardiovascular reactions to acute stress, suggest that this association may be stress task-specific, and may be mediated by perceptions of stress.
The recently published second Surgical Trial in Intracerebral Haemorrhage (STICH-2) tested whether surgical evacuation of superficial spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage was effective at reducing death and disability at 6 months after onset. Participants were randomised to a policy of early surgical intervention or initial medical management alone within 48 hours of symptom onset. After enrolling 601 patients across 78 centres in 27 countries, intention to treat analysis showed no difference in outcome. Time to intervention was a median of 26 hours after symptom onset in the surgical arm, and craniotomy accounted for 98% of all surgical procedures. The interpretation of the overall neutral result is confounded by a high proportion of crossovers from the medical management arm of the study, predominantly of more severely affected patients. Further analysis may clarify whether decompressive surgery late after superficial intracerebral haemorrhage has any role in management.


Two isolates, with optimum growth temperature and pH of about 30 C and 6.0-7.0, were recovered from a borehole head of a mineral water aquifer in Portugal. The closest relatives based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis were species of genera of the family Chitinophagaceae. Strains L2-4(T) and L2-109 formed translucent colonies and non-motile pleomorphic cells. Strains were strictly aerobic, and oxidase- and catalase-positive. The major fatty acids of strains L2-4(T) and L2-109 were 17:0 iso 3-OH, 15:0 iso and 15:1 iso G. The major polar lipids were phosphatidylethanolamine, one unidentified phospholipid, four unidentified aminophospholipids, four unidentified aminolipids and three unidentified polar lipids. Menaquinone 7 was the only respiratory quinone. The G+C content of the DNA of strains L2-4(T) and L2-109 was 42.0 and 41.4 mol%, respectively. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, physiological and biochemical characteristics, strains L2-4(T) (=CECT 8122(T)=LMG 26919(T)) and L2-109 (=CECT 8121=LMG 26920) are considered to represent a novel species of a new genus, for which the name Heliimonas saccharivorans gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Heliimonas saccharivorans is L2-4(T). Due to additional results obtained in this study an emended description of Filimonas lacunae is provided.
In today's healthcare environment, nursing staff are challenged to care for patients with increasingly complex needs in an ever-changing environment. Nurses are expected to stay up to date on a tremendous number of institutional initiatives, best practice guidelines, and policies and procedures. These practice imperatives are often disseminated through passive means of information-sharing such as staff meetings and electronic mail. In this setting, it is difficult for nurses to simultaneously focus on incorporating practice updates while continuing to value basic nursing functions such as oral care, skin care, and incontinence management. The concept of Interventional Patient Hygiene emphasises that basic nursing functions are not only tasks, but also important evidence-based interventions that contribute to improved health for the patient. Interventional Patient Hygiene facilitates the integration of science and practice. This article describes a quality improvement intervention, Advanced practice nurse-led nursing rounds, which supports Interventional Patient Hygiene and be used to help staff integrate best practices while balancing the multiple priorities inherent in nursing care.
Objective(s): The aim of study was to investigate the antinociceptive effect of intracerebroventricular (ICV) microinjection of Origanum vulgare (ORG) extract and possible involvement of opioid receptors. Materials and Methods: Cannula was inserted into left ventricle of male rats. Five days after surgery Tail Flick Latency (TFL) was measured after ICV microinjection of, ORG (1, 3 and 6 g / rat). Effective dose of ORG was injected ICV in concomitant with morphine (2 mg/kg, IP), naloxone (2 mg / kg, IP) and saline (0.5 l/rat) and TFL was recorded. Results: The co- administrationof ORG extract with morphine showed a significant increase in TFL and naloxone, pretreatment significantly inhibited the antinociceptive activity of ORG and morphine. Conclusion: The aqueous extract of ORG possesses antinociceptive activities in the tail-flick test in a dose dependent manner. ORG - induced antinociception may have been mediated by opioid systems.

Background: Endometrial development has an important role in blastocyst adhesion and implantation. During IVF cycles, endometrial development is enhanced by progesterone. Objective: The aim of this study was to compare ultrastructural and morphometrical characteristics of mice uterine endometrium in natural cycle with those in superovulated cycles received progesterone or Sildenafil. Materials and Methods: In This study, 60 female bulb/c mice were divided into 4 groups: a control and 3 experimental; gonadotropin, gonadotropin+ Sildenafil and gonadotropin+ progesterone. In experimental groups the mice superovulated mated. In the gonadotropin+ progesterone and gonadotropin+ Viagra groups, the mice respectively received 1mg progesterone and 3 mg Sildenafil citrate. Their uterine specimens were prepared for morphometrical and ultrastructural study. Height of the epithelial cells was measured, using motic software. Statistical analysis was performed using ANOVA. Results: Microscopy revealed that in control group the cells had numerous apical microvilli and the height of the cells was 20.522.43 m. In gonadotropin+ progesterone group, the granules were found in basal and apical portions and cellular height were 17.912.78 m which were significantly shorter than in the control and gonadotropin groups (p&lt;0.001). In this group, the apical membrane also contained pinopodes. In gonadotropin +Sildenafil group, the granules were found in both apical and basal portions and the height of the cells were 17.602.49 m which were significantly shorter than in the control and gonadotropin groups (p&lt;0.001). In this group, pinopodes appeared slightly extensive than the other groups. Conclusion: It is concluded that superovulatory drugs in mice stimulate endometrial maturation but injection of Sildenafil is nearly more positive. This article extracted from Ph.D. thesis. (Bahman Rashedee).

The present study examined moderating effects of impulsivity on the relationships between promotive factors from family (family warmth, parental knowledge), school (school connectedness), and neighborhood (neighborhood cohesion) contexts with delinquency using data collected from N=2,978 sixth to eighth graders from 16 schools surrounding a major city in the Midwestern United States. More than half of the respondents were non-Caucasian (M age =12.48; 41.0 % male). Multilevel modeling analyses were conducted to take into account the clustering of the participants within schools. Impulsivity was positively associated with adolescent delinquency. Additionally, family warmth, parental knowledge, and school connectedness, but not neighborhood cohesion, were independently and inversely related to adolescent delinquency. Finally, impulsivity moderated relationships between family warmth and parental knowledge with delinquency but not relationships between school attachment and neighborhood cohesion with delinquency. Specifically, the negative relationship between family warmth and delinquency was significant for adolescents with high levels of, but not for those with below-average levels of, impulsivity. In addition, parental knowledge had a stronger association with decreased levels of delinquency for adolescents reporting higher levels of impulsivity. The moderating effects of impulsivity did not differ for males and females or for minority and non-minority participants. Findings indicate that impulsivity may have greater impact on adolescents' susceptibility to positive family influences than on their susceptibility to promotive factors from school or neighborhood contexts. Implications for future research and practice are discussed.
Individuals infected with HIV type 1 are more likely than noninfected individuals to develop depression. HIV lowers brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophic factor whose receptors play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression. Therefore, we examined whether a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the BDNF gene (rs56164415) and related receptors TrkB (rs1212171) and p75 (rs2072446) were associated with depression in HIV-infected individuals. A total of 1365 HIV-positive and 371 HIV-negative female subjects were included. The distribution of alleles was analyzed independently in African Americans (non-Hispanic) and Caucasians (non-Hispanic). We have found that the absence of depressive symptoms in HIV-positive subjects is associated with a genetic variation of the TrkB but not with BDNF or p75 genes. This mutation explains 0.8% and 4.4% of the variability for the absence of depression in African Americans and Caucasians, respectively.

The burden of Alzheimer's disease is continually rising globally, especially in the Asia-Pacific region. Unfortunately, the efficacy of the therapeutic strategy is still very limited. Because the effect of acupuncture at HT7 can improve learning and memory, the beneficial effect of laser acupuncture, a noninvasive form of acupuncture, at HT7 on memory improvement in patients with Alzheimer's disease has been a focus of research. To elucidate this issue, we used AF64A, a cholinotoxin, to induce memory impairment in male Wistar rats, which weighed 180-220 g. Then, the animals were treated with laser acupuncture either at HT7 or at a sham acupoint once daily for 10 minutes for a period of 14 days. Spatial memory assessments were performed at 1, 7, and 14 days after AF64A administration and at the end of the experiment, and the changes in the malondialdehyde (MDA) level and in the superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities in the hippocampus were recorded. The results showed that laser acupuncture significantly suppressed AChE activity in the hippocampus. Although laser acupuncture enhanced SOD and CAT activities, no reduction in MDA level in this area was observed. Therefore, laser acupuncture at HT7 is a potential strategy to attenuate memory impairment in patients with Alzheimer's disease. However, further research, especially on the toxicity of laser acupuncture following repetitive exposure, is essential.
The aim of this study was to test for measurement invariance and examine differences in global self-concept between adolescents with and without physical illness or developmental disability. The sample consisted of adolescents 10-19 years who participated in the Canadian National Longitudinal Survey of Children and Youth (N=8491). Multiple group confirmatory factor analysis was used to test for measurement invariance. Twenty-three percent (n=1966) of participants had a physical illness or developmental disability. Support was found for strict measurement invariance between groups suggesting adolescents in both groups perceived items similarly, indicating that comparisons between adolescents with and without physical illness or developmental disability are meaningful. Controlling for several sociodemographic characteristics, evidence suggested that self-concept is lower in adolescents with physical illness or developmental disability, =-0.24, p=0.0005, compared to their healthy peers. Future work should attempt to understand the processes leading to compromised self-concept in adolescents with physical illness or developmental disability.




While much is known about the metrics and kinematics of gaze shifts to visual targets in cats, little is known about gaze shifts to auditory targets. Here, cats were trained to localize auditory and visual targets via gaze shifts. Five properties of gaze shifts to sounds were observed. First, gaze shifts were accomplished primarily by large head movements. Unlike primates, the head movement in cats often preceded eye movement though the relative timing of eye in head and head latencies depended upon the target modality and gaze shift magnitude. Second, gaze shift latencies to auditory targets tended to be shorter than equivalent shifts to visual targets for some conditions. Third, the main sequences relating gaze amplitude to maximum gaze velocity for auditory and visual targets were comparable. However, head movements to auditory and visual targets were less consistent than gaze shifts and tended to undershoot the targets by 30% for both modalities. Fourth, at the end of gaze movement, the proportion of the gaze shift accomplished by the eye-in-head movement was greater to visual than auditory targets. On the other hand, at the end of head movement, the proportion of the gaze shift accomplished by the head was greater to auditory than visual targets. Finally, gaze shifts to long-duration auditory targets were accurate and precise and were similar to accuracy of gaze shifts to long-duration visual targets. Because the metrics of gaze shifts to visual and auditory targets are nearly equivalent, as well as their accuracy, we conclude that both sensorimotor tasks use primarily the same neural substrates for the execution of movement.
The development of metallosis as a complication following rupture of a hip replacement is known to occur as a result of contact with metal components of the prosthesis (1).In such cases, high cobalt (Co), chromium (Cr) and molybdenum (Mo) levels in the blood have been reported by several Authors (2).Recently, it has been stressed that the clinical investigation should focus on general reactions to high circulating metal levels, such as toxicity for the central nervous system (CNS) and the immune system (3).Despite the increasing interest of literature in ceramic-on-ceramic hip arthroplasty (4),little is known about these complications, and in particular of metallosis. To our knowledge this is the first description of a condition of extensive metallosis and radiographic signs presenting as a result of wear of a ceramic-on-ceramic prosthesis.
An HLA-B27 genetic profile patient is fully investigated by molecular analyses after an anamnestic assessment of multi-site ecosystems, following the holistic vision of human being.VDRL and Widal-Wright (WWR) resulted positive, showing at Wrights reaction a title of 1:40. Of all the enzymatic activities measured, only the ALP enzymatic pool activities showed a low increasing value of 297 U/L. Of all later acute phase proteins, Only C3 c protein value (127 mg/dL) and fibrinogen (376 mg/dL) were altered. Cultural and molecular oropharyngeal ecosystem investigation resulted significantly positive to Mycoplasmas(Mhand Uu) and Chlamydia trachomatis(Ct) together with a spread of saprophytic flora. From an accurate anamnesis, several and severe uro-genital clinical symptomatology emerged from birth until the beginning of rheumatologic symptomatologies that were confirmed by oldest Mh, Uu and Ctsilent chronic infections between these ecosystems. The molecular HPV research was negative, while the Thin prep pap-test was indicative of vaginosis and cellular reactive changes associated with inflammation. Parasitological research resulted positive for presence of 5-7 newly-formed G. lambliacysts for microscopic field, while digestibility test was positive for presence of several free fatty acid crystals. The remarkable presence of indigested meat fibre and several mucous dense filaments were observed. The pH value was 6.5, while blood faecal test was positive. The values observed were: ferritin 12 microg/L (10-120), total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) 310 &amp;mgr;g/dL (300+-20), unsaturated iron-binding capacity (UIBC) 286 microg/dL (200-220) and iron seric level 24 microg/dL (60-130). Faecal research highlighted a very scarce presence of E. coli, resulting in 102 UFC/g of stool. Of all enteroinvasive pathogens, researched by molecular analyses, only Yersinia spp. was positive. After several specific cycles of antibiotic and antinflammatory therapies, the patient improved its general health condition considerably and showed almost complete regression of aching inguinal lymph node inflammation. In a picture of a worsening inflammatory process, produced by pathogens like Mycoplasmas, chronic silent or low grade inflammation atypical agents, in young HLA-B27 positive patient, VDRL test resulted positive. This value represents the first non-specific unique spy to reveal the precocious immunological signal in order to register the beginning of early innate immune system decay, keeping in mind that mycoplasmal and chlamydial infections are the triggering of cancer in patients genetically susceptible.
Mast cells are ubiquitous in the body and multifunctional immune cells; they are known to be primary responders in allergic reactions, orchestrating strong responses to minute amounts of allergens. Mature mast cells perform important beneficial roles in host defense, both in IgE-dependent immune responses to certain parasites and in natural immunity to bacterial infection. In IgE-associated biological responses, the crosslinking of Fc&amp;#949;RI-bound IgE with multivalent antigens initiate the activation of mast cells by promoting aggregation of FceRI. This cross-linking receptor-bound IgE by multivalent Ag initiates a cascade of intracellular reactions leading to mediator release such as proinflammatory mediators, chemokines and cytokines. Luteolin belongs to a flavone group of compounds called flavonoids, it has anti-oxidant properties, inhibits some cancer cell proliferation and exerts a regulatory effect on mast cell-mediated inflammatory diseases and allergy. Here we report the impact of luteolin on mast cell activation.


It is well documented in animal and human studies that therapy with the anti-cancer drug doxorubicin (DOX) induces fibrosis, cardiac dysfunction, and cell death. The most widely accepted mechanism of cardiac injury is through production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which cause mitochondrial damage, sarcomere structural alterations, and altered gene expression in myocytes and fibroblasts. Here we investigated the effects of acetaminophen (APAP, N-acetyl-para-aminophenol) on DOX-induced cardiac injury and fibrosis in the presence or absence of osteopontin (OPN). H9c2 rat heart-derived embryonic myoblasts were exposed to increasing concentrations of DOX  APAP; cell viability, oxidative stress, and OPN transcript levels were analyzed. We found a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability and a corresponding increase in intracellular oxidants at the tested concentrations of DOX. These effects were attenuated in the presence of APAP. RT-PCR analysis revealed a small increase in OPN transcript levels in response to DOX, which was suppressed by APAP. When male 10-12-week-old mice (OPN(+/+) or OPN(-/-)) were given weekly injections of DOX  APAP for 4 weeks there was substantial cardiac fibrosis in OPN(+/+) and, to a lesser extent, in OPN(-/-) mice. In both groups, APAP decreased fibrosis to near baseline levels. Activity of the pro-survival GATA4 transcription factor was diminished by DOX in both mouse genotypes, but retained baseline activity in the presence of APAP. These effects were mediated, in part, by the ability of APAP, acting as an anti-inflammatory agent, to decrease intracellular ROS levels, consequently diminishing the injury-induced increase in OPN levels.
To position the mitotic spindle, cytoskeletal components must be coordinated to generate cortical forces on astral microtubules. Although the dynein motor is common to many spindle orientation systems, 'accessory pathways' are often also required. In this work, we identified an accessory spindle orientation pathway in Drosophila that functions with Dynein during planar cell polarity, downstream of the Frizzled (Fz) effector Dishevelled (Dsh). Dsh contains a PDZ ligand and a Dynein-recruiting DEP domain that are both required for spindle orientation. The Dsh PDZ ligand recruits Canoe/Afadin and ultimately leads to Rho GTPase signaling mediated through RhoGEF2. The formin Diaphanous (Dia) functions as the Rho effector in this pathway, inducing F-actin enrichment at sites of cortical Dsh. Chimeric protein experiments show that the Dia-actin accessory pathway can be replaced by an independent kinesin (Khc73) accessory pathway for Dsh-mediated spindle orientation. Our results define two 'modular' spindle orientation pathways and show an essential role for actin regulation in Dsh-mediated spindle orientation.
Poststroke hyperglycemia is associated with a poor outcome yet clinical management is inadequately informed. We sought to determine whether clinically relevant levels of hyperglycemia exert detrimental effects on the early evolution of focal ischemic brain damage, as determined by magnetic resonance imaging, in normal rats and in those modeling the 'metabolic syndrome'. Wistar Kyoto (WKY) or fructose-fed spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (ffSHRSP) rats were randomly allocated to groups for glucose or vehicle administration before permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. Diffusion-weighted imaging was carried out over the first 4 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion and lesion volume calculated from apparent diffusion coefficient maps. Infarct volume and immunostaining for markers of oxidative stress were measured in the fixed brain sections at 24 hours. Hyperglycemia rapidly exacerbated early ischemic damage in both WKY and ffSHRSP rats but increased infarct volume only in WKY rats. There was only limited evidence of oxidative stress in hyperglycemic animals. Acute hyperglycemia, at clinically relevant levels, exacerbates early ischemic damage in both normal and metabolic syndrome rats. Management of hyperglycemia may have greatest benefit when performed in the acute phase after stroke in the absence or presence of comorbidities.

Executive dysfunction occurs in sickle cell anemia, but there are few early data. Infants with sickle cell anemia (n = 14) and controls (n = 14) performed the &quot;A-not-B&quot; and Object Retrieval search tasks, measuring precursors of executive function at 9 and 12 months. Significant group differences were not found. However, for the A-not-B task, 7 of 11 sickle cell anemia infants scored in the lower 2 performance categories at 9 months, but only 1at 12 months (P = .024); controls obtained scores at 12 months that were statistically comparable to the scores they had already obtained at 9 months. On the Object Retrieval task, 9- and 12-month controls showed comparable scores, whereas infants with sickle cell anemia continued to improve (P = .027); at 9 months, those with lower hemoglobin oxygen saturation passed fewer trials (R s = 0.670, P = .024) and took longer to obtain the toy (R s = -0.664, P = .013). Subtle delays in acquiring developmental skills may underlie abnormal executive function in childhood.


The EEG is an accessible tool for detecting encephalopathy, which usually manifests as delirium and sometimes as coma. Several disturbances have been described in the EEG of patients with encephalopathy, including diffuse slowing and periodic discharges. The pathophysiology of these EEG alterations, however, is poorly understood. This article shows that simulating activity of large populations of neurons, using neural mass models and neural network analysis, may increase our understanding of EEG disturbances in encephalopathy. We provide a brief introduction on the concepts of neural mass modeling and graph theoretical network analysis, and insights from this approach in previous work on neurologic disease, with a focus on encephalopathy. Finally, we speculate how anatomically coupled neural mass modeling combined with network analysis could provide new insights in pathophysiology of encephalopathy.
Acute encephalopathies arise as a result of various contributions from infections or toxic, metabolic, and/or structural cerebral derangements. With the variety of clinical presentations, neurologic examination, electroencephalography (EEG), and imaging may not identify specific etiologies, but in combination, they can offer guidance regarding underlying causes. Among several different neuroimaging techniques, cerebral computed tomography and brain magnetic resonance imaging are most frequently used for diagnosis, treatment monitoring, and prognostication in acute brain dysfunction. This review compiles the most common and typical features of head computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging and presents the clinical and EEG associations in adult patients with different types of acute encephalopathy.
Patients with acute alteration in mental status from encephalopathy because of underlying metabolic-toxic or endocrine abnormalities are frequently seen in the acute hospital setting. A rapid diagnosis and correction of the underlying cause is essential as a prolonged state of encephalopathy portends a poor outcome. Correct diagnosis and management remain challenging because several encephalopathies may present similarly, and further laboratory, imaging, or other testing may not always reveal the underlying cause. EEG provides rapid additional information on the encephalopathic patient. It may help establish the diagnosis and is indispensable for identifying nonconvulsive status epilepticus, an important possible complication in this context. The EEG may assist the clinician in gauging the severity of brain dysfunction and may aid in predicting outcome. This review summarizes the current knowledge on EEG findings in selected metabolic and endocrine causes of encephalopathy and highlights distinct EEG features associated with particular etiologies.
There is an increasing recognition of autoimmune limbic encephalopathy with the hope for earlier diagnosis and expedited and improved treatment. Although antibody testing remains the definitive clinical diagnostic feature, the presentation of a rapid dementia, behavioral changes, and seizures leads to investigation using cerebral imaging, electroencephalography, and cerebrospinal fluid to confirm the diagnosis and also to exclude similar disorders. The electroencephalographer may be asked to comment on the types of electroencephalography abnormality and provide input toward the diagnosis of limbic encephalopathy. This article reviews the literature on limbic paraneoplastic and nonparaneoplastic encephalopathies, providing descriptions and examples of the electroencephalography findings. Typically, there are patterns of slow theta and delta activity and different patterns of temporal and frontal epileptic activity.
The term encephalopathy encompasses a wide variety of syndromes caused by a large number of different toxic, metabolic, and degenerative derangements. Despite advances in intensive medical care and new diagnostic procedures, encephalopathy remains a frequent and underrecognized critical medical condition with high morbidity and mortality. Electroencephalography (EEG) enables rapid bedside electrophysiological measurements of brain dysfunction and complements clinical and neuroimaging assessment of encephalopathic patients. Both progressive slowing of EEG background activity with increasing cerebral compromise and decreased EEG reactivity to external stimuli provide important diagnostic and prognostic information. The aim of this review was to provide an overview of the diagnostic and prognostic value of EEG in encephalopathic patients.
Patients with acute confusional states (often referred to as encephalopathy or delirium) pose diagnostic and management challenges for treating physicians. Encephalopathy is associated with a high morbidity and mortality rate, and the diagnosis rests on clinical grounds but may also be supported by the finding of electroencephalographic (EEG) evidence for diffuse cerebral dysfunction. The myriad cerebral transmitter and metabolic disruptions are generated by systemic organ system failures, principal among which are those of the liver, kidneys, lungs, heart, and endocrine system, along with the effects of exogenous toxins and medications. In most cases, several of these organ failures together contribute to the confusional state, frequently in the context of a diffuse cerebral atrophy that affects the aging brain. This special issue of the Journal of Clinical Neurophysiology is dedicated to exploring the electrophysiology of these conditions. It reviews the pathophysiology, psychiatric manifestations, clinical and imaging correlations of the many causes and types of encephalopathy. A literature review of the EEG abnormalities in the various types of encephalopathy provides an overview that ranges from paraneoplastic causes, through organ system failures, postcardiorespiratory arrest, to postoperative delirium. The issue is supplemented by tables of relevant clinical correlations, graphs, Venn diagrams, and the use of mathematical modeling used to explain how defects in the neuronal interplay might generate the EEG patterns seen in encephalopathy. We hope that this assembly will act as a springboard for further discussion and investigation into the EEG underpinnings, clinical correlations, diagnosis. and prognostication of these common and morbid disturbances of brain function.
The mu-opioid system has a key role in hedonic and motivational processes critical to substance addiction. However, existing mu-opioid antagonists have had limited success as anti-addiction treatments. GSK1521498 is a selective and potent mu-opioid antagonist being developed for the treatment of overeating and substance addictions. In this study, 28 healthy participants were administered single doses of GSK1521498 20mg, ethanol 0.5g/kg body weight, or both in combination, in a double blind placebo controlled four-way crossover design. The primary objective was to determine the risk of significant adverse pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions. The effects of GSK1521498 on hedonic and consummatory responses to alcohol and the attentional processing of alcohol-related stimuli, and their modulation by the OPRM1 A118G polymorphism were also explored. GSK1521498 20mg was well tolerated alone and in combination with ethanol. There were mild transient effects of GSK1521498 on alertness and mood that were greater when it was combined with ethanol. These effects were not of clinical significance. There were no effects of GSK1521498 on reaction time, hedonic or consummatory responses. These findings provide encouraging safety and PK data to support continued development of GSK1521498 for the treatment of alcohol addiction.


The current study aimed at establishing the prevalence of impulse control disorders (ICDs) in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) and their association with demographic, drug-related, and disease-related characteristics. We performed a single-center cross-sectional study of 805 PD patients. Impulse control disorders were investigated with the Questionnaire for Impulsive Compulsive Disorders in Parkinson's Disease; also comorbid neuropsychiatric complications (dementia, delusions, visual hallucinations) were investigated with clinical interviews and ad hoc instruments (Parkinson Psychosis Questionnaire and Neuropsychiatry Inventory). Impulse control disorders were identified in 65 patients (prevalence, 8.1%), with pathological gambling and hypersexuality the most frequent. Impulse control disorders were present in 57 of 593 cognitively preserved patients (prevalence, 9.6%) and in 8 of 212 demented patients (prevalence, 3.8%). Impulse control disorders were significantly associated with dopamine agonists (odds ratio [OR], 5.50; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.60-12.46; P &lt; 0.0001) and levodopa (OR, 2.43; 95% CI, 1.06-6.35; P = 0.034). Impulse control disorders frequency was similar for pramipexole and ropinirole (16.6% vs 12.5%; OR, 1.45; 95% CI, 0.79-2.74; P = 0.227). Additional variables associated with ICDs were male sex and younger age. These findings suggested that dopaminergic treatments in PD are associated with increased odds of having an ICD, but also other demographic and clinical variables are associated with ICDs, suggesting the multifactorial nature of the ICD phenomenon in PD.
The mechanisms that underlie the integration of visual and goal-related signals for the production of saccades remain poorly understood. Here, we examined how spatial proximity of competing stimuli shapes goal-directed responses in the superior colliculus (SC), a midbrain structure closely associated with the control of visual attention and eye movements. Monkeys were trained to perform an oculomotor-capture task [Theeuwes, J., Kramer, A. F., Hahn, S., Irwin, D. E., &amp; Zelinsky, G. J. Influence of attentional capture on oculomotor control. Journal of Experimental Psychology. Human Perception and Performance, 25, 1595-1608, 1999], in which a target singleton was revealed via an isoluminant color change in all but one item. On a portion of the trials, an additional salient item abruptly appeared near or far from the target. We quantified how spatial proximity between the abrupt-onset and the target shaped the goal-directed response. We found that the appearance of an abrupt-onset near the target induced a transient decrease in goal-directed discharge of SC visuomotor neurons. Although this was indicative of spatial competition, it was immediately followed by a rebound in presaccadic activation, which facilitated the saccadic response (i.e., it induced shorter saccadic RT). A similar suppression also occurred at most nontarget locations even in the absence of the abrupt-onset. This is indicative of a mechanism that enabled monkeys to quickly discount stimuli that shared the common nontarget feature. These results reveal a pattern of excitation/inhibition across the SC visuomotor map that acted to facilitate optimal behavior-the short duration suppression minimized the probability of capture by salient distractors, whereas a subsequent boost in accumulation rate ensured a fast goal-directed response. Such nonlinear dynamics should be incorporated into future biologically plausible models of saccade behavior.
Top-down control is critical to select goal-directed actions in changeable environments, particularly when several conflicting options compete for selection. In humans, this control system is thought to involve an inhibitory mechanism that suppresses the motor representation of unwanted responses to favor selection of the most appropriate action. Here, we aimed to evaluate the role of a region of the medial frontal cortex, the pre-SMA, in this form of inhibition by using a double coil TMS protocol combining repetitive TMS (rTMS) over the pre-SMA and a single-pulse TMS over the primary motor cortex (M1) during a visuomotor task that required participants to choose between a left or right button press according to an imperative cue. M1 stimulation allowed us to assess changes in motor excitability related to selected and nonselected (unwanted) actions, and rTMS was used to produce transient disruption of pre-SMA functioning. We found that when rTMS was applied over pre-SMA, inhibition of the nonselected movement representation was reduced. Importantly, this effect was only observed when the imperative cue produced a substantial amount of competition between the response alternatives. These results are consistent with previous studies pointing to a role of pre-SMA in competition resolution. In addition, our findings indicate that this function of pre-SMA involves the control of inhibitory influences directed at unwanted action representations.
Although investigations of memory and the dynamics of ERP components and neural oscillations as assessed through EEG have been well utilized, little research into the volitional nature of suppression over memory retrieval have used these methods. Oscillation analyses conducted on the Think/No-Think (TNT) task and volitional suppression of retrieval are of interest to broaden our knowledge of neural oscillations associated not only during successful memory retrieval but also when retrieval is unwanted or suppressed. In the current study, we measured EEG during a TNT task and performed ERP and EEG spectral power band analyses. ERP results replicated other researchers' observations of increases in 500-800 msec parietal effects for items where retrieval was instructed to be elaborated compared with being suppressed. Furthermore, EEG analyses indicated increased alpha (8-12 Hz) and theta (3-8 Hz) oscillations across parietal electrodes for items that were instructed to be suppressed versus those to be elaborated. Additionally, during the second half of the experiment (after repeated attempts at control), increases in theta oscillations were found across both frontal and parietal electrodes for items that were instructed to be suppressed and that were ultimately forgotten versus those ultimately remembered. Increased alpha power for items that were instructed to be suppressed versus elaborated may indicate reductions of retrieval attempts or lack of retrieval success. Increased theta power for items that were instructed to be suppressed versus elaborated may indicate increased or prolonged cognitive control to monitor retrieval events.
Human area 32 plays crucial roles in emotion and memory consolidation. It has subgenual (s32), pregenual (p32), dorsal, and midcingulate components. We seek to determine whether macaque area 32 has subgenual and pregenual subdivisions and the extent to which they are comparable to those in humans by means of NeuN immunohistochemistry and multireceptor analysis of laminar profiles. The macaque has areas s32 and p32. In s32, layer IIIa/b neurons are larger than those of layer IIIc. This relationship is reversed in p32. Layer Va is thicker and Vb thinner in s32. Area p32 contains higher kainate, benzodiazepine (BZ), and serotonin (5-HT)1A but lower N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and 2 receptor densities. Most differences were found in layers I, II, and VI. Together, these differences support the dual nature of macaque area 32. Comparative analysis of human and macaque s32 and p32 supports equivalences in cyto- and receptor architecture. Although there are differences in mean areal receptor densities, there are considerable similarities at the layer level. Laminar receptor distribution patterns in each area are comparable in the two species in layers III-Va for kainate, NMDA, -aminobutyric acid (GABA)B , BZ, and 5-HT1A receptors. Multivariate statistical analysis of laminar receptor densities revealed that human s32 is more similar to macaque s32 and p32 than to human p32. Thus, macaque 32 is more complex than hitherto known. Our data suggest a homologous neural architecture in anterior cingulate s32 and p32 in human and macaque brains.
A solitary cluster of parvalbumin-positive neurons--the PV1 nucleus--has been observed in the lateral hypothalamus of rodents. In the present study, we mapped the efferent connections of the PV1 nucleus using nonspecific antero- and retrograde tracers in rats, and chemoselective, Cre-dependent viral constructs in parvalbumin-Cre mice. In both species, the PV1 nucleus was found to project mainly to the periaqueductal grey matter (PAG), predominantly ipsilaterally. Indirectly in rats and directly in mice, a discrete, longitudinally oriented cylindrical column of terminal fields (PV1-CTF) was identified ventrolateral to the aqueduct on the edge of the PAG. The PV1-CTF is particularly dense in the rostral portion, which is located in the supraoculomotor nucleus (Su3). It is spatially interrupted over a short stretch at the level of the trochlear nucleus and abuts caudally on a second parvalbumin-positive (PV2) nucleus. The rostral and the caudal portions of the PV1-CTF consist of axonal endings, which stem from neurons scattered throughout the PV1 nucleus. Topographically, the longitudinal orientation of the PV1-CTF accords with that of the likewise longitudinally oriented functional modules of the PAG, but overlaps none of them. Minor terminal fields were identified in a crescentic column of the lateral PAG, as well as in the Edinger-Westphal, the lateral habenular, and the laterodorsal tegmental nuclei. So far, no obvious functions have been attributed to this small, circumscribed column ventrolateral to the aqueduct, the prime target of the PV1 nucleus.
Cholinergic neurons are the major excitatory neurons of the enteric nervous system (ENS), and include intrinsic sensory neurons, interneurons, and excitatory motor neurons. Cholinergic neurons have been detected in the embryonic ENS; however, the development of these neurons has been difficult to study as they are difficult to detect prior to birth using conventional immunohistochemistry. In this study we used ChAT-Cre;R26R-YFP mice to examine the development of cholinergic neurons in the gut of embryonic and postnatal mice. Cholinergic (YFP+) neurons were first detected at embryonic day (E)11.5, and the proportion of cholinergic neurons gradually increased during pre- and postnatal development. At birth, myenteric cholinergic neurons comprised less than half of their adult proportions in the small intestine (25% of myenteric neurons were YFP+ at P0 compared to 62% in adults). The earliest cholinergic neurons appear to mainly project anally. Projections into the presumptive circular muscle were first observed at E14.5. A subpopulation of cholinergic neurons coexpress calbindin through embryonic and postnatal development, but only a small proportion coexpressed neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Our study shows that cholinergic neurons in the ENS develop over a protracted period of time.
The pore of sodium channels contains a selectivity filter made of 4 amino acids, D/E/K/A. In voltage sensitive sodium channel (Nav) channels from jellyfish to human the fourth amino acid is Ala. This Ala, when mutated to Asp, promotes slow inactivation. In some Nav channels of pufferfishes, the Ala is replaced with Gly. We studied the biophysical properties of an Ala-to-Gly substitution (A1529G) in rat Nav1.4 channel expressed in Xenopus oocytes alone or with a 1 subunit. The Ala-to-Gly substitution does not affect monovalent cation selectivity and positively shifts the voltage-dependent inactivation curve, although co-expression with a 1 subunit eliminates the difference between A1529G and WT. There is almost no difference in channel fast inactivation, but the 1 subunit accelerates WT current inactivation significantly more than it does the A1529G channels. The Ala-to-Gly substitution mainly influences the rate of recovery from slow inactivation. Again, the 1 subunit is less effective on speeding recovery of A1529G than the WT. We searched Nav channels in numerous databases and noted at least four other independent Ala-to-Gly substitutions in Nav channels in teleost fishes. Thus, the Ala-to-Gly substitution occurs more frequently than previously realized, possibly under selection for alterations of channel gating.

In this study, we investigated in school-age children the relationship among mathematical performance, the perception of numerosity (discrimination and mapping to number line), and sustained visual attention. The results (on 68 children between 8 and 11 years of age) show that attention and numerosity perception predict math scores but not reading performance. Even after controlling for several variables, including age, gender, nonverbal IQ, and reading accuracy, attention remained correlated with math skills and numerosity discrimination. These findings support previous reports showing the interrelationship between visual attention and both numerosity perception and math performance. It also suggests that attentional deficits may be implicated in disturbances such as developmental dyscalculia.
Driver (1996) reported that the ventriloquist illusion can enhance selective listening of speech. Participants in his study listened to target and distractor words from a single loudspeaker while watching lip movements of the target words on a video monitor either above the loudspeaker or displaced to the left or right. He found that participants were more accurate in repeating the target words when the video was displaced from the loudspeaker than when the video was directly above the loudspeaker. Driver proposed that the ventriloquist illusion dragged the target sounds toward the location of the lip movements, freeing them from interference from the distractor words. However, successful attempts at replicating this finding are rare (we know of only three successful replications from 19 attempts). In five experiments, we found a weak advantage for selective listening from displaced lip movements only when there was a convincing ventriloquist illusion. We conclude that the ventriloquist illusion is necessary to confer the advantage for selective listening from displaced lip movements but that the phenomenon is a fleeting one at best.
Multiple-target visual searches--when more than 1 target can appear in a given search display--are commonplace in radiology, airport security screening, and the military. Whereas 1 target is often found accurately, additional targets are more likely to be missed in multiple-target searches. To better understand this decrement in 2nd-target detection, here we examined 2 potential forms of interference that can arise from finding a 1st target: interference from the perceptual salience of the 1st target (a now highly relevant distractor in a known location) and interference from a newly created memory representation for the 1st target. Here, we found that removing found targets from the display or making them salient and easily segregated color singletons improved subsequent search accuracy. However, replacing found targets with random distractor items did not improve subsequent search accuracy. Removing and highlighting found targets likely reduced both a target's visual salience and its memory load, whereas replacing a target removed its visual salience but not its representation in memory. Collectively, the current experiments suggest that the working memory load of a found target has a larger effect on subsequent search accuracy than does its perceptual salience.
Safety culture refers to the way patient safety is regarded and implemented within an organization and the structures and procedures in place to support this. The aim of this study was to evaluate patient safety culture, identify areas for improvement, and establish a baseline for improving state hospitals in Finland. Cross-sectional design data were collected from two state-run forensic hospitals in Finland using an anonymous, Web-based survey targeted to hospital staff based on the Hospital Survey on Patient Safety Culture questionnaire. The response rate was 43% (n = 283). The overall patient safety level was rated as excellent or very good by 58% of respondents. The highest positive grade was for &quot;teamwork within units&quot; (72%). The lowest rating was for &quot;nonpunitive response to errors&quot; (26% positive). Good opportunities for supplementary education had a statistically significant (p  0.05) effect on 9 of 12 Hospital Survey on Patient Safety Culture dimensions. Statistically significant (p  0.05) differences in patient safety culture were also found in the staff's educational background, manager status, and between the two hospitals. These findings suggest there are a number of patient safety problems related to cultural dimensions. Supplementary education was shown to be a highly significant factor in transforming patient safety culture and should therefore be taken into account alongside sufficient resources.

Divergent effects of - and -myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms on contractile behavior arise mainly because of their impact on thin filament cooperativity. The N terminus of cardiac troponin T (cTnT) also modulates thin filament cooperativity. Our hypothesis is that the impact of the N terminus of cTnT on thin filament activation is modulated by a shift from - to -MHC isoform. We engineered two recombinant proteins by deleting residues 1-43 and 44-73 in rat cTnT (RcTnT): RcTnT(1-43) and RcTnT(44-73), respectively. Dynamic and steady-state contractile parameters were measured at sarcomere length of 2.3 m after reconstituting proteins into detergent-skinned muscle fibers from normal (-MHC) and propylthiouracil-treated (-MHC) rat hearts. -MHC attenuated Ca(2+)-activated maximal tension (46%) in RcTnT(1-43) fibers. In contrast, -MHC decreased tension only by 19% in RcTnT(1-43) fibers. Both - and -MHC did not affect tension in RcTnT(44-73) fibers. The instantaneous muscle fiber stiffness measurements corroborated the divergent impact of - and -MHC on tension in RcTnT(1-43) fibers. pCa50 (-log of [Ca(2+)]free required for half-maximal activation) decreased significantly by 0.13 pCa units in -MHC + RcTnT(1-43) fibers but remained unaltered in -MHC + RcTnT(1-43) fibers, demonstrating that -MHC counteracted the attenuating effect of RcTnT(1-43) on myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity. -MHC did not alter the sudden stretch-mediated recruitment of new cross-bridges (ER) in RcTnT(1-43) fibers, but -MHC attenuated ER by 36% in RcTnT(1-43) fibers. The divergent impact of - and -MHC on how the N terminus of cTnT modulates contractile dynamics has implications for heart disease; alterations in cTnT and MHC are known to occur via changes in isoform expression or mutations.
Korean Red Ginseng (KRG) is an oriental herbal preparation obtained from Panax ginseng Meyer (Araliaceae). To expand our understanding of the action of KRG on central nervous system (CNS) function, we examined the effects of KRG on tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)/plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) expression in rat primary astrocytes. KRG extract was treated in cultured rat primary astrocytes and neuron in a concentration range of 0.1 to 1.0 mg/mL and the expression of functional tPA/PAI-1 was examined by casein zymography, Western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. KRG extracts increased PAI-1 expression in rat primary astrocytes in a concentration dependent manner (0.1 to 1.0 mg/mL) without affecting the expression of tPA itself. Treatment of 1.0 mg/mL KRG increased PAI-1 protein expression in rat primary astrocytes to 319.365.9% as compared with control. The increased PAI-1 expression mediated the overall decrease in tPA activity in rat primary astrocytes. Due to the lack of PAI-1 expression in neuron, KRG did not affect tPA activity in neuron. KRG treatment induced a concentration dependent activation of PI3K, p38, ERK1/2, and JNK in rat primary astrocytes and treatment of PI3K or MAPK inhibitors such as LY294002, U0126, SB203580, and SP600125 (10 M each), significantly inhibited 1.0 mg/mL KRG-induced expression of PAI- 1 and down-regulation of tPA activity in rat primary astrocytes. Furthermore, compound K but not other ginsenosides such as Rb1 and Rg1 induced PAI-1 expression. KRG-induced up-regulation of PAI-1 in astrocytes may play important role in the regulation of overall tPA activity in brain, which might underlie some of the beneficial effects of KRG on CNS such as neuroprotection in ischemia and brain damaging condition as well as prevention or recovery from addiction.
The primary purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that multiple sclerosis (MS) patients have impaired acquisition rather than a retrieval deficit. Verbal memory impairment in MS was examined in 53 relapsing-remitting MS patients and 31 healthy controls (HC), and in a meta-analysis of studies that examined memory functioning in MS with list-learning tasks. The MS group demonstrated significantly lower acquisition and delayed recall performance than the HC group, and the meta-analysis revealed that the largest effect sizes were obtained for acquisition measures relative to delayed recall and recognition. Our data argue against a retrieval deficit as the sole explanation for verbal memory impairment in MS, and make a consistent case for the position that deficient acquisition contributes to the memory dysfunction of MS patients. Deficient acquisition may result from demyelination in relevant white matter tracts that reduces encoding efficiency as a result of impaired speed of information processing.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by poor adaptation of behavior to environmental demands, including difficulties in flexibly regulating behavior. To understand whether ADHD is associated with a reduction of strategic flexibility in modulating speed and accuracy, we used a perceptual decision-making task that required participants to randomly stress either fast or accurate responding. Thirty-one drug-free boys with ADHD combined-type (mean age: 10.2 years) and 33 healthy control boys (mean age: 10.7 years), matched for age and IQ, participated. Both reaction time and accuracy data were analyzed. Our findings demonstrated significantly lower accuracy in ADHD children than in controls when switching from speed to accuracy instructions. This deficit was directly associated with hyperactivity symptoms but not with inattention. Our results showed that ADHD is associated with a deficit in dynamically switching response strategy according to task demands on a trial-to-trial basis.
Letter fluency deficits are commonly detected in non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients but the underlying cause remains uncertain. We investigated the role of slowed processing speed and executive dysfunction. Eighteen nondemented PD participants and nineteen controls were compared on letter fluency using a fluency index (Fi); the average time to &quot;think&quot; of each word, a measure independent of motor speed. Video analyses produced thinking times to switch between word clusters and generate a word within a cluster. Correlational and regression analyses were undertaken with tests of processing speed and executive functioning. The PD group exhibited significantly longer fluency indices than controls across all components. Performance on tests of executive functioning explained a significant proportion of variance whereas performance in processing speed tests did not. Moreover, PD participants with an executive functioning impairment showed significantly worse switching fluency indices only compared with Controls and PD participants without executive dysfunction. PD participants with executive dysfunction exhibited a disproportionate impairment in the time taken to switch between clusters than to think of words within clusters. Executive functioning contributed to fluency performance more than processing speed. Cognitive heterogeneity and motor slowing, may mask the profile of cognitive dysfunction in neurodegenerative disease.
Chronic hypoventilation due to injury to the brain stem respiratory center or high cervical cord (above the C3 level) can result in dependence to prolonged mechanical ventilation with tracheostomy, frequent nosocomial pneumonia, and prolonged hospitalization. Diaphragm pacing through electrical stimulation of the phrenic nerve is an established treatment for central hypoventilation syndrome. We performed chronic phrenic nerve stimulation for diaphragm pacing with the spinal cord stimulator for pain control in a quadriplegic patient with central apnea due to complete spinal cord injury at the level of C2 from cervical epidural hematoma. After diaphragmatic pacing, the patient who was completely dependent on the mechanical ventilator could ambulate up to three hours every day without aid of mechanical ventilation during the 12 months of follow-up. Diaphragm pacing through unilateral phrenic nerve stimulation with spinal cord stimulator was feasible in an apneic patient with complete quadriplegia who was completely dependent on mechanical ventilation. Diaphragm pacing with the spinal cord stimulator is feasible and effective for the treatment of the central hypoventilation syndrome.
Intracerebral schwannomas are rare and there have been none reported in Korea. We present the case of a 25-year-old man with newly developed right-side weakness and recent seizure aggravation. His seizures started approximately 9 years prior to admission. At that time, a 1 cm diameter intra-axial enhancing mass at the left precentral gyrus was found on magnetic resonance image (MRI). After 9 years of observation and treatment with antiepileptic medication, an MRI taken due to symptom aggravation revealed peri-tumoral cyst formation with tumor enlargement. The tumor was surgically removed. Subsequently, right-side weakness diminished and there was good seizure control. Pathologic diagnosis was schwannoma. Schwannoma is a very rare tumor and there are no pathognomonic findings on radiologic images; thus, it is challenging to make a correct diagnosis. However, considering the natural course and excellent prognosis after surgical treatment of this kind of intra-axial mass with benign features, early surgery for diagnosis and proper treatment is highly recommended.
The D(4) receptor is of high interest for research and clinical application but puts high demands on appropriate radioligands to be useful tools for investigation. Search for adequate radioligands suitable for in vivo imaging is therefore still in progress. The potential neuroleptic drug 6-(4-[4-fluorobenzyl]piperazin-1-yl)benzodioxin shows high affinity and selectivity to the D(4) receptor. Derivatization of this lead structure by adding hydrophilic moieties was carried out in order to lower its lipophilicity what led to three new putative dopamine receptor D(4) ligands. A comprehensive description of the syntheses of standard compounds and corresponding labeling precursors is given which were obtained in satisfactory yields. Furthermore, the radiosyntheses by direct (18) F-labeling and build-up synthesis were compared. All derivatives of 6-(4-[4-fluorobenzyl]-piperazin-1-yl)benzodioxin were successfully synthesized in (18) F-labeled form with radiochemical yields of 9-35% and molar activities of 30-60GBq/mol using one-pot procedures.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by intracellular neurofibrillary tangle formation and extracellular amyloid- (A) deposition. To date, microglia seem to act as double-edged swords, being either beneficial (e.g. clearance of A) or detrimental (e.g. secretion of neurotoxic factors) in AD. Following a rather intense debate on the question, a consensus has emerged that microglia can renew themselves via proliferation of already differentiated microglia as well as via the de novo recruitment of monocytes of mouse models of AD. However, recent advances suggest distinct function for resident and bone marrow-derived microglia (BMDM), and have emphasized the neuroprotective functions of BMDM. BMDM is the only subset of cells that restrict cerebral amyloidosis in the AD brain, which has been recently attributed to CCR2(+) monocytes. Moreover, an impaired recruitment of CCR2(+) monocytes has been reported in AD patients, as seen from the CCR2(+) monocytopenia found in the bloodstream and BM. The present review summarizes the current knowledge on the roles and dysfunctions of CCR2(+) monocytes in AD and their potential as key therapeutic targets.
The aim of the current study was to determine the effects of electro-acupuncture (EA) on the improvement of locomotor function in injured spinal cord and underlying mechanism. Forty-five female Sprague-Dawley rats (180~200 g) were randomly divided into three groups, sham operation control group (sham), spinal cord transection group (SCT) and EA group. The Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) Locomotor Rating Scale was used to evaluate functional recovery of rats in hindlimbs at 1, 3, 5 weeks after injury and EA therapy. The gene and protein expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) were measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis, respectively, and the number of GFAP-positive cells was counted, also. Compared with SCT group, the locomotor function in hindlimbs of rats was improved after 1, 3, 5 weeks following EA therapy. EA treatment not only decreased effectively the number of GFAP immunostaining and GFAP expression, but also downregulated the PDGF expression both gene and protein, in addition decreased the number of PDGF immunostaining in injured spinal cord of rats with transection. It therefore concluded that EA therapy can significantly promote the recovery of locomotor function, and this may be linked to the inhibition of astrogliosis, together with the downregulation of PDGF.
The proliferation, cell cycle exit and differentiation of progenitor cells are controlled by several different factors. The chromodomain protein mortality factor 4-like 1 (Morf4l1) has been ascribed a role in both proliferation and differentiation. Little attention has been given to the existence of alternative splice variants of the Morf4l1 mRNA, which encode two Morf41l isoforms: a short isoform (S-Morf4l1) with an intact chromodomain and a long isoform (L-Morf4l1) with an insertion in or in the vicinity of the chromodomain. The aim of this study was to investigate if this alternative splicing has a function during development. We analysed the temporal and spatial distribution of the two mRNAs and over-expressed both isoforms in the developing retina. The results showed that the S-Morf4l1 mRNA is developmentally regulated. Over-expression of S-Morf4l1 using a retrovirus vector produced a clear phenotype with an increase of early-born neurons: retinal ganglion cells, horizontal cells and cone photoreceptor cells. Over-expression of L-Morf4l1 did not produce any distinguishable phenotype. The over-expression of S-Morf4l1 but not L-Morf4l1 also increased apoptosis in the infected regions. Our results suggest that the two Morf4l1 isoforms have different functions during retinogenesis and that Morf4l1 functions are fine-tuned by developmentally regulated alternative splicing. The data also suggest that Morf4l1 contributes to the regulation of cell genesis in the retina.
-Synuclein is a central component of the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Phosphorylation at serine-129 represents an important post-translational modification and constitutes the major form of the protein in Lewy bodies. Several kinases have been implicated in the phosphorylation of -synuclein. The targeting of kinase pathways as a potential to influence the pathogenesis of PD is an important focus of attention, given that mutations of specific kinases (LRRK2 and PINK1) are causes of familial PD. Pramipexole (PPX) is a dopamine agonist developed for the symptomatic relief of PD. Several in vitro and in vivo laboratory studies have demonstrated that PPX exerts neuroprotective properties in model systems of relevance to PD. The present study demonstrates that PPX inhibits the phosphorylation of -synuclein and that this is independent of dopamine receptor activation. PPX blocks the increase in phosphorylated -synuclein induced by inhibition of the ubiquitin proteasomal system. The phosphorylation of -synuclein occurs in part at least through casein kinase 2, and PPX in turn reduces the phosphorylation of this enzyme, thereby inhibiting its activity. Thus, PPX decreases the phosphorylation of -synuclein, and this mechanism may contribute to its protective properties in PD models.


The present study seeks to evaluate the sedative and anxiolytic effects of the 70% ethanol extract of Sinomeni Caulis et Rhizoma (SR). The extract was orally administered to mice at dosages of 25, 50, 100, 200 or 400 mg/kg. The mice were then subjected to an array of behavioral tests to assess the sedative (open-field, rota-rod, and thiopental sodium-induced sleeping test) and anxiolytic (elevated plus maze test) effects of the substance. SR (100, 200 mg/kg) significantly reduced locomotor activity, decreased rota-rod performance, and potentiated thiopental sodium-induced sleeping in mice, all indicative of its sedative effects. SR (50, 100 mg/kg) also produced anxiolytic effects, as shown by an increase in entries and staying time on the open arm of the plus maze. SR's sedative and anxiolytic effects were comparable to that of the benzodiazepine, diazepam. Moreover, to identify SR's probable mechanism of action, intracellular Cl ion influx was observed in cultured human neuroblastoma cells. SR dose-dependently increased Cl influx, which was blocked by co-administration of the GABAA receptor competitive antagonist, bicuculline. Among the major constituents of SR, only magnoflorine showed a similar increment in Cl influx, which was also blocked by bicuculline. Altogether, the present results suggest that SR has sedative and anxiolytic effects, probably mediated by magnoflorine through a GABAergic mechanism of action.
We hypothesized that motor retardation in bipolar depression is mediated by disruption of the pre-executive stages of motor production. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate neural activity during motor imagery and motor execution to elucidate whether brain regions that mediate planning, preparation, and control of movement are activated differently in subjects with bipolar depression (n = 9) compared with healthy controls (n = 12). We found significant between-group differences. During motor imagery, the patients activated the posterior medial parietal cortex, the posterior cingulate cortex, the premotor cortex, the prefrontal cortex, and the frontal poles more than the controls did. Activation in the brain areas involved in motor selection, planning, and preparation was altered. In addition, limbic and prefrontal regions associated with self-reference and the default mode network were altered during motor imagery in bipolar depression with motor retardation.



Deep brain stimulation is an effective treatment for different types of dystonia; nevertheless dystonic movements could provoke hardware-related complications, including fractures or electrodes displacement. This study focuses on a morphological and structural analysis of a malfunctioning electrode removed from a dystonic patient. In this case, high impedance values and worsening of symptoms were observed. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) were performed on the explanted electrode. The qualitative and quantitative data collected from the damaged electrode were compared with a new electrode, used as a control. The SEM analysis of the damaged electrode revealed fissurations and crack-like forms of the outer jacket tubing, degeneration of the internal core and wires stretching. The EDX analysis permitted to appreciate an increase of chemical elements, especially sodium, suggesting an alteration of the electrode-brain interface. This study shows the qualitative and quantitative alterations of a malfunctioning electrode and, to reduce the rate of hardware-related complications, it suggests the development of more reliable polymers.

Sortilin, a Golgi sorting protein and a member of the VPS10P family, is the co-receptor for proneurotrophins, regulates protein trafficking, targets proteins to lysosomes, and regulates low density lipoprotein metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and regulation of sortilin in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A significantly increased level of sortilin was found in human AD brain and in the brains of 6-month-old swedish-amyloid precursor protein/PS1dE9 transgenic mice. A enhanced the protein and mRNA expression levels of sortilin in a dose- and time-dependent manner in SH-SY5Y cells, but had no effect on sorLA. In addition, proBDNF also significantly increased the protein and mRNA expression of sortilin in these cells. The recombinant extracellular domain of p75(NTR) (P75ECD-FC), or the antibody against the extracellular domain of p75(NTR), blocked the up-regulation of sortilin induced by Amyloid- protein (A), suggesting that A increased the expression level of sortilin and mRNA in SH-SY5Y via the p75(NTR) receptor. Inhibition of ROCK, but not Jun N-terminal kinase, suppressed constitutive and A-induced expression of sortilin. In conclusion, this study shows that sortilin expression is increased in the AD brain in human and mice and that A oligomer increases sortilin gene and protein expression through p75(NTR) and RhoA signaling pathways, suggesting a potential physiological interaction of A and sortilin in Alzheimer's disease.
The neuronal endocannabinoid system is known to depress synaptic inputs retrogradely in an activity-dependent manner. This mechanism has been generally described for excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory GABAergic synapses. Here, we report that neurones in the auditory brainstem of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) retrogradely regulate the strength of their inputs via the endocannabinoid system. By means of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we found that retrograde endocannabinoid signalling attenuates both glycinergic and glutamatergic post-synaptic currents in the same types of neurones. Accordingly, we detected the cannabinoid receptor 1 in excitatory and inhibitory pre-synapses as well as the endocannabinoid-synthesising enzymes (diacylglycerol lipase /, DAGL/) post-synaptically through immunohistochemical stainings. Our study was performed with animals aged 10-15 days, that is, in the time window around the onset of hearing. Therefore, we suggest that retrograde endocannabinoid signalling has a role in adapting inputs during the functionally important switch from spontaneously generated to sound-related signals.
Remyelination is disrupted in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis, but the underlying pathogenetic mechanisms are unclear. In this study, we employed the murine cuprizone model of demyelination, in which remyelination occurs after removal of the toxin from the diet, to examine the cellular and molecular changes during demyelination and remyelination. Microglia accumulated in the corpus callosum during weeks 2-4 of the cuprizone diet, and these cells remained activated 2 weeks after the change to the normal diet. To examine the role of microglia in remyelination, mice were treated with minocycline to inactivate these cells after cuprizone-induced demyelination. Minocycline treatment reduced the number of CC1-positive oligodendrocytes, as well as levels of myelin basic protein (MBP) and CNPase in the remyelination phase. The expression of CNTF mRNA in the corpus callosum increased after 4 weeks on the cuprizone diet and remained high 2 weeks after the change to the normal diet. Minocycline suppressed CNTF expression during the remyelination phase on the normal diet. Primary culture experiments showed that CNTF was produced by microglia in addition to astrocytes. In vitro, CNTF directly affected the differentiation of oligodendrocytic cells. These findings suggest that minocycline reduces remyelination by suppressing CNTF expression by microglia after cuprizone-induced demyelination.
Neuropeptide galanin and its three G-protein coupled receptors, galanin receptor type 1-galanin receptor type 3 (GalR1-GalR3), are involved in the regulation of numerous physiological and disease processes, and thus represent tremendous potential in neuroscience research and novel drug lead development. One of the areas where galanin is involved is depression. Previous studies have suggested that activation of GalR2 leads to attenuation of depression-like behavior. Unfortunately, lack of in vivo usable subtype specific ligands hinders testing the role of galanin in depression mechanisms. In this article, we utilize an approach of increasing in vivo usability of peptide-based ligands, acting upon CNS. Thus, we have synthesized a series of novel systemically active galanin analogs, with modest preferential binding toward GalR2. We have shown that specific chemical modifications to the galanin backbone increase brain levels upon i.v. injection of the peptides. Several of the new peptides, similar to a common clinically used antidepressant medication imipramine, exerted antidepressant-like effect in forced swim test, a mouse model of depression, at a surprisingly low dose range (&lt; 0.5 mg/kg). We chose one of the peptides, J18, for more thorough study, and showed its efficacy also in another mouse depression model (tail suspension test), and demonstrated that its antidepressant-like effect upon i.v. administration can be blocked by i.c.v. galanin receptor antagonist M35. The effect of the J18 was also abolished in GalR2KO animals. All this suggests that systemically administered peptide analog J18 exerts its biological effect through activation of GalR2 in the brain. The novel galanin analogs represent potential drug leads and a novel pharmaceutical intervention for depression.
Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis drive reproductive function and undergo age-related decreases in activation during the transition to reproductive senescence. Decreased GnRH secretion from the median eminence (ME) partially arises from attenuated glutamatergic signalling via the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) and may be a result of changing NMDAR stoichiometry to favour NR2b over NR2a subunit expression with ageing. We have previously shown that the systemic inhibition of NR2b-containing receptors with ifenprodil, an NR2b-specific antagonist, stimulates parameters of luteinising hormone (used as a proxy for GnRH) release in both young and middle-aged females. In the present study, we chronically administered ifenprodil, an NR2b-specific antagonist, at the site of GnRH terminals in the ME or at GnRH perikarya in the preoptic area, in reproductively senescent middle-aged female rats, aiming to determine whether NR2b antagonism could restore aspects of reproductive functionality. Effects on oestrous cyclicity, serum hormones, and protein expression of GnRH, NR2b and phosphorylated NR2b (Tyr-1472) in the ME were measured. Chronic ifenprodil treatment in the ME (but not the preoptic area) altered oestrous cyclicity by increasing the percentage of days spent in pro-oestrus. This was accompanied by increased GnRH fluorescence intensity in the external ME zone and a greater proportion of GnRH terminals that co-labelled with pNR2b with treatment. We also observed changes in the relationships between protein immunofluorescence, serum hormone levels and other aspects of reproductive physiology in acyclic females, as revealed by bionetwork analysis. Together, these data support the hypothesis that NMDAR-NR2b expression and phosphorylation state play a role in reproductive senescence and highlight the ME as a major player in reproductive ageing.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) plays an important role in energy homeostasis. Injections of GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists suppress food intake, and endogenous GLP-1 is released when nutrients enter the gut. There is also growing evidence that the GLP-1 system is involved in the regulation of body fluid homeostasis. GLP-1R agonists suppress water intake independent of their effects on food intake. It is unknown, however, whether this suppressive effect of GLP-1R agonists extends to saline intake. Accordingly, we tested the effect of the GLP-1R agonists liraglutide (0.05g) and exendin-4 (0.05g) on water and saline intake, as stimulated either by angiotensin II (AngII) or by water deprivation with partial rehydration (WD-PR). Each agonist suppressed AngII-induced water intake; however, only exendin-4 suppressed saline intake. WD-PR-induced water and saline intakes were both attenuated by each agonist. Analysis of drinking microstructure after WD-PR found a reliable effect of the agonists on burst number. Furthermore, exendin-4 conditioned a robust taste avoidance to saccharine; however, there was no similar effect of liraglutide. To evaluate the relevance of the conditioned taste avoidance, we tested whether inducing visceral malaise by injection of lithium chloride (LiCl) suppressed fluid intake. Injection of LiCl did not suppress water or saline intakes. Overall, these results indicate that the fluid intake suppression by GLP-1R activation is not selective to water intake, is a function of post-ingestive feedback, and is not secondary to visceral malaise.
High field strength functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has developed rapidly. However, it suffers from increased artifacts in brain regions such as the medial temporal lobe (MTL), challenging functional imaging of the hippocampus with the objective of high-spatial resolution, which is particularly useful for this region both from a clinical and cognitive neuroscience perspective. We set out to compare a BOLD sequence at 7 T versus 3 T to visualize the MTL activity during an associative memory-encoding task. Twenty-eight healthy volunteers underwent a blocked-design fMRI at either 3 T or 7 T while performing a face-profession associative memory encoding task. Qualitative analyses of overall image quality revealed that functional images at 7 T were of high quality, showing a good white/gray matter contrast, with reasonably acceptable signal dropouts and artifacts at the lower portion of the temporal lobe. Analyses of task-related fMRI data revealed robust activations in the bilateral MTL during associative memory encoding at both field strengths. Notably, we observed significantly stronger memory-related hippocampal activation at 7 T than at 3 T, suggesting higher BOLD sensitivity at 7 T. These results are discussed in the light of the feasibility of 7 T scanning protocols for the MTL.

Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is a rare metabolic disease affecting the neural tissue. While the brain abnormalities present on MRI are well known, spinal imaging features have not been studied. We herewith report an unusual finding of enlarged Virchow Robin spaces in brain and novel spinal cord changes in two biochemically diagnosed cases of MSUD. To the best of our knowledge, spinal MRI findings in cases of MSUD have not been previously reported. Knowledge of spinal MRI findings may be useful in diagnosis of this rare disorder.
In this review, progress in hereditary neuropathy research published in the Journal of Neurology over the last 18 months is summarised.

CHA2DS2-VASc score influences the outcome in stroke patients with or without atrial fibrillation (AF). We assessed whether the risk stratification based on the prestroke CHA2DS2-VASc score may predict the response to intravenous (IV) thrombolysis in stroke patients. We conducted an analysis on prospectively collected data of 516 consecutive AF and non-AF patients treated with IV thrombolysis. Outcome measures were major improvement (NIH Stroke Scale [NIHSS] 8 points from baseline or NIHSS score 0) and deterioration (death or NIHSS 1 points from baseline) or no improvement (NIHSS score equivalent to baseline) at 24 h; excellent (modified Rankin Scale [mRS] score 1) and unfavorable outcome (mRS score &gt;2) at 3 months. Multivariate analysis showed that ORs for major improvement and excellent outcome were lower in patients with intermediate risk (CHA2DS2-VASc = 1) (OR 0.39, 95 % CI 0.16-0.92, p = 0.032; OR 0.10, 95 % CI 0.02-0.56, p = 0.009), moderately high risk (CHA2DS2-VASc = 2) (OR 0.43, 95 % CI 0.19-0.96, p = 0.040; OR 0.16, 95 % CI 0.03-0.76, p = 0.022), and very high risk (CHA2DS2-VASc &gt; 3) (OR 0.31, 95 % CI 0.15-0.65, p = 0.002; OR 0.17, 95 % CI 0.04-0.81, p = 0.026), whereas ORs for deterioration or no improvement and unfavorable outcome were higher only in patients with very high risk (OR 4.26, 95 % CI 1.24-14.65, p = 0.021; OR 9.26, 95 % CI 1.15-74.65, p = 0.037), compared with low risk (CHA2DS2-VASc = 0). Low-risk level based on the prestroke CHA2DS2-VASc score was predictor of effective response to IV thrombolysis. Very high-risk level was predictor of failed response, compared with low-risk level.
Alpha2-macroglobulin is a protease inhibitor that enhances procoagulant properties via the neutralization of plasmin, plasminogen activators and metalloproteinases. Additionally, alpha2-macroglobulin is thought to be involved in inflammatory reactions as a carrier protein for interleukin-6 (IL-6). The objective of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of alpha2-macroglobulin as a biomarker for cerebrovascular diseases. Patients with acute ischemic stroke (n = 159; 93 male and 66 female, 71.6  10.3 years) and patients with no previous history of stroke (n = 77; 38 male and 39 female, 70.7  9.5 years) were consecutively enrolled in this study. White matter lesions were assessed via the fluid-attenuated inversion recovery image of magnetic resonance images using the Fazekas classification. The serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels were measured by nephelometry. The serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels at admission in patients with acute ischemic stroke were higher than those in the control patients (230.2  73.7 vs. 205.0  55.8 mg/dl, p = 0.009). The serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels were positively correlated with age and the severity of the white matter lesions (R (2) = 0.048, p &lt; 0.001 and R (2) = 0.058, p &lt; 0.001, respectively), although there was no significant association between serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels and IL-6 levels. In addition, multivariate analysis showed that increased serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels were independently associated with the severity of white matter lesions [standardized partial regression coefficient () 0.102, p = 0.026]. Increased serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels might be involved in the pathophysiology of acute ischemic stroke. Furthermore, serum alpha2-macroglobulin levels, which were associated with high-grade white matter lesions, may reflect the chronic pathophysiological condition of cerebral small vessel disease.
Persons with multiple sclerosis (MS) suffer memory impairment, but research on the nature of MS-related memory problems is mixed. Some have argued for a core deficit in retrieval, while others have identified deficient initial learning as the core deficit. We used a selective reminding paradigm to determine whether deficient initial learning or delayed retrieval represents the primary memory deficit in 44 persons with MS. Brain atrophy was measured from high-resolution MRIs. Regression analyses examined the impact of brain atrophy on (a) initial learning and delayed retrieval separately, and then (b) delayed retrieval controlling for initial learning. Brain atrophy was negatively associated with both initial learning and delayed retrieval (ps &lt; 0.01), but brain atrophy was unrelated to retrieval when controlling for initial learning (p &gt; 0.05). In addition, brain atrophy was associated with inefficient learning across initial acquisition trials, and brain atrophy was unrelated to delayed recall among MS subjects who successfully acquired the word list (although such learning frequently required many exposures). Taken together, memory deficits in MS are a result of deficits in initial learning; moreover, initial learning mediates the relationship between brain atrophy and subsequent retrieval, thereby supporting the core learning-deficit hypothesis of memory impairment in MS.
Demyelinating Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) are both demyelinating polyneuropathies. The differences in nerve enlargement degree and pattern at multiple evaluation sites/levels are not well known. We investigated the differences in nerve enlargement degree and the distribution pattern of nerve enlargement in patients with demyelinating CMT and CIDP, and verified the appropriate combination of sites/levels to differentiate between these diseases. Ten patients (aged 23-84 years, three females) with demyelinating CMT and 16 patients (aged 30-85 years, five females) with CIDP were evaluated in this study. The nerve sizes were measured at 24 predetermined sites/levels from the median and ulnar nerves and the cervical nerve roots (CNR) using ultrasonography. The evaluation sites/levels were classified into three regions: distal, intermediate and cervical. The number of sites/levels that exhibited nerve enlargement (enlargement site number, ESN) in each region was determined from the 24 sites/levels and from the selected eight screening sites/levels, respectively. The cross-sectional areas of the peripheral nerves were markedly larger at all evaluation sites in patients with demyelinating CMT than in patients with CIDP (p &lt; 0.01). However, the nerve sizes of CNR were not significantly different between patients with either disease. When we evaluated ESN of four selected sites for screening from the intermediate region, the sensitivity and specificity to distinguish between demyelinating CMT and CIDP were 0.90 and 0.94, respectively, with the cut-off value set at four. Nerve ultrasonography is useful to detect nerve enlargement and can clarify morphological differences in nerves between patients with demyelinating CMT and CIDP.
Herein, I review the main papers in neurogenetic research published in the Journal of Neurology over the last year.

Primary progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) has long been recognised as presenting great difficulties to our management of what is increasingly a treatable neurological disease. Here we review some basic and clinical aspects of primary progressive MS, and describe how the disorder in fact offers powerful insights and opportunities for better understanding multiple sclerosis, and from a practical perspective an invaluable clinical substrate for studying and treating progressive disability in MS. Difficult hurdles remain, however, and these too are reviewed.
High-grade gliomas (HGG) are the most common and most aggressive intrinsic human brain tumors in adults. Galectin-1, a glycan-binding protein that is overexpressed in HGG, has been shown to contribute significantly to the aggressive nature of HGG. It is unknown whether increased galectin-1 expression levels are exclusively found at the tumor site or whether galectin-1 can also be detected in the serum of HGG patients. Galectin-1 serum levels were analyzed in a prospective dataset of 43 healthy controls and 125 patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent HGG. Samples were taken at the moment of surgical resection and/or 2-3weeks after surgery. Galectin-1 serum levels were determined using an ELISA for galectin-1. Galectin-1 serum levels depended significantly on age and sex in the control group. Age- and sex-adjusted galectin-1 serum levels were significantly higher in all patient subgroups compared to healthy controls with a high discriminative ability that increased with age. We did not observe a significant decrease in the galectin-1 serum levels upon surgical resection of the tumor. Collectively, the data presented here may represent a first step to establish galectin-1 as a biomarker in HGG disease monitoring. Further longitudinal evaluation is required and ongoing to investigate the value of galectin-1 serum levels in HGG patients as an additional diagnostic marker, but more importantly as a predictor of treatment response and prognosis. Furthermore, galectin-1 serum levels could also provide an important tool for the identification of HGG patients that could benefit from galectin-1 directed therapies that are currently under development.
Microglial nodules are frequently observed in the normal-appearing white matter of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Previously, we have shown that these clusters, which we call &quot;preactive MS lesions,&quot; are closely associated with stressed oligodendrocytes and myelin sheaths that contain markedly elevated levels of the small stress protein alpha-B-crystallin (HspB5). Here, we show that microglia in these lesions express the recently identified receptors for HspB5, that is, CD14, Toll-like receptor family 1 and 2 (TLR1 and TLR2), and several molecular markers of the microglial response to HspB5. These markers were identified by genome-wide transcript profiling of 12 primary human microglial cultures at 2 time points after exposure to HspB5. These data indicate that HspB5 activates production by microglia of an array of chemokines, immune-regulatory mediators, and a striking number of antiviral genes that are generally inducible by type I interferons. Together, our data suggest that preactive MS lesions are at least in part driven by HspB5 derived from stressed oligodendrocytes and may reflect a local attempt to restore tissue homeostasis.
Lanthionine ketimine ([LK] 3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-thiazine-3,5-dicarboxylic acid) is the archetype for a family of naturally occurring brain sulfur amino acid metabolites, the physiologic function of which is unknown. Lanthionine ketimine and its synthetic derivatives have recently demonstrated neurotrophic, neuroprotective, and antineuroinflammatory properties in vitro through a proposed mechanism involving the microtubule-associated protein collapsin response mediator protein 2. Therefore, studies were undertaken to test the effects of a bioavailable LK ester in the 3  Tg-AD mouse model of Alzheimer disease. Lanthionine ketimine ester treatment substantially diminished cognitive decline and brain amyloid- (A) peptide deposition and phospho-Tau accumulation in 3  Tg-AD mice and also reduced the density of Iba1-positive microglia. Furthermore, LK ester treatment altered collapsin response mediator protein 2 phosphorylation. These findings suggest that LK may not be a metabolic waste but rather a purposeful neurochemical, the synthetic derivatives of which constitute a new class of experimental therapeutics for Alzheimer disease and related entities.
A large fraction of hereditary demyelinating neuropathies, classified as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A, is associated with misexpression of peripheral myelin protein 22. In this study, we characterized morphologic and biochemical changes that occur with diseaseprogression in neuromuscular tissue of Trembler-J mice, a spontaneous rodent model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A. Using age-matched, 2- and 10-month-old, wild-type and Trembler-J mice, we observed neuromuscular deficits that progress from distal to proximal regions. The impairments in motor performance are underlined by degenerative events at distal nerve segments and structural alterations at nerve-muscle synapses. Furthermore, skeletal muscle of affected mice showed reduced myofiber diameter, increased expression of the muscle atrophy marker muscle ring-finger protein 1, and fiber type switching. A dietary intervention of intermittent fasting attenuated these progressive changes and supported distal nerve myelination and neuromuscular junction integrity. In addition to the well-characterized demyelination aspects of this model, our investigations identified distinct degenerative events in distal nerves and muscle of affected neuropathic mice. Therefore, therapeutic studies aimed at slowing or reversing the neuropathic features of these disorders should include the examination of muscle tissue, as well as neuromuscular contact sites.
Astrocytes have emerged as active participants of synaptic transmission and are increasingly implicated in neurologic disorders including epilepsy. Adult glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive hippocampal astrocytes are not known for ionotropic glutamate receptor expression under basal conditions. Using a chemoconvulsive status epilepticus (SE) model of temporal lobe epilepsy, we show by immunohistochemistry and colocalization analysis that reactive hippocampal astrocytes express kainate receptor (KAR) subunits after SE. In the CA1 region, GluK1, GluK2/3, GluK4, and GluK5 subunit expression was observed in GFAP-positive astrocytes during the seizure-free or &quot;latent&quot; period 1 week after SE. At 8 weeks after SE, a time after SE when spontaneous behavioral seizures occur, the GluK1 and GluK5 subunits remained expressed at significant levels. Kainate receptor subunit expression was found in astrocytes in the hippocampus and surrounding cortex but not in GFAP-positive astrocytes of striatum, olfactory bulb, or brainstem. To examine hippocampal KAR expression more broadly, astroglial-enriched tissue fractions were prepared from dissected hippocampi and were found to have greater GluK4 expression after SE than controls. These results demonstrate that astrocytes begin to express KARs after seizure activity and suggest that their expression may contribute to the pathophysiology of epilepsy.
Rectification of surface EMG before spectral analysis is a well-established preprocessing method used in the detection of motor unit firing patterns. A number of recent studies have called into question the need for rectification before spectral analysis, pointing out that there is no supporting experimental evidence to justify rectification. We present an analysis of 190 records from 13 subjects consisting of simultaneous recordings of paired single motor units and surface EMG from the extensor digitorum longus muscle during middle finger extension against gravity (unloaded condition) and against gravity plus inertial loading (loaded condition). We directly examine the hypothesis that rectified surface EMG is a better predictor of the frequency components of motor unit synchronization than the unrectified (or raw) EMG in the beta-frequency band (15-32 Hz). We use multivariate analysis and estimate the partial coherence between the paired single units using both rectified and unrectified surface EMG as a predictor. We use a residual partial correlation measure to quantify the difference between raw and rectified EMG as predictor and analyze unloaded and loaded conditions separately. The residual correlation for the unloaded condition is 22% with raw EMG and 3.5% with rectified EMG and for the loaded condition it is 5.2% with raw EMG and 1.4% with rectified EMG. We interpret these results as strong supporting experimental evidence in favor of using the preprocessing step of surface EMG rectification before spectral analysis.
Amygdala plasticity is an important contributor to the emotional-affective dimension of pain. Recently discovered neuropeptide S (NPS) has anxiolytic properties through actions in the amygdala. Behavioral data also suggest antinociceptive effects of centrally acting NPS, but site and mechanism of action remain to be determined. This is the first electrophysiological analysis of pain-related NPS effects in the brain. We combined whole cell patch-clamp recordings in brain slices and behavioral assays to test the hypothesis that NPS activates synaptic inhibition of amygdala output to suppress pain behavior in an arthritis pain model. Recordings of neurons in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus (CeLC), which serves pain-related amygdala output functions, show that NPS inhibited the enhanced excitatory drive [monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs)] from the basolateral amygdala (BLA) in the pain state. As shown by miniature EPSC analysis, the inhibitory effect of NPS did not involve direct postsynaptic action on CeLC neurons but rather a presynaptic, action potential-dependent network mechanism. Indeed, NPS increased external capsule (EC)-driven synaptic inhibition of CeLC neurons through PKA-dependent facilitatory postsynaptic action on a cluster of inhibitory intercalated (ITC) cells. NPS had no effect on BLA neurons. High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of excitatory EC inputs to ITC cells also inhibited synaptic activation of CeLC neurons, providing further evidence that ITC activation can control amygdala output. The cellular mechanisms by which EC-driven synaptic inhibition controls CeLC output remain to be determined. Administration of NPS into ITC, but not CeLC, also inhibited vocalizations and anxiety-like behavior in arthritic rats. A selective NPS receptor antagonist ([d-Cys(tBu)(5)]NPS) blocked electrophysiological and behavioral effects of NPS. Thus NPS is a novel tool to control amygdala output and pain-related affective behaviors through a direct action on inhibitory ITC cells.
Developmental plasticity in spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) ensues from profound alterations in the functional properties of the developing hair cell (HC). For example, prehearing HCs are spontaneously active. However, at the posthearing stage, HC membrane properties transition to graded receptor potentials. The dendrotoxin (DTX)-sensitive Kv1 channel subunits (Kv1.1, 1.2, and 1.6) shape the firing properties and membrane potential of SGNs, and the expression of the channel undergoes developmental changes. Because of the stochastic nature of Kv subunit heteromultimerization, it has been difficult to determine physiologically relevant subunit-specific interactions and their functions in the underlying mechanisms of Kv1 channel plasticity in SGNs. Using Kcna2 null mutant mice, we demonstrate a surprising paradox in changes in the membrane properties of SGNs. The resting membrane potential of Kcna2(-/-) SGNs was significantly hyperpolarized compared with that of age-matched wild-type (WT) SGNs. Analyses of outward currents in the mutant SGNs suggest an apparent approximately twofold increase in outward K(+) currents. We show that in vivo and in vitro heteromultimerization of Kv1.2 and Kv1.4 -subunits underlies the striking and unexpected alterations in the properties of SGNs. The results suggest that heteromeric interactions of Kv1.2 and Kv1.4 dominate the defining features of Kv1 channels in SGNs.
Auditory brain stem circuits rely on fast, precise, and reliable neurotransmission to process auditory information. To determine the fundamental role of myelination in auditory brain stem function, we examined the evoked auditory brain stem response (ABR) from the Long Evans shaker (LES) rat, which lacks myelin due to a genetic deletion of myelin basic protein. In control rats, the ABR evoked by a click consisted of five well-defined waves (denoted waves I-V). In LES rats, waves I, IV, and V were present, but waves II and III were undetectable, indicating disrupted function in the earliest stages of central nervous system auditory processing. In addition, the developmental shortening of the interval between waves I and IV that normally occurs in control rats was arrested and resulted in a significant increase in the central conduction time in LES rats. In brain stem slices, action potential transmission between the calyx of Held terminals and the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) neurons was delayed and less reliable in LES rats, although the resting potential, threshold, input resistance, and length of the axon initial segment of the postsynaptic MNTB neurons were normal. The amplitude of glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and the degree of synaptic depression during high-frequency stimulation were not different between LES rats and controls, but LES rats exhibited a marked slow component to the EPSC decay and a much higher rate of presynaptic failures. Together, these results indicate that loss of myelin disrupts brain stem auditory processing, increasing central conduction time and reducing the reliability of neurotransmission.
Forward masking is traditionally measured with a detection task in which the addition of a preceding masking sound results in an increased signal-detection threshold. Little is known about the influence of forward masking on localization of free-field sound for human or animal subjects. Here we recorded gaze shifts of two head-unrestrained cats during localization using a search-coil technique. A broadband (BB) noise masker was presented straight ahead. A brief signal could come from 1 of the 17 speaker locations in the frontal hemifield. The signal was either a BB or a band-limited (BL) noise. For BB targets, the presence of the forward masker reduced localization accuracy at almost all target levels (20 to 80 dB SPL) along both horizontal and vertical dimensions. Temporal decay of masking was observed when a 15-ms interstimulus gap was added between the end of the masker and the beginning of the target. A large effect of forward masking was also observed for BL targets with low (0.2-2 kHz) and mid (2-7 kHz) frequencies, indicating that the interaural timing cue is susceptible to forward masking. Except at low sound levels, a small or little effect was observed for high-frequency (7-15 kHz) targets, indicating that the interaural level and the spectral cues in that frequency range remained relatively robust. Our findings suggest that different localization mechanisms can operate independently in a complex listening environment.
Olfactory bulb (OB) glomeruli, the initial sites of synaptic processing of odor information, exhibit high levels of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) expression and receive strong cholinergic input from the basal forebrain. The role of glomerular nAChRs in olfactory processing, however, remains to be elucidated. External tufted (ET) cells are a major source of excitation in the glomerulus and an important component of OB physiology. We have examined the role of nAChRs in modulating ET cell activity using whole-cell electrophysiology in mouse OB slices. We show here that the activation of glomerular nAChRs leads to direct ET cell excitation, as well as an increase in the frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic GABAergic currents. 2-containing nAChRs, likely the 42*-nAChR subtype (* represents the possible presence of other subunits), were significant contributors to these effects. The nAChR-mediated increase in spontaneous postsynaptic GABAergic current frequency on ET cells was, for the most part, dependent on glutamate receptor activation, thus implicating a role for excitation-dependent inhibition within the glomerulus. 2-containing nAChRs also regulate the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents on ET cells, implying nicotinic modulation of dendrodendritic signaling between ET and periglomerular cells. Our data also indicate that nAChR activation does not affect spontaneous or evoked transmission at the olfactory nerve-to-ET cell synapse. The results from this study suggest that ET cells, along with mitral cells, play an important role in the nicotinic modulation of glomerular inhibition.
Acting in our environment and experiencing ourselves as conscious agents are fundamental aspects of human selfhood. While large advances have been made with respect to understanding human sensorimotor control from an engineering approach, knowledge about its interaction with cognition and the conscious experience of movement (agency) is still sparse, especially for locomotion. We investigated these relationships by using life-size visual feedback of participants' ongoing locomotion, thereby extending agency research previously limited to goal-directed upper limb movements to continuous movements of the entire body. By introducing temporal delays and cognitive loading we were able to demonstrate distinct effects of bottom-up visuomotor conflicts as well as top-down cognitive loading on the conscious experience of locomotion (gait agency) and gait movements. While gait agency depended on the spatial and temporal congruency of the avatar feedback, gait movements were solely driven by its temporal characteristics as participants nonconsciously attempted to synchronize their gait with their avatar's gait. Furthermore, gait synchronization was suppressed by cognitive loading across all tested delays, whereas gait agency was only affected for selective temporal delays that depended on the participant's step cycle. Extending data from upper limb agency and auditory gait agency, our results are compatible with effector-independent and supramodal control of agency; they show that both mechanisms are dissociated from automated sensorimotor control and that cognitive loading further enhances this dissociation.
Approximately 20 per 100,000 people in the United States are currently living with myasthenia gravis (MG). MG is a chronic condition that occurs in all genders, ethnicities, and ages. The result of a defect at the neuromuscular junction, MG is characterized by fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigue. The purpose of the first edition of this American Association of Neuroscience Nurses' Clinical Practice Guideline is to summarize what is currently known about MG and to provide the reader with nursing-specific recommendations based on supporting evidence from nursing and other disciplines. Nursing Management of the Patient with Myasthenia Gravis includes information on epidemiology; types and classification of MG; pathophysiology; clinical features; clinical course; diagnostic tests; assessment; pharmacological, immunological, and surgical management; and the nurses' pivotal role in the care of the patient with MG.

Delirium is a widespread complication of hospitalization and is frequently unrecognized by nurses and other healthcare professionals. Patients with neuroscience diagnoses are at increased risk for delirium as compared with other patients. The aims of this quality improvement project were to (1) increase neuroscience nurses' knowledge of delirium, (2) integrate coaching into evidence-based practice, and (3) evaluate the effectiveness of this combined approach to improve nurses' recognition of delirium on a neuroscience unit. Institutional review board approval was obtained. A retrospective chart review of randomly selected patients admitted before the intervention was completed. The (modified) Nurse's Knowledge of Delirium Tool was electronically administered to nursing staff (n = 47), followed within 2 weeks by a didactic presentation on delirium. Bedside coaching was performed over a period of 4 weeks. The (modified) Nurses Knowledge of Delirium Tool was electronically readministered to nurses 4 weeks later to determine the change in aggregate knowledge. A postintervention chart review was conducted. SPSS software was used to analyze descriptive statistics with regard to chart reviews, documentation, and change in questionnaire scores. Findings reveal that neuroscience nurses recognize the absence of delirium 94.4% of the time and the presence of delirium 100% of the time after a didactic session and coaching. The postintervention chart review showed a statistically significant increase (p = .000) in the documentation of delirium screening results. Expert coaching at the bedside may be a reliable method for teaching nurses to use evidence-based screening tools to detect delirium in patients with neuroscience diagnoses.

Lesions of the spinal cord cause two distinctive types of neuroimmune responses, a response at the lesion site that leads to additional tissue destruction and a more subtle response, termed Wallerian degeneration (WD), that occurs distal to the lesion site. We have evidence that the neuroimmune response associated with WD may support tissue repair. Previously, we found that overexpression of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) induced axonal growth in the spinal cord after a unilateral corticospinal tract (CST) lesion, but only if the immune system was intact and activated. We reasoned that a neuroimmune response associated with WD was involved in this neuroplasticity. To test this, we compared NT-3-induced axonal sprouting in athymic nude rats that lack functional T cells with rats with functional T cells and in nude rats grafted with CD4(+) T cells or CD8(+) T cells. There was no sprouting in nude rats and in nude rats grafted with CD8(+) T cells. However, nude rats grafted with CD4(+) T cells mounted a sprouting response. To determine which CD4(+) subtype, type 1 T helper (Th1) or type 2 T helper (Th2) cells, was responsible, we grafted Th1 and Th2 cells into nude rats and tested whether they would support sprouting. Axonal sprouting was greater in rats grafted with Th2 cells, demonstrating that the Th2 subtype was responsible for supporting axonal sprouting. These data suggest that WD activates Th2 cells that, along with the direct effects of NT-3 on CST axons, act to support axonal sprouting in the lesioned spinal cord.
Robust strategies for developing patient-specific, human, induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-based therapies of the brain require an ability to derive large numbers of highly defined neural cells. Recent progress in iPSC culture techniques includes partial-to-complete elimination of feeder layers, use of defined media, and single-cell passaging. However, these techniques still require embryoid body formation or coculture for differentiation into neural stem cells (NSCs). In addition, none of the published methodologies has employed all of the advances in a single culture system. Here we describe a reliable method for long-term, single-cell passaging of PSCs using a feeder-free, defined culture system that produces confluent, adherent PSCs that can be differentiated into NSCs. To provide a basis for robust quality control, we have devised a system of cellular nomenclature that describes an accurate genotype and phenotype of the cells at specific stages in the process. We demonstrate that this protocol allows for the efficient, large-scale, cGMP-compliant production of transplantable NSCs from all lines tested. We also show that NSCs generated from iPSCs produced with the process described are capable of forming both glia defined by their expression of S100 and neurons that fire repetitive action potentials.
Although long known and the most prevalent movement disorder, pathophysiology of essential tremor (ET) remains controversial. The most accepted hypothesis is that it is caused by a dysfunction of the olivocerebellar system. Vilela Filho et al. [2001; Stereotact Funct Neurosurg 77:149-150], however, reported a patient with unilateral hand ET that was completely relieved after a stroke restricted to the contralateral posterior putamen and suggested that ET could be the clinical manifestation of posterior putamen hyperactivity. The present study was designed to evaluate this hypothesis in the most often used model of ET, harmaline-induced tremor in rats. Fifty-four male Wistar rats were randomly distributed into three groups: experimental (EG), surgical control (SCG), and pharmacological control (PCG) groups. EG animals underwent stereotactic unilateral posterior striatotomy. SCG rats underwent sham lesion at the same target. PCG served exclusively as controls for harmaline effects. All animals received, postoperatively, intraperitoneal harmaline, and the induced tremor was video-recorded for later evaluation by a blind observer. Thirteen animals were excluded from the study. Limb tremor was reduced ipsilaterally to the operation in 20 of 21 rats of EG and in two of nine of SCG, being asymmetric in one of 10 of PCG rats. Comparisons between EG  SCG and EG  PCG were statistically significant, but not between SCG  PCG. Limb tremor reduction was greater in anterior than in posterior paws. Lateral lesions yielded better results than medial lesions. These results suggest that the posterior striatum is involved with harmaline-induced tremor in rats and support the hypothesis presented.

Kmmell's disease is a rare form of vertebral body osteonecrosis, which develops as a delayed post-traumatic event. It is infrequently reported in literature and to the best of our knowledge, has not been reported from India. We describe the clinical, radiological, and pathological features of a case occurring in a 60-year-old man and relevant brief review of the literature of this rare disease. Its close resemblance to more commonly occurring bony tuberculosis poses a diagnostic dilemma particularly in developing country like India, where tuberculosis is endemic. Awareness of this entity, though rare, is essential to avoid unnecessary diagnostic work up and treatment.


The authors describe a rare case of combined pituitary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and prolactinoma in a 77-year-old man presenting with apoplexy. This case highlights the importance of evaluating the pituitary gland in patients with CLL who present with clinical manifestations of apoplexy as well as the need to carefully evaluate pathological specimens from the gland for the presence of lymphocytic cells in those patients. This is the first reported case of a combined CLL-prolactinoma pituitary lesion presenting with apoplexy.
The authors describe a rare case of giant ecchordosis physaliphora (EP) in a 16-year-old female patient who presented with diplopia. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain with Gd contrast revealed a 3.0  1.7  1.8-cm nonenhancing, extraaxial epidural mass along the dorsal aspect of the clivus that was T2 hyperintense and T1 isointense with intermediate signal on diffusion sequences. Resection via a transnasal transsphenoidal approach to the ventral clival wall resulted in a stable tumor size with no evidence of interval growth after 30 months. Although this case features a strictly extradural EP, this tumor more commonly occurs in the subdural space and requires differentiation from intradural chordoma. Unlike EP, intradural chordoma may enhance with Gd contrast, is more likely to be associated with cranial nerve palsies and brainstem symptoms, and will occasionally have an elevated MIB-1 index. In this paper the authors highlight the different possible midline locations for both EP and chordoma, the difficulty in distinguishing between intradural giant EP and intradural chordoma, and the potential occurrence of these lesions in young people despite their typically slow rate of growth, while also underscoring the need for further investigation into the tumors' cytogenetic behavior.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in children less than 8 years of age leads to decline in intelligence and executive functioning. Neurological outcomes after TBI correlate to development of cerebral edema, which affect survival rates after TBI. It has been shown that myosin light-chain kinase (MLCK) increases cerebral edema and that pretreatment with an MLCK inhibitor (ML-7) reduces cerebral edema. The aim of this study was to determine whether inhibition of MLCK after TBI in postnatal day 24 (PND-24) mice would prevent breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and development of cerebral edema and improve neurological outcome. We used a closed head injury model of TBI. ML-7 or saline treatment was administered at 4h and every 24h until sacrifice or 5 days after TBI. Mice were sacrificed at 24h, 48h, and 72h and 7 days after impact. Mice treated with ML-7 after TBI had decreased levels of MLCK-expressing cells (20.74.8 vs. 149.340.6), less albumin extravasation (28.311.2 vs. 116.260.7mm(2)) into surrounding parenchymal tissue, less Evans Blue extravasation (339314 vs. 4017560ng/g), and showed a significant difference in wet/dry weight ratio (1.90.07 vs. 2.20.05g), compared to saline-treated groups. Treatment with ML-7 also resulted in preserved neurological function measured by the wire hang test (57 vs. 21sec) and two-object novel recognition test (old vs. new, 10.5 touches). We concluded that inhibition of MLCK reduces cerebral edema and preserves neurological function in PND-24 mice.
Use of improvised explosive devices has significantly increased the incidence of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and associated neuropsychiatric deficits in the recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Acute deleterious effects of single and repeated blast exposure can lead to long-term neurobiological effects and neuropsychiatric deficits. Using in vitro and in vivo shock tube models of blast-induced TBI, we studied changes in mitochondrial energy metabolism after blast exposure. Single and repeated blast exposures in vitro resulted in significant decreases in neuronal adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels at 6h post-blast that returned towards normal levels by 24h. Similar changes in ATP also were observed in the cerebral cortices of mice subjected to single and repeated blast exposures. In neurons, mitochondrial glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT2) plays a critical role in metabolism and energy production. Proteomic analysis of brain cortices showed a significant decrease in GOT2 levels 6h after repeated blast exposures, which was further confirmed by Western blotting. Western blot analysis of GOT2 and pyruvate dehydrogenase in the cortex showed direct correlation only between GOT2 and ATP levels. Activity of GOT2 in the isolated cortical mitochondria also showed significant decrease at 6h supporting the results of proteomic and Western blot analyses. Knowing the significant role of GOT2 in the neuronal mitochondrial energy metabolism, it is quite likely that the down regulation of GOT2 after blast exposure is playing a significant role in mitochondrial dysfunction after blast exposure.





The ability to outline the world and our place in it characterises our humanity. Stroke or brain injury can alter this world-making capability temporarily or permanently. The stroke patient's world, once intelligible and practicable, is transformed into a confusing, unapproachable and hostile environment. The skills of intellect, sensation, awareness and movement, which are honed over the course of a lifetime and which so characterise our humanity are the very abilities most compromised by stroke. Stroke can rob people of the most basic way of interacting with the world. We will outline what is neglect and its mechanism in brain plasticity.
The neurotrophin system has a role in skeletal muscle biology. Conditional depletion of BDNF in mouse muscle precursor cells alters myogenesis and regeneration in vivo. However, the expression, localization and function of BDNF in human skeletal muscle tissue is not known, so the relevance of the rodent findings for human muscle are unknown. Here we address this by combining ex vivo histological investigations on human biopsies with in vitro analyses of human primary myocytes. We found that BDNF was expressed by precursor and differentiated cells both in vitro and in vivo. Differential analysis of BDNF receptors showed expression of p75NTR and not of TrkB in myocytes, suggesting that the BDNF-p75NTR axis is predominant in human skeletal muscle cells. Several in vitro functional experiments demonstrated that BDNF gene silencing or protein blockade in myoblast cultures hampered myogenesis. Finally, histological investigations of inflammatory myopathy biopsies revealed that infiltrating immune cells localized preferentially near p75NTR-positive regenerating fibres and that they produced BDNF. In conclusion, BDNF is an autocrine factor for skeletal muscle cells and may regulate human myogenesis. Furthermore, the preferential localization of BDNF-producing immune cells near p75NTR-positive regenerating myofibres suggests that immune cell-derived BDNF may sustain tissue repair in inflamed muscle.
Psychopathy research is plagued by an enigma: Psychopaths reliably act immorally, but they also accurately report whether an action is morally wrong. The current study revealed that cooperative suppressor effects and conflicting subsets of personality traits within the construct of psychopathy might help explain this conundrum. Among a sample of adult male offenders (N = 100) who ranked deserved punishment of crimes, Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R) total scores were not linearly correlated with deserved punishment task performance. However, these null results masked significant opposing associations between task performance and factors of psychopathy: the PCL-R Interpersonal/Affective (i.e., manipulative and callous) factor was positively associated with task performance, while the PCL-R Social Deviance (i.e., impulsive and antisocial) factor was simultaneously negatively associated with task performance. These relationships were qualified by a significant interaction where the Interpersonal/Affective traits were positively associated with task performance when Social Deviance traits were high, but Social Deviance traits were negatively associated with task performance when Interpersonal/Affective traits were low. This interaction helped reveal a significant nonlinear relationship between PCL-R total scores and task performance such that individuals with very low or very high PCL-R total scores performed better than those with middle-range PCL-R total scores. These results may explain the enigma of why individuals with very high psychopathic traits, but not other groups of antisocial individuals, usually have normal moral judgment in laboratory settings, but still behave immorally, especially in contexts where social deviance traits have strong influence.


Many drugs used to treat anxiety are positive modulators of GABAA receptors, which mediate fast inhibitory neurotransmission. The GABAA receptors can be assembled from a combination of at least 16 different subunits. The receptor's subunit composition determines its pharmacologic and functional properties, and subunit expression varies throughout the brain. A primary goal for new treatments targeting GABAA receptors is the production of subunit-selective modulators acting upon a discrete population of receptors. The anxiolytic 4-amino-7-hydroxy-2-methyl-5,6,7,8,-tetrahydrobenzo[b]thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-3-carboxylic acid, but-2-ynyl ester (SB-205384) is widely considered to be selective for 3-containing GABAA receptors. However, it has been tested only on 1-, 2-, and 3-containing receptors. We examined the activity of SB-205384 at recombinant receptors containing the six different  subunits and found that receptors containing the 3, 5, and 6 subunits were potentiated by SB-205384, with the 6 subunit conferring the greatest responsiveness. Properties associated with chimeric 1/6 subunits suggested that multiple structural domains influence sensitivity to SB-205384. Point mutations of residues within the extracellular N-terminal domain identified a leucine residue located in loop E of the agonist binding site as an important determinant of high sensitivity to modulation. In the 6 subunit the identity of this residue is species-dependent, with the leucine found in rat subunits but not in human. Our results indicate that SB-205384 is not an 3-selective modulator, and instead acts at several GABAA receptor isoforms. These findings have implications for the side-effect profile of this anxiolytic as well as for its use in neuronal and animal studies as a marker for contribution from 3-containing receptors.
-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) positive allosteric modulation (i.e., &quot;potentiation&quot;) has been proposed to overcome cognitive impairments in schizophrenia, but AMPAR overstimulation can be excitotoxic. Thus, it is critical to define carefully a potentiator's mechanism-based therapeutic index (TI) and to determine confidently its translatability from rodents to higher-order species. Accordingly, the novel AMPAR potentiator N-{(3R,4S)-3-[4-(5-cyano-2-thienyl)phenyl]tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl}propane-2-sulfonamide (PF-4778574) was characterized in a series of in vitro assays and single-dose animal studies evaluating AMPAR-mediated activities related to cognition and safety to afford an unbound brain compound concentration (Cb,u)-normalized interspecies exposure-response relationship. Because it is unknown which AMPAR subtype(s) may be selectively potentiated for an optimal TI, PF-4778574 binding affinity and functional potency were determined in rodent tissues expected to express a native mixture of AMPAR subunits and their associated proteins to afford composite pharmacological values. Functional activity was also quantified in recombinant cell lines stably expressing human GluA2 flip or flop homotetramers. Procognitive effects of PF-4778574 were evaluated in both rat electrophysiological and nonhuman primate (nhp) behavioral models of pharmacologically induced N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor hypofunction. Safety studies assessed cerebellum-based AMPAR activation (mouse) and motor coordination disruptions (mouse, dog, and nhp), as well as convulsion (mouse, rat, and dog). The resulting empirically derived exposure-response continuum for PF-4778574 defines a single-dose-based TI of 8- to 16-fold for self-limiting tremor, a readily monitorable clinical adverse event. Importantly, the Cb,u mediating each physiological effect were highly consistent across species, with efficacy and convulsion occurring at just fractions of the in vitro-derived pharmacological values.
The most highly abused prescription drugs are opioids used for the treatment of pain. Physician-reported drug-seeking behavior has resulted in a significant health concern among doctors trying to adequately treat pain while limiting the misuse or diversion of pain medications. In addition to abuse liability, opioid use is associated with unwanted side effects that complicate pain management, including opioid-induced emesis and constipation. This has resulted in restricting long-term doses of opioids and inadequate treatment of both acute and chronic debilitating pain, demonstrating a compelling need for novel analgesics. Recent reports indicate that adaptations in endogenous substance P/neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1) are induced by chronic pain and sustained opioid exposure, and these changes may contribute to processes responsible for opioid abuse liability, emesis, and analgesic tolerance. Here, we describe a multifunctional mu-/delta-opioid agonist/NK1 antagonist compound [Tyr-d-Ala-Gly-Phe-Met-Pro-Leu-Trp-NH-Bn(CF3)2 (TY027)] that has a preclinical profile of excellent antinociceptive efficacy, low abuse liability, and no opioid-related emesis or constipation. In rodent models of acute and neuropathic pain, TY027 demonstrates analgesic efficacy following central or systemic administration with a plasma half-life of more than 4 hours and central nervous system penetration. These data demonstrate that an innovative opioid designed to contest the pathology created by chronic pain and sustained opioids results in antinociceptive efficacy in rodent models, with significantly fewer side effects than morphine. Such rationally designed, multitargeted compounds are a promising therapeutic approach in treating patients who suffer from acute and chronic pain.
Glutamatergic transmission onto oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) may regulate OPC proliferation, migration and differentiation. Dendritic integration of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) is critical for neuronal functions, and mechanisms regulating dendritic propagation and summation of EPSPs are well understood. However, little is known about EPSP attenuation and integration in OPCs. We developed realistic OPC models for synaptic integration, based on passive membrane responses of OPCs obtained by simultaneous dual whole-cell patch-pipette recordings. Compared with neurons, OPCs have a very low value of membrane resistivity, which is largely mediated by Ba(2+)- and bupivacaine-sensitive background K(+) conductances. The very low membrane resistivity not only leads to rapid EPSP attenuation along OPC processes but also sharpens EPSPs and narrows the temporal window for EPSP summation. Thus, background K(+) conductances regulate synaptic responses and integration in OPCs, thereby affecting activity-dependent neuronal control of OPC development and function.
The calyx of Held synapse of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body is a giant axosomatic synapse in the auditory brainstem, which acts as a relay synapse showing little dependence of its synaptic strength on firing frequency. The main mechanism that is responsible for its resistance to synaptic depression is its large number of release sites with low release probability. Here, we investigated the contribution of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors and spontaneous activity to release probability both in vivo and in vitro in young-adult mice. Maximal activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors by baclofen reduced synaptic output by about 45% in whole-cell voltage clamp slice recordings, which was accompanied by a reduction in short-term depression. A similar reduction in transmission was observed when baclofen was applied in vivo by microiontophoresis during juxtacellular recordings using piggyback electrodes. No significant change in synaptic transmission was observed during application of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP54626 both during in vivo and slice recordings, suggesting a low ambient GABA concentration. Interestingly, we observed that synapses with a high spontaneous frequency showed almost no synaptic depression during auditory stimulation, whereas synapses with a low spontaneous frequency did depress during noise bursts. Our data thus suggest that spontaneous firing can tonically reduce release probability in vivo. In addition, our data show that the ambient GABA concentration in the auditory brainstem is too low to activate the GABA(B) receptor at the calyx of Held significantly, but that activation of GABA(B) receptors can reduce sound-evoked synaptic depression.
Synaptic projections from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) make up the backbone of the brain reward pathway, a neural circuit that mediates behavioural responses elicited by natural rewards as well as by cocaine and other drugs of abuse. In addition to the well-known modulatory dopaminergic projection, the VTA also provides fast excitatory and inhibitory synaptic input to the NAc, directly regulating NAc medium spiny neurons (MSNs). However, the cellular nature of VTA-to-NAc fast synaptic transmission and its roles in drug-induced adaptations are not well understood. Using viral-mediated in vivo expression of channelrhodopsin 2, the present study dissected fast excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission from the VTA to NAc MSNs in rats. Our results suggest that, following repeated exposure to cocaine (15 mg kg(-1) day(-1)  5 days, i.p., 1 or 21 day withdrawal), a presynaptic enhancement of excitatory transmission and suppression of inhibitory transmission occurred at different withdrawal time points at VTA-to-NAc core synapses. In contrast, no postsynaptic alterations were detected at either type of synapse. These results suggest that changes in VTA-to-NAc fast excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmissions may contribute to cocaine-induced alteration of the brain reward circuitry.
Cholinergic neuromodulation in neocortical networks is required for gamma oscillatory activity associated with working memory and other cognitive processes. Importantly, the cholinergic agonist carbachol (CCh) induces gamma oscillations in vitro, via mechanisms that may be shared with in vivo gamma oscillations and that are consistent with the pyramidal interneuron network gamma (PING) model. In PING oscillations, pyramidal cells (PCs), driven by asynchronous excitatory input, recruit parvalbumin-positive fast-spiking interneurons (FSNs), which then synchronize the PCs via feedback inhibition. Whereas the PING model is favoured by current data, how cholinergic neuromodulation contributes to gamma oscillation production is poorly understood. We thus studied the effects of cholinergic modulation on circuit components of the PING model in mouse medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) brain slices. CCh depolarized and evoked action potential firing in a fraction of PCs and increased excitatory synaptic input onto FSNs. In synaptically connected pairs, CCh reduced the short-term depression at FSN-PC and PC-FSN synapses, equalizing synaptic strength during repetitive presynaptic firing while simultaneously increasing the failure probability. Interestingly, when PCs or FSNs fired in response to gamma frequency oscillatory inputs, CCh increased the firing probability per cycle. Combined with the equalization of synaptic strength, an increase by CCh in the fraction of neurons recruited per oscillation cycle may support oscillatory synchrony of similar strength during relatively long oscillation episodes such as those observed during working memory tasks, suggesting a significant functional impact of cholinergic modulation of mPFC circuit components crucial for the PING model.
The ionotropic glutamate receptors are primary mediators of fast excitatory neurotransmission, and their properties are determined both by their subunit composition and their association with auxiliary subunits. The neuropilin and tolloid-like 1 and 2 proteins (Neto1 and Neto2) have been recently identified as auxiliary subunits for kainate-type glutamate receptors. Heteromeric kainate receptors (KARs) can be assembled from varying combinations of low-affinity (GluK1-GluK3) and high-affinity (GluK4-GluK5) subunits. To better understand the functional impact of auxiliary subunits on KARs, we examined the effect of Neto1 on the responses of recombinant homomeric and heteromeric KARs to varying concentrations of glutamate. We found that co-expression of Neto1 with homomeric GluK2 receptors had a small effect on sensitivity of the receptors to glutamate, but decreased the onset of desensitization while speeding recovery from desensitization. In the absence of Neto1, addition of GluK5 subunits to form GluK2/GluK5 heteromeric receptors slowed the onset of desensitization at low glutamate concentrations, compared with GluK2 homomers. Co-expression of Neto1 with GluK2/GluK5 receptors further enhanced these effects, essentially eliminating desensitization at m glutamate concentrations without altering the EC50 for activation by glutamate. In addition, a prominent rebound current was observed upon removal of the agonist. The rate of recovery from desensitization was increased to the same degree by Neto1 for both homomeric GluK2 and heteromeric GluK2/GluK5 receptors. Expression of Neto1 with GluK1/GluK5, GluK3/GluK5 or GluK2/GluK4 receptors produced qualitatively similar effects on whole-cell currents, suggesting that the impact of Neto1 on the desensitization properties of heteromeric receptors was not subunit dependent. These results provide greater insight into the functional effects of the auxiliary subunit Neto1 on both homomeric and heteromeric KARs. Alteration of the characteristics of desensitization at both sub-maximal and saturating glutamate concentrations could influence the responsiveness of these receptors to repeated stimuli. As a result, assembly of KARs with the Neto auxiliary subunits could change the kinetic properties of the neuronal response to glutamatergic input.
Here we present the case of a 32-year-old female patient with myotonia congenita. She carried two mutations in the CLCN1 gene that encodes the chloride channel ClC-1: p.Phe167Leu, which was previously identified in several families, and p.Val536Leu, which has been previously reported but not yet characterized by electrophysiological investigations. The patient's symptoms included generalized stiffness, myotonia, and muscle cramps mostly localized in the lower limbs. These symptoms started during childhood and worsened over the following years. The symptoms were exacerbated by low outside temperature, rest, stress, and fasting and were improved by mild exercise, suggesting a warm-up phenomenon. The mutation p.Phe167Leu has previously been associated with a slight shift in the overall open probability. Here we further analysed this mutation to extrapolate the voltage-dependence of the fast and slow gates. In our experimental conditions, p.Phe167Leu exclusively affected the slow gate, increasing the minimum open probability and displacing the voltage-dependence toward depolarized potentials. p.Val536Leu showed more severe effects, dramatically influencing the slow gate as well as modifying properties of the fast gate. Co-expression of the mutants in a human cell line to reproduce the compound heterozygous condition of the patient produced channels with altered voltage-dependence of the slow gate but a restored fast gate. The alteration of the slow mechanism was reflected by the relative open probability, reducing the contribution of ClC-1 channels in maintaining the resting membrane potential of skeletal muscles and thus explaining the myotonic phenotype of the patient.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a psychostimulant drug that can cause toxicity and degeneration in the brain. The toxicity due to METH involves multiple pathways, including the mitochondrial-dependent death pathway. Several pieces of evidence have emphasized that the fragmentation of mitochondria into smaller structures plays some role in the cell-death process. In this study, we investigated the role of mitochondrial dynamics in METH-induced toxicity in human dopaminergic neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cultured cell lines. In addition, the protective effect of melatonin against METH-induced toxicity was investigated. Our results show that METH significantly decreased cell viability and increased the levels of the mitochondrial fission protein, Fis1 and the Drp1 oligomer. However, the levels of the mitochondrial fusion proteins OPA1 and Mfn1 did not change in METH-treated cells. Melatonin can reverse the toxic effects of the METH-induced reduction in cell viability and the production of the Fis1 protein and the Drp1 oligomer. Moreover, the morphological alteration of mitochondria was investigated in METH-treated cells in the presence of melatonin using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). At 24hr after METH exposure, typical cell shrinkage was observed in SH-SY5Y cells. Mitochondria were fragmented into small globular structures in a large proportion of METH-treated cells, but tubular networks of mitochondria were present in large proportions of control-untreated cells and METH-treated cells in the presence of melatonin. The results of the present study demonstrate the potential of melatonin to reduce cell death and restore mitochondrial function in neurons affected by METH-induced toxicity.

The presence and magnitude of information processing deviations associated with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) are far from being well-characterized. In this study we assessed the auditory and visually evoked cerebral responses in a group of Iraqi refugees who were exposed to torture and developed PTSD (N = 20), Iraqi refugees who had been exposed to similar trauma but did not develop PTSD (N = 20), and non-traumatized controls matched for age, gender, and ethnicity (N = 20). We utilized two paired-stimulus paradigms in auditory and visual sensory modalities, respectively. We found significantly smaller amplitudes of both the auditory P50 and the visual N75 responses in PTSD patients compared to controls, reflecting decreased response to simple sensory input during a relatively early phase of information processing (interval 50-75 ms post stimulus). In addition, deficient suppression of the P50/N75 response to repeating stimuli at this early stage in both modalities is indicative of difficulty in filtering out irrelevant sensory input. Among associations between electrophysiological and clinical measures, a significant positive correlation was found between dissociation score and P50 S1 amplitudes (p = 0.024), as well as stronger auditory P50 gating correlated with higher quality-of-life index scores (p = 0.013). In addition, smaller amplitudes of N150 visual evoked response to S1 showed a significant association with higher avoidance scores (p = 0.015). The results of this study highlight the importance of early automatic auditory and visual evoked responses in probing the information processing and neural mechanisms underlying symptomatology in PTSD.

The present study examined the developmental issue of cognitive factors that explain Chinese literacy. Phonological awareness, rapid automatized naming, short-term memory, orthographic awareness and morphological awareness and two literacy tasks (character naming and reading fluency) were administered to 408 second-graders, 428 fourth-graders and 496 six-graders. Results from linear regression analysis and path analysis model showed that the five reading-related cognitive constructs explained unique variances in character naming. Second, character naming is primary for reading fluency after controlling other cognitive constructs; third, the relation between the cognitive factors and literacy changes significantly as a function of reading skills. Results give a clear direction to understanding Chinese reading development.
Practitioners may refer to experienced hand surgeons to differentiate a recurrence in carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) from a failed carpal tunnel release. The patient may complain about the reappearance of symptoms, whatever is the cause. Nerve conduction studies (NCS) are often required by the practitioner to assist the final diagnosis. We observed abnormal values in NCS in patients who were clinically healed from CTS. We evaluated the changes preoperatively and, then, at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 month postoperatively. At the same time, we performed a retrospective study on a group of 37 clinically healed patients. Follow-up ranged from 2 to 20 years. Surgical treatment let the electrophysiological parameters to improve toward physiological values; however, normality is hardly ever reached. This sort of ''electrophysiological scar'' is true for all the parameters measured. In presence of CTS, the latency difference between the radial and median sensory nerve action potentials, recorded following thumb stimulation, produces a double peak shift. The ''double peak shift'' best described this ''electrophysiological scar,'' being a parameter that should measure about zero in the normal population. In conclusion, abnormal postoperative electrophysiological findings cannot substantiate the diagnosis of a poor outcome of a carpal tunnel release nor a recurrence of CTS.

In modern society, people often fail to obtain the amount of sleep that experts recommend for good health and performance. Insufficient sleep can lead to degraded cognitive performance and alterations in emotional functioning. However, most people also acknowledge that on a regular basis they obtain more sleep than they subjectively perceive they need at a minimum to stave off performance decrements, a construct we describe as subjective 'sleep credit'. Few people would contest the notion that getting more sleep is better, but data on both behavioural and neuroanatomical correlates of 'sleep credit' are surprisingly limited. We conducted a voxel-based morphometric study to assess cerebral grey matter correlates of habitually sleeping more than one's subjective requirements. We further tested whether these structural correlates are associated with perceived emotional intelligence and indices of psychopathology while controlling for age, gender, and total intracranial volume. In a sample of 55 healthy adults aged 18-45years (28 males, 27 females), whole-brain multiple regression showed that habitual subjective 'sleep credit' was correlated positively with grey matter volume within regions of the left medial prefrontal cortex and right orbitofrontal gyrus. Volumes were extracted and regressed against self-report emotion and psychopathology indices. Only grey matter volume of the medial prefrontal cortex cluster correlated with greater emotional intelligence and lower scores on several indices of psychopathology. Findings converge with previous evidence of the role of the medial prefrontal cortex in the relationship between sleep and emotional functioning, and suggest that behaviour and brain structure vary with habitual 'sleep credit'.
In a retrospective cohort study undertaken in 12 European countries, 249 female narcoleptic patients with cataplexy (n=216) and without cataplexy (n=33) completed a self-administrated questionnaire regarding pregnancy and childbirth. The cohort was divided further into patients whose symptoms of narcolepsy started before or during pregnancy (308 pregnancies) and those in whom the first symptoms of narcolepsy appeared after delivery (106 pregnancies). Patients with narcolepsy during pregnancy were older during their first pregnancy (P&lt;0.001) and had a higher body mass index (BMI) prior to pregnancy (P&lt;0.01). Weight gain during pregnancy was higher in narcoleptic patients with cataplexy (P&lt;0.01). More patients with narcolepsy-cataplexy during pregnancy had impaired glucose metabolism and anaemia. Three patients experienced cataplexy during delivery. The rate of caesarean sections was higher in the narcolepsy-cataplexy group compared to the narcolepsy group (P&lt;0.05). The mean birth weight and gestational age of neonates were within the normal range and did not differ across groups. Neonatal care was affected adversely by symptoms of narcolepsy in 60.1% of those with narcolepsy during pregnancy. This study reports more obstetric complications in patients with narcolepsy-cataplexy during pregnancy; however, these were not severe. This group also had a higher BMI and higher incidence of impaired glucose metabolism during pregnancy. Caesarian section was conducted more frequently in narcolepsy-cataplexy patients, despite cataplexy being a rare event during delivery. Furthermore, symptoms of narcolepsy may render care of the infant more difficult.








Signs and symptoms of a subacute, progressive, imaging-negative encephalopathy can be misdiagnosed as a neuropsychiatric or progressive neurodegenerative disorder. However, encephalopathies often can be reversed if the autoimmune component is recognized early through a careful history and diagnostic testing, including cerebrospinal fluid analysis for antibodies.


Schizophrenia is currently classified as a psychotic disorder. This article posits that this emphasis on psychosis is a conceptual fallacy that has greatly contributed to the lack of progress in our understanding of this illness and hence has hampered the development of adequate treatments. Not only have cognitive and intellectual underperformance consistently been shown to be risk factors for schizophrenia, several studies have found that a decline in cognitive functioning precedes the onset of psychosis by almost a decade. Although the question of whether cognitive function continues to decline after psychosis onset is still debated, it is clear that cognitive function in schizophrenia is related to outcome and little influenced by antipsychotic treatment. Thus, our focus on defining (and preventing) the disorder on the basis of psychotic symptoms may be too narrow. Not only should cognition be recognized as the core component of the disorder, our diagnostic efforts should emphasize the changes in cognitive function that occur earlier in development. Putting the focus back on cognition may facilitate finding treatments for the illness before psychosis ever emerges.

Why is peripheral neuropathy common but mild in many mitochondrial disorders, and why is it, in some cases, the predominant or only manifestation? Although this question remains largely unanswered, recent advances in cellular and molecular biology have begun to clarify the importance of mitochondrial functioning and distribution in the peripheral nerve. Mutations in proteins involved in mitochondrial dynamics (ie, fusion and fission) frequently result in a Charcot-Marie-Tooth phenotype. Peripheral neuropathies with different phenotypic presentations occur in mitochondrial diseases associated with abnormalities in mitochondrial DNA replication and maintenance, or associated with defects in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex V. Our knowledge of mitochondrial disorders is rapidly growing as new nuclear genes are identified and new phenotypes described. Early diagnosis of mitochondrial disorders, essential to provide appropriate genetic counselling, has become crucial in a few treatable conditions. Recognising and diagnosing an underlying mitochondrial defect in patients presenting with peripheral neuropathy is therefore of paramount importance.
A fifth of all strokes and transient ischaemic attacks occur in the posterior circulation arterial territory. Diagnosis can be challenging, in part because of substantial overlap in symptoms and signs with ischaemia in the anterior circulation. Improved methods of non-invasive imaging of the vertebrobasilar arterial tree have been used in recent prospective follow-up studies, which have shown a high risk of early recurrent stroke, particularly when there is associated vertebrobasilar stenosis. This finding emphasises the importance of urgent secondary prevention, and the role of stenting for vertebral stenosis is being investigated.





Hydrogen sulfide-releasing aspirin (HS-ASA) is a novel compound with potential against cancer. It inhibited the growth of Jurkat T-leukemia cells with an IC of 1.9  0.2 M whereas that of ASA was &gt;5000 M. It dose-dependently inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in these cells, causing a G/G cell cycle arrest. HS-ASA down-regulated -catenin protein levels and reduced mRNA and protein expression of -catenin/TCF downstream target genes cyclinD1 and c-myc. Aspirin up to 5 mM had no effect on -catenin expression. HS-ASA also increased caspase-3 protein levels and dose-dependently increased its activity. These effects were substantially blocked by z-VAD-fmk, a pan-caspase inhibitor.
A study of olfactory function was performed in 15 bronchial cancer patients receiving cisplatin and 15 control subjects. Whereas odor detection and odor identification abilities were not influenced by the administration of cisplatin, a decrease in pleasantness was observed only for food odors, and not for non-food odors. Taken as a whole, these findings suggest that cisplatin therapy in bronchial cancer patients impairs the pleasure of perceived food odors, which may account for disturbances in food intake and quality of life in this population.


Treating HIV-infected individuals reduces their viral load, consequently increasing their survival time and decreasing their infectivity. It has been proposed that universal testing and treatment (i.e., universal &quot;test &amp; treat'') could lead to HIV elimination and would be extremely cost-effective. It is now being debated whether to use a universal &quot;test &amp; treat'' approach in the &quot;real-world'' as a prevention strategy to control HIV epidemics. However current modeling predictions of the impact, and cost-effectiveness, of universal `&quot;est &amp; treat'' strategies are based on an unrealistically short survival time for treated individuals. Here we use mathematical modeling and a longer, more realistic, survival time. We model the potential impact of a universal &quot;test &amp; treat'' strategy in South Africa. Our results show that increasing the length of the survival time on treatment, although beneficial to individuals, reduces the probability of eliminating HIV and decreases the cost-effectiveness of using universal &quot;test &amp; treat'' strategies. Therefore our results show that individual-level benefits and public health benefits will conflict when using &quot;test &amp;treat'' strategies to reduce HIV transmission.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a disease of major public health significance, whose pathogenesis is strongly linked to the presence of fibrillar aggregates of amyloid-beta (A) in the aging human brain. We exploited the transgenic (Tg)-ArcSwe mouse model for human AD to explore whether oxidative stress and the capacity to repair oxidative DNA damage via base excision repair (BER) are related to A pathology in AD. Tg-ArcSwe mice express variants of A, accumulating senile plaques at 4-6 months of age, and develop AD-like neuropathology as adult animals. The relative mRNA levels of genes encoding BER enzymes, including 8-oxoguanine glycosylase (OGG1), AP endonuclease 1 (APE1), polymerase  (Pol) and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), were quantified in various brain regions of 6 weeks, 4 months and 12 months old mice. The results show that OGG1 transcriptional expression was higher, and APE1 expression lower, in 4 months old Tg-ArcSwe than in wildtype (wt) mice. Furthermore, Pol transcriptional expression was significantly lower in transgenic 12 months old mice than in wt. Transcriptional profiling also showed that BER repair capacity vary during the lifespan in Tg-ArcSwe and wt mice. The BER expression pattern in Tg-ArcSwe mice thus reflects responses to oxidative stress in vulnerable brain structures.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a neurodegenerative syndrome caused by the mutation of the ATM gene. The ATM protein is a PI3kinase family member best known for its role in the DNA damage response. While repair of DNA damage is a critical function that every CNS neuron must perform, a growing body of evidence indicates that the full range of ATM functions includes some that are unrelated to DNA damage yet are essential to neuronal survival and normal function. For example, ATM participates in the regulation of synaptic vesicle trafficking and is essential for the maintenance of normal LTP. In addition ATM helps to ensure the cytoplasmic localization of HDAC4 and thus maintains the histone 'code' of the neuronal genome by suppressing genome-wide histone deacetylation, which alters the message and protein levels of many genes that are important for neuronal survival and function. The growing list of ATM functions that go beyond its role in the DNA damage response offers a new perspective on why individuals with A-T express such a wide range of neurological symptoms, and suggests that not all A-T symptoms need to be understood in the context of the DNA repair process.

Epiphyseal cartilage is hyaline cartilage tissue with a gelatinous texture, and it is responsible for the longitudinal growth of the long bones in birds and mammals. It is located between the epiphysis and the diaphysis. Epiphyseal cartilage also is called a growth plate or physis. It is protected by three bone components: the epiphysis, the bone bar of the perichondrial ring and the metaphysis. The epiphysis, which lies over the epiphyseal cartilage in the form a cupola, contains a juxtaposed bone plate that is near the epiphyseal cartilage and is in direct contact with the epiphyseal side of the epiphyseal cartilage. The germinal zone corresponds to a group of cells called chondrocytes. These chondrocytes belong to a group of chondral cells, which are distributed in rows and columns; this architecture is commonly known as a growth plate. The growth plate is responsible for endochondral bone growth. The aim of this study was to elucidate the causal relationship between the juxtaposed bone plate and epiphyseal cartilage in mammals. Our hypothesis is that cells from the germinal zone of the epiphyseal side of the epiphyseal cartilage are involved in forming a second ossification front that is responsible for the origin of the juxtaposed bone plate. We report the following: (a) The juxtaposed bone plate has a morphology and function that differs from that of the epiphyseal trabeculae; (b) on the epiphyseal edge of the epiphyseal cartilage, a new ossification front starts on the chondrocytes of the germinal area, which forms the juxtaposed bone plate. This ossification front is formed by chondrocytes from the germinal zone through a process of mineralisation and ossification, and (c) the process of mineralisation and ossification has a certain morphological analogy to the process of ossification in the metaphyseal cartilage of amphibians and differs from the endochondral ossification process in the metaphyseal side of the growth plate. The close relationship between the juxtaposed bone plate and the epiphyseal cartilage, in which the chondrocytes that migrate from the germinal area play an important role in the mineralisation and ossification process of the juxtaposed bone plate, supports the hypothesis of a new ossification front in the epiphyseal layer of the epiphyseal plate. This hypothesis has several implications: (a) epiphyseal cartilage is a morphological entity with two different ossification fronts and two different functions, (b) epiphyseal cartilage may be a morphological structure with three parts: perichondrial ring, metaphyseal ossification front or growth plate, and epiphyseal ossification front, (c) all disease (traumatic or dysplastic) that affects some of these parts can have an impact on the morphology of the epiphyseal region of the bone, (d) there is a certain analogy between metaphyseal cartilage in amphibians and mammalian epiphyseal cartilage, although the former is not responsible for bone growth, (e) comparative histological and anatomy studies are also warranted, to shed light on the phylogenetic study of epiphyseal cartilage throughout the changes that occur in the animal species.
Here, I postulate two hypotheses that can explain the missing link between sleep and the serotonergic system in terms of spine homeostasis and memory consolidation. As dendritic spines contain many kinds of serotonin receptors, and the activation of serotonin receptors generally increases the number of spines in the cortex and hippocampus, I postulate that serotonin neurons are down-regulated during sleep to decrease spine number, which consequently maintains the total spine number at a constant level. Furthermore, since synaptic consolidation during REM sleep needs long-term potentiation (LTP), and serotonin is reported to inhibit LTP in the cortex, I postulate that serotonergic activity must drastically decrease during REM sleep to induce LTP and do memory consolidation. Until now, why serotonergic neurons show these dramatic changes in the sleep-wake cycle remains unexplained; however, making these hypotheses, I can confer physiological meanings on these dramatic changes of serotonergic neurons in terms of spine homeostasis and memory consolidation.
From birth onwards, rhythmic breathing is required for blood oxygenation and survival in mammals. During their lifespan, human or mouse or elephant will spontaneously produce several hundreds of millions of respiratory movements. The central nervous command responsible for these spontaneous rhythmic movements is elaborated by a complex neural network extending within the brainstem. In the medulla, a special part of this network contains respiratory pacemaker neurons that play a crucial role in respiratory rhythmogenesis: the pre-Btzinger complex. This review summarizes and discusses the main electrophysiological, molecular and genetic mechanisms contributing to the function and the perinatal maturation of the pre-Btzinger complex.

Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) is a pleomorphic condition with multiple clinical presentations. Atypical presentations may elude diagnosis particularly in the deployed setting or austere environment where diagnostic resources are limited. I describe a soldier who developed an unusual GBS variant while deployed to Iraq. Diagnosing and treating GBS in the deployed setting or in a rural, austere environment is challenging, but there are clinical guidelines that can help determine who can be treated locally and who needs evacuation. Recognizing the natural course of the disease and being able to prognosticate progression of the disease is crucial in deployed settings/austere environments. The diagnostic and therapeutic approach to GBS in the deployed setting and potential criteria for theater evacuation are reviewed.


Cell invasion targets specific tissues in physiological placental implantation and pathological metastasis, which raises questions about how this process is controlled. We compare dermis and endometrium capacities to support trophoblast invasion, using matching sets of human primary fibroblasts in a coculture assay with human placental explants. Substituting endometrium, the natural trophoblast target, with dermis dramatically reduces trophoblast interstitial invasion. Our data reveal that endometrium expresses a higher rate of the fibronectin (FN) extra type III domain A+ (EDA+) splicing isoform, which displays stronger matrix incorporation capacity. We demonstrate that the high FN content of the endometrium matrix, and not specifically the EDA domain, supports trophoblast invasion by showing that forced incorporation of plasma FN (EDA-) promotes efficient trophoblast invasion. We further show that the serine/arginine-rich protein serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 1 (SRSF1) is more highly expressed in endometrium and, using RNA interference, that it is involved in the higher EDA exon inclusion rate in endometrium. Our data therefore show a mechanism by which tissues can be distinguished, for their capacity to support invasion, by their different rates of EDA inclusion, linked to their SRSF1 protein levels. In the broader context of cancer pathology, the results suggest that SRSF1 might play a central role not only in the tumor cells, but also in the surrounding stroma.
Dolastatin 15 (DL15) is a potent, tubulin-targeted, vinca-site binding, anticancer agent that induces mitotic arrest and inhibit cell proliferation in a variety of cell types. Several analogs of DL15, including LU 103793 and tasidotin, have been progressed to clinical trials for different types of cancer. DL15 has been known to interfere with cellular microtubules and purified tubulin in vitro. However, the molecular mechanism with which the peptide arrests cells in mitosis is poorly understood. This study reports a possible antimitotic mechanism of action of DL15. DL15 inhibited HeLa cell proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 2.8  0.3 nM, induced mitotic arrest, disrupted cellular microtubules near its IC50 for cell proliferation, and inhibited the re-polymerization of cellular microtubules. By staining the centrosomes of DL15-treated cells with anti- tubulin antibodies, the study found a significant reduction in interpolar distances in mitotic HeLa cells, indicating a disruption in the normal assembly dynamics of the microtubules. The study further found that DL15 induced a loss of tension across the kinetochore pairs as indicated by a reduction in interkinetochore distance. In response to this loss of tension, the tension-sensing checkpoint protein BuBR1 accumulated at the kinetochores, promoting mitotic arrest. In vitro, DL15 promoted formation of curved and fragmented polymers of microtubule proteins and inhibited tubulin decay in a manner similar to vinca-site binding agents such as phomopsin A. Together, the data indicate that the mitotic arrest induced by DL15 involves a loss of tension across the kinetochore pairs due to disruption of normal assembly dynamics of microtubules.
Nuclear receptors (NRs) regulate diverse physiological processes, including the central nervous system control of energy balance. However, the molecular mechanisms for the central actions of NRs in energy balance remain relatively poorly defined. Here we report a hypothalamic gene network involving two NRs, neuron-derived orphan receptor 1 (NOR1) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR), which directs the regulated expression of orexigenic neuropeptides agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in response to peripheral signals. Our results suggest that the anorexigenic signal leptin induces NOR1 expression likely via the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), while the orexigenic signal glucocorticoid mobilizes GR to inhibit NOR1 expression by antagonizing the action of CREB. Also, NOR1 suppresses glucocorticoid-dependent expression of AgRP and NPY. Consistently, relative to wild-type mice, NOR1-null mice showed significantly higher levels of AgRP and NPY and were less responsive to leptin in decreasing the expression of AgRP and NPY. These results identify mutual antagonism between NOR1 and GR to be a key rheostat for peripheral metabolic signals to centrally control energy balance.


The ability to rapidly detect neurotransmitter release has broad implications in the study of a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. Electrochemical detection methods using carbon nanofiber nanoelectrodes integrated into the Wireless Instantaneous Neurotransmitter Concentration Sensing System (WINCS) offer many important advantages including biocompatibility, selectivity, sensitivity, and rapid adsorption kinetics. Carbon nanofiber nanoelectrodes exhibit greater selectivity and sensitivity in the electrochemical detection of neurotransmitters compared to macroelectrodes and are able to resolve a ternary mixture of dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and ascorbic acid as well as to detect individual neurotransmitters in concentrations as low as 50 nM for DA and 100 nM for 5-HT using differential pulse voltammetry. Adsorption kinetics studies and isopropyl alcohol treatments modeled on previous studies on carbon fiber microelectrodes were conducted to investigate the analogous properties on carbon nanofiber electrodes using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry with WINCS and showed analogous results in carbon nanofiber electrodes compared with carbon fiber microelectrodes.
The transcripts of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (CaV) 1.3 undergo extensive alternative splicing. Alternative splicing, particularly in the C terminus, drastically modifies gating properties of the channel. However, little is known about whether alternative splicing could modulate the pharmacologic properties of CaV1.3 in a manner similar to the paralogous CaV1.2. Here we undertook the screening of different channel splice isoforms harboring splice variations in either the IS6 segment or the C terminus. Unexpectedly, while inclusion of exon 8a or 8, which code for IS6, did not alter dihydropyridine (DHP) sensitivity, distinct pharmacologic properties were observed for the various C-terminal splice isoforms. In the presence of external Ca(2+), fast inactivating splice variants including CaV1.342a and CaV1.343s with intact calmodulin-IQ domain interaction showed consistently low DHP sensitivity. Interestingly, attenuation of calcium-dependent inactivation with overexpression of calmodulin34 did not enhance the sensitivity of CaV1.342a, suggesting that the low DHP sensitivity may not be a result of fast channel inactivation. Alternatively, disruption of calmodulin-IQ domain binding in the CaV1.341 and full-length CaV1.342 channels was associated with heightened DHP sensitivity. In distinct contrast to the well-known modulation of DHP blockade of CaV1.2 channels, this study has therefore uncovered a novel mechanism for modulation of the pharmacologic properties of CaV1.3 channels through posttranscriptional modification of the C terminus.
The issue of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) oligomer status has not been resolved. Although many studies have provided evidence in favor of receptor-receptor interactions, there is no consensus as to the exact oligomer size of class A GPCRs. Previous studies have reported monomers, dimers, tetramers, and higher-order oligomers. In the present study, this issue was examined using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) with photon counting histogram (PCH) analysis, a sensitive method for monitoring diffusion and oligomer size of plasma membrane proteins. Six different class A GPCRs were selected from the serotonin (5-HT2A), adrenergic (1b-AR and 2-AR), muscarinic (M1 and M2), and dopamine (D1) receptor families. Each GPCR was C-terminally labeled with green fluorescent protein (GFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. FCS provided plasma membrane diffusion coefficients on the order of 7.5  10(-9) cm(2)/s. PCH molecular brightness analysis was used to determine the GPCR oligomer size. Known monomeric (CD-86) and dimeric (CD-28) receptors with GFP and YFP tags were used as controls to determine the molecular brightness of monomers and dimers. PCH analysis of fluorescence-tagged GPCRs revealed molecular brightness values that were twice the monomeric controls and similar to the dimeric controls. Reduced (2) analyses of the PCH data best fit a model for a homogeneous population of homodimers, without tetramers or higher-order oligomers. The homodimer configuration was unaltered by agonist treatment and was stable over a 10-fold range of receptor expression level. The results of this study demonstrate that biogenic amine receptors freely diffusing within the plasma membrane are predominantly homodimers.
Kalirin-7 (Kal7) is a Rho-guanine nucleotide exchange factor that is localized in neuronal postsynaptic densities. Kal7 interacts with the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor and regulates aspects of dendritic spine dynamics both in vitro and in vivo. Chronic treatment with cocaine increases dendritic spine density in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of rodents and primates. Kal7 mRNA and protein are upregulated in the NAc following cocaine treatment, and the presence of Kal7 is necessary for the normal proliferation of dendritic spines following cocaine use. Mice that constitutively lack Kal7 [Kalirin-7 knockout mice (Kal7(KO))] demonstrate increased locomotor sensitization to cocaine and a decreased place preference for cocaine. Here, using an intravenous cocaine self-administration paradigm, Kal7(KO) mice exhibit increased administration of cocaine at lower doses as compared with wild-type (Wt) mice. Analyses of mRNA transcript levels from the NAc of mice that self-administered saline or cocaine reveal that larger splice variants of the Kalrn gene are increased by cocaine more dramatically in Kal7(KO) mice than in Wt mice. Additionally, transcripts encoding the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor increased in Wt mice that self-administered cocaine but were unchanged in similarly experienced Kal7(KO) mice. These findings suggest that Kal7 participates in the reinforcing effects of cocaine, and that Kal7 and cocaine interact to alter the expression of genes related to critical glutamatergic signaling pathways in the NAc.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors mediate excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system and play important roles in synaptic development and plasticity, but also mediate glutamate neurotoxicity. Recently, 2-naphthoic acid (NPA) and its derivatives have been identified as allosteric, noncompetitive NMDA receptor inhibitors. The selectivity of NPA derivatives among NMDA receptor subtypes was mapped structurally to the ligand-binding domain, and was proposed to be mediated by residues on the S1 segment. To delineate the kinetic mechanism by which NPA inhibits NMDA receptor activity, we examined its effects on the NMDA receptor gating reaction. Using whole-cell patch clamping on human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing recombinant NMDA family of glutamate receptor subunits, GluN1/GluN2A, we found that NPA has a 50% inhibitory effect at 1.9 mM. Further, from one-channel current recordings, we found that 4 mM NPA caused a 62% decrease in open probability by decreasing mean open time 2.5-fold and by increasing mean closed time 2-fold. Kinetic modeling suggested that NPA binding stabilized NMDA receptor closed states and increased the energy barriers toward open states, causing NMDA receptors to dwell longer in pre-open states along the activation pathway. The reaction mechanisms we derived provide quantitative insight into the inhibitory mechanism of NPA and help anticipate its effects on GluN1/GluN2A receptors during both physiologic and pathologic activation modalities.
Cognitive impairments are common in depression and involve dysfunctional serotonin neurotransmission. The 5-HT1B receptor (5-HT(1B)R) regulates serotonin transmission, via presynaptic receptors, but can also affect transmitter release at heterosynaptic sites. This study aimed at investigating the roles of the 5-HT(1B)R, and its adapter protein p11, in emotional memory and object recognition memory processes by the use of p11 knockout (p11KO) mice, a genetic model for aspects of depression-related states. 5-HT(1B)R agonist treatment induced an impairing effect on emotional memory in wild type (WT) mice. In comparison, p11KO mice displayed reduced long-term emotional memory performance. Unexpectedly, 5-HT(1B)R agonist stimulation enhanced memory in p11KO mice, and this atypical switch was reversed after hippocampal adeno-associated virus mediated gene transfer of p11. Notably, 5-HT(1B)R stimulation increased glutamatergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus in p11KO mice, but not in WT mice, as measured by both pre- and postsynaptic criteria. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy demonstrated global hippocampal reductions of inhibitory GABA, which may contribute to the memory enhancement and potentiation of pre- and post-synaptic measures of glutamate transmission by a 5-HT(1B)R agonist in p11KO mice. It is concluded that the level of hippocampal p11 determines the directionality of 5-HT(1B)R action on emotional memory processing and modulates hippocampal functionality. These results emphasize the importance of using relevant disease models when evaluating the role of serotonin neurotransmission in cognitive deficits related to psychiatric disorders.
The most common indication for movement disorder surgery is Parkinson's disease (PD), and the incidence of PD increases with age. The analysis reported here was undertaken with the primary goal of examining whether there is a relationship between peri-operative complications and age. The Nationwide Inpatient Sample (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD, USA) was queried for 10 years beginning in 1999 for patients undergoing deep brain stimulator insertion, pallidotomy, and thalamotomy for treatment of PD, essential tremor, and dystonia. Inpatient complications, including death, stroke (both ischemic and hemorrhagic), and other overall complications were examined. The relative risks associated with advanced age; primary diagnosis; treatment modality; the diagnoses of hypertension, diabetes, and nicotinism; and the cumulative number of comorbidities were examined. There were 5464 patients who met inclusion criteria, including 4145 patients treated for PD and 4961 patients treated with deep brain stimulation (DBS). Overall in-hospital mortality was 0.26%, with 0.15% related to surgical factors. There was a correlation between in-hospital mortality, increasing age, and number of medical comorbidities. After multivariate regression no factor remained predictive of mortality. Having more than 1 medical comorbidity or PD increased the risk of in-hospital complications. Patients with PD were more likely to suffer hemorrhage or stroke. Hypertension, diabetes, nicotinism, and modality of treatment were not associated with increased mortality, hemorrhage or stroke risk, or in-hospital mortality in univariate or multivariate analysis. Both age and medical comorbidity are correlated with in-hospital complications, but age appears to serve as a surrogate for comorbidity. Surgery for PD appears to carry an increased risk of hemorrhage or stroke and in-hospital complications.

It has been reported that patients who have Parkinson's disease have a high prevalence of somatisation (functional neurological symptoms) compared with patients who have other neurodegenerative conditions. Numerous explanations have been advanced for this phenomenon. Here, with illustrative cases, we discuss this topic, including its clinical importance, and suggest a link between the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and the proposed propensity to develop functional symptoms.

Balo's concentric sclerosis (BCS) is a rare demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system. The humanised monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab has shown efficacy in another demyelinating disorder, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. We aimed to explore its efficacy in treatment-refractory BCS. A 52-year-old male with radiologically confirmed progressive BCS resistant to steroids, plasmapharesis and cyclophosphamide was administered a standard protocol of alemtuzumab. Treatment failed to slow his decline; he died 6 months after administration. Why alemtuzumab induced no clinical or radiological impact may be multifactorial. We review the evidence directing BCS therapy and propose the next steps for exploring this potentially fatal condition.




Natura non facit saltus (Latin for &quot;nature does not make jumps&quot;) is a maxim expressing the idea that natural things and properties change gradually, in a continuum, rather than suddenly. In biomedical sciences, for taxonomic purposes, we make jumps that emphasize differences more than similarities. Among the dysimmune neuropathies, 2 disorders, characterized by the presence of antibodies to gangliosides GM1 and GD1a and a peculiar, exclusive motor involvement, have been identified: acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN) and multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). However, anti-GM1 or -GD1a antibodies are also associated with acute motor and sensory axonal motor neuropathy (AMSAN). We review the results of recent clinical and experimental studies showing that AMAN and MMN are not exclusively motor. We discuss the possible explanations for the greater resistance of sensory fibers to antibody attack to finally suggest that AMAN, AMSAN, and MMN belong to a continuous spectrum with a common pathophysiological mechanism.



Recent efforts in neuroscience research have been aimed at obtaining detailed anatomical neuronal wiring maps as well as information on how neurons in these networks engage in dynamic activities. Although the entire connectivity map of the nervous system of Caenorhabditis elegans has been known for more than 25 years, this knowledge has not been sufficient to predict all functional connections underlying behavior. To approach this goal, we developed a two-photon technique for brain-wide calcium imaging in C. elegans, using wide-field temporal focusing (WF-TeFo). Pivotal to our results was the use of a nuclear-localized, genetically encoded calcium indicator, NLS-GCaMP5K, that permits unambiguous discrimination of individual neurons within the densely packed head ganglia of C. elegans. We demonstrate near-simultaneous recording of activity of up to 70% of all head neurons. In combination with a lab-on-a-chip device for stimulus delivery, this method provides an enabling platform for establishing functional maps of neuronal networks.



Formation of appropriate synaptic connections is critical for proper functioning of the brain. After initial synaptic differentiation, active synapses are stabilized by neural activity-dependent signals to establish functional synaptic connections. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying activity-dependent synapse maturation remain to be elucidated. Here we show that activity-dependent ectodomain shedding of signal regulatory protein- (SIRP) mediates presynaptic maturation. Two target-derived molecules, fibroblast growth factor 22 and SIRP, sequentially organize the glutamatergic presynaptic terminals during the initial synaptic differentiation and synapse maturation stages, respectively, in the mouse hippocampus. SIRP drives presynaptic maturation in an activity-dependent fashion. Remarkably, neural activity cleaves the extracellular domain of SIRP, and the shed ectodomain in turn promotes the maturation of the presynaptic terminal. This process involves calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, matrix metalloproteinases and the presynaptic receptor CD47. Finally, SIRP-dependent synapse maturation has an impact on synaptic function and plasticity. Thus, ectodomain shedding of SIRP is an activity-dependent trans-synaptic mechanism for the maturation of functional synapses.
Neural circuits detect environmental changes and drive behavior. The routes of information flow through dense neural networks are dynamic, but the mechanisms underlying this circuit flexibility are poorly understood. Here, we define a sensory context-dependent and neuropeptide-regulated switch in the composition of a C. elegans salt sensory circuit. The primary salt detectors, ASE sensory neurons, used BLI-4 endoprotease-dependent cleavage to release the insulin-like peptide INS-6 in response to large, but not small, changes in external salt stimuli. Insulins, signaling through the insulin receptor DAF-2, functionally switched the AWC olfactory sensory neuron into an interneuron in the salt circuit. Worms with disrupted insulin signaling had deficits in salt attraction, suggesting that peptidergic signaling potentiates responses to high salt stimuli, which may promote ion homeostasis. Our results indicate that sensory context and neuropeptide signaling modify neural networks and suggest general mechanisms for generating flexible behavioral outputs by modulating neural circuit composition.
Prefrontal cortex influences behavior largely through its connections with other association cortices; however, the nature of the information conveyed by prefrontal output signals and what effect these signals have on computations performed by target structures is largely unknown. To address these questions, we simultaneously recorded the activity of neurons in prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices of monkeys performing a rule-based spatial categorization task. Parietal cortex receives direct prefrontal input, and parietal neurons, like their prefrontal counterparts, exhibit signals that reflect rule-based cognitive processing in this task. By analyzing rapid fluctuations in the cognitive information encoded by activity in the two areas, we obtained evidence that signals reflecting rule-dependent categories were selectively transmitted in a top-down direction from prefrontal to parietal neurons, suggesting that prefrontal output is important for the executive control of distributed cognitive processing.
The rising rates of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and the lack of effective medications to treat its core symptoms have led to an increased sense of urgency to identify therapies for this group of neurodevelopmental conditions. Developing drugs for ASD, however, has been challenging because of a limited understanding of its pathophysiology, difficulties in modelling the disease in vitro and in vivo, the heterogeneity of symptoms, and the dearth of prior experience in clinical development. In the past few years these challenges have been mitigated by considerable advances in our understanding of forms of ASD caused by single-gene alterations, such as fragile X syndrome and tuberous sclerosis. In these cases we have gained insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these conditions. In addition, they have aided in the development of animal models and compounds with the potential for disease modification in clinical development. Moreover, genetic studies are illuminating the molecular pathophysiology of ASD, and new tools such as induced pluripotent stem cells offer novel possibilities for drug screening and disease diagnostics. Finally, large-scale collaborations between academia and industry are starting to address some of the key barriers to developing drugs for ASD. Here, we propose a conceptual framework for drug discovery in ASD encompassing target identification, drug profiling and considerations for clinical trials in this novel area.
Despite the introduction of over 15 third-generation anti-epileptic drugs, current medications fail to control seizures in 20-30% of patients. However, our understanding of the mechanisms mediating the development of epilepsy and the causes of drug resistance has grown substantially over the past decade, providing opportunities for the discovery and development of more efficacious anti-epileptic and anti-epileptogenic drugs. In this Review we discuss how previous preclinical models and clinical trial designs may have hampered the discovery of better treatments. We propose that future anti-epileptic drug development may be improved through a new joint endeavour between academia and the industry, through the identification and application of tools for new target-driven approaches, and through comparative preclinical proof-of-concept studies and innovative clinical trials designs.
Many questions must be considered with regard to consuming food, including when to eat, what to eat and how much to eat. Although eating is often thought to be a homeostatic behaviour, little evidence exists to suggest that eating is an automatic response to an acute shortage of energy. Instead, food intake can be considered as an integrated response over a prolonged period of time that maintains the levels of energy stored in adipocytes. When we eat is generally determined by habit, convenience or opportunity rather than need, and meals are preceded by a neurally-controlled coordinated secretion of numerous hormones that prime the digestive system for the anticipated caloric load. How much we eat is determined by satiation hormones that are secreted in response to ingested nutrients, and these signals are in turn modified by adiposity hormones that indicate the fat content of the body. In addition, many nonhomeostatic factors, including stress, learning, palatability and social influences, interact with other controllers of food intake. If a choice of food is available, what we eat is based on pleasure and past experience. This article reviews the hormones that mediate and influence these processes.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) refers to a group of inherited neuropathies with a broad range of phenotypes, inheritance patterns and causative genes. The number of disease genes identified in CMT has expanded rapidly over the past few decades, such that more than 60 CMT-associated genes have now been discovered. This rise in genetic discovery can be attributed to the development of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology, which allows the entire exome or genome to be sequenced in a matter of days. In this Review, we discuss how NGS is being employed in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with CMT and how the genetic advances in CMT are influencing clinical practice. In particular, we explore how genetic advances have broadened the phenotype of CMT and related disorders and how NGS allows a large number of CMT genes to be screened simultaneously early in the evaluation of an unexplained neuropathy. Finally, we discuss the different methods of NGS that can be used in CMT and related disorders, and propose a simple diagnostic algorithm in which clinical assessment and neurophysiology are used to guide the application of phenotype specific 'panels'.
A Task Force of the International League Against Epilepsy has proposed a new pathology-based classification of three types of hippocampal sclerosis--the most frequent brain lesion in drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. This classification is designed to be reproducible across centres, thereby aiding communication of histopathological findings.
Neuroscientific evidence is increasingly being offered in court cases. Consequently, the legal system needs neuroscientists to act as expert witnesses who can explain the limitations and interpretations of neuroscientific findings so that judges and jurors can make informed and appropriate inferences. The growing role of neuroscientists in court means that neuroscientists should be aware of important differences between the scientific and legal fields, and, especially, how scientific facts can be easily misunderstood by non-scientists, including judges and jurors.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) occupies a notable proportion of the CNS and contributes to its normal physiology. Alterations to the ECM occur after neural injury (for example, in multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury or Alzheimer's disease) and can have drastic consequences. Of note, injury-induced changes in chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs)--a family of ECM proteoglycans--can lead to the inhibition of myelin repair. Here, we highlight the pathophysiological roles of the brain's ECM, particularly those of CSPGs, after neural insults and discuss how the ECM can be targeted to promote remyelination.
Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK3) is a constitutively active serine-threonine kinase associated to neurological and psychiatric disorders. GSK3 inhibition is considered a mediator of the efficacy of the mood-stabiliser lithium. This study aimed at comparing the central nervous system effect of lithium with the selective GSK3 inhibitors AZ1080 and compound A in biochemical, cellular, and behavioural tests. Collapsin response mediator protein 2 is a neuron-specific GSK3 substrate. Lithium, AZ1080, and compound A inhibited its phosphorylation in rat primary neurons with different pIC50. After systemic treatments with lithium or GSK3 inhibitors to assess specific functional responses, phosphorylation was unchanged in adult rat brain, while it was strongly inhibited by GSK3 inhibitors in pups, differently from lithium. Lithium may exert neurotrophic effect by increasing brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels: in the present experimental conditions, lithium exerted opposite effects on plasma BDNF levels compared to GSK3 inhibitors, suggesting this effect might not be necessarily mediated by GSK3 inhibition alone. While plasma thyroid-stimulating hormone and luteinising hormone were not affected by lithium, they were decreased by selective inhibitors. GH and prolactin displayed similar responses towards reduction. Follicle-stimulating hormone levels were not altered by treatments, whereas melatonin was specifically increased by AZ1080. Lithium impaired mouse spontaneous locomotion and decreased amphetamine-induced hyper-locomotion. AZ1080 had no effects on locomotion, while compound A reduced spontaneous locomotor activity without effects on amphetamine-induced hyper-locomotion. The present results indicate that a broad correlation between the effects of lithium and selective GSK3 inhibitors could not be devised, suggesting alternative mechanisms, whereas overlapping results could be obtained in specific assays.
Current biological psychiatry, it is frequently claimed by its opponents, is &quot;biologistic&quot; and unduly narrows psychological disorders to neurobiology and molecular biology. They deem a complete neuroscientific reduction of the mental phenomena to be impossible because of the impossibility of reducing certain phenomena, such as the individual subjective experience. If such a reduction is nevertheless undertaken it is ultimately to the disadvantage of the patients. We argue in this article that the very term &quot;biologism&quot; has to be put under scrutiny in the first place. As a result it becomes obvious that &quot;biologism&quot;, as a subclass of &quot;philosophical naturalism&quot;, is ultimately quite unproblematic. Biologism is dangerous only if it implies an eliminative rejection or an inappropriate underestimation of the relevance of the psyche. On closer examination it gets evident that such implications do not follow necessarily from biologism but cannot be precluded either. To better identify and possibly prevent such dangers, a more differentiated terminology seems helpful.

Current neuroethics can be characterized best as empirical neuroethics: it is strongly empirically oriented in that it not only includes empirical findings from neuroscience but also searches for applications within neuroscience. This, however, neglects the social and political contexts which could be subject to a future social neuroethics. In addition, methodological issues need to be considered as in theoretical neuroethics. The focus in this article is on two such methodological issues: (1) the analysis of the different levels and their inferences among each other which is exemplified by the inference of consciousness from the otherwise purely neuronal data in patients with vegetative state and (2) the problem of linking descriptive and normative concepts in a non-reductive and non-inferential way for which I suggest the mutual contextualization between both concepts. This results in a methodological strategy that can be described as contextual fact-norm iterativity.
Effective learning and recovery of relevant source brain activity patterns is a major challenge to brain-computer interface using scalp EEG. Various spatial filtering solutions have been developed. Most current methods estimate an instantaneous demixing with the assumption of uncorrelatedness of the source signals. However, recent evidence in neuroscience suggests that multiple brain regions cooperate, especially during motor imagery, a major modality of brain activity for brain-computer interface. In this sense, methods that assume uncorrelatedness of the sources become inaccurate. Therefore, we are promoting a new methodology that considers both volume conduction effect and signal propagation between multiple brain regions. Specifically, we propose a novel discriminative algorithm for joint learning of propagation and spatial pattern with an iterative optimization solution. To validate the new methodology, we conduct experiments involving 16 healthy subjects and perform numerical analysis of the proposed algorithm for EEG classification in motor imagery brain-computer interface. Results from extensive analysis validate the effectiveness of the new methodology with high statistical significance.
The population density approach to neural network modeling has been utilized in a variety of contexts. The idea is to group many similar noisy neurons into populations and track the probability density function for each population that encompasses the proportion of neurons with a particular state rather than simulating individual neurons (i.e., Monte Carlo). It is commonly used for both analytic insight and as a time-saving computational tool. The main shortcoming of this method is that when realistic attributes are incorporated in the underlying neuron model, the dimension of the probability density function increases, leading to intractable equations or, at best, computationally intensive simulations. Thus, developing principled dimension-reduction methods is essential for the robustness of these powerful methods. As a more pragmatic tool, it would be of great value for the larger theoretical neuroscience community. For exposition of this method, we consider a single uncoupled population of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons receiving external excitatory synaptic input only. We present a dimension-reduction method that reduces a two-dimensional partial differential-integral equation to a computationally efficient one-dimensional system and gives qualitatively accurate results in both the steady-state and nonequilibrium regimes. The method, termed modified mean-field method, is based entirely on the governing equations and not on any auxiliary variables or parameters, and it does not require fine-tuning. The principles of the modified mean-field method have potential applicability to more realistic (i.e., higher-dimensional) neural networks.

FUS/TLS (denoting fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma [MIM 137070]) codifies an RNA binding protein. Mutations in this gene cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS; MIM 608030). Essential tremor (ET [MIM 190300]) is the most frequent movement disorder. Despite its strong familiar aggregation, recently a whole exome sequencing study has identified FUS mutations as a cause of familial ET. To determine whether mutations in FUS are also common in other populations, we sequenced FUS gene in 178 unrelated Spanish subjects with ET. We detected only an intronic single-pair nucleotide deletion (c.1293-37delC), which was predicted to affect mRNA splicing. However, leukocyte mRNA analysis showed no changes in FUS expression. In conclusion, coding or splicing FUS mutations are not a frequent cause of ET in the Spanish population.
The rare variant A673T in the amyloid- precursor protein (APP) gene has been shown to reduce the risk of cognitive impairment. We genotyped the variant in 8721 Asian individuals comprising 552 with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, 790 with Parkinson's disease, and 7379 controls. The A673T variant was absent in all of the subjects. Our finding suggests that the A673T protective variant is not relevant in our Asian population. Studies in other ethnic populations would clarify whether this variant is specific to specific races/ethnicities.
The present study aimed to reveal the effects of age on the temporal profile of the positive blood-oxygen-level-dependent response (PBR) during low-velocity optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) in healthy subjects. We were specifically interested in comparing these effects with the effects of age on the PBR elicited by pure visual and motor tasks. Therefore, we conducted 2 additional control experiments: a checkerboard experiment (visual stimulation) and a finger-tapping (motor task) experiment. Whereas the oculomotor performance of the subjects remained unaltered, the temporal profile of the PBR changed significantly with increasing age in visual and oculomotor areas. None of the control experiments revealed significant age-related PBR changes. Thus, this study demonstrates that the PBR changes during OKN occur before any changes in the oculomotor performance can be detected. These effects of age are specific for the OKN task and probably reflect both changes in the neurovascular coupling and changes in the neural processing during OKN.
Flexible instrumental learning is required to harness the appropriate behaviors to obtain rewards and to avoid punishments. The precise contribution of dopaminergic midbrain regions (substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area [SN/VTA]) to this form of behavioral adaptation remains unclear. Normal aging is associated with a variable loss of dopamine neurons in the SN/VTA. We therefore tested the relationship between flexible instrumental learning and midbrain structural integrity. We compared task performance on a probabilistic monetary go/no-go task, involving trial and error learning of: &quot;go to win,&quot; &quot;no-go to win,&quot; &quot;go to avoid losing,&quot; and &quot;no-go to avoid losing&quot; in 42 healthy older adults to previous behavioral data from 47 younger adults. Quantitative structural magnetization transfer images were obtained to index regional structural integrity. On average, both some younger and some older participants demonstrated a behavioral asymmetry whereby they were better at learning to act for reward (&quot;go to win&quot; &gt; &quot;no-go to win&quot;), but better at learning not to act to avoid punishment (&quot;no-go to avoid losing&quot; &gt; &quot;go to avoid losing&quot;). Older, but not younger, participants with greater structural integrity of the SN/VTA and the adjacent subthalamic nucleus could overcome this asymmetry. We show that interindividual variability among healthy older adults of the structural integrity within the SN/VTA and subthalamic nucleus relates to effective acquisition of competing instrumental responses.
White matter (WM) microstructural damage and its relationship with cortical abnormalities were explored in early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) compared with late-onset AD (LOAD) patients. Structural and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance images were obtained from 22 EOAD patients, 35 LOAD patients, and 40 healthy controls. Patterns of WM microstructural damage and cortical atrophy, as well as their relationships, were assessed using tract-based spatial statistics, tractography and voxel-based morphometry. Compared with LOAD, EOAD patients had a more severe and distributed pattern of WM microstructural damage, in particular in the posterior fibers of cingulum and corpus callosum. In both groups with Alzheimer's disease, but especially in LOAD patients, correlations between cingulum and corpus callosum fractional anisotropy and parietal, temporal, and frontal cortical volumes were found. In conclusion, WM microstructural damage is more severe in EOAD compared with LOAD patients. Such damage follows different patterns of topographical distribution in the 2 patient groups.
We investigated whether individuals with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) in midlife subsequently show regionally specific longitudinal changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) relative to those with normal glucose tolerance (NGT). Sixty-four cognitively normal participants in the neuroimaging substudy of the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging underwent serial (15)O-water positron emission tomography scans (age at first scan, 69.6  7.5 years) and oral glucose tolerance tests 12 years earlier (age at first oral glucose tolerance test, 57.2  11.1 years). Using voxel-based analysis, we compared changes in rCBF over an 8-year period between 15 participants with IGT in midlife and 49 with NGT. Significant differences were observed in longitudinal change in rCBF between the IGT and NGT groups. The predominant pattern was greater rCBF decline in the IGT group in the frontal, parietal, and temporal cortices. Some brain regions in the frontal and temporal cortices also showed greater longitudinal increments in rCBF in the IGT group. Our findings suggest that IGT in midlife is associated with subsequent longitudinal changes in brain function during aging even in cognitively normal older individuals.
The Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS) is a syndromic form of intellectual disability caused by loss-of-function of the RSK2 serine/threonine kinase encoded by the rsk2 gene. Rsk2 knockout mice, a murine model of CLS, exhibit spatial learning and memory impairments, yet the underlying neural mechanisms are unknown. In the current study, we examined the performance of Rsk2 knockout mice in cued, trace and contextual fear memory paradigms and identified selective deficits in the consolidation and reconsolidation of hippocampal-dependent fear memories as task difficulty and hippocampal demand increase. Electrophysiological, biochemical and electron microscopy analyses were carried out in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus to explore potential alterations in neuronal functions and structure. In vivo and in vitro electrophysiology revealed impaired synaptic transmission, decreased network excitability and reduced AMPA and NMDA conductance in Rsk2 knockout mice. In the absence of RSK2, standard measures of short-term and long-term potentiation (LTP) were normal, however LTP-induced CREB phosphorylation and expression of the transcription factors EGR1/ZIF268 were reduced and that of the scaffolding protein SHANK3 was blocked, indicating impaired activity-dependent gene regulation. At the structural level, the density of perforated and non-perforated synapses and of multiple spine boutons was not altered, however, a clear enlargement of spine neck width and post-synaptic densities indicates altered synapse ultrastructure. These findings show that RSK2 loss-of-function is associated in the dentate gyrus with multi-level alterations that encompass modifications of glutamate receptor channel properties, synaptic transmission, plasticity-associated gene expression and spine morphology, providing novel insights into the mechanisms contributing to cognitive impairments in CLS.
Cellular mechanisms play a role in conversion of the normal prion protein PrP(C) to the disease-associated protein PrP(Sc). The cells provide not only PrP(C), but also still largely undefined factors required for efficient prion replication. Previously, we have observed that interference with ERK and p38-JNK MAP kinase pathways has opposing effects on the formation of prions indicating that the process is regulated by a balance in intracellualar signaling pathways. In order to obtain a &quot;flow-chart&quot; of such pathways, we here studied the activation of MEK/ERK and mTORC1 downstream targets in relation to PrP(Sc) accumulation in GT1-1 cells infected with the RML or 22L prion strains. We show that inhibition of mTORC1 with rapamycin causes a reduction of PrP(Sc) accumulation at similar low levels as seen when the interaction between the translation initiation factors eIF4E and eIF4G downstream mTORC1 is inhibited using 4EGI-1. No effect is seen following the inhibition of molecules (S6K1 and Mnk1) that links MEK/ERK signaling to mTORC1-mediated control of translation. Instead, stimulation (high [KCl] or [serum]) or inhibition (MEK-inhibitor) of prion formation is associated with increased or decreased phosphorylation of the neuronal transcription factor Elk1, respectively. This study shows that prion formation can be modulated by translational initiating factors, and suggests that MEK/ERK signaling plays a role in the conversion of PrP(C) to PrP(Sc) via an Elk1-mediated transcriptional control. Altogether, our studies indicate that prion protein conversion is under the control of intracellular signals, which hypothetically, under certain conditions may elicit irreversible responses leading to progressive neurodegenerative diseases.
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation in neuron and astrocytes by High Mobility Group Box 1 (HMGB1) protein is a key mechanism of seizure generation. HMGB1 also activates the Receptor for Advanced Glycation Endproducts (RAGE), but it was unknown whether RAGE activation contributes to seizures or to HMGB1 proictogenic effects. We found that acute EEG seizures induced by 7ng intrahippocampal kainic acid (KA) were significantly reduced in Rage-/- mice relative to wild type (Wt) mice. The proictogenic effect of HMGB1 was decreased in Rage-/- mice, but less so, than in Tlr4-/- mice. In a mouse mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) model, status epilepticus induced by 200ng intrahippocampal KA and the onset of the spontaneous epileptic activity were similar in Rage-/-, Tlr4-/- and Wt mice. However, the number of hippocampal paroxysmal episodes and their duration were both decreased in epileptic Rage-/- and Tlr4-/- mice vs Wt mice. All strains of epileptic mice displayed similar cognitive deficits in the novel object recognition test vs the corresponding control mice. CA1 neuronal cell loss was increased in epileptic Rage-/- vs epileptic Wt mice, while granule cell dispersion and doublecortin (DCX)-positive neurons were similarly affected. Notably, DCX neurons were preserved in epileptic Tlr4-/- mice. We did not find compensatory changes in HMGB1-related inflammatory signaling nor in glutamate receptor subunits in Rage-/- and Tlr4-/- nave mice, except for ~20% NR2B subunit reduction in Rage-/- mice. RAGE was induced in neurons, astrocytes and microvessels in human and experimental mTLE hippocampi. We conclude that RAGE contributes to hyperexcitability underlying acute and chronic seizures, as well as to the proictogenic effects of HMGB1. RAGE and TLR4 play different roles in the neuropathologic sequelae developing after status epilepticus. These findings reveal new molecular mechanisms underlying seizures, cell loss and neurogenesis which involve inflammatory pathways upregulated in human epilepsy.
We focus on emerging roles for microglia in synaptic plasticity, cognition and disease. We outline evidence that ramified microglia, traditionally thought to be functionally &quot;resting&quot; (i.e. quiescent) in the normal brain, in fact are highly dynamic and plastic. Ramified microglia continually and rapidly extend processes, contact synapses in an activity and experience dependent manner, and play a functionally dynamic role in synaptic plasticity, possibly through release of cytokines and growth factors. Ramified microglial also contribute to structural plasticity through the elimination of synapses via phagocytic mechanisms, which is necessary for normal cognition. Microglia have numerous mechanisms to monitor neuronal activity and numerous mechanisms also exist to prevent them transitioning to an activated state, which involves retraction of their surveying processes. Based on the evidence, we suggest that maintaining the ramified state of microglia is essential for normal synaptic and structural plasticity that supports cognition. Further, we propose that change of their ramified morphology and function, as occurs in inflammation associated with numerous neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, disrupts their intricate and essential synaptic functions. In turn altered microglia function could cause synaptic dysfunction and excess synapse loss early in disease, initiating a range of pathologies that follow. We conclude that the future of learning and memory research depends on an understanding of the role of non-neuronal cells and that this should include using sophisticated molecular, cellular, physiological and behavioural approaches combined with imaging to causally link the role of microglia to brain function and disease including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease and other neuropsychiatric disorders.
It is well-known that Notch signaling plays a critical role in brain development and growing evidence implicates this signaling pathway in adult synaptic plasticity and memory formation. The Notch1 receptor is activated by two subclasses of ligands, Delta-like (including Dll1 and Dll4) and Jagged (including Jag1 and Jag2). Ligand-induced Notch1 receptor signaling is modulated by a family of Fringe proteins, including Lunatic fringe (Lfng). Although Dll1, Jag1 and Lfng are critical regulators of Notch signaling, their relative contribution to memory formation in the adult brain is unknown. To investigate the roles of these important components of Notch signaling in memory formation, we examined spatial and fear memory formation in adult mice with reduced expression of Dll1, Jag1, Lfng and Dll1 plus Lfng. We also examined motor activity, anxiety-like behavior and sensorimotor gating using the acoustic startle response in these mice. Of the lines of mutant mice tested, we found that only mice with reduced Jag1 expression (mice heterozygous for a null mutation in Jag1, Jag1(+/-)) showed a selective impairment in spatial memory formation. Importantly, all other behavior including open field activity, conditioned fear memory (both context and discrete cue), acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition, was normal in this line of mice. These results provide the first in vivo evidence that Jag1-Notch signaling is critical for memory formation in the adult brain.
It is well-known that stress can significantly impact learning; however, whether this effect facilitates or impairs the resultant memory depends on the characteristics of the stressor. Investigation of these dynamics can be confounded by the role of the stressor in motivating performance in a task. Positing a cohesive model of the effect of stress on learning and memory necessitates elucidating the consequences of stressful stimuli independently from task-specific functions. Therefore, the goal of this study was to examine the effect of manipulating a task-independent stressor (elevated light level) on short-term and long-term memory in the novel object recognition paradigm. Short-term memory was elicited in both low light and high light conditions, but long-term memory specifically required high light conditions during the acquisition phase (familiarization trial) and was independent of the light level during retrieval (test trial). Additionally, long-term memory appeared to be independent of stress-mediated glucocorticoid release, as both low and high light produced similar levels of plasma corticosterone, which further did not correlate with subsequent memory performance. Finally, both short-term and long-term memory showed no savings between repeated experiments suggesting that this novel object recognition paradigm may be useful for longitudinal studies, particularly when investigating treatments to stabilize or enhance weak memories in neurodegenerative diseases or during age-related cognitive decline.
Memory consolidation and long-term potentiation require activity-dependent gene transcription, coordinated by an array of transcription factors. Many members of the nuclear receptor superfamily of transcription factors are expressed in the hippocampus immediately after learning, including the Nr4a family of orphan receptors. These activity-dependent transcription factors are critical for hippocampus-dependent contextual fear and object recognition memory, but their role in hippocampal synaptic function is unknown. In this study, we hypothesized that Nr4a transcription factor function is also necessary for hippocampal long-term potentiation. We used a strain of mice expressing a dominant-negative Nr4a transgene. Hippocampal slices from Nr4aDN mutant mice exhibited impairments in transcription-dependent long-term potentiation and were not sensitive to LTP enhancement by the HDAC inhibitor TSA. These results demonstrate that NR4A transcription factor function mediates mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.
Stroke is one of the leading causes of adult disability and the fourth leading cause of mortality in the US. Stroke disproportionately occurs among the elderly, where the disease is more likely to be fatal or lead to long-term supportive care. Animal models, where the ischemic insult can be controlled more precisely, also confirm that aged animals sustain more severe strokes as compared to young animals. Furthermore, the neuroprotection usually seen in younger females when compared to young males is not observed in older females. The preclinical literature thus provides a valuable resource for understanding why the aging brain is more susceptible to severe infarction. In this review, we discuss the hypothesis that stroke severity in the aging brain may be associated with reduced functional capacity of critical support cells. Specifically, we focus on astrocytes, that are critical for detoxification of the brain microenvironment and endothelial cells, which play a crucial role in maintaining the blood brain barrier. In view of the sex difference in stroke severity, this review also discusses studies of middle-aged acyclic females as well as the effects of the estrogen on astrocytes and endothelial cells.
The interaction of amyloid -proteins (As) with membrane lipids has been postulated as an early event in A fibril formation in Alzheimer's disease. We evaluated the effects of several putative bioactive As and gangliosides on neural stem cells (NSCs) isolated from embryonic mouse brains or the subventricular zone of adult mouse brains. Incubation of the isolated NSCs with soluble A1-40 alone did not cause any change in the number of NSCs, but soluble A1-42 increased their number. Aggregated A1-40 and A1-42 increased the number of NSCs but soluble and aggregated A25-35 decreased the number. Soluble A1-40 and A1-42 did not affect the number of apoptotic cells but aggregated A1-40 and A1-42 did. When NSCs were treated with a combination of GM1 or GD3 and soluble A1-42, cell proliferation was enhanced, indicating that both GM1 and GD3 as well as As are involved in promoting cell proliferation and survival of NSCs. These observations suggest the potential of beneficial effects of using gangliosides and As for promoting NSC proliferation.


Making a value-based decision is a cognitively complex phenomenon and divisible into several sub-processes, such as the perception, evaluation, and final selection of choice options. Although previous research has attempted to dissociate these processes in the brain, there is emerging evidence that late action selection mechanisms are influenced continuously throughout the entire decision act. We used electroencephalography (EEG) and an established sequential decision making paradigm to investigate the extent to which the readiness potential (RP) and the lateralized readiness potential (LRP), two classic preparatory EEG motor components, reflect the ongoing evaluation process in value-based choices. During the task, human participants sequentially sampled probabilistic information to buy or reject offers of unknown value (using both hands) and were allowed to respond at any time. The pressure to respond was manipulated by charging low or high costs for collecting information. We modeled how and when decisions were made and found that participants adaptively lowered their threshold for required evidence with information costs and elapsed time. These shifts were accompanied by an increased RP-like signal during the decision process. The RP was further influenced by the amount of accumulated evidence. In addition, an LRP could be measured from the start of the decision process, well in advance and independent of the final decision. Our results are consistent with a continuous involvement of the brain's motor system in emerging value-based decisions and advocate using classic EEG motor potentials for studying neurocognitive theories of decision making.
The process of dehumanization, or thinking of others as less than human, is a phenomenon with significant societal implications. According to Haslam's (2006) model, two concepts of humanness derive from comparing humans with either animals or machines: individuals may be dehumanized by likening them to either animals or machines, or humanized by emphasizing differences from animals or machines. Recent work in cognitive neuroscience emphasizes understanding cognitive processes in terms of interactions between distributed cortical networks. It has been found that reasoning about internal mental states is associated with activation of the default mode network (DMN) and deactivation of the task positive network (TPN); whereas reasoning about mechanical processes produces the opposite pattern. We conducted two neuroimaging studies. The first examined the neural bases of dehumanization and its relation to these two brain networks, using images and voice-over social narratives which either implicitly contrasted or implicitly likened humans to either animals or machines. The second study addressed a discrepancy between findings from the first study and prior work on the neural correlates of dehumanization: using a design similar to prior work we examined neural responses to pictures of humans, animals and machines, presented without any social context. In both studies, human and humanizing conditions were associated with relatively high activity in the DMN and relatively low activity in the TPN. However, the non-human and dehumanizing conditions deviated in different ways: they demonstrated more marked changes either in the DMN or in the TPN. Notably, differences between the animal dehumanizing and humanizing conditions were most evident in regions associated with mechanistic reasoning, not in the mentalizing network. Conjunction analysis of contrasts from both paradigms revealed that only one region was consistently more active when participants saw human, a medial parietal region regarded as the central hub of the DMN. These findings provide a neural basis for Haslam's distinction between two types of dehumanization, and suggest that the DMN and TPN play opposing roles in creating a sense of moral concern.
Dynamic communication between functionally specialized, but spatially distributed areas of the brain is essential for effective brain functioning. A candidate mechanism for effective neuronal communication is oscillatory neuronal synchronization. Here, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to study the role of oscillatory neuronal synchronization in audio-visual speech perception. Subjects viewed congruent audio-visual stimuli of a speaker articulating the vowels /a/ or /o/. In addition, we presented modified, incongruent versions in which visual and auditory signals mismatched. We identified a left hemispheric network for processing congruent audio-visual speech as well as network interaction between areas: low frequency (4-12 Hz) power was suppressed for congruent stimuli at auditory onset around auditory cortex, while power in the high gamma (120-140 Hz)-band was enhanced in the Broca's area around auditory offset. In addition, beta-power (20-30 Hz) was suppressed in supramarginal gyrus for incongruent stimuli. Interestingly, coherence analysis revealed a functional coupling between auditory cortex and Broca's area for congruent stimuli demonstrated by an increase of coherence. In contrast, coherence decreased for incongruent stimuli, suggesting a decoupling of auditory cortex and Broca's area. In addition, the increase of coherence was positively correlated with the increase of high gamma-power. The results demonstrate that oscillatory power in several frequency bands correlates with the processing of matching audio-visual speech on a large spatio-temporal scale. The findings provide evidence that coupling of neuronal groups can be mediated by coherence in the theta/alpha band and that low frequency coherence and high frequency power modulations are correlated in audio-visual speech perception.
The cingulate cortex is regarded as the backbone of structural and functional connectivity of the brain. While its functional connectivity has been intensively studied, little is known about its effective connectivity, its modulation by behavioral states, and its involvement in cognitive performance. Given the previously reported effects on cingulate functional connectivity, we investigated how eye-closure and sleep deprivation changed cingulate effective connectivity, estimated from resting-state high-density electroencephalography (EEG) using a novel method to calculate Granger Causality directly in source space. Effective connectivity along the cingulate cortex was dominant in the forward direction. Eyes-open connectivity in the forward direction was greater compared to eyes-closed, in well-rested participants. The difference between eyes-open and eyes-closed connectivity was attenuated and no longer significant after sleep deprivation. Individual variability in the forward connectivity after sleep deprivation predicted subsequent task performance, such that those subjects who showed a greater increase in forward connectivity between the eyes-open and the eyes-closed periods also performed better on a sustained attention task. Effective connectivity in the opposite, backward, direction was not affected by whether the eyes were open or closed or by sleep deprivation. These findings indicate that the effective connectivity from posterior to anterior cingulate regions is enhanced when a well-rested subject has his eyes open compared to when they are closed. Sleep deprivation impairs this directed information flow, proportional to its deleterious effect on vigilance. Therefore, sleep may play a role in the maintenance of waking effective connectivity.
Resting state networks (RSNs) are sets of brain regions exhibiting temporally coherent activity fluctuations in the absence of imposed task structure. RSNs have been extensively studied with fMRI in the infra-slow frequency range (nominally &lt;10(-1)Hz). The topography of fMRI RSNs reflects stationary temporal correlation over minutes. However, neuronal communication occurs on a much faster time scale, at frequencies nominally in the range of 10(0)-10(2)Hz. We examined phase-shifted interactions in the delta (2-3.5 Hz), theta (4-7 Hz), alpha (8-12 Hz) and beta (13-30 Hz) frequency bands of resting-state source space MEG signals. These analyses were conducted between nodes of the dorsal attention network (DAN), one of the most robust RSNs, and between the DAN and other networks. Phase shifted interactions were mapped by the multivariate interaction measure (MIM), a measure of true interaction constructed from the maximization of imaginary coherency in the virtual channels comprised of voxel signals in source space. Non-zero-phase interactions occurred between homologous left and right hemisphere regions of the DAN in the delta and alpha frequency bands. Even stronger non-zero-phase interactions were detected between networks. Visual regions bilaterally showed phase-shifted interactions in the alpha band with regions of the DAN. Bilateral somatomotor regions interacted with DAN nodes in the beta band. These results demonstrate the existence of consistent, frequency specific phase-shifted interactions on a millisecond time scale between cortical regions within RSN as well as across RSNs.
The principles that determine the organization of object representations in ventral temporal cortex (VTC) remain elusive. Here, we focus on the parahippocampal place area (PPA), a region in medial VTC that has been shown to respond selectively to pictures of scenes. Recent studies further observed that this region also shows a preference for large nonmanipulable objects relative to other objects, which might reflect the suitability of large objects for navigation. The mechanisms underlying this selectivity remain poorly understood. We examined the extent to which PPA selectivity requires visual experience. Fourteen congenitally blind and matched sighted participants were tested on an auditory size judgment experiment involving large nonmanipulable objects, small objects (tools), and animals. Sighted participants additionally participated in a picture-viewing experiment. Replicating previous work, we found that the PPA responded selectively to large nonmanipulable objects, relative to tools and animals, in the sighted group viewing pictures. Importantly, this selectivity was also observed in the auditory experiment in both sighted and congenitally blind groups. In both groups, selectivity for large nonmanipulable objects was additionally observed in the retrosplenial complex (RSC) and the transverse occipital sulcus (TOS), regions previously implicated in scene perception and navigation. Finally, in both groups the PPA showed resting-state functional connectivity with TOS and RSC. These results provide new evidence that large object selectivity in PPA, and the intrinsic connectivity between PPA and other navigation-relevant regions, do not require visual experience. More generally, they show that the organization of object representations in VTC can develop, at least partly, without visual experience.
Native listeners make use of higher-level, context-driven semantic and linguistic information during the perception of speech-in-noise. In a recent behavioral study, using a new paradigm that isolated the semantic level of speech by using words, we showed that this native-language benefit is at least partly driven by semantic context (Golestani et al., 2009). Here, we used the same paradigm in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment to study the neural bases of speech intelligibility, as well as to study the neural bases of this semantic context effect in the native language. A forced-choice recognition task on the first of two auditorily presented semantically related or unrelated words was employed, where the first, 'target' word was embedded in different noise levels. Results showed that activation in components of the brain language network, including Broca's area and the left posterior superior temporal sulcus, as well as brain regions known to be functionally related to attention and task difficulty, was modulated by stimulus intelligibility. In line with several previous studies examining the role of linguistic context in the intelligibility of degraded speech at the sentence level, we found that activation in the angular gyrus of the left inferior parietal cortex was modulated by the presence of semantic context, and further, that this modulation depended on the intelligibility of the speech stimuli. Our findings help to further elucidate neural mechanisms underlying the interaction of context-driven and signal-driven factors during the perception of degraded speech, and this specifically at the semantic level.
Important functions of the central nervous system such as sensory processing and motor execution, involve the spinal cord. Recent advances in human functional MRI have allowed to investigate spinal cord neuronal processes using the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) contrast. However, to assess the functional connectivity between the brain and the spinal cord, functional MRI measurements covering both regions in the same experiment are required. Unfortunately, the ideal MRI setup differs considerably for the brain and the spinal cord with respect to resolution, field-of-view, relevant receive coils, and, in particular, shim adjustments required to minimize distortion artifacts. Here, these issues are addressed for combined T2*-weighted MRI measurements of the human brain and the cervical spinal cord by using adapted parameter settings (field-of-view, in-plane resolution, slice thickness, and receiver bandwidth) for each region, a dynamic receive coil element selection where for each slice only the elements with significant signal contributions are considered, and, most importantly, the implementation of a dynamic update of the frequency and the linear shims in order to provide shim settings individually adapted to the brain and spinal cord subvolume. The feasibility of this setup for combined measurements is demonstrated in healthy volunteers at 3T. Although geometric distortions are slightly more pronounced and the temporal signal-to-noise ratio is lower as compared to measurements focusing to the brain or spinal cord only, the overall image quality can be expected to be sufficient for combined functional MRI experiments. Thus, the presented approach could help to unravel the functional coupling between the brain and the spinal cord.
Previous positron emission tomography (PET) studies in refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) using the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist [(11)C]diprenorphine (DPN) did not detect any changes in mesial temporal structures, despite known involvement of the hippocampus in seizure generation. Normal binding in smaller hippocampi is suggestive of increased receptor concentration in the remaining grey matter. Correction for partial-volume effect (PVE) has not been used in previous DPN PET studies. Here, we present PVE-corrected DPN-PET data quantifying post-ictal and interictal opioid receptor availability in humans with mTLE. Eight paired datasets of post-ictal and interictal DPN PET scans and eleven test/retest control datasets were available from a previously published study on opioid receptor changes in TLE following seizures (Hammers et al., 2007a). Five of the eight participants with TLE had documented hippocampal sclerosis. Data were re-analyzed using regions of interest and a novel PVE correction method (structural functional synergistic-resolution recovery (SFS-RR); (Shidahara et al., 2012)). Data were denoised, followed by application of SFS-RR, with anatomical information derived via precise anatomical segmentation of the participants' MRI (MAPER; (Heckemann et al., 2010)). [(11)C]diprenorphine volume-of-distribution (VT) was quantified in six regions of interest. Post-ictal increases were observed in the ipsilateral fusiform gyri and lateral temporal pole. A novel finding was a post-ictal increase in [(11)C]DPN VT relative to the interictal state in the ipsilateral parahippocampal gyrus, not observed in uncorrected datasets. As for voxel-based (SPM) analyses, correction for global VT values was essential in order to demonstrate focal post-ictal increases in [(11)C]DPN VT. This study provides further direct human in vivo evidence for changes in opioid receptor availability in TLE following seizures, including changes that were not evident without PVE correction. Denoising, resolution recovery and precise anatomical segmentation can extract valuable information from PET studies that would be missed with conventional post-processing procedures.

Brain atlases are important tools of neuroscience. Traditionally prepared in paper book format, more and more commonly they take digital form which extends their utility. To simplify work with different atlases, to lay the ground for developing universal tools which could abstract from the origin of the atlas, efforts are being made to provide common interfaces to these atlases. 3D Brain Atlas Reconstructor service (3dBARs) described here is a repository of digital representations of different brain atlases in CAF format which we recently proposed and a repository of 3D models of brain structures. A graphical front-end is provided for creating and viewing the reconstructed models as well as the underlying 2D atlas data. An application programming interface (API) facilitates programmatic access to the service contents from other websites. From a typical user's point of view, 3dBARs offers an accessible way to mine publicly available atlasing data with a convenient browser based interface, without the need to install extra software. For a developer of services related to brain atlases, 3dBARs supplies mechanisms for enhancing functionality of other software. The policy of the service is to accept new datasets as delivered by interested parties and we work with the researchers who obtain original data to make them available to the neuroscience community at large. The functionality offered by the 3dBARs situates it at the core of present and future general atlasing services tying it strongly to the global atlasing neuroinformatics infrastructure.



In the last few years several cases of headache as sole manifestation of an epileptic seizure have been reported and the term &quot;ictal epileptic headache&quot; has been recently proposed to identify an EEG-recorded epileptic seizure with migraine/headache-like features. Among the potential practical implications arising from these clinical observations, there is the urgent need for a revision of both International Classifications of Epilepsy and Headache disorders. We discuss these topics and provide additional comments about the physiopathological links between epilepsy and migraine.






Failure of elimination of proteins from the brain is a major feature in many neurodegenerative diseases. Insoluble proteins accumulate in brain parenchyma and in walls of cerebral capillaries and arteries. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a descriptive term for amyloid in vessel walls. Here, we adopt the term protein elimination failure angiopathy (PEFA) to focus on mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of a spectrum of disorders that exhibit both unique and common features of protein accumulation in blood vessel walls. We review (a) normal pathways and mechanisms by which proteins and other soluble metabolites are eliminated from the brain along 100- to 150-nm-thick basement membranes in walls of cerebral capillaries and arteries that serve as routes for lymphatic drainage of the brain; (b) a spectrum of proteins involved in PEFA; and (c) changes that occur in artery walls and contribute to failure of protein elimination. We use accumulation of amyloid beta (A), prion protein and granular osmiophilic material (GOM) in cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) as examples of different factors involved in the aetiology and pathogenesis of PEFA. Finally, we discuss how knowledge of factors involved in PEFA may help to focus on new therapies for neurodegenerative diseases. When A (following immunotherapy) and prion protein are released from brain parenchyma they deposit in walls of cerebral capillaries and arteries; GOM in CADASIL accumulates primarily in artery walls. Therefore, the focus of therapy for protein clearance in neurodegenerative disease should perhaps be on facilitating perivascular elimination of proteins and reducing PEFA.
Patients with severe cerebral palsy (CP) often have poor speech ability but potentially better language comprehension. The arcuate fasciculus and the extreme capsule are two important language tracts between the Wernicke and Broca areas. Using diffusion tensor imaging, we visualized language tracts and pyramidal tracts in both hemispheres in 10 controls (5 to 18 years) and 5 patients (5 to 23 years) with severe CP. Language comprehension was assessed with a recently designed instrument (the Computer-Based instrument for Low motor Language Testing [C-BiLLT]). The language tracts were visualized in all control children and in four CP patients. In one CP patient without any objective language comprehension skills, no language tract could be visualized. Both language and pyramidal tracts were smaller in patients than in controls. These preliminary data indicate a relation between language tracts and language skills. Further research is necessary to study the value of structural integrity of language tracts in predicting language comprehension in CP patients.
Ghrelin (gh) is a peptide hormone that may affect learning and memory. There is some evidence that ghrelin can have antiepileptic effects. So we decided to investigate the possible effects of ghrelin on spatial memory following PTZ-induced seizures in male rats. Ninety male rats were divided into 9 groups including control, saline, ghrelin (0.3, 1.5 or 3 nmol) and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, 50 mg/kg, i.p.) plus saline or ghrelin (0.3, 1.5 or 3 nmol). All groups were trained in Morris water maze (MWM) for two consecutive days. Our results showed that ghrelin significantly improves spatial memory at the doses of 1.5 or 3 nmol (P&lt;0.05) in normal rats. We also demonstrated the significant impairment of spatial memory in PTZ group (P&lt;0.05). Intrahippocampal injection of ghrelin at the dose of 3 nmol significantly improved spatial memory in PTZ+gh group compared to PTZ group (P&lt;0.05). These findings suggest that ghrelin as a neuropeptide can improve spatial memory in PTZ-treated rats.
Oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) are a population of cycling cells which persist in the adult central nervous system (CNS) where, under opportune stimuli, they differentiate into mature myelinating oligodendrocytes. Adenosine A(2A) receptors are Gs-coupled P1 purinergic receptors which are widely distributed throughout the CNS. It has been demonstrated that OPCs express A(2A) receptors, but their functional role in these cells remains elusive. Oligodendrocytes express distinct voltage-gated ion channels depending on their maturation. Here, by electrophysiological recordings coupled with immunocytochemical labeling, we studied the effects of adenosine A(2A) receptors on membrane currents and differentiation of purified primary OPCs isolated from the rat cortex. We found that the selective A(2A) agonist, CGS21680, inhibits sustained, delayed rectifier, K(+) currents (I(K)) without modifying transient (I(A)) conductances. The effect was observed in all cells tested, independently from time in culture. CGS21680 inhibition of I(K) current was concentration-dependent (10-200 nM) and blocked in the presence of the selective A(2A) antagonist SCH58261 (100 nM). It is known that I(K) currents play an important role during OPC development since their block decreases cell proliferation and differentiation. In light of these data, our further aim was to investigate whether A(2A) receptors modulate these processes. CGS21680, applied at 100 nM in the culture medium of oligodendrocyte cultures, inhibits OPC differentiation (an effect prevented by SCH58261) without affecting cell proliferation. Data demonstrate that cultured OPCs express functional A(2A) receptors whose activation negatively modulate I(K) currents. We propose that, by this mechanism, A(2A) adenosine receptors inhibit OPC differentiation.
The known interactions between the serotonergic and neurokinin systems suggest that serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRIs) efficacy may be improved by neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R) antagonism. In the current studies combination of a subeffective dose of an SSRI (0.3 mg/kg fluoxetine or 0.03 mg/kg citalopram) with a subeffective dose of an NK1R antagonist (0.3 mg/kg aprepitant or 1 mg/kg CP-122,721) produced efficacy in the gerbil forced swim test (FST). Serotonin transporter (SERT) occupancy produced by 1 mg/kg fluoxetine (lowest efficacious dose) was 52  5% and was reduced to 29  4% at 0.3 mg/kg, a dose that was efficacious in combination with 0.3 mg/kg aprepitant or 1 mg/kg CP-122,721; the corresponding NK1R occupancies were 79  4% and 61  4% for aprepitant and CP-122,721, respectively. For citalopram, SERT occupancy at the lowest efficacious dose (0.1 mg/kg) was 50  4% and was reduced to 20  5% at 0.03 mg/kg, a dose that was efficacious when combined with aprepitant (0.3 mg/kg). Aprepitant (10 mg/kg) augmented the serotonin elevation produced by fluoxetine (1 or 10 mg/kg) in the gerbil prefrontal cortex; i.e. NK1R antagonism can modulate serotonin responses. A novel orally-available dual-acting NK1R antagonist/SERT inhibitor BMS-795176 is described; gerbil Ki = 1.4 and 1 nM at NK1R and SERT, respectively. BMS-795176 was efficacious in the gerbil FST; efficacy was observed with 35  3% SERT occupancy and 73  3% NK1R occupancy. The interaction between NK1R antagonism and SERT inhibition to lower the SERT occupancy required for antidepressant-like efficacy suggests that BMS-795176 has the potential to improve efficacy with a reduction in SSRI-associated side effects.
Age-related decline has been reported in most cognitive domains, including executive function: in particular, attentional set-shifting and reversal learning, as measures of executive control, are impaired in aged populations of both humans and rats. Despite the importance of the cholinergic system in age-related cognitive decline, no data are available on the effects of cholinergic enhancement on age-related performance deficits in tests of attentional set-shifting. We investigated the effects of the cholinesterase inhibitor tetrahydroacridin-9-amine (tacrine) on reversal learning and attentional set-shifting in older rats (aged 16-21 months) using the rodent version of the intradimensional/extradimensional attentional set-shifting task in a repeated-measures design. Discrimination acquisition was not impaired, but age-related impairments in reversal learning were persistent between tests, and ameliorated by the 3 mg/kg dose of tacrine. No age-related impairments in set-shifting were seen, but there was a tendency for tacrine to reduce the cost of shifting set. Given the lack of previous evidence for a role of cortical acetylcholine in attentional set-shifting tasks, it is likely that altered neurotransmitter interactions in striatum underlie this improvement.
Obesity has reached global epidemic proportions and creating an urgent need to understand mechanisms underlying excessive and uncontrolled food intake. Ghrelin, the only known circulating orexigenic hormone, potently increases food reward behavior. The neurochemical circuitry that links ghrelin to the mesolimbic reward system and to the increased food reward behavior remains unclear. Here we examine whether VTA-NAc dopaminergic signaling is required for the effects of ghrelin on food reward and intake. In addition, we examine the possibility of endogenous ghrelin acting on the VTA-NAc dopamine neurons. A D1-like or a D2 receptor antagonist was injected into the NAc in combination with ghrelin microinjection into the VTA to investigate whether this blockade attenuates ghrelin-induced food reward behavior. VTA injections of ghrelin produced a significant increase in food motivation/reward behavior, as measured by sucrose-induced progressive ratio operant conditioning, and chow intake. Pretreatment with either a D1-like or D2 receptor antagonist into the NAc, completely blocked the reward effect of ghrelin, leaving chow intake intact. We also found that this circuit is potentially relevant for the effects of endogenously released ghrelin as both antagonists reduced fasting (a state of high circulating levels of ghrelin) elevated sucrose-motivated behavior but not chow hyperphagia. Taken together our data identify the VTA to NAc dopaminergic projections, along with D1-like and D2 receptors in the NAc, as essential elements of the ghrelin responsive circuits controlling food reward behavior. Interestingly results also suggest that food reward behavior and simple intake of chow are controlled by divergent circuitry, where NAc dopamine plays an important role in food reward but not in food intake.
Metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptor antagonists reduce L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study was to investigate the long-term effect of the prototypal mGlu5 receptor antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) on glutamate receptors known to be involved in the development of LID in the de novo chronic treatment of monkeys lesioned with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP monkeys were treated for one month with L-DOPA and developed dyskinesias while those treated with L-DOPA and MPEP (10 mg/kg) developed significantly less. Normal control and saline-treated MPTP monkeys were also included. All MPTP monkeys were extensively and similarly denervated. The basal ganglia [(3)H]ABP688 specific binding (mGlu5 receptors) was elevated in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys compared to controls but not in those treated with L-DOPA and MPEP; dyskinesia scores of these monkeys correlated positively with their [(3)H]ABP688 specific binding. Striatal density (B(max)) of [(3)H]ABP688 specific binding increased in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys compared to other groups and affinity (Kd) remained unchanged. Striatal mGlu5 receptor mRNA remained unchanged following treatments. Elevated basal ganglia specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 25-6981 (NMDA NR1/NR2B receptors), [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 (AMPA receptors) but not [(3)H]CGP-39653 (NMDA NR1/NR2A receptors) was observed only in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys; dyskinesias scores correlated with binding. By contrast, basal ganglia [(3)H]LY341495 specific binding (mGlu2/3 receptors) decreased in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys compared to controls, saline and L-DOPA + MPEP treated MPTP monkeys; dyskinesias scores correlated negatively with this binding. Hence, chronic MPEP treatment reduces the development of LID and is associated with a normalization of glutamate neurotransmission.
NMDA glutamate receptors (NMDARs) have critical functional roles in the nervous system but NMDAR over-activity can contribute to neuronal damage. The open channel NMDAR blocker, memantine is used to treat certain neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD) and is well tolerated clinically. We have investigated memantine block of NMDARs in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine neurones, which show severe pathology in PD. Memantine (10 M) caused robust inhibition of whole-cell (synaptic and extrasynaptic) NMDARs activated by NMDA at a high concentration or a long duration, low concentration. Less memantine block of NMDAR-EPSCs was seen in response to low frequency synaptic stimulation, while responses to high frequency synaptic stimulation were robustly inhibited by memantine; thus memantine inhibition of NMDAR-EPSCs showed frequency-dependence. By contrast, MK-801 (10 M) inhibition of NMDAR-EPSCs was not significantly different at low versus high frequencies of synaptic stimulation. Using immunohistochemistry, confocal imaging and stereological analysis, NMDA was found to reduce the density of cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of viable dopamine neurones; memantine prevented the NMDA-evoked decrease. In conclusion, memantine blocked NMDAR populations in different subcellular locations in SNc dopamine neurones but the degree of block depended on the intensity of agonist presentation at the NMDAR. This profile may contribute to the beneficial effects of memantine in PD, as glutamatergic activity is reported to increase, and memantine could preferentially reduce over-activity while leaving some physiological signalling intact.
Clinical studies have reported that the nicotinic receptor agonist varenicline improves balance and coordination in patients with several types of ataxia, but confirmation in an animal model has not been demonstrated. This study investigated whether varenicline and nicotine could attenuate the ataxia induced in rats following destruction of the olivocerebellar pathway by the neurotoxin 3-acetylpyridine (3-AP). The administration of 3-AP (70 mg/kg followed by 300 mg niacinamide/kg; i.p.) led to an 85% loss of inferior olivary neurons within one week without evidence of recovery, and was accompanied by a 72% decrease in rotorod activity, a 3-fold increase in the time to traverse a stationary beam, a 19% decrease in velocity and 31% decrease in distance moved in the open field, and alterations in gait parameters, with a 19% increase in hindpaw stride width. The daily administration of nicotine (0.33 mg free base/kg) for one week improved rotorod performance by 50% and normalized the increased hindpaw stride width, effects that were prevented by the daily preadministration of the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (0.8 mg free base/kg). Varenicline (1 and 3 mg free base/kg daily) also improved rotorod performance by approximately 50% following one week of administration, and although it did not alter the time to traverse the beam, it did improve the ability to maintain balance on the beam. Neither varenicline nor nicotine, at doses that improved balance, affected impaired locomotor activity in the open field. Results provide evidence that nicotinic agonists are of benefit for alleviating some of the behavioral deficits in olivocerebellar ataxia and warrant further studies to elucidate the specific mechanism(s) involved.
Protein kinase B (AKT) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3) are two protein kinases involved in dopaminergic signaling. Dopamine-associated neuropsychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder seem to be characterized by impairments in the AKT/GSK3 network. Here, we sought evidence for the presence of molecular and functional changes in the AKT/GSK3 pathway using an established infection-based mouse model of developmental neuropsychiatric disease that is based on prenatal administration of the viral mimetic poly(I:C) (=polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidilic acid). We found that adult offspring of poly(I:C)-exposed mothers displayed decreased total levels of AKT protein and reduced phosphorylation at AKT threonine residues in the medial prefrontal cortex. Prenatally immune challenged offspring also exhibited increased GSK3 protein expression and activation status, the latter of which was evidenced by a decrease in the ratio between phosphorylated and total GSK3 protein in the medial prefrontal cortex. These molecular changes were not associated with overt signs of inflammatory processes in the adult brain. We further found that acute pre-treatment with the selective GSK3 inhibitor TDZD-8 dose-dependently normalized aberrant behavior typically emerging following prenatal immune activation, including deficient spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze and increased locomotor responses to systemic amphetamine treatment. Taken together, the present mouse model demonstrates that prenatal exposure to viral-like immune activation leads to long-term alterations in GSK3 signaling, some of which are critically implicated in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Repeated cocaine exposure induces epigenetic factors such as DNA methyl-binding proteins, indicating that resulting changes in gene expression are mediated by alterations in brain DNA methylation. While the activity of protein phosphatase type-1 (PP1) is involved in cocaine effects and in brain plasticity, the expression of the PP1C catalytic subunit gene was identified here as modulated by cocaine. Its expression was induced together with that of PP1C in the brain of Methyl-CpG Binding Protein-2 (Mecp2) mutant mice, whereas PP1C expression was not affected, illustrating a different regulation of PP1C isoforms. Repeated cocaine administration was found to increase DNA methylation at the PP1C gene together with its binding to Mecp2 in rat caudate putamen, establishing a link between two genes involved in cocaine-related effects and in learning and memory processes. Cocaine also increased DNMT3 expression, resulting in PP1C repression that did not occur in the presence of DNMT inhibitor. Cocaine-induced PP1C repression was observed in several brain structures, as evaluated by RT-qPCR, immunohistochemistry and Western blot, but did not occur after a single cocaine injection. Our data demonstrate that PP1C is a direct MeCP2-target gene in vivo. They suggest that its repression may participate to behavioral adaptations triggered by the drug.
Patients with schizophrenia show marked deficits in processing sensory inputs including a reduction in the generation and synchronization of 40 Hz gamma oscillations in response to steady-state auditory stimulation. Such deficits are not readily demonstrable at other input frequencies. Acute administration of NMDA antagonists to healthy human subjects or laboratory animals is known to reproduce many sensory and cognitive deficits seen in schizophrenia patients. In the following study, we tested the hypothesis that the NMDA antagonist MK-801 would selectively disrupt steady-state gamma entrainment in the auditory cortex of urethane-anesthetized rat. Moreover, we further hypothesized that nicotinic receptor activation would alleviate this disruption. Auditory steady state responses were recorded in response to auditory stimuli delivered over a range of frequencies (10-80 Hz) and averaged over 50 trials. Evoked power was computed under baseline condition and after vehicle or MK-801 (0.03 mg/kg, iv). MK-801 produced a significant attenuation in response to 40 Hz auditory stimuli while entrainment to other frequencies was not affected. Time-frequency analysis revealed deficits in both power and phase-locking to 40 Hz. Nicotine (0.1 mg/kg, iv) administered after MK-801 reversed the attenuation of the 40 Hz response. Administered alone, nicotine augmented 40 Hz steady state power and phase-locking. Nicotine's effects were blocked by simultaneous administration of the 42 antagonist DHE. Thus we report for the first time, a rodent model that mimics a core neurophysiological deficit seen in patients with schizophrenia and a pharmacological approach to alleviate it.

Previous studies have shown that appetitive motivation enhances episodic memory formation via a network including the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA), striatum and hippocampus. This functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study now contrasted the impact of aversive and appetitive motivation on episodic long-term memory. Cue pictures predicted monetary reward or punishment in alternating experimental blocks. One day later, episodic memory for the cue pictures was tested. We also investigated how the neural processing of appetitive and aversive motivation and episodic memory were modulated by dopaminergic mechanisms. To that end, participants were selected on the basis of their genotype for a variable number of tandem repeat polymorphism of the dopamine transporter (DAT) gene. The resulting groups were carefully matched for the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism of the serotonin transporter gene. Recognition memory for cues from both motivational categories was enhanced in participants homozygous for the 10-repeat allele of the DAT, the functional effects of which are not known yet, but not in heterozygous subjects. In comparison with heterozygous participants, 10-repeat homozygous participants also showed increased striatal activity for anticipation of motivational outcomes compared to neutral outcomes. In a subsequent memory analysis, encoding activity in striatum and hippocampus was found to be higher for later recognized items in 10-repeat homozygotes compared to 9/10-repeat heterozygotes. These findings suggest that processing of appetitive and aversive motivation in the human striatum involve the dopaminergic system and that dopamine plays a role in memory for both types of motivational information. In accordance with animal studies, these data support the idea that encoding of motivational events depends on dopaminergic processes in the hippocampus.

The simplest expression of episodic memory is the experience of familiarity, the isolated recognition that something has been encountered previously. Brain structures of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) make essential contributions to episodic memory, but the distinct contributions from each MTL structure to familiarity are debatable. Here we used specialized tests to assess recognition impairments and their relationship to MTL integrity in people with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI, n=19), people with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD; n=10), and age-matched individuals without any neurological disorder (n=20). Recognition of previously presented silhouette objects was tested in two formats-forced-choice recognition with four concurrent choices (one target and three foils) and yes/no recognition with individually presented targets and foils. Every foil was extremely similar to a corresponding target, such that forced-choice recognition could be based on differential familiarity among the choices, whereas yes/no recognition necessitated additional memory and decision factors. Only yes/no recognition was impaired in the aMCI group, whereas both forced-choice and yes/no recognition were impaired in the AD group. Magnetic resonance imaging showed differential brain atrophy, as MTL volume was reduced in the AD group but not in the aMCI group. Pulsed arterial spin-labeled scans demonstrated that MTL blood flow was abnormally increased in aMCI, which could indicate physiological dysfunction prior to the emergence of significant atrophy. Regression analyses with data from all patients revealed that regional patterns of MTL integrity were differentially related to forced-choice and yes/no recognition. Smaller perirhinal cortex volume was associated with lower forced-choice recognition accuracy, but not with lower yes/no recognition accuracy. Instead, smaller hippocampal volumes were associated with lower yes/no recognition accuracy. In sum, familiarity memory can be specifically assessed using the forced-choice recognition test, it declines later than other MTL-dependent memory functions as AD progresses, and it has distinct anatomical substrates.
Restudying material is a common method for learning new information, but not necessarily an effective one. Research on the testing effect shows that practice involving retrieval from memory can facilitate later memory in contrast to passive restudy. Despite extensive behavioral work, the brain processes that make retrieval an effective learning strategy remain unclear. In the present experiment, we explored how initially retrieving items affected memory a day later as compared to a condition involving traditional restudy. In contrast to restudy, initial testing that contributed to future memory success was associated with engagement of several regions including the anterior hippocampus, lateral temporal cortices, and medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). Additionally, testing enhanced hippocampal connectivity with ventrolateral PFC and midline regions. These findings indicate that the testing effect may be contingent on processes that are typically thought to support memory success at encoding (e.g. relational binding, selection and elaboration of semantically-related information) in addition to those more often associated with retrieval (e.g. memory search).
Environmental cues often trigger memories of past events (associative retrieval), and these memories are a form of prediction about imminent experience. Learning is driven by the detection of prediction violations, when the past and present diverge. Using intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG), we show that associative prediction violations elicit increased low-frequency power (in the slow-theta range) in human hippocampus, that this low-frequency power increase is modulated by whether conditions allow predictions to be generated, that the increase rapidly onsets after the moment of violation, and that changes in low-frequency power are not present in adjacent perirhinal cortex. These data suggest that associative mismatch is computed within hippocampus when cues trigger predictions that are violated by imminent experience.
Using the think/no-think paradigm (Anderson &amp; Green, 2001), researchers have found that suppressing retrieval of a memory (in the presence of a strong retrieval cue) can make it harder to retrieve that memory on a subsequent test. This effect has been replicated numerous times, but the size of the effect is highly variable. Also, it is unclear from a neural mechanistic standpoint why preventing recall of a memory now should impair your ability to recall that memory later. Here, we address both of these puzzles using the idea, derived from computational modeling and studies of synaptic plasticity, that the function relating memory activation to learning is U-shaped, such that moderate levels of memory activation lead to weakening of the memory and higher levels of activation lead to strengthening. According to this view, forgetting effects in the think/no-think paradigm occur when the suppressed item activates moderately during the suppression attempt, leading to weakening; the effect is variable because sometimes the suppressed item activates strongly (leading to strengthening) and sometimes it does not activate at all (in which case no learning takes place). To test this hypothesis, we ran a think/no-think experiment where participants learned word-picture pairs; we used pattern classifiers, applied to fMRI data, to measure how strongly the picture associates were activating when participants were trying not to retrieve these associates, and we used a novel Bayesian curve-fitting procedure to relate this covert neural measure of retrieval to performance on a later memory test. In keeping with our hypothesis, the curve-fitting procedure revealed a nonmonotonic relationship between memory activation (as measured by the classifier) and subsequent memory, whereby moderate levels of activation of the to-be-suppressed item led to diminished performance on the final memory test, and higher levels of activation led to enhanced performance on the final test.
The mammalian hippocampus continues to generate new neurons throughout life. The function of adult-generated neurons remains controversial, but adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus is related to depression. Studies show that neurogenesis in the hippocampus is regulated by antidepressants in both humans and rodents, but no studies have examined the effects of age, sex, or antipsychotic exposure on the relationship between depression, antidepressant exposure, and hippocampal neurogenesis in humans. Hippocampal sections were obtained from the Stanley Medical Research Institute and were immunohistochemically labeled for the immature neuron marker doublecortin and the cell cycle arrest marker p21. We compared the number of cells in the granule cell layer and subgranular zone that expressed these proteins in brains from control subjects (n=12), patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) without psychotic symptoms (n=12), and patients with MDD and psychotic symptoms (n=12). We show here that the density of doublecortin/NeuN expression was increased in MDD patients compared with controls and MDD patients with psychosis, with the effect greater in women. Further, we show that older depressed patients without psychosis had higher levels of p21/NeuN expression and that depressed individuals prescribed antidepressants had higher levels of p21/NeuN expression, but only in older women. We show for the first time that changes in neurogenesis due to prescribed antidepressants or depression are dependent on age, sex, and the presence of antipsychotics or psychotic symptoms.
Translational approaches to study the neural substrates of stress and assess the mechanistic efficacy of novel anti-anxiety agents necessitate the use of stressors with a similar degree of saliency across species. The alpha-2 adrenoreceptor antagonist yohimbine represents an attractive experimental tool owing to its well-documented stress-inducing properties in humans and laboratory species. We investigated the neural substrates engaged by yohimbine in the rat brain by using functional magnetic resonance imaging and mapped their modulation by neurotransmitter systems involved in stress responses. Yohimbine elicited a composite pattern of brain activation, highlighting the recruitment of cortico-striato-thalamic regions and extra-hypothalamic stress neurocircuits. This effect was strongly attenuated by the -2-adrenoceptor agonist medetomidine and by the dopamine (DA) D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390, thus revealing a primary contribution of both norepinephrine and DA on the neurofunctional cascade elicited by the drug. Pretreatment with the corticotrophin-releasing factor type-1 receptor (CRF1R) antagonist CP154,526 produced a region-dependent inhibition of yohimbine-induced activation in the amygdala, striatum, and cingulate cortex, while the orexin type-1 receptor (OX1R) antagonists GSK1059865 robustly inhibited the response in fronto-hippocampal regions as well as in several key components of the extended amygdala. CP154,526 and GSK1059865 did not prevent yohimbine-induced plasma corticosterone release, a finding that corroborates a central origin of the effects mapped. Our findings provide novel insight into the brain substrates and neurochemical mediators engaged by the stress-inducing agent yohimbine. The differential pattern of inhibition produced by CRF1R and OX1R antagonists suggests that these two neuropeptide systems can modulate the functional response to stress via distinct central neural pathways.
Genetic variation in a genomic region on chromosome 15q25.1, which encodes the alpha5, alpha3, and beta4 subunits of the cholinergic nicotinic receptor genes, confers risk to smoking and nicotine dependence (ND). Neural reward-related responses have previously been identified as important factors in the development of drug dependence involving ND. Applying an imaging genetics approach in two cohorts (N=487; N=478) of healthy non-smoking adolescents, we aimed to elucidate the impact of genome-wide significant smoking-associated variants in the CHRNA5-CHRNA3-CHRNB4 gene cluster on reward-related neural responses in central regions such as the striatum, orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and personality traits related to addiction. In both samples, carriers of the rs578776 GG compared with AG/AA genotype showed a significantly lower neural response to reward outcomes in the right ventral and dorsal ACC but not the striatum or the orbitofrontal cortex. Rs578776 was unrelated to neural reward anticipation or reward magnitude. Significantly higher scores of anxiety sensitivity in GG compared with AG/AA carriers were found only in sample 1. Associations with other personality traits were not observed. Our findings suggest that the rs578776 risk variant influences susceptibility to ND by dampening the response of the ACC to reward feedback, without recruiting the striatum or orbitofrontal cortex during feedback or anticipation. Thus, it seems to have a major role in the processing of and behavioral adaptation to changing reward outcomes.
Social defeat stress induces persistent cross-sensitization to psychostimulants, but the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of cross-sensitization remain unclear. One candidate is brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The present research examined whether ventral tegmental area (VTA) BDNF overexpression would prolong the time course of cross-sensitization after a single social defeat stress, which normally produces transient cross-sensitization lasting &lt;1 week. FosB, a classic molecular marker of addiction, was also measured in mesocorticolimbic terminal regions. Separate groups of intact male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent a single episode of social defeat stress or control handling, followed by amphetamine (AMPH) challenge 3 or 14 days later. AMPH cross-sensitization was apparent 3, but not 14, days after stress. Intra-VTA infusion of adeno-associated viral (AAV-BDNF) vector resulted in a twofold increase of BDNF level in comparison to the group receiving the control virus (AAV-GFP), which lasted at least 45 days. Additionally, overexpression of BDNF in the VTA alone increased FosB in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and prefrontal cortex. Fourteen days after viral infusions, a separate group of rats underwent a single social defeat stress or control handling and were challenged with AMPH 14 and 24 days after stress. AAV-BDNF rats exposed to stress showed prolonged cross-sensitization and facilitated sensitization to the second drug challenge. Immunohistochemistry showed that the combination of virally enhanced VTA BDNF, stress, and AMPH resulted in increased FosB in the NAc shell compared with the other groups. Thus, elevation of VTA BDNF prolongs cross-sensitization, facilitates sensitization, and increases FosB in mesocorticolimbic terminal regions. As such, elevated VTA BDNF may be a risk factor for drug sensitivity.
The kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) is the primary target for the endogenous opioid peptide dynorphin (DYN), and KORs reside within brain circuitry underlying the complex integration of information related to different behavioral domains such as motivation, negative affect, and decision-making. Alterations in extended amygdala DYNs and KOR function following chronic alcohol exposure have been shown to mediate escalated alcohol self-administration during acute withdrawal. In addition to excessive alcohol consumption and increased negative affect, other symptoms of alcohol dependence include compromised impulse control. Given that DYN and KOR expressions are dysregulated within prefrontal brain circuitry associated with decision-making and impulse control in alcohol-dependent humans and rodents, and have been shown to modify multiple neurotransmitter systems associated with impulse-control disorders, we hypothesized that KOR activation could contribute to impulsive phenotypes. To test this hypothesis, separate cohorts of male Wistar rats were trained in one of the two animal models of impulsivity: delay-discounting (DD) or stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) tasks, and once stable responding was observed, received intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusions of the KOR agonist U50,488 (0-50g) according to a within-subject dosing regimen. The results demonstrated a dissociable effect of U50,488 on impulsive phenotypes related to intolerance to delay or response inhibition, with selective effects in the SSRT. Furthermore, the pro-impulsive effects of KOR activation were rescued by pretreatment with the KOR antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI). Therefore, KOR activation was shown to induce an impulsive phenotype that was nor-BNI-sensitive. Dysregulation of impulsive behavior by increased DYN/KOR activity could serve to increase vulnerability for the initiation, or perpetuate existing patterns of excessive alcohol abuse and can enhance the probability of relapse in dependent individuals. Furthermore, KOR-mediated impulsivity has implications for numerous neuropsychiatric disorders.
Despite the clinical prevalence of the antidepressant escitalopram, over 30% of escitalopram-treated patients fail to respond to treatment. Recent gene association studies have highlighted a potential link between the drug efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and response to escitalopram. The present studies investigated pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between P-gp and escitalopram. In vitro bidirectional transport studies revealed that escitalopram is a transported substrate of human P-gp. Microdialysis-based pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated that administration of the P-gp inhibitor cyclosporin A resulted in increased brain levels of escitalopram without altering plasma escitalopram levels in the rat, thereby showing that P-gp restricts escitalopram transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in vivo. The tail suspension test (TST) was carried out to elucidate the pharmacodynamic impact of P-gp inhibition on escitalopram effect in a mouse model of antidepressant activity. Pre-treatment with the P-gp inhibitor verapamil enhanced the response to escitalopram in the TST. Taken together, these data indicate that P-gp may restrict the BBB transport of escitalopram in humans, potentially resulting in subtherapeutic brain concentrations in certain patients. Moreover, by verifying that increasing escitalopram delivery to the brain by P-gp inhibition results in enhanced antidepressant-like activity, we suggest that adjunctive treatment with a P-gp inhibitor may represent a beneficial approach to augment escitalopram therapy in depression.
Cognitive deficits are at the crux of why many schizophrenia patients have poor functional outcomes. One of the cognitive symptoms experienced by schizophrenia patients is a deficit in context processing, the ability to use contextual information stored in working memory to adaptively respond to subsequent stimuli. As such, context processing can be thought of as the intersection between working memory and executive control. Although deficits in context processing have been extensively characterized by neuropsychological testing in schizophrenia patients, they have never been effectively translated to an animal model of the disease. To bridge that gap, we trained monkeys to perform the same dot pattern expectancy (DPX) task, which has been used to measure context-processing deficits in human patients with schizophrenia. In the DPX task, the first stimulus in each trial provides the contextual information that subjects must remember in order to appropriately respond to the second stimulus in the trial. We found that administration of ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, in monkeys caused a dose-dependent failure in context processing, replicating in monkeys the same specific pattern of errors committed by patients with schizophrenia when performing the same task. Therefore, our results provide the first evidence that context-processing dysfunction can be modeled in animals. Replicating a schizophrenia-like behavioral performance pattern in monkeys performing the same task used in humans provides a strong bridge to better understand the biological basis for this psychiatric disease and its cognitive manifestations using animal models.
Depressive disorder is often associated with cognitive biases. In this study, we took a unique opportunity to investigate whether trait pessimism could predict vulnerability to stress-induced anhedonia in an animal model of depression. In a series of ambiguous-cue interpretation (ACI) tests, we identified animals displaying 'pessimistic' and 'optimistic' traits. Subsequently, the rats were subjected to chronic restraint, and the trait differences in response to stress were investigated using sucrose preference and ACI tests before, during and after the stress regime. Although stress resulted in anhedonia in both subgroups, it occurred faster and lasted longer in the 'pessimistic' compared with the 'optimistic' animals. Chronic stress exposure also increased the negative judgment bias in rats, although this effect was not dependent on the 'pessimistic' trait. For the first time, we demonstrated a link between cognitive judgment bias and vulnerability to stress-induced anhedonia in an animal model. We also introduced a cognitive biomarker, which may be of value for etiological depression studies.
Animal models are making an increasing contribution to our understanding of the psychology and brain mechanisms underlying behavioral inhibition and impulsivity. The aim here was to develop, for the first time, a mouse analog of the stop-signal reaction time task with high translational validity in order to be able to exploit this species in genetic and molecular investigations of impulsive behaviors. Cohorts of mice were trained to nose-poke to presentations of visual stimuli. Control of responding was manipulated by altering the onset of an auditory 'stop-signal' during the go response. The anticipated systematic changes in action cancellation were observed as stopping was made more difficult by placing the stop-signal closer to the execution of the action. Excitotoxic lesions of medial prefrontal cortex resulted in impaired stopping, while the clinically effective drugs methylphenidate and atomoxetine enhanced stopping abilities. The specific 5-HT2C receptor antagonist SB242084 also led to enhanced response control in this task. We conclude that stop-signal reaction time task performance can be successfully modeled in mice and is sensitive to prefrontal cortex dysfunction and drug treatments in a qualitatively similar manner to humans and previous rat models. Additionally, using this model we show novel and highly discrete effects of 5-HT2C receptor antagonism that suggest manipulation of 5-HT2C receptor function may be of use in correcting maladaptive impulsive behaviors and provide further evidence for dissociable contributions of serotonergic transmission to response control.
Although numerous studies have implicated stress in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, less is known about how the effects of stress interact with genetic, developmental, and/or environmental determinants to promote disease progression. In particular, it has been proposed that in humans, stress exposure in adolescence could combine with a predisposition towards increased stress sensitivity, leading to prodromal symptoms and eventually psychosis. However, the neurobiological substrates for this interaction are not fully characterized. Previous work in our lab has demonstrated that rats born to dams administered with the DNA-methylating agent methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) at gestational day 17 exhibit as adults behavioral and anatomical abnormalities consistent with those observed in patients with schizophrenia. Here, we examined behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stress in the MAM model of schizophrenia. MAM-treated male rats were exposed to acute and repeated footshock stress at prepubertal, peripubteral, and adult ages. Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs), freezing, and corticosterone responses were quantified. We found that juvenile MAM-treated rats emitted significantly more calls, spent more time vocalizing, emitted calls at a higher rate, and showed more freezing in response to acute footshock stress when compared with their saline (SAL) treated counterparts, and that this difference is not present in older animals. In addition, adolescent MAM-treated animals displayed a blunted HPA axis corticosterone response to acute footshock that did not adapt after 10 days of stress exposure. These data demonstrate abnormal stress responsivity in the MAM model of schizophrenia and suggest that these animals are more sensitive to the effects of stress in youth.
Non-invasive functional evaluation of the brain complements structural MRI imaging and has largely supplanted invasive techniques such as awake craniotomy. Techniques used for functional mapping of the brain include BOLD-functional MRI (fMRI), magnetoencephalography (MEG), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We describe the case of a right-handed patient with a lesion centered in the left inferior perirolandic cortex who underwent fMRI, MEG, and TMS on a single day to facilitate maximal lesion resection while preserving eloquent cortex and eloquent white matter tracts.


Both fresh-frozen and formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) human brain tissues are invaluable resources for molecular genetic studies of central nervous system diseases, especially neurodegenerative disorders. To identify the optimal method for DNA extraction from human brain tissue, we compared methods on differently-processed tissues. Fragments of LRRK2 and MAPT (257 bp and 483 bp/245 bp) were amplified for evaluation. We found that for FFPE samples, the success rate of DNA extraction was greater when using a commercial kit than a laboratory-based method (successful DNA extraction from 76% versus 33% of samples). PCR amplicon size and storage period were key factors influencing the success rate of DNA extraction from FFPE samples. In the fresh-frozen samples, the DNA extraction success rate was 100% using either a commercial kit (QIAamp DNA Micro) or a laboratory-based method (sample boiling in 0.1 mol/L NaOH, followed by proteinase K digestion, and then DNA extraction using Chelex-100) regardless of PCR amplicon length or tissue storage time. Although the present results demonstrate that PCR-amplifiable genomic DNA can be extracted from both fresh-frozen and FFPE samples, fresh brain tissue is recommended for DNA extraction in future neuropathological studies.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is one of the most commonly used methods in cognitive neuroscience on humans. In recent decades, fMRI has also been used in the awake monkey experiments to localize functional brain areas and to compare the functional differences between human and monkey brains. Several procedures and paradigms have been developed to maintain proper head fixation and to perform motion control training. In this study, we extended the application of fMRI to awake cats without training, receiving a flickering checkerboard visual stimulus projected to a screen in front of them in a block-design paradigm. We found that body movement-induced non-rigid motion introduced artifacts into the functional scans, especially those around the eye and neck. To correct for these artifacts, we developed two methods: one for general experimental design, and the other for studies of whether a checkerboard task could be used as a localizer to optimize the motion-correction parameters. The results demonstrated that, with proper animal fixation and motion correction procedures, it is possible to perform fMRI experiments with untrained awake cats.









Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is an uncommon but serious disorder with highly variable clinical presentation. Over the past decade, more cases of CVST have been diagnosed more frequently and at an early stage of the disease process. This is mainly attributed to increased awareness by neurologists and the availability of sensitive non-invasive neuro-imaging techniques. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis often affects children, adolescents, and young adults with female preponderance. We report a case of Parkinsonism secondary to deep CVST (DCVST), which recovered completely following treatment. Recognition of DCVST as a cause for Parkinsonism is of paramount importance due to its reversibility and favorable outcome when appropriately managed.
A 17-year-old patient was aggressively attacked and stabbed in the dorsal region of his back by a knife. He was admitted to the emergency room of the Hammoud Hospital University Medical Center, Saida, Lebanon lying in the prone position. The neurological examination revealed that the stabbing object was fixed at the dorsal spine level at the T-7 level, where it was inserted inside the vertebral body. Luckily, the blade of the knife was parallel to the nervous tracts of the spinal cord; thus, he showed no neurological deficits. This case provides an overview of how neurosurgical principles can be applied to trauma patients with spine injuries due to close combat weapons.
Germ cell tumors comprise approximately 2-5% of all childhood brain tumors. They arise predominantly in the pineal and suprasellar region, but may occur throughout the brain. Teratomas are generally divided into gonadal and extragonadal types. A posterior fossa teratoma is a rare occurrence. The focus of this discussion is a 5-year-old boy with posterior fossa teratoma who recovered completely after medical and surgical intervention. We also present his interesting imaging and pathological findings.




Human memory is an important concept in cognitive psychology and neuroscience. Our brain is actively engaged in functions of learning and memorization. Generally, human memory has been classified into 2 groups: short-term/working memory, and long-term memory. Using different memory paradigms and brain mapping techniques, psychologists and neuroscientists have identified 3 memory processes: encoding, retention, and recall. These processes have been studied using EEG and functional MRI (fMRI) in cognitive and neuroscience research. This study reviews previous research reported for human memory processes, particularly brain behavior in memory retention and recall processes with the use of EEG and fMRI. We discuss issues and challenges related to memory research with EEG and fMRI techniques.
This systematic review assesses the effectiveness and safety of aripiprazole for treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The databases of PubMed/MEDLINE and Google Scholar were searched. All the controlled and non-controlled trials of aripiprazole for the treatment of ADHD were included. The latest search was conducted in March 2013. The quality of studies was assessed, and the efficacy and adverse effects were evaluated. Out of 34 relevant retrieved titles, only 2 articles reported randomized double blind controlled clinical trials. None of the controlled trials reported that aripiprazole was effective. However, a very high rate of adverse effects such as weight gain, sedation, and headache were reported. No well-controlled clinical trial was found. In contrary to non-controlled studies, the findings of controlled trials do not support the effectiveness of aripiprazole for treating ADHD. In addition, the high rate of adverse effects suggests that more controlled trials require to be conducted to reach a conclusion.


X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) affects 1% to 3% of the population. XLID subsumes several heterogeneous conditions, all of which are marked by cognitive impairment and reduced adaptive skills. XLID arises from mutations on the X chromosome; to date, 102 XLID genes have been identified. The proteins encoded by XLID genes are involved in higher brain functions, such as cognition, learning and memory, and their molecular role is the subject of intense investigation. Here, we review recent findings concerning a representative group of XLID proteins: the fragile X mental retardation protein; methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 and cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 proteins, which are involved in Rett syndrome; the intracellular signaling molecules of the Rho guanosine triphosphatases family; and the class of cell adhesion molecules. We discuss how XLID gene mutations affect the structure and function of synapses.
In psychiatric disorders, the effect of genetic and environmental factors may converge on molecular pathways and brain circuits related to growth factor functioning. In this review, we describe how disturbances in fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and their receptors influence behavior by affecting brain development. Recently, several studies reported associations of members of the FGF family with psychiatric disorders. FGFs are key candidates to modulate the impact of environmental factors, such as stress. Mutant mice for FGF receptor 1 show schizophrenia-like behaviors that are related to general loss of neurons and postnatal glia dysfunction. Mice lacking FGF2, a FGFR1 ligand, show similar reductions in brain volume and hyperactivity, as well as increased anxiety behaviors. FGFR2 and FGF17 are involved in the development of frontal brain regions and impairments in cognitive and social behaviors, respectively. Moreover, treatment with FGF2 was beneficial for depressive and cognitive measures in several animal studies and one human study. These findings indicate the importance of the FGF system with respect to developing novel etiology-directed treatments for psychopathology.
Despite increasing worldwide experience, the role of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) in the management of cerebral cavernous malformations (CMs) remains controversial. Microsurgical excision of easily accessible CMs is typically safe; therefore, removal remains the gold standard for most of the symptomatic hemispheric lesions. However, there is now sufficient evidence supporting the use of SRS for the difficult cases. Waiting for the cumulative morbidity of the natural history to justify intervention does not serve the patient's interest, therefore, we argue for early radiosurgical intervention. Carefully designed randomized controlled trials might resolve controversies concerning the role of SRS in treating cerebral CMs.
Molding helmet therapy is a widely accepted treatment for positional plagiocephaly that is generally considered to be low risk. Multiple large outcome studies have shown good results, but adverse events are rarely reported. The literature on helmet therapy was reviewed to clarify the clinical experience with associated complications. Although significant complications were extremely rare, there was a large degree of variability in detection of lesser problems such as minor skin irritation. Patients with a primarily brachycephalic morphology may be at higher risk for poorly fitting orthoses. Most reported complications are minor and self-limited. Maintenance of good helmet hygiene appears to be the most effective strategy for reducing or eliminating complications.



The neurosurgical tradition at Jefferson Medical College began in the 19th century with Samuel Gross. In his textbook entitled A System of Surgery, Gross revealed his knowledge of the disorders of the nervous system at a time when innovations were practically inexistent. Gross' work paved the way for William Williams Keen, &quot;America's first brain surgeon.&quot; In 1887, Keen became the first surgeon in the nation to successfully remove a primary brain tumor. In 1893, Keen operated secretly on President Grover Cleveland for removal of an intraoral sarcoma and later served as a consultant to Franklin Roosevelt after he contracted poliomyelitis. The neurosurgery division was established in 1943 by J. Rudolph Jaeger. It was Philip Gordy who created a distinct Department of Neurosurgery in 1969. Jewell L. Osterholm became chairman of the Department of Neurosurgery in 1974. Since 2004, Robert Rosenwasser has served as chairman, and the Department of Neurosurgery at Jefferson has grown to include 26 faculty members. The residency has expanded to include 3 residents per academic year since 2007.
This article will review the recent advances in the understanding of the role of epigenetic modifications and the promise of future epigenetic therapy in neurodegenerative dementias, including Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia.
Psychiatric disorders including major depressive disorder, drug addiction, and schizophrenia are debilitating illnesses with a multitude of complex symptoms underlying each of these disorders. In recent years, it has become appreciated that the onset and development of these disorders goes beyond the one gene-one disease approach. Rather, the involvement of many genes is likely linked to these illnesses, and regulating the activation or silencing of gene function may play a crucial role in contributing to their pathophysiology. Epigenetic modifications such as histone acetylation and deacetylation, as well as DNA methylation can induce lasting and stable changes in gene expression, and have therefore been implicated in promoting the adaptive behavioral and neuronal changes that accompany each of these illnesses. In this review we will discuss some of the latest work implicating a potential role for epigenetics in psychiatric disorders, namely, depression, addiction, and schizophrenia as well as a possible role in treatment.
The acetylation of histone and non-histone proteins controls a great deal of cellular functions, thereby affecting the entire organism, including the brain. Acetylation modifications are mediated through histone acetyltransferases (HAT) and deacetylases (HDAC), and the balance of these enzymes regulates neuronal homeostasis, maintaining the pre-existing acetyl marks responsible for the global chromatin structure, as well as regulating specific dynamic acetyl marks that respond to changes and facilitate neurons to encode and strengthen long-term events in the brain circuitry (e.g., memory formation). Unfortunately, the dysfunction of these finely-tuned regulations might lead to pathological conditions, and the deregulation of the HAT/HDAC balance has been implicated in neurological disorders. During the last decade, research has focused on HDAC inhibitors that induce a histone hyperacetylated state to compensate acetylation deficits. The use of these inhibitors as a therapeutic option was efficient in several animal models of neurological disorders. The elaboration of new cell-permeant HAT activators opens a new era of research on acetylation regulation. Although pathological animal models have not been tested yet, HAT activator molecules have already proven to be beneficial in ameliorating brain functions associated with learning and memory, and adult neurogenesis in wild-type animals. Thus, HAT activator molecules contribute to an exciting area of research.
The pathogenic mechanism(s) contributing to loss of dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) remain obscure. Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) mutations are linked, as a causative gene, to PD. LRRK2 mutations are estimated to account for 10% of familial and between 1 % and 3 % of sporadic PD. LRRK2 proximate single nucleotide polymorphisms have also been significantly associated with idiopathic/sporadic PD by genome-wide association studies. LRRK2 is a multidomain-containing protein and belongs to the protein kinase super-family. We constructed two inducible dopaminergic cell lines expressing either human-LRRK2-wild-type or human-LRRK2-mutant (G2019S). Phenotypes of these LRRK2 cell lines were examined with respect to cell viability, morphology, and protein function with or without induction of LRRK2 gene expression. The overexpression of G2019S gene promoted (1) low cellular metabolic activity without affecting cell viability, (2) blunted neurite extension, and (3) increased phosphorylation at S910 and S935. Our observations are consistent with reported general phenotypes in LRRK2 cell lines by other investigators. We used these cell lines to interrogate the biological function of LRRK2, to evaluate their potential as a drug-screening tool, and to investigate screening for small hairpin RNA-mediated LRRK2 G2019S gene knockdown as a potential therapeutic strategy. A proposed LRRK2 kinase inhibitor (i.e., IN-1) decreased LRRK2 S910 and S935 phosphorylation in our MN9DLRRK2 cell lines in a dose-dependent manner. Lentivirus-mediated transfer of LRRK2 G2019S allele-specific small hairpin RNA reversed the blunting of neurite extension caused by LRRK2 G2019S overexpression. Taken together, these inducible LRRK2 cell lines are suitable reagents for LRRK2 functional studies, and the screening of potential LRRK2 therapeutics.
Understanding how epigenetics influences the process and progress of a stroke could yield new targets and therapeutics for use in the clinic. Experimental evidence suggests that inhibitors of zinc-dependent histone deacetylases can protect neurons, axons, and associated glia from the devastating effects of oxygen and glucose deprivation. While the specific enzymes involved have yet to be clearly identified, there are hints from somewhat selective chemical inhibitors and also from the use of specific small hairpin RNAs to transiently knockdown protein expression. Neuroprotective mechanisms implicated thus far include the upregulation of extracellular glutamate clearance, inhibition of p53-mediated cell death, and maintenance of mitochondrial integrity. The histone deacetylases have distinct cellular and subcellular localizations, and discrete substrates. As a number of chemical inhibitors are already in clinical use for the treatment of cancer, repurposing for the stroke clinic should be expedited.
Physical function was declined in aging as well as sensory function in human. Motor slowness and unbalance gait occur as well as decline of ability visual acuity and hearing let elderly people live in limited daily activity. Psychological functions are also thought to be decline in aging. In International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health(ICF), psychological functions are classified into attention, memory, psychomotor, emotion, perception, thought, higher-level cognitive functions, language, calculation, sequencing complex movements, experience of self and time functions and unspecified functions. It is difficult to assess an individual psychological function itself, because some functions may affect each other and results of evaluations of a psychological function may not represent the meaning of the function. There were numerous reports on physical function in aging in a cross sectional or a longitudinal study design. In this article, we review changes of psychological function in aging.
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra of complex chemical mixtures often contain unresolved or hidden spectral components, especially when strong background signals overlap weaker peaks. In this article we demonstrate a quantum filter utilizing nuclear spin singlet states, which allows undesired NMR spectral background to be removed and target spectral peaks to be uncovered. The quantum filter is implemented by creating a nuclear spin singlet state with spin quantum numbers j=0,mz =0 in a target molecule, applying a continuous RF field to both preserve the singlet state and saturate the magnetization of undesired molecules and then mapping the target molecule singlet state back into an NMR observable state so that its spectrum can be read out unambiguously. The preparation of the target singlet state can be carefully controlled with pulse sequence parameters, so that spectral contrast can be achieved between molecules with very similar structures. We name this NMR contrast mechanism 'Suppression of Undesired Chemicals using Contrast-Enhancing Singlet States' (SUCCESS) and we demonstrate it in vitro for three target molecules relevant to neuroscience: aspartate, threonine and glutamine.

The exact role of intragenic DNA methylation in regulating tissue-specific gene regulation is unclear. Recently, the DNA-binding protein CTCF has been shown to participate in the regulation of alternative splicing in a DNA methylation-dependent manner. To globally evaluate the relationship between DNA methylation and tissue-specific alternative splicing, we performed genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of mouse retina and brain. In protein-coding genes, tissue-specific differentially methylated regions (T-DMRs) were preferentially located in exons and introns. Gene ontology and evolutionary conservation analysis suggest that these T-DMRs are likely to be biologically relevant. More than 14% of alternatively spliced genes were associated with a T-DMR. T-DMR-associated genes were enriched for developmental genes, suggesting that a specific set of alternatively spliced genes may be regulated through DNA methylation. Novel DNA sequences motifs overrepresented in T-DMRs were identified as being associated with positive and/or negative regulation of alternative splicing in a position-dependent context. The majority of these evolutionarily conserved motifs contain a CpG dinucleotide. Some transcription factors, which recognize these motifs, are known to be involved in splicing. Our results suggest that DNA methylation-dependent alternative splicing is widespread and lay the foundation for further mechanistic studies of the role of DNA methylation in tissue-specific splicing regulation.
The purpose of this review is to summarize studies that have examined associations between maternal adiposity prior to and during pregnancy and cognitive and psychiatric problems in offspring. Of the 11 studies published since a 2011 systematic review, four examined cognitive outcomes alone, four assessed psychopathology exclusively, and three reported on both cognitive and psychiatric endpoints. Ten studies provided evidence of a link. These data suggest that the offspring of women who are overweight or obese during pregnancy are at increased risk for cognitive deficits, externalizing problems (particularly attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder), and internalizing psychopathology in childhood and adolescence; however, the effect sizes were small to medium and a definitive causal association remains to be proven.






Vision is important for avoiding encounters with objects in the environment that may imperil physical integrity. We tested whether, in the absence of vision, a lower pain threshold would arise from an adaptive shift to other sensory channels. We therefore measured heat and cold pain thresholds and responses to suprathreshold heat stimuli in 2 groups of congenitally blind and matched normal-sighted participants. We also assessed detection thresholds for innocuous warmth and cold, and participants' attitude toward painful encounters in daily life. Our results show that, compared to sighted subjects, congenitally blind subjects have lower heat pain thresholds, rate suprathreshold heat pain stimuli as more painful, and have increased sensitivity for cold pain stimuli. Thresholds for nonpainful thermal stimulation did not differ between groups. The results of the pain questionnaires further indicated that blind subjects are more attentive to signals of external threats. These findings indicate that the absence of vision from birth induces a hypersensitivity to painful stimuli, lending new support to a model of sensory integration of vision and pain processing.

We have modeled the transition from acute to chronic pain in the rat. In this model (termed hyperalgesic priming) a chronic state develops after a prior inflammatory process or exposure to an inflammatory mediator, in which response to subsequent exposure to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is characterized by a protein kinase C-dependent marked prolongation of mechanical hyperalgesia. To assess the effect of priming on the function of the nociceptor, we have performed in vitro patch clamp and in vivo single-fiber electrophysiology studies using tumor necrosis factor  to induce priming. In vitro, the only change observed in nociceptors cultured from primed animals was a marked hyperpolarization in resting membrane potential (RMP); prolonged sensitization, measured at 60 minutes, could not be tested in vitro. However, complimentary with behavioral findings, in vivo baseline mechanical nociceptive threshold was significantly elevated compared to controls. Thirty minutes after injection of PGE2 into the peripheral receptive field, both primed and control nociceptors showed enhanced response to mechanical stimulation. However, 60 minutes after PGE2 administration, the response to mechanical stimulation was further increased in primed but not in control nociceptors. Thus, at the level of the primary afferent nociceptor, it is possible to demonstrate both altered function at baseline and prolonged PGE2-induced sensitization. Intrathecal antisense (AS) to Kv7.2, which contributes to RMP in sensory neurons, reversibly prevented the expression of priming in both behavioral and single-fiber electrophysiology experiments, implicating these channels in the expression of hyperalgesic priming.
The perception of pain changes as people age. However, how aging affects the quality of pain and whether specific pain-processing brain regions mediate this effect is unclear. We hypothesized that specific structures in the cerebral nociceptive system mediate the effect of aging on the variation in different pain psychophysical measures. We examined the relationships between painful heat stimulation to the foot and both functional magnetic resonance imaging signals and gray matter volume in 23 healthy subjects (aged 2571 years). Increased age was related to decreased subjective ratings of overall pain intensity and the &quot;sharp&quot; quality of pain. Group activation maps of multiple linear regression analyses revealed that age predicted responses in the middle insular cortex (IC) and primary somatosensory cortex (S1) to pain stimuli after controlling for their gray matter volumes. Blood oxygenation level-dependent signals in the contralateral middle IC and S1 were related to ratings of &quot;sharpness,&quot; but not any affective descriptors of pain. Importantly, activity in the contralateral middle IC specifically mediated the effect of age on overall pain perception, whereas activity in the contralateral S1 mediated the relationship between age and sharp sensation to pain. The analyses of gray matter volume revealed that key nociceptive cerebral regions did not undergo significant age-related gray matter loss. However, the volume of the cingulate cortex covaried with pain perception after adjusting for corresponding neural activity to pain. These results suggest that age-related functional alterations in pain-processing regions are responsible for changes in pain perception during normal aging.
We previously discovered that when faced with a challenging cognitive task in the context of pain, some people prioritize task performance, while in others, pain results in poorer performance. These behaviours, designated respectively as A- and P-types (for attention dominates vs pain dominates), may reflect pain coping strategies, resilience or vulnerabilities to develop chronic pain, or predict the efficacy of treatments such as cognitive behavioural therapy. Here, we used a cognitive interference task and pain stimulation in 80 subjects to interrogate psychophysical, psychological, brain structure and function that distinguish these behavioural strategies. During concurrent pain, the A group exhibited faster task reaction times (RTs) compared to nonpain trials, whereas the P group had slower RTs during pain compared to nonpain trials, with the A group being 143 ms faster than the P group. Brain imaging revealed structural and functional brain features that characterized these behavioural strategies. Compared to the performance-oriented A group, the P group had (1) more gray matter in regions implicated in pain and salience (anterior insula, anterior midcingulate cortex, supplementary motor area, orbitofrontal cortex, thalamus, caudate), (2) greater functional connectivity in sensorimotor and salience resting-state networks, (3) less white matter integrity in the internal and external capsule, anterior thalamic radiation and corticospinal tract, but (4) were indistinguishable based on sex, pain sensitivity, neuroticism, and pain catastrophizing. These data may represent neural underpinnings of how task performance vs pain is prioritized and provide a framework for developing personalized pain therapy approaches that are based on behaviour-structure-function organization.
Children born very prematurely (&lt; or =32 weeks) often exhibit visual-perceptual difficulties at school-age, even in the absence of major neurological impairment. The alterations in functional brain activity that give rise to such problems, as well as the relationship between adverse neonatal experience and neurodevelopment, remain poorly understood. Repeated procedural pain-related stress during neonatal intensive care has been proposed to contribute to altered neurocognitive development in these children. Due to critical periods in the development of thalamocortical systems, the immature brain of infants born at extremely low gestational age (ELGA; &lt; or =28 weeks) may have heightened vulnerability to neonatal pain. In a cohort of school-age children followed since birth we assessed relations between functional brain activity measured using magnetoencephalogragy (MEG), visual-perceptual abilities and cumulative neonatal pain. We demonstrated alterations in the spectral structure of spontaneous cortical oscillatory activity in ELGA children at school-age. Cumulative neonatal pain-related stress was associated with changes in background cortical rhythmicity in these children, and these alterations in spontaneous brain oscillations were negatively correlated with visual-perceptual abilities at school-age, and were not driven by potentially confounding neonatal variables. These findings provide the first evidence linking neonatal pain-related stress, the development of functional brain activity, and school-age cognitive outcome in these vulnerable children.
While group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and ionotropic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors regulate nociception, the precise molecular mechanism(s) contributing to glutamate signaling in chronic pain remain unclear. Here we not only confirmed the key involvement of Homer proteins in neuropathic pain, but also distinguished between the functional roles for different Homer family members and isoforms. Chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve induced long-lasting, time-dependent increases in the postsynaptic density expression of the constitutively expressed (CC) isoforms Homer1b/c and/or Homer2a/b in the spinal dorsal horn and supraspinal structures involved in nociception (prefrontal cortex, thalamus), that co-occurred with increases in their associated mGluRs, NR2 subunits of the NMDA receptor, and the activation of downstream kinases. Virus-mediated overexpression of Homer1c and Homer2b after spinal (intrathecal) virus injection exacerbated CCI-induced mechanical and cold hypersensitivity, however, Homer1 and Homer2 gene knockout (KO) mice displayed no changes in their neuropathic phenotype. In contrast, overexpression of the immediate early gene (IEG) Homer1a isoform reduced, while KO of Homer1a gene potentiated neuropathic pain hypersensitivity. Thus, nerve injury-induced increases in CC-Homers expression promote pain in pathological states, but IEG-Homer induction protects against both the development and maintenance of neuropathy. Additionally, exacerbated pain hypersensitivity in transgenic mice with reduced Homer binding to mGluR5 supports also an inhibitory role for Homer interactions with mGluR5 in mediating neuropathy. Such data indicate that nerve injury-induced changes in glutamate receptor/Homer signaling contribute in dynamic but distinct ways to neuropathic pain processing, which has relevance for the etiology of chronic pain symptoms and its treatment.





Tenofovir disoproxyl fumarate is a known cause of kidney tubular dysfunction in HIV-infected patients. Recent studies reported significant association between specific allelic variants in ABCC2, ABCC4 and/or ABCC10 genes and the development of kidney tubular dysfunction in HIV-infected adults. We describe the first 2 cases of vertically HIV-infected patients affected by kidney tubular dysfunction associated with polymorphisms in the ABCC genes.
The pharmacological activity of the novel neuropeptide S (NPS) receptor (NPSR) ligands QA1 and PI1 was investigated. In vitro QA1 and PI1 were tested in calcium mobilization studies performed in HEK293 cells expressing the recombinant mouse (HEK293mNPSR) and human (HEK293hNPSRIle107 and HEK293hNPSRAsn107) NPSR receptors. In vivo the compounds were studied in mouse righting reflex (RR) and locomotor activity (LA) tests. NPS caused a concentration dependent mobilization of intracellular calcium in the three cell lines with high potency (pEC50 8.73-9.14). In inhibition response curve and Schild protocol experiments the effects of NPS were antagonized by QA1 and PI1. QA1 displayed high potency (pKB 9.60-9.82) behaving as a insurmountable antagonist. However in coinjection experiments QA1 produced a rightward swift of the concentration response curve to NPS without modifying its maximal effects; this suggests that QA1 is actually a slow dissociating competitive antagonist. PI1 displayed a competitive type of antagonism and lower values of potencies (pA2 7.74-8.45). In vivo in mice NPS (0.1 nmol, i.c.v.) elicited arousal promoting action in the RR assay and stimulant effects in the LA test. QA1 (30 mgkg(-1)) was able to partially counteract the arousal promoting NPS effects, while PI1 was inactive in the RR test. In the LA test QA1 and PI1 only poorly blocked the NPS stimulant action. The present data demonstrated that QA1 and PI1 act as potent NPSR antagonists in vitro, however their usefulness for in vivo investigations in mice seems limited probably by pharmacokinetic reasons.
One of the most challenging problems facing modern medicine is how to deliver a given drug to a specific target at the exclusion of other regions. For example, a variety of compounds have beneficial effects within the central nervous system (CNS), but unwanted side effects in the periphery. For such compounds, traditional oral or intravenous drug delivery fails to provide benefit without cost. However, intranasal delivery is emerging as a noninvasive option for delivering drugs to the CNS with minimal peripheral exposure. Additionally, this method facilitates the delivery of large and/or charged therapeutics, which fail to effectively cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Thus, for a variety of growth factors, hormones, neuropeptides and therapeutics including insulin, oxytocin, orexin, and even stem cells, intranasal delivery is emerging as an efficient method of administration, and represents a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of diseases with CNS involvement, such as obesity, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, depression, anxiety, autism spectrum disorders, seizures, drug addiction, eating disorders, and stroke.
Genetic and environmental factors seem to interact and influence both the onset and the course of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), but the role of glutamate transporter variants (SLC1A1) in pharmacological resistance is not known. We aimed to assess whether genetic variants in SLC1A1 and life stress at onset of the disorder interact and modulate pharmacological resistance in OCD. A single-marker association study of several single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the SLC1A1 genomic region was performed in a sample of 238 OCD patients. For the most strongly associated SNP (rs3087879), one copy of the risk allele increased the probability of higher treatment resistance (odds ratio=2.42; 95% confidence interval=1.39-4.21; P=0.0018), but only in OCD patients without life stress at onset of the disorder. These results suggest a gene-by-environment interaction effect on treatment resistance in OCD and strengthen the existing evidence of the role of the glutamatergic system in the phenomenology of OCD.
The study of the interaction between nervous and immune systems in the mechanism of psychopathology is an important problem of neuroscience. Catalepsy (freezing reaction) is a passive defensive strategy in response to threatening stimuli. An exaggerated form of catalepsy is a syndrome of some grave mental disorders. Both the brain serotonin (5-HT) and immune systems were shown to be involved in the mechanism of catalepsy. Here we compared the effects of two doses (50 or 200 g/kg, ip) of innate immune system activator, bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), on catalepsy, 5-HT and its main metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the hippocampus, striatum, and midbrain of mice of catalepsy-prone (CBA/Lac and AKR.CBA-D13Mit76) and catalepsy-resistant (AKR/J) strains. The expression of LPS-induced catalepsy as well as 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio in the midbrain and striatum were significantly higher in mice of the catalepsy-prone strains compared with animals of the catalepsy-resistant strains. These results indicated an involvement of the brain 5-HT system in the cataleptogenic effect of LPS and open up new vistas for understanding the nervous-immune mechanism of behavioral disorders.
Recent anatomical and functional studies have renewed interest in the lateral habenula (LHb), a critical brain region that works in an opponent manner to modulate aversive and appetitive processes. In particular, increased LHb activation is believed to drive anxiogenic states during stressful conditions. Here, we reversibly inactivated the LHb with GABA receptor agonists (baclofen/muscimol) in rats prior to testing in an open field, elevated plus maze, and defensive burying task in the presence or absence of yohimbine, a noradrenergic 2-receptor antagonist that acts as an anxiogenic stressor. In a second set of experiments using a cocaine self-administration and reinstatement model, we inactivated the LHb during extinction responding and cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking in the presence or absence of yohimbine pretreatment. Inactivation of the LHb after yohimbine treatment attenuated anxiogenic behavior by increasing time spent in the open arms and reducing the time spent burying. Inactivation of the LHb also reduced cocaine seeking when cue-induced reinstatement occurred in the presence of yohimbine, but did not affect extinction responding or cue-induced reinstatement by itself. These data demonstrate that the LHb critically regulates states of heightened anxiety during both unconditioned behavior and conditioned appetitive processes.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a highly addictive psychostimulant drug of abuse for which no FDA-approved treatment exists. While high on MA, both male and female MA users report engaging in risky behaviors and are more likely to be involved in violent criminal activities and to engage in domestic and sexual violence. A unique aspect of MA is that it is typically used in binges. However, there is no animal model of MA self-administration that appears to represent a human MA self-administration binge. We recently developed a 96-hour MA self-administration paradigm in rats that more closely resembles how human MA users take the drug. Male and female rats were trained to self-administer MA for 96 consecutive hours for 5 weeks. Responding by female and male rats tended to escalate to binge-like behavior, as the animals responded continuously during their normal periods of activity as well as during their inactive periods for up to 72 h, followed by a crash of 6 or more hours. Thus, this 96-hour model of MA self-administration is a novel way to study MA addition in rats that may contribute to the development of improved treatments for recovering human MA users.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors modulate glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission. Our previous pharmacological data indicate that metabotropic receptor 4 (mGlu4) and metabotropic receptor 8 (mGlu8) might have related and overlapping functions. We explored this by analyzing the behavioral phenotypes of mice deficient in either (mGlu4(-/-) or mGlu8(-/-)) or both receptors (mGlu4/8(-/-)). Our analysis focused on measures of anxiety in the open field and elevated zero maze, sensorimotor function on the rotarod and fear conditioning, as mGlu4 and/or mGlu8 were shown to affect performance in these tests. mGlu8(-/-) mice weighed more than mGlu4/8(-/-) mice. In the open field, mGlu4(-/-) mice showed lower levels of anxiety than mGlu8(-/-) and mGlu4/8(-/-) mice. In the elevated zero maze, mGlu4(-/-) mice showed lower levels of anxiety than wild-type, mGlu8(-/-) and mGlu4/8(-/-) mice. In the open field, but not elevated zero maze, mGlu4(-/-) mice showed lower activity levels than wild-type, mGlu8(-/-) and mGlu4/8(-/-) mice. mGlu4/8(-/-) female mice showed less contextual freezing than wild-type and mGlu4(-/-) female mice and there was a trend toward less freezing in male mGlu4/8(-/-) than wild-type male mice. There were no genotype differences in cued fear conditioning. There were significant negative correlations between body weight and fall latency on the rotarod in wild-type, mGlu8(-/-) and mGlu4/8(-/-), but not mGlu4(-/-), mice. These data suggest related functions of mGlu4 and mGlu8 in behavioral performance.
As second-generation antipsychotic long-acting injections (SGA-LAIs) are rapidly replacing depot first-generation antipsychotics as first-line agents in treating schizophrenia spectrum disorders, a systematic assessment of their adverse effects is timely. English-language, peer-reviewed articles reporting original data on the safety and tolerability of SGA-LAIs were identified electronically by searching the MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and DARE databases and the Cochrane Library (January 2001-April 2013). In addition to second-generation (atypical) antipsychotics and long-acting injection (depot) antipsychotics, a separate search was performed for each available drug: aripiprazole LAI, olanzapine pamoate, paliperidone palmitate, and risperidone LAI. Articles were excluded if they were review articles, post hoc analyses, analyses of subsets of patients enrolled in previous trials, single case reports, case series studies, small naturalistic studies (involving less than 50 patients), studies providing no safety data, and studies lasting less than 8 weeks. Of 181 articles identified from the search, 140 were excluded; thus, 41 articles met the inclusion criteria. Predictably, the reviewed information revealed that SGA-LAIs have safety profiles consistent with their oral parent formulations. However, they seem to also show unforeseen and worrisome safety signals. Indeed, the routine use of olanzapine-LAI in clinical practice could be limited not only by the well-known risk of postinjection syndrome, whose clinical management remains a matter of concern, but also by the risk of worsening of psychosis. The reviewed information seems to suggest that worsening of psychotic symptoms and depression could also be associated with both risperidone-LAI and paliperidone palmitate. The leading cause of death among patients enrolled in risperidone-LAI studies was suicide. Given the exponential growth in the clinical use of SGA-LAIs, further studies must be urgently performed in order to confirm or exclude the potential safety signals associated with such drugs.
In this paper, we introduce and study systematically, in terms of phase response curves, the effect of dual-pulse excitation on the dynamics of an autonomous oscillator. Specifically, we test the deviations from linear summation of phase advances resulting from two small perturbations. We analytically derive a correction term, which generally appears for oscillators whose intrinsic dimensionality is &gt;1. The nonlinear correction term is found to be proportional to the square of the perturbation. We demonstrate this effect in the Stuart-Landau model and in various higher dimensional neuronal models. This deviation from the superposition principle needs to be taken into account in studies of networks of pulse-coupled oscillators. Further, this deviation could be used in the verification of oscillator models via a dual-pulse excitation.
We analyze zero-lag and cluster synchrony of delay-coupled nonsmooth dynamical systems by extending the master stability approach, and apply this to networks of adaptive threshold-model neurons. For a homogeneous population of excitatory and inhibitory neurons we find (i) that subthreshold adaptation stabilizes or destabilizes synchrony depending on whether the recurrent synaptic excitatory or inhibitory couplings dominate, and (ii) that synchrony is always unstable for networks with balanced recurrent synaptic inputs. If couplings are not too strong, synchronization properties are similar for very different coupling topologies, i.e., random connections or spatial networks with localized connectivity. We generalize our approach for two subpopulations of neurons with nonidentical local dynamics, including bursting, for which activity-based adaptation controls the stability of cluster states, independent of a specific coupling topology.
Fatigue is one of the most common symptoms experienced by older people, both with and without chronic disease. It is unpleasant and distressing and can affect functioning and quality of life. Fatigue also may inhibit an older person from participating optimally in a physical therapy program aimed at rehabilitation or the promotion of better health. However, confusion surrounds the concept of self-reported aging-related fatigue, not only because of the complexity of the problem itself but also because of lack of clarity of definition and the use of the term &quot;fatigue&quot; to describe a range of different concepts. This article aims to provide clarification of the concept in the context of physical therapist clinical practice. The intention is to increase awareness of the issue among physical therapists, promoting their assessment and consideration of the problem when planning health interventions involving functioning, physical activity, and exercise for older people.
Anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs) stabilize potential disturbances to posture caused by movement. Impaired APAs are common with disease and injury. Brain functions associated with generating APAs remain uncertain due to a lack of paired tasks that require similar limb motion from similar postural orientations, but differ in eliciting an APA while also being compatible with brain imaging techniques (e.g., functional magnetic resonance imaging; fMRI). This study developed fMRI-compatible tasks differentiated by the presence or absence of APAs during leg movement. Eighteen healthy subjects performed two leg movement tasks, supported leg raise (SLR) and unsupported leg raise (ULR), to elicit isolated limb motion (no APA) versus multi-segmental coordination patterns (including APA), respectively. Ground reaction forces under the feet and electromyographic activation amplitudes were assessed to determine the coordination strategy elicited for each task. Results demonstrated that the ULR task elicited a multi-segmental coordination that was either minimized or absent in the SLR task, indicating that it would serve as an adequate control task for fMRI protocols. A pilot study with a single subject performing each task in an MRI scanner demonstrated minimal head movement in both tasks and brain activation patterns consistent with an isolated limb movement for the SLR task versus multi-segmental postural coordination for the ULR task.
Reductions in the levels of the neuropeptide vasopressin (VP) and its receptors have been associated with schizophrenia. VP is also critical for appropriate social behaviors in humans as well as rodents. One of the prominent symptoms of schizophrenia is asociality and these symptoms may develop prodromally. A reduction in event-related potential (ERP) peak amplitudes is an endophenotype of schizophrenia. In this study, we use the Brattleboro (BRAT) rat to assess the role of VP deficiency in vocal communication during early development and on auditory ERPs during adulthood. BRAT rats had similar vocal communication to wild-type littermate controls during postnatal days 2 and 5 but the time between vocalizations was increased and the power of the vocalizations was reduced beginning at postnatal day 9. During adulthood, BRAT rats had deficits in auditory ERPs including reduced N40 amplitude and reduced low and high gamma intertrial coherence. These results suggest that the role of VP on vocal communication is an age-dependent process. Additionally, the deficits in ERPs indicate an impairment of auditory information processing related to the reduction in VP. Therefore, manipulation of the VP system could provide a novel mechanism for treatment for negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
This study examined the effects of 4 weeks of intensive drop jump training in well-trained athletes on jumping performance and underlying changes in biomechanics and neuromuscular adaptations. Nine well-trained athletes at high national competition level within sprinting and jumping disciplines participated in the study. The training was supervised and augmented feedback on performance was used to ensure maximal training intensity. The drop jumps were performed with minimal contact time and maximal jumping height. Assessment of performance during training showed effects of motor learning. Before and after the training intervention maximal isometric muscle strength, the biomechanics, muscle activity pattern of the lower extremities and the soleus H-reflex and V-wave during drop jumping were measured. Maximal jump height and performance index (PI) defined as jumping height divided by contact time improved significantly by 11.9% (P = 0.024) and 16.2% (P = 0.009), respectively. Combined ankle and knee joint peak power was significantly increased by 7% after training (P = 0.047). The preactivity in the soleus muscle decreased 16% (P = 0.015). The soleus H-reflex was unchanged after training, while the soleus V-wave increased significantly at 45 msec after touchdown. This may indicate an increased drive to the -motor neuron pool following training. Muscle strength parameters were unaffected by the training. The results demonstrate that 4 weeks of intensive drop jump training can improve jumping performance also in well-trained athletes without concomitant changes in muscle strength. It is suggested that the behavioral improvement is primarily due to neural factors regulating the activation pattern controlling the drop jump movement.
Using the newly developed voltage-sensitive dye VF2.1.Cl, we monitored simultaneously the spontaneous electrical activity of 80 neurons in a leech ganglion, representing around 20% of the entire neuronal population. Neurons imaged on the ventral surface of the ganglion either fired spikes regularly at a rate of 1-5 Hz or fired sparse spikes irregularly. In contrast, neurons imaged on the dorsal surface, fired spikes in bursts involving several neurons. The overall degree of correlated electrical activity among leech neurons was limited in control conditions but increased in the presence of the neuromodulator serotonin. The spontaneous electrical activity in a leech ganglion is segregated in three main groups: neurons comprising Retzius cells, Anterior Pagoda, and Annulus Erector motoneurons firing almost periodically, a group of neurons firing sparsely and randomly, and a group of neurons firing bursts of spikes of varying durations. These three groups interact and influence each other only weakly.
We have previously demonstrated that Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers (NCXs) potentiate Ca(2+) signaling evoked by thapsigargin in human platelets, via their ability to modulate the secretion of autocoids from dense granules. This link was confirmed in platelets stimulated with the physiological agonist, thrombin, and experiments were performed to examine how Ca(2+) removal by the NCX modulates platelet dense granule secretion. In cells loaded with the near-membrane indicator FFP-18, thrombin stimulation was observed to elicit an NCX-dependent accumulation of Ca(2+) in a pericellular region around the platelets. To test whether this pericellular Ca(2+) accumulation might be responsible for the influence of NCXs over platelet function, platelets were exposed to fast Ca(2+) chelators or had their glycocalyx removed. Both manipulations of the pericellular Ca(2+) rise reduced thrombin-evoked Ca(2+) signals and dense granule secretion. Blocking Ca(2+)-permeable ion channels had a similar effect, suggesting that Ca(2+) exported into the pericellular region is able to recycle back into the platelet cytosol. Single cell imaging with extracellular Fluo-4 indicated that thrombin-evoked rises in extracellular [Ca(2+)] occurred within the boundary described by the cell surface, suggesting their presence within the open canalicular system (OCS). FFP-18 fluorescence was similarly distributed. These data suggest that upon thrombin stimulation, NCX activity creates a rise in [Ca(2+)] within the pericellular region of the platelet from where it recycles back into the platelet cytosol, acting to both accelerate dense granule secretion and maintain the initial rise in cytosolic [Ca(2+)].
Understanding the cognitive and neural processes that underlie human decision making requires the successful prediction of how, but also of when, people choose. Sequential sampling models (SSMs) have greatly advanced the decision sciences by assuming decisions to emerge from a bounded evidence accumulation process so that response times (RTs) become predictable. Here, we demonstrate a difficulty of SSMs that occurs when people are not forced to respond at once but are allowed to sample information sequentially: The decision maker might decide to delay the choice and terminate the accumulation process temporarily, a scenario not accounted for by the standard SSM approach. We developed several SSMs for predicting RTs from two independent samples of an electroencephalography (EEG) and a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. In these studies, participants bought or rejected fictitious stocks based on sequentially presented cues and were free to respond at any time. Standard SSM implementations did not describe RT distributions adequately. However, by adding a mechanism for postponing decisions to the model we obtained an accurate fit to the data. Time-frequency analysis of EEG data revealed alternating states of de- and increasing oscillatory power in beta-band frequencies (14-30 Hz), indicating that responses were repeatedly prepared and inhibited and thus lending further support for the existence of a decision not to decide. Finally, the extended model accounted for the results of an adapted version of our paradigm in which participants had to press a button for sampling more information. Our results show how computational modeling of decisions and RTs support a deeper understanding of the hidden dynamics in cognition.
Memory storage in the brain relies on mechanisms acting on time scales from minutes, for long-term synaptic potentiation, to days, for memory consolidation. During such processes, neural circuits distinguish synapses relevant for forming a long-term storage, which are consolidated, from synapses of short-term storage, which fade. How time scale integration and synaptic differentiation is simultaneously achieved remains unclear. Here we show that synaptic scaling - a slow process usually associated with the maintenance of activity homeostasis - combined with synaptic plasticity may simultaneously achieve both, thereby providing a natural separation of short- from long-term storage. The interaction between plasticity and scaling provides also an explanation for an established paradox where memory consolidation critically depends on the exact order of learning and recall. These results indicate that scaling may be fundamental for stabilizing memories, providing a dynamic link between early and late memory formation processes.
Firing-rate models provide an attractive approach for studying large neural networks because they can be simulated rapidly and are amenable to mathematical analysis. Traditional firing-rate models assume a simple form in which the dynamics are governed by a single time constant. These models fail to replicate certain dynamic features of populations of spiking neurons, especially those involving synchronization. We present a complex-valued firing-rate model derived from an eigenfunction expansion of the Fokker-Planck equation and apply it to the linear, quadratic and exponential integrate-and-fire models. Despite being almost as simple as a traditional firing-rate description, this model can reproduce firing-rate dynamics due to partial synchronization of the action potentials in a spiking model, and it successfully predicts the transition to spike synchronization in networks of coupled excitatory and inhibitory neurons.
The phenomenology and cellular mechanisms of cortical synaptic plasticity are becoming known in increasing detail, but the computational principles by which cortical plasticity enables the development of sensory representations are unclear. Here we describe a framework for cortical synaptic plasticity termed the &quot;Convallis rule&quot;, mathematically derived from a principle of unsupervised learning via constrained optimization. Implementation of the rule caused a recurrent cortex-like network of simulated spiking neurons to develop rate representations of real-world speech stimuli, enabling classification by a downstream linear decoder. Applied to spike patterns used in in vitro plasticity experiments, the rule reproduced multiple results including and beyond STDP. However STDP alone produced poorer learning performance. The mathematical form of the rule is consistent with a dual coincidence detector mechanism that has been suggested by experiments in several synaptic classes of juvenile neocortex. Based on this confluence of normative, phenomenological, and mechanistic evidence, we suggest that the rule may approximate a fundamental computational principle of the neocortex.

Fragile X syndrome is caused by loss of function of a single gene encoding the Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP). This RNA-binding protein, widely expressed in mammalian tissues, is particularly abundant in neurons and is a component of messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) complexes present within the translational apparatus. The absence of FMRP in neurons is believed to cause translation dysregulation and defects in mRNA transport essential for local protein synthesis and for synaptic development and maturation. A prevalent model posits that FMRP is a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein that transports its mRNA targets from the nucleus to the translation machinery. However, it is not known which of the multiple FMRP isoforms, resulting from the numerous alternatively spliced FMR1 transcripts variants, would be involved in such a process. Using a new generation of anti-FMRP antibodies and recombinant expression, we show here that the most commonly expressed human FMRP isoforms (ISO1 and 7) do not localize to the nucleus. Instead, specific FMRP isoforms 6 and 12 (ISO6 and 12), containing a novel C-terminal domain, were the only isoforms that localized to the nuclei in cultured human cells. These isoforms localized to specific p80-coilin and SMN positive structures that were identified as Cajal bodies. The Cajal body localization signal was confined to a 17 amino acid stretch in the C-terminus of human ISO6 and is lacking in a mouse Iso6 variant. As FMRP is an RNA-binding protein, its presence in Cajal bodies suggests additional functions in nuclear post-transcriptional RNA metabolism. Supporting this hypothesis, a missense mutation (I304N), known to alter the KH2-mediated RNA binding properties of FMRP, abolishes the localization of human FMRP ISO6 to Cajal bodies. These findings open unexplored avenues in search for new insights into the pathophysiology of Fragile X Syndrome.


Headache is among the most common disabling pain complaints. While many patients are managed in primary care or referral neurology practices, some patients have refractive situations that necessitate referral to a tertiary headache center. Increasing frequency of headache is strongly associated with increasing disability and workplace absenteeism as well as increased healthcare utilization. Previous studies have demonstrated that headache care in a dedicated tertiary center is associated with a decrease in headache frequency and improvement in other characteristics that persist over extended periods of time. Previous studies have not examined the impact of this treatment on subsequent healthcare utilization and associated expenditures. In this study we examined the changes in healthcare utilization and expenditures as well as the impact on disability and workplace productivity with treatment in a tertiary headache care center that used initial treatment settings of inpatient and outpatient care and considered the difference between those with episodic migraine and those with chronic migraine and its complications. Tertiary care was found to produce positive reductions in disability, healthcare utilization, and expenditures. These results suggest that earlier tertiary-level intervention may avoid the complications of migraine that occur in some patients and the increasing costs and utilization of care associated with higher disability.
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), produced in the intestine and the brain, can stimulate insulin secretion from the pancreas and alleviate type 2 diabetes. The cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) may enhance insulin secretion from -cells by stimulating peripheral GLP-1 production. GLP-1 and its analogs also reduce food intake and body weight, clinically beneficial actions that are likely exerted at the level of the CNS, but otherwise are poorly understood. The cytokines IL-6 and interleukin 1 (IL-1) may exert an anti-obesity effect in the CNS during health. Here we found that central injection of a clinically used GLP-1 receptor agonist, exendin-4, potently increased the expression of IL-6 in the hypothalamus (11-fold) and the hindbrain (4-fold) and of IL-1 in the hypothalamus, without changing the expression of other inflammation-associated genes. Furthermore, hypothalamic and hindbrain interleukin-associated intracellular signals [phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (pSTAT3) and suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS1)] were also elevated by exendin-4. Pharmacologic disruption of CNS IL-1 receptor or IL-6 biological activity attenuated anorexia and body weight loss induced by central exendin-4 administration in a rat. Simultaneous blockade of IL-1 and IL-6 activity led to a more potent attenuation of exendin-4 effects on food intake. Mice with global IL-1 receptor gene knockout or central IL-6 receptor knockdown showed attenuated decrease in food intake and body weight in response to peripheral exendin-4 treatment. GLP-1 receptor activation in the mouse neuronal Neuro2A cell line also resulted in increased IL-6 expression. These data outline a previously unidentified role of the central IL-1 and IL-6 in mediating the anorexic and body weight loss effects of GLP-1 receptor activation.
Climbing fibers, the projections from the inferior olive to the cerebellar cortex, carry sensorimotor error and clock signals that trigger motor learning by controlling cerebellar Purkinje cell synaptic plasticity and discharge. Purkinje cells target the deep cerebellar nuclei, which are the output of the cerebellum and include an inhibitory GABAergic projection to the inferior olive. This pathway identifies a potential closed loop in the olivo-cortico-nuclear network. Therefore, sets of Purkinje cells may phasically control their own climbing fiber afferents. Here, using in vitro and in vivo recordings, we describe a genetically modified mouse model that allows the specific optogenetic control of Purkinje cell discharge. Tetrode recordings in the cerebellar nuclei demonstrate that focal stimulations of Purkinje cells strongly inhibit spatially restricted sets of cerebellar nuclear neurons. Strikingly, such stimulations trigger delayed climbing-fiber input signals in the stimulated Purkinje cells. Therefore, our results demonstrate that Purkinje cells phasically control the discharge of their own olivary afferents and thus might participate in the regulation of cerebellar motor learning.
Profound induction of immediate early genes (IEGs) by neural activation is a critical determinant for plasticity in the brain, but intervening molecular signals are not well characterized. We demonstrate that inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) acts noncatalytically as a transcriptional coactivator to mediate induction of numerous IEGs. IEG induction by electroconvulsive stimulation is virtually abolished in the brains of IPMK-deleted mice, which also display deficits in spatial memory. Neural activity stimulates binding of IPMK to the histone acetyltransferase CBP and enhances its recruitment to IEG promoters. Interestingly, IPMK regulation of CBP recruitment and IEG induction does not require its catalytic activities. Dominant-negative constructs, which prevent IPMK-CBP binding, substantially decrease IEG induction. As IPMK is ubiquitously expressed, its epigenetic regulation of IEGs may influence diverse nonneural and neural biologic processes.
Endothelin signaling is required for neural crest migration and homeostatic regulation of blood pressure. Here, we report that constitutive overexpression of Endothelin-2 (Edn2) in the mouse retina perturbs vascular development by inhibiting endothelial cell migration across the retinal surface and subsequent endothelial cell invasion into the retina. Developing endothelial cells exist in one of two states: tip cells at the growing front and stalk cells in the vascular plexus behind the front. This division of endothelial cell states is one of the central organizing principles of angiogenesis. In the developing retina, Edn2 overexpression leads to overproduction of endothelial tip cells by both morphologic and molecular criteria. Spatially localized overexpression of Edn2 produces a correspondingly localized endothelial response. Edn2 overexpression in the early embryo inhibits vascular development at midgestation, but Edn2 overexpression in developing skin and brain has no discernible effect on vascular structure. Inhibition of retinal angiogenesis by Edn2 requires expression of Endothelin receptor A but not Endothelin receptor B in the neural retina. Taken together, these observations imply that the neural retina responds to Edn2 by synthesizing one or more factors that promote the endothelial tip cell state and inhibit angiogenesis. The response to Edn2 is sufficiently potent that it overrides the activities of other homeostatic regulators of angiogenesis, such as Vegf.
Mitochondria are arbiters in the fragile balance between cell life and death. These organelles present an intricate membrane system, with a peculiar lipid composition and displaying transverse as well as lateral asymmetry. Some lipids are synthesized inside mitochondria, while others have to be imported or acquired in the form of precursors. Here, we review different processes, including external interventions (e.g., diet) and a range of biological events (apoptosis, disease and aging), which may result in alterations of mitochondrial membrane lipid content. Cardiolipin, the mitochondria lipid trademark, whose biosynthetic pathway is highly regulated, will deserve special attention in this review. The modulation of mitochondrial membrane lipid composition, especially by diet, as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of some pathologies will be also addressed.
The glial cells of the cerebellum, and particularly astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, are characterized by a remarkable phenotypic variety, in which highly peculiar morphological features are associated with specific functional features, unique among the glial cells of the entire CNS. Here, we provide a critical report about the present knowledge of the development of cerebellar glia, including lineage relationships between cerebellar neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, the origins and the genesis of the repertoire of glial types, and the processes underlying their acquisition of mature morphological and functional traits. In parallel, we describe and discuss some fundamental roles played by specific categories of glial cells during cerebellar development. In particular, we propose that Bergmann glia exerts a crucial scaffolding activity that, together with the organizing function of Purkinje cells, is necessary to achieve the normal pattern of foliation and layering of the cerebellar cortex. Moreover, we discuss some of the functional tasks of cerebellar astrocytes and oligodendrocytes that are distinctive of cerebellar glia throughout the CNS. Notably, we report about the regulation of synaptic signalling in the molecular and granular layer mediated by Bergmann glia and parenchymal astrocytes, and the functional interaction between oligodendrocyte precursor cells and neurons. On the whole, this review provides an extensive overview of the available literature and some novel insights about the origin and differentiation of the variety of cerebellar glial cells and their function in the developing and mature cerebellum.
The transcription factors, Smad1, Smad5 and Smad8, are the pivotal intracellular effectors of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family of proteins. BMPs and their receptors are expressed in the nervous system (NS) throughout its development. This review focuses on the actions of Smad 1/5/8 in the developing NS. The mechanisms by which these Smad proteins regulate the induction of the neuroectoderm, the central nervous system (CNS) primordium, and finally the neural crest, which gives rise to the peripheral nervous system (PNS), are reviewed herein. We describe how, following neural tube closure, the most dorsal aspect of the tube becomes a signalling centre for BMPs, which directs the pattern of the development of the dorsal spinal cord (SC), through the action of Smad1, Smad5 and Smad8. The direct effects of Smad 1/5/8 signalling on the development of neuronal and non-neuronal cells from various neural progenitor cell populations are then described. Finally, this review discusses the neurodevelopmental abnormalities associated with the knockdown of Smad 1/5/8.
Suicidality is exceedingly prevalent in pain patients. Although the pathophysiology of this link remains unclear, it may be potentially related to the partial congruence of physical and emotional pain systems. The latter system's role in suicide is also conspicuous during setbacks and losses sustained in the context of social attachments. Here we propose a model based on the neural pathways mediating reward and anti-reward (i.e., allostatic adjustment to recurrent activation of the reward circuitry); both are relevant etiologic factors in pain, suicide and social attachments. A comprehensive literature search on neurobiology of pain and suicidality was performed. The collected articles were critically reviewed and relevant data were extracted and summarized within four key areas: (1) physical and emotional pain, (2) emotional pain and social attachments, (3) pain- and suicide-related alterations of the reward and anti-reward circuits as compared to addiction, which is the premier probe for dysfunction of these circuits and (4) mechanistically informed treatments of co-occurring pain and suicidality. Pain-, stress- and analgesic drugs-induced opponent and proponent states of the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathways may render reward and anti-reward systems vulnerable to sensitization, cross-sensitization and aberrant learning of contents and contexts associated with suicidal acts and behaviors. These findings suggest that pain patients exhibit alterations in the brain circuits mediating reward (depressed function) and anti-reward (sensitized function) that may affect their proclivity for suicide and support pain and suicidality classification among other &quot;reward deficiency syndromes&quot; and a new proposal for &quot;enhanced anti-reward syndromes&quot;. We suggest that interventions aimed at restoring the balance between the reward and anti-reward networks in patients with chronic pain may help decreasing their suicide risk.

Bipolar disorder (BD) is associated with deficits in executive function similar to that found in schizophrenia (SZ). However, very few studies have examined whether a specific component of executive function, namely, semantic inhibition, is differentially impaired in BD and SZ. The present study reports the results of a meta-analysis of performance on a theory-driven test of semantic inhibition, namely, the Hayling Sentence Completion Test (HSCT), in patients with BD and SZ, and to examine differential group impairments. The Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Software package was used to calculate the mean effect sizes for group differences on different measures of HSCT. A total of 13 studies were included in the meta-analysis. Effect sizes for six HSCT measures were calculated. These included: Total Latency of Task A, Total Latency of Task B, Suppression Time, Total Error of Task B, Type A Error of Task B, and Type B Error of Task B. When compared with healthy controls, medium-to-large effect sizes were observed in both groups for each HSCT measure. Interestingly, the effect sizes for BD and SZ groups were comparable. These results suggest that patients with SZ and patients with BD are impaired in both task initiation and task inhibition of executive function and these impairments are similar in magnitude for both disorders.
Cannabis is a widely used recreational drug. Its effect on human health and psychosis remains controversial. In this study, we aimed to explore the possibility that cannabis use influenced CCL11 plasma levels. Increased CCL11 chemokine has been reported in schizophrenia and cannabis is a known trigger of schizophrenia. Additionally, plasma levels of the chemokine CCL11 have recently been shown to increase with age and with cognitive deficits and hippocampal neurogenesis. For this study, a total of 87 healthy volunteers (68% men, age range 18-35 years) completed the Cannabis Experience Questionnaire that included information on sociodemographic and morphometric data and provided a blood sample for CCL11 measurement. 'Current users' of cannabis (n=18) had significantly higher CCL11 plasma levels compared to 'past users' (n=33) and 'never users' (n=36) [F(3,84)=3.649; p=0.030]. The latter two groups had similar CCL11 levels. Higher CCL11 plasma levels could not be attributed to gender, age, body mass index, physical activity or use of other legal/illegal drugs. These results suggest that cannabis use increases CCL11 plasma levels and the effects are reversible when cannabis use ceases.
Administration of NMDA receptor antagonists, such as ketamine and MK-801, may induce psychotic-like behaviors in preclinical models of schizophrenia. Ketamine has also been observed to exacerbate psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia patients. However, memantine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist approved for Alzheimer's disease and proposed for antipsychotic augmentation, may challenge this view. To date, the molecular mechanisms by which these NMDA receptor antagonists cause different neurochemical, behavioral, and clinical effects are still a matter of debate. Here, we investigated by molecular imaging whether these agents could differently modulate gene expression and topographical distribution of glutamatergic postsynaptic density (PSD) proteins. We focused on Homer1a/Homer1b/PSD-95 signaling network, which may be implicated in glutamate-dependent synaptic plasticity, as well as in psychosis pathophysiology and treatment. Ketamine (25 and 50mg/kg) and MK-801 (0.8mg/kg) significantly induced the transcripts of immediate-early genes (Arc, c-fos, and Homer1a) in cortical regions compared to vehicle, whereas they reduced Homer1b and PSD-95 expression in cortical and striatal regions. Differently, memantine (5mg/kg) did not increase Homer1a signal compared to vehicle, whereas it induced c-fos in the somatosensory and in the medial agranular cortices. Moreover, memantine did not affect Homer1b and PSD-95 expression. When compared to ketamine and MK-801, memantine significantly increased the expression of c-fos, Homer1b and PSD-95. Overall, ketamine and MK-801 prominently increased Homer1a/Homer1b expression ratio, whereas memantine elicited the opposite effect. These data may support the view that ketamine, MK-801 and memantine exert divergent effects on PSD transcripts, which may contribute to their partially different behavioral and clinical effects.
Cannabidiol (CBD) is a non-psychotomimetic compound from Cannabis sativa plant that produces antipsychotic effects in rodents and humans. It also reverses L-dopa-induced psychotic symptoms and improves motor function in Parkinson's patients. This latter effect raised the possibility that CBD could have beneficial effects on motor related striatal disorders. To investigate this possibility we evaluated if CBD would prevent catalepsy induced by drugs with distinct pharmacological mechanisms. The catalepsy test is largely used to investigate impairments of motor function caused by interference on striatal function. Male Swiss mice received acute pretreatment with CBD (5, 15, 30 or 60mg/kg, ip) 30min prior to the D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.6mg/kg), the non-selective nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-nitro-N-arginine (L-NOARG, 80mg/kg) or the CB1 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (5mg/kg). The mice were tested 1, 2 or 4h after haloperidol, L-NOARG or WIN55,212-2 injection. These drugs significantly increased catalepsy time and this effect was attenuated dose-dependently by CBD. CBD, by itself, did not induce catalepsy. In a second set of experiments the mechanism of CBD effects was investigated. Thirty minutes before CBD (30mg/kg) the animals received the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY100635 (0.1mg/kg). The anticataleptic effect of CBD was prevented by WAY100635. These findings indicate that CBD can attenuate catalepsy caused by different mechanisms (D2 blockade, NOS inhibition and CB1 agonism) via 5-HT1A receptor activation, suggesting that it could be useful in the treatment of striatal disorders.
Cerebral perfusion, also referred to as cerebral blood flow (CBF), is one of the most important parameters related to brain physiology and function. The technique of dynamic-susceptibility contrast (DSC) MRI is currently the most commonly used MRI method to measure perfusion. It relies on the intravenous injection of a contrast agent and the rapid measurement of the transient signal changes during the passage of the bolus through the brain. Central to quantification of CBF using this technique is the so-called arterial input function (AIF), which describes the contrast agent input to the tissue of interest. Due to its fundamental role, there has been a lot of progress in recent years regarding how and where to measure the AIF, how it influences DSC-MRI quantification, what artefacts one should avoid, and the design of automatic methods to measure the AIF. The AIF is also directly linked to most of the major sources of artefacts in CBF quantification, including partial volume effect, bolus delay and dispersion, peak truncation effects, contrast agent non-linearity, etc. While there have been a number of good review articles on DSC-MRI over the years, these are often comprehensive but, by necessity, with limited in-depth discussion of the various topics covered. This review article covers in greater depth the issues associated with the AIF and their implications for perfusion quantification using DSC-MRI.
Inflammation is a physiological response to exogenous and endogenous stimuli and, together with demyelination and immune system activation, is one of the key features of multiple sclerosis (MS). Arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism by cyclooxygenase (COX) and lipoxygenase (LO) enzymes leads to the production of proinflammatory eicosanoids, and stimulates cytokine production and activation of microglia and astrocytes, thereby contributing to MS pathology. Current therapies target the immune system but do not specifically target AA-related inflammatory pathway. Corticosteroids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are frequently associated with immunomodulatory therapies to treat flu-like adverse effects. Few clinical and mounting preclinical data in MS show that AA metabolism contributes to immune system activation, demyelination and motor disabilities, and administration of NSAIDs reduces these symptoms. The beneficial effect of NSAIDs seems to be a prerogative of COX-2 selective inhibitors and suggests that NSAIDs selective for COX-2 may be more effective than mixed COX-1/2 inhibitors.
Cognitive deficits are core to the disability associated with many psychiatric disorders. Both variation in cognition and psychiatric risk show substantial heritability, with overlapping genetic variants contributing to both. Unsurprisingly, therefore, these fields have been mutually beneficial : just as cognitive studies of psychiatric risk variants may identify genes involved in cognition, so too can genome-wide studies based on cognitive phenotypes lead to genes relevant to psychiatric aetiology. The purpose of this review is to consider the main issues involved in the phenotypic characterization of cognition, and to describe the challenges associated with the transition to genomewide approaches. We conclude by describing the approaches currently being taken by the international consortia involving many investigators in the field internationally (e.g. Cognitive Genomics Consortium; COGENT) to overcome these challenges.
Current views on face perception assume that the visual system receives only visual facial signals. However, I show that the visual perception of faces is systematically biased by adaptation to a haptically explored face. Recently, face aftereffects (FAEs; the altered perception of faces after adaptation to a face) have been demonstrated not only in visual perception but also in haptic perception; therefore, I combined the two FAEs to examine whether the visual system receives face-related signals from the haptic modality. I found that adaptation to a haptically explored facial expression on a face mask produced a visual FAE for facial expression. This cross-modal FAE was not due to explicitly imaging a face, response bias, or adaptation to local features. Furthermore, FAEs transferred from vision to haptics. These results indicate that visual face processing depends on substrates adapted by haptic faces, which suggests that face processing relies on shared representation underlying cross-modal interactions.
Humans and nonhuman animals share an approximate number system (ANS) that permits estimation and rough calculation of quantities without symbols. Recent studies show a correlation between the acuity of the ANS and performance in symbolic math throughout development and into adulthood, which suggests that the ANS may serve as a cognitive foundation for the uniquely human capacity for symbolic math. Such a proposition leads to the untested prediction that training aimed at improving ANS performance will transfer to improvement in symbolic-math ability. In the two experiments reported here, we showed that ANS training on approximate addition and subtraction of arrays of dots selectively improved symbolic addition and subtraction. This finding strongly supports the hypothesis that complex math skills are fundamentally linked to rudimentary preverbal quantitative abilities and provides the first direct evidence that the ANS and symbolic math may be causally related. It also raises the possibility that interventions aimed at the ANS could benefit children and adults who struggle with math.
Olfactory experiences represent a domain that is particularly rich in crossmodal associations. Whereas associations between odors and tastes, or other properties of their typical sources such as color or temperature, can be straightforwardly explained by associative learning, other matchings are much harder to explain in these terms, yet surprisingly are shared across individuals: The majority of people, for instance, associate certain odors and auditory features, such as pitch (Belkin, Martin, Kemp, &amp; Gilbert, Psychological Science 8:340-342, 1997; Crisinel &amp; Spence, Chemical Senses 37:151-158, 2012b) or geometrical shapes (Hanson-Vaux, Crisinel, &amp; Spence, Chemical Senses 38:161-166, 2013; Seo, Arshamian, et al., Neuroscience Letters 478:175-178, 2010). If certain odors might indeed have been encountered while listening to certain pieces of music or seeing certain geometrical shapes, these encounters are very unlikely to have been statistically more relevant than others; for this reason, associative learning from regular exposure is ruled out, and thus alternative explanations in terms of metaphorical mappings are usually defended. Here we argue that these associations are not primarily conceptual or linguistic, but are grounded in structural perceptual or neurological determinants. These cases of crossmodal correspondences established between contingent environmental features can be explained as amodal, indirect, and transitive mappings across modalities. Surprising associations between odors and contingent sensory features can be investigated as genuine cases of crossmodal correspondences, akin to other widespread cases of functional correspondences that hold, for instance, between auditory and visual features, and can help reveal the structural determinants weighing on the acquisition of these crossmodal associations.
Stress is a well-known modulator of cognitive functions. These effects are, at least in part, mediated by glucocorticoid stress hormones which act via two receptor types in the brain, glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptors (MR). Here, we examined whether stress affects inhibitory control processes and, if so, whether these effects are mediated by the MR. To this end, healthy participants received 300mg of the MR antagonist spironolactone or a placebo and underwent a stressor (socially evaluated cold pressor test) or a non-stressful control task 90min later. Shortly after the stressor, participants performed a stop-signal task that required them to rapidly suppress a well-established response whenever a tone was presented. Results revealed that stress enhanced response inhibition in the stop-signal task and that this enhancement was abolished by spironolactone. Our results show that stress may facilitate inhibitory control and that these effects depend on MR functioning.
Previous evidence in an animal model of drug self-administration and drug seeking showed that acute oxytocin decreased methamphetamine (meth) seeking in male rats, suggesting potential clinical efficacy for the treatment of psychostimulant addiction. However, based on the well-established role of oxytocin in reproduction and pair bond formation, it is important to know how this effect extrapolates to females. Here, we tested whether oxytocin (1mg/kg, IP) would decrease meth seeking in female rats across various stages of the estrous cycle (Experiment 1). Freely cycling Long Evans female rats self-administered meth (IV) in 2-h daily sessions, followed by daily extinction sessions. Following extinction, rats received oxytocin (0, 0.3, or 1mg/kg, IP) 30min before a meth priming injection (1mg/kg, IP) to assess reinstatement of meth seeking. Next, we examined the effects of oxytocin on motivated meth- and sucrose-taking and seeking in male and female rats. In separate experiments, males and females self-administered meth (Experiment 2) or sucrose (Experiment 3) until responding was stabilized along a fixed ratio (FR) 5 schedule of reinforcement. Subsequently, rats received either oxytocin or vehicle prior to self-administration along a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement. Rats were subsequently tested for cue-, meth-, and stress-induced reinstatement after pretreatment with oxytocin or vehicle. While oxytocin reduced meth seeking in females, we found that estrous cycle stage (as determined from vaginal cytology) did not influence meth-primed reinstatement or the ability of oxytocin to decrease reinstatement of meth seeking. Oxytocin reduced PR responding for meth only in females. Females responded more than males during cue-induced reinstatement of meth and sucrose seeking, and oxytocin reduced this responding only in meth females. In both sexes, oxytocin attenuated meth seeking in response to a meth prime and yohimbine (a pharmacological stressor). The results suggest that oxytocin may have efficacy as a treatment of meth addiction in both sexes; however, females may show greater response to oxytocin treatment for the prevention of relapse.
A stressful episode is thought to be consolidated better because of a stress-induced activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. However, human experimental studies addressing this hypothesis directly are lacking. Thus, we investigated memories of the stressful episode itself. Furthermore, we aimed to determine the influence of stress on recollection and familiarity processes. Participants (n=63) were subjected to a psychosocial stressor (Trier Social Stress Test, TSST) or a newly developed non-stressful control condition (friendly-TSST). During both conditions, they were exposed to a committee and visual stimuli, either bound to the situation (central) or not (peripheral). The next day, participants engaged in unexpected recognition tasks. Negative affect and salivary cortisol concentration increased in stressed but not in control participants. The following day, stressed participants recognized central objects and the committees' faces better than control participants. Furthermore, recollection contributed significantly more to memory performance in stressed than in control participants. Our findings are congruent with the idea of enhanced memory binding under stress combined with enhanced memory consolidation of information acquired during stress. What we remember from a stressful episode appears to be determined by the strength of the association between the stressor and the material to be remembered.
Despite the substantial amount of data supporting a link between HPA-axis functioning and depression, the ontogeny of this association is not known. The aim of the present study was to contribute data on the developmental interface of HPA-axis functioning and depression in girls by testing associations between repeated measures of depression symptoms and cortisol levels in childhood and early adolescence. Girls (N=232) and their mothers, who were participating in a longitudinal study, were interviewed about depression symptoms annually from ages 9 to 12 years. Cortisol was assayed from saliva at ages 10 and 12 years upon arrival to the lab and following administration of the cold pressor task (CPT). Time of day of collection of saliva and level of pubertal development were included as covariates in model testing. Although most girls did not show an increase in cortisol in response to the CPT, lower levels of output during the CPT were associated with higher levels of depression symptoms. These findings were observed only for cortisol levels assessed at age 12 years. Girls with low levels of cortisol output at age 12, and decreases in output from ages 10 to 12, had stable or slightly increasing depression symptoms from ages 9 to 12 years. We conclude that associations between HPA-axis functioning and depression emerge as early as age 12. However, individual differences in cortisol levels at age 12 also were associated with depression symptoms at earlier ages. The data suggest two possibilities: (1) that childhood depression is associated with HPA-axis dysregulation, but that age related changes in the sensitivity or plasticity of the HPA-axis may result in a delay in the emergence of such an association, or (2) that dysregulation of the functioning of the HPA-axis develops following repeated experience of depression symptoms.
Individual response to stress is orchestrated by hypothalamus-pituitary axis corticosteroids, although critically modulated by the central endocannabinoid (eCB) system. Whilst the role of the eCB system in stress response and emotional homeostasis in adult animals has been extensively studied, it has only been scarcely investigated in developing animals. Herein, we aimed to investigate the participation of eCB ligands in the stress responses of neonate rats. Twelve days-old Wistar male rats were exposed to a social challenge (repeated brief isolations from dam and littermates), which resulted in a significant increase in serum corticosterone levels. This stressful social challenge also decreased spontaneous rat pups' behaviours and augmented isolation-induced ultrasonic vocalizations. Notably, a specific decrease in anandamide content (not 2-AG) was observed within the hippocampus (not in the striatum). However, the enhancement of eCB signalling by URB597 administration (0.1mg/kg) did not affect the adrenocortical and behavioural responses to this postnatal social challenge. The influence of gestational stress was also evaluated in the infant offspring of rats dams exposed to restraint stress (PRS, three episodes/day, on gestation days 14 till delivery); however, PRS did not modify neonate responses to this postnatal challenge. Present findings provide evidence for the participation of the eCB system in the acute response to a social challenge in infant male rats. However, the lack of evidences from the pharmacological study encourages the investigation of alternative and/or indirect mechanisms that may participate in the behavioural and endocrine response to stress in developing animals. Further experiments are still needed to clarify the interactions between the HPA axis and the eCB system in stress reactivity at early postnatal stages.
Oxytocin has been shown to affect human social information processing including recognition memory for faces. Here we investigated the neural processes underlying the effect of oxytocin on memorizing own-race and other-race faces in men and women. In a placebo-controlled, double-blind, between-subject study, participants received either oxytocin or placebo before studying own-race and other-race faces. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) during both the study and recognition phase to investigate neural correlates of oxytocin's effect on memory encoding, memory retrieval, and perception. Oxytocin increased the accuracy of familiarity judgments in the recognition test. Neural correlates for this effect were found in ERPs related to memory encoding and retrieval but not perception. In contrast to its facilitating effects on familiarity, oxytocin impaired recollection judgments, but in men only. Oxytocin did not differentially affect own-race and other-race faces. This study shows that oxytocin influences memory, but not perceptual processes, in a face recognition task and is the first to reveal sex differences in the effect of oxytocin on face memory. Contrary to recent findings in oxytocin and moral decision making, oxytocin did not preferentially improve memory for own-race faces.
The possibility to improve socio-emotional behaviors in humans by intranasal administration of synthetic oxytocin (OXT) attracts increasing attention, but its uptake into the brain has never been demonstrated so far. Here we used simultaneous microdialysis in both the dorsal hippocampus and amygdala of rats and mice in combination with concomitant blood sampling from the jugular vein to study the dynamics of the neuropeptide in brain extracellular fluid and plasma after its nasal administration. OXT was found to be increased in microdialysates from both the hippocampus and amygdala with peak levels occurring 30-60min after nasal administration. Despite a similar temporal profile of OXT concentrations in plasma, peripheral OXT is unlikely to contribute to dialysate OXT as calculated from in vitro recovery data, indicating a central route of transport. Moreover, intraperitoneal administration of synthetic OXT in identical amounts caused rapid peak levels in brain dialysates and plasma during the first 30min after treatment and a subsequent return toward baseline. While the precise route(s) of central transport remain to be elucidated, our data provide the first evidence that nasally applied OXT indeed reaches behaviorally relevant brain areas, and this uptake is paralleled by changes in plasma OXT.





Both chronic cough and chronic pain are critical clinical issues in which a large number of patients remain unsatisfied with available treatments. These conditions have considerable effects on sufferers' quality of life, who often show co-morbidities such as anxiety and depression. There is therefore a pressing need to find new effective therapies. The basic neurobiological mechanisms and pathologies of these two conditions show substantial homologies. However, whilst chronic pain has received a great deal of attention over the last few decades, the same cannot be said for the neurological underpinnings of chronic cough. There is a substantial literature around mechanisms of chronic pain which is likely to be useful in advancing knowledge about the pathologies of chronic cough. Here we compare the basic pain and cough pathways, in addition to the clinical features and possible pathophysiologies of each; including mechanisms of peripheral and central sensitisation which may underlie symptoms such as hyperalgesia and allodynia, and hypertussitvity and allotussivity. Due to the substantial overlap that emerges, it is likely that therapies may be effective over both areas.
The concept of placebo response has evolved in the past few years from the clinical trial setting and medical practice to a psychobiological model that gives us important information on how the patient's brain is modified by the psychosocial context around the therapy. In this review, some examples will be given where physiological or pathological conditions are altered following the administration of an inert substance along with verbal instructions tailored to induce expectation of a change, and explanations will be presented with details on neurotransmitter changes and neural pathways activated. Although nothing is known about the biological underpinnings of the placebo response in the respiratory system, this review may help extending the neurobiological investigation of placebos from conditions such as pain and Parkinson's disease to respiratory disorders and symptoms such as cough.


Although mitochondria are best known for being the eukaryotic cell powerhouses, these organelles participate in various cellular functions besides ATP production, such as calcium homoeostasis, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), the intrinsic apoptotic pathway and steroid hormone biosynthesis. The aim of this review was to discuss the putative roles of mitochondria in mammalian sperm function and how they may relate to sperm quality and fertilisation ability, particularly in humans. Although paternal mitochondria are degraded inside the zygote, sperm mitochondrial functionality seems to be critical for fertilisation. Indeed, changes in mitochondrial integrity/functionality, namely defects in mitochondrial ultrastructure or in the mitochondrial genome, transcriptome or proteome, as well as low mitochondrial membrane potential or altered oxygen consumption, have been correlated with loss of sperm function (particularly with decreased motility). Results from genetically engineered mouse models also confirmed this trend. On the other hand, increasing evidence suggests that mitochondria derived ATP is not crucial for sperm motility and that glycolysis may be the main ATP supplier for this particular aspect of sperm function. However, there are contradictory data in the literature regarding sperm bioenergetics. The relevance of sperm mitochondria may thus be associated with their role in other physiological features, particularly with the production of ROS, which in controlled levels are needed for proper sperm function. Sperm mitochondria may also serve as intracellular Ca stores, although their role in signalling is still unclear.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common single-gene disorder characterised by a diverse range of cutaneous, neurological and neoplastic manifestations. It is well recognised that children with NF1 have poor peer interactions and are at risk for deficits in social skills. Few studies, however, have examined social functioning in adults with NF1. We aimed to determine whether adults with NF1 are at greater risk for impairment in social skills and to identify potential risk factors for social skills deficits. We evaluated social skills in 62 adults with NF1 and 39 controls using self-report and observer-report measures of social behaviour. We demonstrate that adults with NF1 exhibit significantly less prosocial behaviour than controls. This deficit was associated with social processing abilities and was more evident in males. The frequency of antisocial behaviour was comparable between the two groups, however was significantly associated with behavioural regulation in the NF1 group. These findings suggest that poor social skills in individuals with NF1 are due to deficits in prosocial behaviour, rather than an increase in antisocial behaviour. This will aid the design of interventions aimed at improving social skills in individuals with NF1.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurological disorder characterized by a developmental regression in motor and speech-language domains. There is, however, limited research on socio-communicative development of affected children before the onset of regression. We analyzed audio-video recordings made by parents of six 9- to 12-month old girls later diagnosed with typical RTT, applying the Inventory of Potential Communicative Acts (IPCA) to identify early communicative forms and functions. Each girl used at least one communicative form (e.g., body movement, eye gaze, or vocalizations) to gain attention and answer, but none were observed to make choices or request information. Varying numbers of children were observed to perform other communicative functions according to the IPCA including social convention, rejecting or requesting an object. Non-verbal forms (e.g., reaching, moving closer, eye contact, smiling) were more common than non-linguistic verbal forms (e.g., unspecified vocalizations, pleasure vocalizations, crying). (Pre-)linguistic verbal forms (e.g., canonical or variegated babbling, proto-words) were not used for communicative purposes. These data suggest that atypical developmental patterns in the socio-communicative domain are evident prior to regression in young individuals later diagnosed with RTT.
There are still many questions about the cognitive flexibility in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) that remain unanswered. The goal of current study was to evaluate cognitive flexibility patterns and their demographic, clinical and behavioral correlates in large sample of children with ASD. A total of 123 children (94 boys and 29 girls) with ASD aged 7-14 years were assessed on the Wisconsin card sorting test (WCST). Findings showed that gender but not age was associated with the cognitive flexibility performance in ASD. Individuals who had more parent-reported language deficits, lower level of intelligence and education, and showed lower daily sleep time or more engagement in solitary instead of social daily activities were more likely to demonstrate perseveration. Findings provide tentative evidence of a link between cognitive flexibility deficits and sociodemographic or clinical child outcomes in ASD.

Myotonic dystrophy (DM1) is a multisystemic disease caused by an expansion of CTG repeats in the region of DMPK, the gene encoding DM protein kinase. The severity of muscle disability in DM1 correlates with the size of CTG expansion. As respiratory failure is one of the main causes of death in DM1, we investigated the correlation between respiratory impairment and size of the (CTG)n repeat in DM1 animal models. Using pressure plethysmography the respiratory function was assessed in control and transgenic mice carrying either 600 (DM600) or &gt;1300 CTG repeats (DMSXL). The statistical analysis of respiratory parameters revealed that both DM1 transgenic mice sub-lines show respiratory impairment compared to control mice. In addition, there is no significant difference in breathing functions between the DM600 and DMSXL mice. In conclusion, these results indicate that respiratory impairment is present in both transgenic mice sub-lines, but the severity of respiratory failure is not related to the size of the (CTG)n expansion.
Conventional methods for monitoring lung function can require complex, or special, gas analysers, and may therefore not be practical in clinical areas such as the intensive care unit (ICU) or operating theatre. The system proposed in this article is a compact and non-invasive system for the measurement and monitoring of lung variables, such as alveolar volume, airway dead space, and pulmonary blood flow. In contrast with conventional methods, the compact apparatus and non-invasive nature of the proposed method could eventually allow it to be used in the ICU, as well as in general clinical settings. We also propose a novel tidal ventilation model using a non-invasive oscillating gas-forcing technique, where both nitrous oxide and oxygen are used as indicator gases. Experimental results are obtained from healthy volunteers, and are compared with those obtained using a conventional continuous ventilation model. Our findings show that the proposed technique can be used to assess lung function, and has several advantages over conventional methods such as compact and portable apparatus, easy usage, and quick estimation of cardiopulmonary variables.



Progressive visual complaints related to visuospatial disorders, and less often to visuoperceptual disorders, may be the presenting and isolated manifestation of a focal degeneration in the posterior cortical areas, called posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). PCA is a clinical syndrome corresponding to a focal variant of Alzheimer's disease in 80% of cases. The predominant dysfunction in the occipitoparietal pathways results in predominant visuospatial disorders, manifesting primarily as dorsal simultanagnosia, alone or associated with other symptoms of Balint's syndrome. PCA is rare and affects young patients who are fully aware of their deficits. Diagnosis of PCA is often delayed, due to insidious onset and development of symptoms, and to poor awareness of the condition in the medical community. An earlier diagnosis requires both better knowledge of PCA among ophthalmologists and neurologists and better recognition of visual complaints, leading to simple bedside tasks that can tackle the syndrome.
Sinusitis is a frequent and very often under-diagnosed condition. Despite the constantly increasing number of antibiotics with improved efficacy, prevention of its complications remains difficult. The prevalence of these complications is estimated at 3.7%. Their clinical presentation is highly variable making the diagnosis difficult and thereby increasing mortality. In this article, historical, epidemiological, pathophysiological, clinical and therapeutic aspects of neuro-ophthalmological complications of sinusitis are reviewed. For didactic reasons, the various complications have been divided into extra-axial, intra-axial, vascular, and orbital. Specific paragraph have been devoted to sinusitis-related bone complications and pain syndromes. It's however obvious that various more or less complex associations of these complications can be seen in daily practice.
Oral narrative retelling is often problematic for children with communicative and neurodevelopmental disorders. However, beyond a suggested role of language level, little is known about the basis of narrative performance. In this study we examine whether oral narrative retelling might be associated not just with language level but also with skills related to nonverbal narrative temporal sequencing. A diagnostically heterogeneous sample of Swedish-speaking children with a full scale IQ &gt;70 was included in the study (N = 55; age 6-9 years). Narrative retelling skills were measured using the three subscores from the bus story test (BST). Independent predictors included (1) temporal sequencing skills according to a picture arrangement test and (2) a language skills factor consisting of definitional vocabulary and receptive grammar. Regression analyses show that language skills predicted BST Sentence Length and Subordinate Clauses subscores, while both temporal sequencing and language were independently linked with the BST Information subscore. When subdividing the sample based on nonverbal temporal sequencing level, a significant subgroup difference was found only for BST Information. Finally, a principal component analysis shows that temporal sequencing and BST Information loaded on a common factor, separately from the language measures. It is concluded that language level is an important correlate of narrative performance more generally in this diagnostically heterogeneous sample, and that nonverbal temporal sequencing functions are important especially for conveying story information. Theoretical and clinical implications are discussed.


Insight has been studied mostly from a clinical perspective. Recently, the focus of this research field shifted to cognitive insight or the ability to monitor and correct the erroneous convictions of individuals. In this study, we investigated the relationship between cognitive insight and prefrontal function during a cognitive task in 30 patients with clinically stable schizophrenia and 30 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. We measured the changes in hemoglobin concentration in the prefrontal and temporal cortical regions during a verbal fluency task (VFT) by using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Cognitive insight was measured using the Beck Cognitive Insight Scale (BCIS). Regional hemodynamic changes were significantly smaller in the schizophrenia group than in the control group in prefrontal and temporal regions, and significant positive relationship was observed between the score of the BCIS self-reflectiveness subscale and right ventrolateral prefrontal and right temporal functions during the VFT. These results suggest that the right ventrolateral prefrontal and temporal cortical regions are associated with cognitive insight in clinically stable patients with schizophrenia and that NIRS is an efficient medical tool for monitoring these characteristics.


Individuals with psychotic disorders are more likely to have vitamin D (VD) deficiency, while evidence suggests VD could have pathophysiological roles. We summarized meta-analytically the available evidence on VD levels in psychotic disorders in comparison with healthy controls and other psychiatric illnesses. We found seven studies, all reporting insufficient VD levels in patients with psychosis. Schizophrenia had a medium effect size for lower VD than healthy controls, and a trend for lower levels than other psychoses. There were non-significant differences between schizophrenia and major depression. No study has investigated the potential psychotropic effects of VD supplementation in patients with psychosis.
Low prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle is associated with reduced sensorimotor gating found in schizophrenia. In rats with breeding-induced low PPI neuregulin (NRG1) methylation was significantly decreased in brain regions associated with this phenotype and with schizophrenia, i.e., the medial prefrontal cortex, the nucleus accumbens, and the ventral hippocampus, while methylation in the amygdala and dorsal hippocampus was less affected. The dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) promoter region showed negligible changes between groups. Rats with low PPI may be used to understand the reduced epigenetic regulation found in schizophrenia, and eventually lead to the development of novel therapies.
Stress has profound impacts on physiology, the brain, cognition and behaviour. In response to stress, the brain initiates several neuromodulatory and endocrine systems. This leads to the release of stress-sensitive mediators, including neuromodulators, hormones and neuropeptides, which in turn feed back on the brain and thus alters cognition and behaviour. As the progress of sophisticated cognitive neuroimaging techniques, cognitive neuroscientists have begun to elucidate the psychological and neural mechanisms underlying detrimental and beneficial effects of stress on emotion, cognition and behaviour in the human brain. Stress-related neuromodulations occur at various stages of information processing, from the initial vigilance, attention, executive functions, learning and memory, and emotion. We reviewed recent advances in cognitive neuroscience of stress and proposed a multidimensional model of stress for better understanding how stress-sensitive neuromodulatory and endocrine systems interplay to impact the brain, cognition and behaviour in humans.
The Remote Associates Test (RAT) is one of the most popular tasks in experimental studies of insight in psychological and neuroscience studies. Since the RAT was originally developed for English-speaking countries, we developed a Japanese version of the RAT. This paper provides a brief overview of the structure of the task based on chunk decomposition using Japanese kanji characters and a list of sets of words as experimental stimuli, with representative data for experimental studies of insight.
The expression of heat shock proteins (HSPs) is a basic and well-conserved cellular response to an array of stresses. These proteins are involved in the repair of cellular damage induced by the stress, which is necessary for the salutary resolution from the insult. Moreover, they confer protection from subsequent insults, which has been coined stress tolerance. Because these proteins are expressed in subcellular compartments, it was thought that their function during stress conditions was circumscribed to the intracellular environment. However, it is now well established that HSPs can also be present outside cells where they appear to display a function different than the well-understood chaperone role. Extracellular HSPs act as alert stress signals priming other cells, particularly of the immune system, to avoid the propagation of the insult and favor resolution. Because the majority of HSPs do not possess a secretory peptide signal, they are likely to be exported by a nonclassic secretory pathway. Different mechanisms have been proposed to explain the export of HSPs, including translocation across the plasma membrane and release associated with lipid vesicles, as well as the passive release after cell death by necrosis. Extracellular HSPs appear in various flavors, including membrane-bound and membrane-free forms. All of these variants of extracellular HSPs suggest that their interactions with cells may be quite diverse, both in target cell types and the activation signaling pathways. This review addresses some of our current knowledge about the release and relevance of extracellular HSPs.



Complex social emotions involve both abstract cognitions and bodily sensations, and individuals may differ on their relative reliance on these. We hypothesized that individuals' descriptions of their feelings during a semi-structured emotion induction interview would reveal two distinct psychological styles-a more abstract, cognitive style and a more body-based, affective style-and that these would be associated with somatosensory neural activity. We examined 28 participants' open-ended verbal responses to admiration- and compassion-provoking narratives in an interview and BOLD activity to the same narratives during subsequent functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning. Consistent with hypotheses, individuals' affective and cognitive word use were stable across emotion conditions, negatively correlated and unrelated to reported emotion strength in the scanner. Greater use of affective relative to cognitive words predicted more activation in SI, SII, middle anterior cingulate cortex and insula during emotion trials. The results suggest that individuals' verbal descriptions of their feelings reflect differential recruitment of neural regions supporting physical body awareness. Although somatosensation has long been recognized as an important component of emotion processing, these results offer 'proof of concept' that individual differences in open-ended speech reflect different processing styles at the neurobiological level. This study also demonstrates SI involvement during social emotional experience.





Numerous stem cell-based therapies are currently under clinical investigation, including the use of neural stem cells (NSCs) as delivery vehicles to target therapeutic agents to invasive brain tumors. The ability to monitor the time course, migration, and distribution of stem cells following transplantation into patients would provide critical information for optimizing treatment regimens. No effective cell-tracking methodology has yet garnered clinical acceptance. A highly promising noninvasive method for monitoring NSCs and potentially other cell types in vivo involves preloading them with ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (USPIOs) to enable cell tracking using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We report here the preclinical studies that led to U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for first-in-human investigational use of ferumoxytol to label NSCs prior to transplantation into brain tumor patients, followed by surveillance serial MRI. A combination of heparin, protamine sulfate, and ferumoxytol (HPF) was used to label the NSCs. HPF labeling did not affect cell viability, growth kinetics, or tumor tropism in vitro, and it enabled MRI visualization of NSC distribution within orthotopic glioma xenografts. MRI revealed dynamic in vivo NSC distribution at multiple time points following intracerebral or intravenous injection into glioma-bearing mice that correlated with histological analysis. Preclinical safety/toxicity studies of intracerebrally administered HPF-labeled NSCs in mice were also performed, and they showed no significant clinical or behavioral changes, no neuronal or systemic toxicities, and no abnormal accumulation of iron in the liver or spleen. These studies support the clinical use of ferumoxytol labeling of cells for post-transplant MRI visualization and tracking.


















Immunotherapy represents an active area of biomedical research to treat cancer, autoimmune diseases, and neurodegenerative disorders. In stroke, recanalization therapy is effective in reducing brain tissue damage after acute ischemic stroke. However, the narrow time window restricts its application for the majority of stroke patients. There is an urgent need to develop adjuvant therapies such as immunotherapy, stem cell replacement, and neuroprotective drugs. A number of molecules have been targeted for immunotherapy in stroke management, including myelin-associated proteins and their receptors, N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptors, cytokines, and cell adhesion molecules. Both active vaccination and passive antibodies were tested in animal models of acute ischemic stroke. However, the mechanisms underlying the efficacy of immunotherapy are different for each target protein. Blocking myelin-associated proteins may enhance neuroplasticity, whereas blocking adhesion molecules may yield neuroprotection by suppressing the immune response after stroke. Although results from animal studies are encouraging, clinical trials using therapeutic antibodies failed to improve stroke outcome due to severe side effects. It remains a challenge to generate specific therapeutic antibodies with minimal side effects on other organs and systems.
Batterer Intervention Programs have been critiqued for failing to incorporate treatment strategies that are supported by neurobiology research. This article reviews findings that have informed the treatment of disorders that are strongly represented among perpetrators of intimate violence, such as addiction, posttraumatic stress disorder, mood, anxiety, and personality disorders. The article argues for an expanded perspective that recognizes the relationships among childhood trauma, emotional regulation impairment, and intimate partner violence. Recommendations and ways to draw on emerging knowledge to invigorate existing programs are provided.
Cognitive reserve (CR) is a concept meant to account for the frequent discrepancy between an individual's measured level of brain pathology and her expected cognitive performance. It is particularly important within the context of aging and dementia, but has wider applicability to all forms of brain damage. As such, it has intimate links to related compensatory and neuroprotective concepts, as well as to the related notion of brain reserve. In this article, we introduce the concept of cognitive reserve and explicate its potential cognitive and neural implementation. We conclude that cognitive reserve is compatible and complementary with many related concepts, but that each much draw sharper conceptual boundaries in order to truly explain preserved cognitive function in the face of aging or brain damage.
A recent study provides an exciting glimpse into the representations of events as they appear in the brain by showing that optogenetic activation of the neural representation of an environment can substitute for the actual experience and produce memories in a manner consistent with natural exposure to stimuli.
We propose that energy balance, glucose homeostasis, and aging are all regulated largely by the same nutrient-sensing neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). Although the central role of these neurons in regulating energy balance is clear, their role in regulating glucose homeostasis has only recently become more clear. This latter function may be most relevant to aging and lifespan by controlling the rate of glucose metabolism. Specifically, glucose-sensing neurons in VMH promote peripheral glucose metabolism, and dietary restriction, by reducing glucose metabolism in these neurons, reduces glucose metabolism of the rest of the body, thereby increasing lifespan. Here we discuss recent studies demonstrating the key role of hypothalamic neurons in driving aging and age-related diseases.

The 2013 Grete Lundbeck European Brain Research Prize was awarded to Ernst Bamberg, Edward Boyden, Karl Deisseroth, Peter Hegemann, Gero Miesenbck, and Georg Nagel 'for their invention and refinement of optogenetics'. Why optogenetics? And why this sextet? To appreciate why, we turn first to some of the core questions of neuroscience and the technical difficulties that long obstructed their resolution.
Voltage-gated calcium ion (CaV) channels convert neuronal activity into rapid intracellular calcium signals to trigger a myriad of cellular responses. Their involvement in major neurological and psychiatric diseases, and importance as therapeutic targets, has propelled interest in subcellular-specific mechanisms that align CaV channel activity to specific tasks. Here, we highlight recent studies that delineate mechanisms controlling the expression of CaV channels at the level of RNA and protein. We discuss the roles of RNA editing and alternative pre-mRNA splicing in generating CaV channel isoforms with activities specific to the demands of individual cells; the roles of ubiquitination and accessory proteins in regulating CaV channel expression; and the specific binding partners that contribute to both pre- and postsynaptic CaV channel function.
The upcoming publication of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), provides an opportunity to revisit the seldom-addressed methodological issues in contemporary psychiatry. We think that DSM widely determines the scientific and clinical orientation of the discipline, and therefore provides a good vantage point to critique the current psychiatric methodology. The main scientific problem is a perseverative attempt at validating descriptively defined disorders that are standardized and simplified to achieve diagnostic reliability. Lack of a single psychiatric phenomenon that is valid, i.e. natural, for initiating any reduction limits research to inductive-probabilistic methods, basically correlational analyses. Furthermore, reduction in psychiatry is typically directed at basic sciences, neglecting general medical diagnoses as possible intermediary correlates. The subcategory &quot;Due to a General Medical Condition&quot; is elusive, and the biopsychosocial approach does no more than strengthen the brain-disease illusion surrounding DSM definitions by justifying psychiatry as a branch of medicine while failing to stipulate detailed medical assessment and discouraging psychopathology-based clinical reasoning. It is therefore no surprise that, although our understanding of the neural basis and mechanisms of behavior has improved along with advances in the neurosciences, not a single DSM disorder has been validated by the discovery of a specific cause, pathophysiology, or structural abnormality since the adoption of the descriptive approach in 1980. New knowledge involves single traits or dimensions of mood, thought, or behavior, none of which are specific to any disorder. The optimum approach today would be to redefine the discipline as neuropsychiatry.







Controlling the position of the nucleus is vital for a number of cellular processes from yeast to humans. In Drosophila nurse cells, nuclear positioning is crucial during dumping, when nurse cells contract and expel their contents into the oocyte. We provide evidence that in nurse cells, continuous filopodia-like actin cables, growing from the plasma membrane and extending to the nucleus, achieve nuclear positioning. These actin cables move nuclei away from ring canals. When nurse cells contract, actin cables associate laterally with the nuclei, in some cases inducing nuclear turning so that actin cables become partially wound around the nuclei. Our data suggest that a perinuclear actin meshwork connects actin cables to nuclei via actin-crosslinking proteins such as the filamin Cheerio. We provide a revised model for how actin structures position nuclei in nurse cells, employing evolutionary conserved machinery.



Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome, a human disease characterized by fibrofolliculomas (hair follicle tumors) as well as a strong predisposition toward the development of pneumothorax, pulmonary cysts, and renal carcinoma, arises from loss-of-function mutations in the folliculin (FLCN) gene. In this study, we show that FLCN regulates lysosome function by promoting the mTORC1-dependent phosphorylation and cytoplasmic sequestration of transcription factor EB (TFEB). Our results indicate that FLCN is specifically required for the amino acid-stimulated recruitment of mTORC1 to lysosomes by Rag GTPases. We further demonstrated that FLCN itself was selectively recruited to the surface of lysosomes after amino acid depletion and directly bound to RagA via its GTPase domain. FLCN-interacting protein 1 (FNIP1) promotes both the lysosome recruitment and Rag interactions of FLCN. These new findings define the lysosome as a site of action for FLCN and indicate a critical role for FLCN in the amino acid-dependent activation of mTOR via its direct interaction with the RagA/B GTPases.
Axon guidance plays a key role in establishing neuronal circuitry. The motile tips of growing axons, the growth cones, navigate by responding directionally to guidance cues that pattern the embryonic neural pathways via receptor-mediated signaling. Evidence in vitro in the last decade supports the notion that RNA-based mechanisms contribute to cue-directed steering during axon guidance. Different cues trigger translation of distinct subsets of mRNAs and localized translation provides precise spatiotemporal control over the growth cone proteome in response to localized receptor activation. Recent evidence has now demonstrated a role for localized translational control in axon guidance decisions in vivo.

Biologically plausible strategies for visual scene integration across spatial and temporal domains continues to be a challenging topic. The fundamental question we address is whether classical problems in motion integration, such as the aperture problem, can be solved in a model that samples the visual scene at multiple spatial and temporal scales in parallel. We hypothesize that fast interareal connections that allow feedback of information between cortical layers are the key processes that disambiguate motion direction. We developed a neural model showing how the aperture problem can be solved using different spatial sampling scales between LGN, V1 layer 4, V1 layer 6, and area MT. Our results suggest that multiscale sampling, rather than feedback explicitly, is the key process that gives rise to end-stopped cells in V1 and enables area MT to solve the aperture problem without the need for calculating intersecting constraints or crafting intricate patterns of spatiotemporal receptive fields. Furthermore, the model explains why end-stopped cells no longer emerge in the absence of V1 layer 6 activity (Bolz &amp; Gilbert, 1986), why V1 layer 4 cells are significantly more end-stopped than V1 layer 6 cells (Pack, Livingstone, Duffy, &amp; Born, 2003), and how it is possible to have a solution to the aperture problem in area MT with no solution in V1 in the presence of driving feedback. In summary, while much research in the field focuses on how a laminar architecture can give rise to complicated spatiotemporal receptive fields to solve problems in the motion domain, we show that one can reframe motion integration as an emergent property of multiscale sampling achieved concurrently within lamina and across multiple visual areas.

The discovery of small RNA molecules with the capacity to regulate messenger RNA (mRNA) stability and translation (and consequently protein synthesis) has revealed an additional level of post-transcriptional gene control. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), an evolutionarily conserved class of small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally by base pairing to complementary sequences in the 3' untranslated regions of target mRNAs, are part of this modulatory RNA network playing a pivotal role in cell fate. Functional studies indicate that miRNAs are involved in the regulation of almost every biological pathway, while changes in miRNA expression are associated with several human pathologies, including cancer. By targeting oncogenes and tumor suppressors, miRNAs have the ability to modulate key cellular processes that define the cell phenotype, making them highly promising therapeutic targets. Over the last few years, miRNA-based anti-cancer therapeutic approaches have been exploited, either alone or in combination with standard targeted therapies, aiming at enhancing tumor cell killing and, ideally, promoting tumor regression and disease remission. Here we provide an overview on the involvement of miRNAs in cancer pathology, emphasizing the mechanisms of miRNA regulation. Strategies for modulating miRNA expression are presented and illustrated with representative examples of their application in a therapeutic context.
Recent studies focussing on neuroimaging features of eating disorders have observed that anorexia nervosa (AN) is characterized by significant grey matter (GM) atrophy in many brain regions, especially in the cerebellum and anterior cingulate cortex. To date, no studies have found GM atrophy in bulimia nervosa (BN) or have directly compared patients with AN and BN. We used voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to characterize brain abnormalities in AN and BN patients, comparing them with each other and with a control group, and correlating brain volume with clinical features. We recruited 17 AN, 13 BN and 14 healthy controls. All subjects underwent high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with a T1-weighted 3D image. VBM analysis was carried out with the FSL-VBM 4.1 tool. We found no global atrophy, but regional GM reduction in AN with respect to controls and BN in the cerebellum, fusiform area, supplementary motor area, and occipital cortex, and in the caudate in BN compared to AN and controls. Both groups of patients had a volumetric increase bilaterally in somatosensory regions with respect to controls, in areas that are typically involved in the sensory-motor integration of body stimuli and in mental representation of the body image. Our VBM study documented, for the first time in BN patients, the presence of volumetric alterations and replicated previous findings in AN patients. We evidenced morphological differences between AN and BN, demonstrating in the latter atrophy of the caudate nucleus, a region involved in reward mechanisms and processes of self-regulation, perhaps involved in the genesis of the binge-eating behaviors of this disorder.
Although brain lactate levels are typically low and difficult to measure, a few previous investigators have reported that brain lactate levels are elevated in patients with bipolar disorder. The present study investigated the distribution of lactate in bipolar and healthy brains using 2D proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging on a 4-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging system. Ratios of the concentration of lactate to N-acetylaspartate, and of lactate to total creatine, were significantly higher in bipolar than in healthy subjects. Lactate signals were primarily localized to the bipolar subjects' caudate and anterior cingulate cortices, components of the frontal-subcortical circuit, suggesting that affective dysregulation may be related to metabolic abnormalities in this network.
The present study aims to investigate the effects of mood stabilizers, lithium (Li) and valproate (VPA), on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the brains of rats subjected to an animal model of mania induced by D-amphetamine (D-AMPH). In the reversal treatment, Wistar rats were first given D-AMPH or saline (Sal) for 14 days. Between days 8 and 14, the rats were treated with Li, VPA, or Sal. In the prevention treatment, rats were pretreated with Li, VPA, or Sal. AChE activity was measured in the brain structures (prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum). Li, alone in reversion and prevention treatments, increased AChE activity in the brains of rats. VPA, alone in prevention treatment, increased AChE activity in all brain regions evaluated; in the reversion, only in the prefrontal. However, D-AMPH decreased activity of AChE in the striatum of rats in both the reversion and prevention treatments. VPA was able to revert and prevent this AChE activity alteration in the rat striatum. Our findings further support the notion that the mechanisms of mood stabilizers also involve changes in AChE activity, thus reinforcing the need for more studies to better characterize the role of acetylcholine in bipolar disorder.




Hypomyelination and congenital cataract (HCC, OMIM #610532) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder due to FAM126A mutations characterized by congenital cataract, progressive neurologic impairment, and myelin deficiency in the central and peripheral nervous system. We have identified two novel mutations in three affected members of two unrelated families. Two sibs harbouring a microdeletion causing a premature stop in the protein showed the classical clinical and neuroradiologic HCC picture. The third patient carrying a missense mutation showed a relatively mild clinical picture without peripheral neuropathy. A residual amount of hyccin protein in primary fibroblasts was demonstrated by functional studies indicating that missense mutations are likely to have less detrimental effects if compared with splice-site mutations or deletions that cause the full-blown HCC phenotype, including peripheral nervous system involvement.



GABA-gated chloride channels (GABAARs) trafficking is involved in the regulation of fast inhibitory transmission. Here, we took advantage of a 2(R43Q) subunit mutation linked to epilepsy in humans that considerably reduces the number of GABAARs on the cell surface to better understand the trafficking of GABAARs. Using recombinant expression in cultured rat hippocampal neurons and COS-7 cells, we showed that receptors containing 2(R43Q) were addressed to the cell membrane but underwent clathrin-mediated dynamin-dependent endocytosis. The 2(R43Q)-dependent endocytosis was reduced by GABAAR antagonists. These data, in addition to a new homology model, suggested that a conformational change in the extracellular domain of 2(R43Q)-containing GABAARs increased their internalization. This led us to show that endogenous and recombinant wild-type GABAAR endocytosis in both cultured neurons and COS-7 cells can be amplified by their agonists. These findings revealed not only a direct relationship between endocytosis of GABAARs and a genetic neurological disorder but also that trafficking of these receptors can be modulated by their agonist.
The peptide hormone relaxin is showing potential as a treatment for acute heart failure. Although it is known that relaxin mediates its actions through the G protein-coupled receptor relaxin family peptide receptor 1 (RXFP1), little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which relaxin binding results in receptor activation. Previous studies have highlighted that the unique N-terminal low density lipoprotein class A (LDLa) module of RXFP1 is essential for receptor activation, and it has been hypothesized that this module is the true &quot;ligand&quot; of the receptor that directs the conformational changes necessary for G protein coupling. In this study, we confirmed that an RXFP1 receptor lacking the LDLa module binds ligand normally but cannot signal through any characterized G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. Furthermore, we comprehensively examined the contributions of amino acids in the LDLa module to RXFP1 activity using both gain-of-function and loss-of-function mutational analysis together with NMR structural analysis of recombinant LDLa modules. Gain-of-function studies with an inactive RXFP1 chimera containing the LDLa module of the human LDL receptor (LB2) demonstrated two key N-terminal regions of the module that were able to rescue receptor signaling. Loss-of-function mutations of residues in these regions demonstrated that Leu-7, Tyr-9, and Lys-17 all contributed to the ability of the LDLa module to drive receptor activation, and judicious amino acid substitutions suggested this involves hydrophobic interactions. Our results demonstrate that these key residues contribute to interactions driving the active receptor conformation, providing further evidence of a unique mode of G protein-coupled receptor activation.

Conventional neuro-computing architectures and artificial neural networks have often been developed with no or loose connections to neuroscience. As a consequence, they have largely ignored key features of biological neural processing systems, such as their extremely low-power consumption features or their ability to carry out robust and efficient computation using massively parallel arrays of limited precision, highly variable, and unreliable components. Recent developments in nano-technologies are making available extremely compact and low power, but also variable and unreliable solid-state devices that can potentially extend the offerings of availing CMOS technologies. In particular, memristors are regarded as a promising solution for modeling key features of biological synapses due to their nanoscale dimensions, their capacity to store multiple bits of information per element and the low energy required to write distinct states. In this paper, we first review the neuro- and neuromorphic computing approaches that can best exploit the properties of memristor and scale devices, and then propose a novel hybrid memristor-CMOS neuromorphic circuit which represents a radical departure from conventional neuro-computing approaches, as it uses memristors to directly emulate the biophysics and temporal dynamics of real synapses. We point out the differences between the use of memristors in conventional neuro-computing architectures and the hybrid memristor-CMOS circuit proposed, and argue how this circuit represents an ideal building block for implementing brain-inspired probabilistic computing paradigms that are robust to variability and fault tolerant by design.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a protein enriched in astrocytes, and Tau, a protein abundant in neuronal microtubules, are being widely studied as biomarkers of brain injury, and persistent severity-dependent increases in brain and blood have been reported. Studies on the acute changes of these proteins after blast exposure are limited. Using a mouse model of closely-coupled repeated blast exposures, we have evaluated acute changes in the levels of GFAP and total Tau by Western blotting. Brain levels of GFAP and Tau proteins decreased significantly at 6 h and increased considerably at 24 h after repeated blast exposures. Plasma samples showed a similar initial decrease and later increase over this timeframe. This biphasic pattern points to possible absorption or sequestration of these proteins from plasma immediately after repeated blast exposures. Liver and spleen tissue showed significant increases in the levels of GFAP and Tau protein at 6 and 24 h post-blast exposures whereas semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of liver showed no significant changes in the levels of GFAP or Tau mRNAs. These results suggest that blast exposure causes transient changes in cell membrane integrity in multiple organs leading to abnormal migration of proteins from the tissues to the plasma and vice versa. This transient changes in cell membrane permeability and subsequent bidirectional movement of molecules may contribute to the pathophysiology of TBI and polytrauma after blast exposure.
Both TRPV1 and TRPA1 are non-selective cation channels. They are co-expressed, and interact in sensory neurons such as dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia (TG), and are involved in nociception, being activated by nociceptive stimuli. Immunohistological localization of TRPV1 in vestibular ganglion (VG) neurons has been reported. Although TRPA1 is co-expressed with TRPV1 in DRG and TG neurons, it is unclear whether TRPA1 channels are expressed in VG neurons. Moreover, it is unknown whether TRPV1 and TRPA1 channels are functional in VG neurons. We investigated the expression of TRPV1 and TRPA1 in rat VG neurons by RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and Ca(2+) imaging experiments. Both TRPV1 and TRPA1 RT-PCR products were amplified from the mRNA of rat VG neurons. In situ hybridization experiments showed TRPV1 and TRPA1 mRNA expression in the majority of VG neurons. Immunohistochemistry experiments confirmed TRPV1 protein expression. In Ca(2+) imaging experiments, capsaicin, a TRPV1 agonist, induced a significant increase in intracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) in rat primary cultured VG neurons, which was almost completely blocked by capsazepine, a TRPV1-specific antagonist. Cinnamaldehyde, a TRPA1 agonist, also caused an increase in [Ca(2+)]i, which was completely inhibited by HC030031, a TRPA1-specific antagonist. Moreover, in some VG neurons, a [Ca(2+)]i increase was evoked by both capsaicin and cinnamaldehyde in the same neuron. In summary, our histological and physiological studies reveal that TRPV1 and TRPA1 are expressed in VG neurons. It is suggested that TRPV1 and TRPA1 in VG neurons might participate in vestibular function and/or dysfunction such as vertigo.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible neurodegenerative disease that is characterised by the presence of -amyloid (A) plaques, neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and synaptic loss specifically in brain regions involved in learning and memory such as the neocortex and the hippocampus. A depositions in the form of neuritic plaques trigger activation of microglia that is believed to be a common neuropathological feature of AD brains. As an integral part of the hippocampus, the dentate gyrus (DG) plays an important role in cognitive function. Although post-mortem studies suggest later involvement of the DG into the AD progression, changes in microglia have not been studied in this subfield of the hippocampus. In the present study the numerical density (Nv, #/mm(3)) of both resting (identified by tomato lectin staining) and activated (identified by Mac-1 immunoreactivity) microglia was analysed in the molecular layer (ML) of the DG in the triple transgenic (3xTg-AD) mouse model of AD at different ages (9, 12 and 18 months). The 3xTg-AD mouse model of AD showed a significant increase in the Nv of resting (by 75%) and activated (by 67%) at 18 months of age compared to non-Tg controls. These results indicate a complex microglial remodelling during AD progression.
Converging evidence from cellular, electrophysiological, anatomic, and behavioral studies suggests that the remodeling of synapse structure and function is a critical component of cognition. This modulation of neuroplasticity can be achieved through the actions of numerous extracellular signals. Moreover, it is thought that it is the integration of different extracellular signals regulation of neuroplasticity that greatly influences cognitive function. One group of signals that exerts powerful effects on multiple neurologic processes is estrogens. Classically, estrogens have been described to exert their effects over a period of hours to days. However, there is now increasing evidence that estrogens can rapidly influence multiple behaviors, including those that require forebrain neural circuitry. Moreover, these effects are found in both sexes. Critically, it is now emerging that the modulation of cognition by rapid estrogenic signaling is achieved by activation of specific signaling cascades and regulation of synapse structure and function, cumulating in the rewiring of neural circuits. The importance of understanding the rapid effects of estrogens on forebrain function and circuitry is further emphasized as investigations continue to consider the potential of estrogenic-based therapies for neuropathologies. This review focuses on how estrogens can rapidly influence cognition and the emerging mechanisms that underlie these effects. We discuss the potential sources and the biosynthesis of estrogens within the brain and the consequences of rapid estrogenic-signaling on the remodeling of neural circuits. Furthermore, we argue that estrogens act via distinct signaling pathways to modulate synapse structure and function in a manner that may vary with cell type, developmental stage, and sex. Finally, we present a model in which the coordination of rapid estrogenic-signaling and activity-dependent stimuli can result in long-lasting changes in neural circuits, contributing to cognition, with potential relevance for the development of novel estrogenic-based therapies for neurodevelopmental or neurodegenerative disorders.
Drug-evoked synaptic plasticity in the mesolimbic system reshapes circuit function and drives drug-adaptive behavior. Much research has focused on excitatory transmission in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens (NAc). How drug-evoked synaptic plasticity of inhibitory transmission affects circuit adaptations remains unknown. We found that medium spiny neurons expressing dopamine (DA) receptor type 1 (D1R-MSNs) of the NAc project to the VTA, strongly preferring the GABA neurons of the VTA. Repeated in vivo exposure to cocaine evoked synaptic potentiation at this synapse, occluding homosynaptic inhibitory long-term potentiation. The activity of the VTA GABA neurons was thus reduced and DA neurons were disinhibited. Cocaine-evoked potentiation of GABA release from D1R-MSNs affected drug-adaptive behavior, which identifies these neurons as a promising target for novel addiction treatments.
Integrative semantic processing and mirror-neuron system activation in response to incongruence detection during action observation have so far been investigated only through paradigms that involve unfeasible action endings, introduction of extraneous objects or synthetic pictures. The ecological validity of the reported effects, particularly modulation of the N400 event-related potential (ERP), therefore remains questionable. To address this shortcoming, we investigated the ERPs evoked by physically feasible and naturalistic but unexpected action endings. We hypothesized that in comparison to existing work our more realistic scenarios would elicit slower processing, due to engagement of deeper analysis as opposed to fast detection based on automatic processes. ERPs were recorded in 14 healthy participants in response to 60 sequences, each containing three pictures, the last of which could be an expected or unexpected action ending. The N400 was larger for the first image compared to the others, and the LPP was enhanced for unexpected endings. Source localization implicated anterior fronto-temporal and temporo-parietal junction regions in generation of these potentials. Our findings challenge the view that the N400 universally indices verbal and action-perception incongruence detection, and point to situation-contingent effects which, in the case of subtle violations, are reflected in later activity components, speculatively reflecting recourse to the &quot;mentalizing&quot; system.
Genes and environmental conditions interact in the development of cognitive capacities and each plays an important role in neuropsychiatric disorders such as attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia. Multiple studies have indicated that the gene for the SNARE protein SNAP-25 is a candidate susceptibility gene for ADHD, as well as schizophrenia, while maternal smoking is a candidate environmental risk factor for ADHD. We utilized mice heterozygous for a Snap25 null allele and deficient in SNAP-25 expression to model genetic effects in combination with prenatal exposure to nicotine to explore genetic and environmental interactions in synaptic plasticity and behavior. We show that SNAP-25 deficient mice exposed to prenatal nicotine exhibit hyperactivity and deficits in social interaction. Using a high frequency stimulus electrophysiological paradigm for long-term depression (LTD) induction, we examined the roles of dopaminergic D2 receptors (D2Rs) and cannabinoid CB1 receptors (CB1Rs), both critical for LTD induction in the striatum. We found that prenatal exposure to nicotine in Snap25 heterozygote null mice produced a deficit in the D2R-dependent induction of LTD, although CB1R regulation of plasticity was not impaired. We also show that prenatal nicotine exposure altered the affinity and/or receptor coupling of D2Rs, but not the number of these receptors in heterozygote null Snap25 mutants. These results refine the observations made in the coloboma mouse mutant, a proposed mouse model of ADHD, and illustrate how geneenvironmental influences can interact to perturb neural functions that regulate behavior.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) hold a great promising approach for the treatment of epilepsy owing to their distinctive characteristics and multi-potency. However, there is little research focusing on the multi-potency of BMSCs in the treatment of epilepsy, the present study was designed to examine the influence of genetically engineered BMSCs (GE-BMSCs) on the functional outcome in a rat model of epilepsy. First, Hes1 gene of BMSCs was genetically engineered by RNA interference (RNAi), and then the GABAergic differentiation of GE-BMSCs was tested in vitro. Second, the lithium chloride-pilocarpine induced epileptic rats were administrated with the GE-BMSCs, the behavioral observation and electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring was employed to analyze the functional outcome on the epileptic model at different time points (day 7, day 14, day 21 and day 28), followed by histological verification. In vitro test showed that Hes1 silencing could promote BMSCs to differentiate into GABAergic neuron-like cells. In vivo test showed that GE-BMSCs graft could further improve the functional recovery of the epileptic rats, and the GABAergic differentiation of grafted GE-BMSCs was correlated with the functional recovery. Taken together, these data suggest that GE-BMSCs can improve the functional outcome in a rat model of epilepsy.
The importance of maternal folate consumption for normal development is well established, yet the molecular mechanism linking folate metabolism to development remains poorly understood. The enzyme methionine synthase reductase (Mtrr) is necessary for utilization of methyl groups from the folate cycle. We found that a hypomorphic mutation of the mouse Mtrr gene results in intrauterine growth restriction, developmental delay, and congenital malformations, including neural tube, heart, and placental defects. Importantly, these defects were dependent upon the Mtrr genotypes of the maternal grandparents. Furthermore, we observed widespread epigenetic instability associated with altered gene expression in the placentas of wild-type grandprogeny of Mtrr-deficient maternal grandparents. Embryo transfer experiments revealed that Mtrr deficiency in mice lead to two distinct, separable phenotypes: adverse effects on their wild-type daughters' uterine environment, leading to growth defects in wild-type grandprogeny, and the appearance of congenital malformations independent of maternal environment that persist for five generations, likely through transgenerational epigenetic inheritance.

Starting from a singleton chromanone high throughput screening (HTS) hit, we describe a focused medicinal chemistry optimization effort leading to the identification of a novel series of phenoxymethyl-dihydrothiazolopyridone derivatives as selective positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of the metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptor. These dihydrothiazolopyridones potentiate receptor responses in recombinant systems. In vitro and in vivo drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK) evaluation allowed us to select compound 16a for its assessment in a preclinical animal screen of possible antipsychotic activity. 16a was able to reverse amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in rats in a dose-dependent manner without showing any significant motor impairment or overt neurological side effects at comparable doses. Evolution of our medicinal chemistry program, structure activity, and properties relationships (SAR and SPR) analysis as well as a detailed profile for optimized mGlu5 receptor PAM 16a are described.
While eye-of origin information is normally not accessible to observers, processing of visual information within a monocular channel does contribute to our final percept. Here we investigate if visual information is processed more efficiently when it is contained within a monocular channel or across two eyes and how it affects visual perception. Specifically, we used a bistable apparent motion display, a motion quartet, to investigate the role of eye-specific information in determining perceived motion direction. To an observer, this ambiguous display leads to the perception of either horizontal or vertical motion. We attempted to bias perceived direction by presenting separate spatial halves of the motion quartet to each eye. Our results show that observers were more likely to see horizontal motion when top and bottom halves of the quartet was presented to separate eyes. Similarly, when left and right halves were presented dichoptically, observers reported viewing more vertical motion. This change in proportion of observed motion direction indicates that eye specific information is processed more efficiently and can bias overall perception.
Early exposure to stressful life events plays a significant role in adolescent depression. Clinical studies have identified a number of factors that increase the risk of depression, including sex of the subject, duration of the stressor, and genetic polymorphisms that elevate serotonin levels. In this study we used the maternal separation (MS) model to investigate to what extent these factors interacted during development to manifest in depressive-like behavior in male and female rats. The triadic model of learned helplessness parses depressive-like behavior into aspects of controllable, uncontrollable, and motivational behaviors. This model was used to investigate how the timing of MS between the ages of postnatal day (P) 2-9 and P9-16 interacted with either simultaneous vehicle (saline; 1ml/kg; i.p.) or fluoxetine (10mg/kg) exposure, which was used to enhance serotonin levels; these experiments also compared the effect of a vehicle injection during these developmental periods to a no injection control. Vehicle injections alone increased helplessness in the controllable condition in male rats when injected between P9-16 only, and did not interact further with MS. MS at both ages decreased controllability in male adolescents; females demonstrated an increase in controllability after MS. Elevated serotonin at P2-9 increased escape latencies in male and female control and MS subjects. Fluoxetine exposure at P9-16 increased helplessness in controls. Fluoxetine decreased helplessness in MS males independent of age, but increases helplessness in MS females. This study highlights the importance of age of MS (MS between P2-9 increases helplessness in males more than females), the duration of the stressor (previous results show females are effected by longer MS [P2-20], but not shorter [this study]), and that elevated serotonin increases escape latencies to a greater extent in females.

In the last decade, early-onset of affective illness has been recognized as a major public health problem. However, clinical studies indicate that although children experience the symptoms of anxiety and depression in much the same way as adults, they display and react to those symptoms differently (Bostic et al., 2005). Recently, we have demonstrated that similar differences in symptoms are found also between adult and juvenile rats (Jacobson-Pick and Richter-Levin, 2010). Especially the hippocampus is believed to be vulnerable to stress-related illness, as this brain region has a high density of corticoid receptors. The hippocampus is known to finalize its development, and particularly that of GABA-related functions, into adolescence (Bergmann et al., 1991; Harris et al., 1992; Nurse and Lacaille, 1999; Lopez-Tellez et al., 2004; Jacobson-Pick et al., 2008) and may thus be differentially sensitive to environmental challenges in childhood and in adulthood. In this study we explored the differences in activity and plasticity of the dentate gyrus between pre-pubertal and adult rats in vivo. Furthermore, we have examined the impact of exposure to stress either during pre-puberty or in adulthood on dentate gyrus electrophysiology. In both male and female rats, marked differences were found for intrinsic excitability and local circuit activity between pre-pubertal and adult animals. Exposure to forced swim stress resulted in significant alterations of dentate gyrus activity and plasticity in male rats with differences between adult and pre-pubertal animals. Stress had far less impact on females' dentate electrophysiology. The results are in agreement with the differences in behavioral response to stress between pre-pubertal and adult rats, and with reported differences for the sensitivity of male and female rats in performing hippocampus-dependent tasks under stress, such as the active avoidance task.
Adolescence is a period of significant neurobiological change that occurs as individuals transition from childhood to adulthood. Because the nervous system is in a relatively labile state during this stage of development, it may be especially sensitive to experience-induced plasticity. One such experience that is relatively common to adolescents is the exposure to drugs of abuse, particularly alcohol and psychostimulants. In this review, we highlight recent findings on the long-lasting effects of exposure to these drugs during adolescence in humans as well as in animal models. Whenever possible, our focus is on studies that use comparison groups of adolescent- and adult-exposed subjects as this is a more direct test of the hypothesis that adolescence represents a period of enhanced vulnerability to the effects of drug-induced plasticity. Lastly, we suggest areas of future investigation that are needed and methodological concerns that should be addressed.
Adolescence is a developmental period when many teenagers first drink alcohol and often engage in binge drinking. Early onset of alcohol is linked to increased risk of stress-related disorders in adulthood in humans, suggesting that alcohol may interfere with development of the stress regulatory system. We investigated the effect of voluntary alcohol exposure on corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) peptide-producing cells in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in adolescent male and female rats. These cells are important for the autonomic and behavioral responses to stress, have been implicated in addiction, and change over adolescent development. Animals self-administered sweetened alcohol during early adolescence (postnatal days (PDs) 28-42) and brains were obtained on PD 43 for CRF peptide immunolabeling. Females had fewer CRF immunoreactive (-ir) cells in the CeA compared to males. In both males and females, alcohol self-administration reduced the number of CRF-ir cells in the CeA compared to control conditions in which rats self-administered equivalent levels of sweetened water that did not contain alcohol. Reduced peptide labeling was not observed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, indicating regional specificity of these changes. Alterations within the CRF cell population of the amygdala may have important implications for susceptibility to alcohol and stress disorders during adolescence and later on in life.
Various studies have shown that increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis can predict the onset of adolescent depressive symptomatology. We have previously shown that adolescents making the transition to high school present a significant increase in cortisol levels, the main product of HPA axis activation. In the present study, we evaluated whether a school-based education program developed according to the current state of knowledge on stress in psychoneuroendocrinology decreases cortisol levels and/or depressive symptoms in adolescents making the transition to high school. Participants were 504 Year 7 high school students from two private schools in the Montreal area. Adolescents of one school were exposed to the DeStress for Success Program while adolescents from the other school served as controls. Salivary cortisol levels and depressive symptomatology were measured before, immediately after as well as 3 months after exposure to the program. Measures of negative mood were obtained at baseline in order to determine whether adolescents starting high school with specific negative moods were differentially responsive to the program. The results show that only adolescents starting high school with high levels of anger responded to the intervention with a significant decrease in cortisol levels. Moreover, we found that adolescents who took part in the intervention and showed decreasing cortisol levels following the intervention (responders) were 2.45 times less at risk to suffer from clinical and subclinical depressive states three months post-intervention in comparison to adolescents who showed increasing cortisol levels following the intervention (nonresponders). This study provides the first evidence that a school-based program on stress is effective at decreasing cortisol levels and depressive symptomatology in adolescents making the transition to high school and it helps explain which adolescents are sensitive to the program and what are some of the characteristics of these individuals.
Accumulating evidence suggests that adolescence represents a sensitive period during which social stressors influence adult behavior and stress reactivity. However, relatively little is known about the impact of social stress in adolescence on behaviors or stress reactivity in females. In this study, we exposed adolescent or adult female rats to the repeated social stress of defeat for seven consecutive days. Repeated defeat resulted in distinctly different behavioral repertoires during defeat in adolescent compared to adult female rats. Adolescent females exhibited more play and avoidant behaviors and adult females exhibited more active and aggressive behaviors toward the resident female. Examination of the short-term effects of social defeat using the Porsolt forced swim test (FST) indicated that adolescents, regardless of their exposure to social defeat, showed increased time immobile and decreased time swimming compared to adults. Adolescent rats exposed to defeat also exhibited increased climbing compared to their age-matched nave counterparts. These effects dissipated with age. Interestingly, no effects of defeat were observed in adult females, however, when these females were re-assessed in the FST 30 days after the end of defeat, we observed increased swimming at the expense of climbing. Using exposure to a novel restraint to assess stress reactivity, we found that stress during adolescence and adulthood led to lower basal adrenocorticotropic hormone concentrations and that both stressed and control adolescent groups exhibited a delay in recovery in adulthood compared to stressed and control adult groups. Fos protein analysis further suggested that cortical/thalamic structures serve as potential substrates that mediate these long-term impacts of stress during adolescence. Thus, repeated social stress during adolescence produces different patterns of effects as compared with repeated social stress during adulthood.
Adolescence is the transition from childhood to adulthood, with onset marked by puberty and the offset by relative independence from parents. Across species, it is a time of incredible change that carries increased risks and rewards. The ability of the individual to respond adequately to the mental, physical and emotional stresses of life during this time is a function of both their early environment and their present state. In this article, we focus on the effects that acute threat and chronic stress have on the brain and behavior in humans and rodents. First, we highlight developmental changes in frontolimbic function as healthy individuals transition into and out of adolescence. Second, we examine genetic factors that may enhance susceptibility to stress in one individual over another using translation from genetic mouse models to human neuroimaging. Third, we examine how the timing and nature of stress varies in its impact on brain and behavior. These findings are discussed in the context of implications for adolescent mental health and illness.
Childhood bullying or social stress in adolescent humans is generally considered to increase the risk of developing behavioral disorders like depression in adulthood. Juveniles are hypothesized to be particularly sensitive to stressors in their environment due to the relatively late maturation of brain areas that are targeted by stress such as the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. In our study male adolescent rats were subjected to repeated social defeat on postnatal day (PND) 28, 31 and 34 (experiment 1) or to daily social defeats between PND 35 and 42 (experiment 2). Adolescent rats in experiment 1 were socially housed in pairs with a male of similar age during and after the social defeat. In experiment 2 adolescents were housed either alone or with an age-mate for 7 days (PND 35-42) next to either a highly aggressive or a non-aggressive adult male neighbor with whom a repeated physical interaction was allowed. In experiment 1 the adolescent defeats affected subsequent play behavior with the cage mate. Socially stressed rats more frequently initiated play behavior but also adopted more frequently submissive postures during the play fights. As adults, they seemed to cope behaviorally and physiologically better with a similar exposure to a residential aggressive male rat than unstressed controls. In experiment 2 acute effects of adolescent social stress were studied on neuroplasticity markers like hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis as well as hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. The 2nd experiment also studied long-term effects of the adolescent stress in the response to an adult social defeat. A few acute but minor changes in brain plasticity markers and behavior were observed but these were transient and no behavioral or physiological effects persisted into adulthood. The results from both experiments support the theory developed in the so-called &quot;match-mismatch hypothesis&quot; which claims that the final consequence of childhood adversity depends on how well the early life environment matches the challenges in later life. Socially stressed adolescents are rather resilient to the lasting behavioral and physiological effects of the stress exposure if they are socially housed afterward and have the ability to recover.
The notion that stress plays a role in the etiology of psychotic disorders, especially schizophrenia, is longstanding. However, it is only in recent years that the potential neural mechanisms mediating this effect have come into sharper focus. The introduction of more sophisticated models of the interplay between psychosocial factors and brain function has expanded our opportunities for conceptualizing more detailed psychobiological models of stress in psychosis. Further, scientific advances in our understanding of adolescent brain development have shed light on a pivotal question that has challenged researchers; namely, why the first episode of psychosis typically occurs in late adolescence/young adulthood. In this paper, we begin by reviewing the evidence supporting associations between psychosocial stress and psychosis in diagnosed patients as well as individuals at clinical high risk for psychosis. We then discuss biological stress systems and examine changes that precede and follow psychosis onset. Next, research findings on structural and functional brain characteristics associated with psychosis are presented; these findings suggest that normal adolescent neuromaturational processes may go awry, thereby setting the stage for the emergence of psychotic syndromes. Finally, a model of neural mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of psychosis is presented and directions for future research strategies are explored.
Elevated ethanol use during adolescence, a potentially stressful developmental period, is accompanied by insensitivity to many aversive effects of ethanol relative to adults. Given evidence that supports a role for stress and the kappa opioid receptor (KOR) system in mediating aversive properties of ethanol and other drugs, the present study assessed the role of KOR antagonism by nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) on ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion (CTA) in stressed (exposed to repeated restraint) and non-stressed male rats (Experiment 1), with half of the rats pretreated with nor-BNI before stressor exposure. In Experiment 2, CTA induced by the kappa agonist U62,066 was also compared in stressed and non-stressed adolescents and adults. A highly palatable solution (chocolate Boost) was used as the conditioned stimulus (CS), thereby avoiding the need for water deprivation to motivate consumption of the CS during conditioning. No effects of stress on ethanol-induced CTA were found, with all doses eliciting aversions in adolescents and adults in both stress conditions. However, among stressed subjects, adults given nor-BNI before the repeated stressor displayed blunted ethanol aversion relative to adults given saline at that time. This effect of nor-BNI was not seen in adolescents, findings that support a differential role for the KOR involvement in ethanol CTA in stressed adolescents and adults. Results from Experiment 2 revealed that all doses of U62,066 elicited aversions in non-stressed animals of both ages that were attenuated in stressed animals, findings that support a modulatory role for stress in aversive effects of KOR activation. Collectively, these results suggest that although KOR sensitivity appears to be reduced in stressed subjects, this receptor system does not appear to contribute to age differences in ethanol-induced CTA under the present test circumstances.
Depression is a common outcome for those having experienced early-life stress (ELS). For those individuals, depression typically increases during adolescence and appears to endure into adulthood, suggesting alterations in the development of brain systems involved in depression. Developmentally, the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), a limbic structure associated with reward learning and motivation, typically undergoes dramatic functional change during adolescence; therefore, age-related changes in NAcc function may underlie increases in depression in adolescence following ELS. The current study examined the effects of ELS in 38 previously institutionalized children and adolescents in comparison to a group of 31 youths without a history of ELS. Consistent with previous research, the findings showed that depression was higher in adolescents than children with a history of ELS. Additionally, functional magnetic resonance imaging results showed atypical NAcc development, where the ELS group did not show a typical increase in NAcc reactivity during adolescence. Consequently, the ELS group showed NAcc hypoactivation during adolescence, and lower NAcc reactivity was correlated with higher depression scores. The results have important implications for understanding how ELS may influence increases in depression via neural development during the transition to adolescence and highlight the importance of identifying at-risk individuals in childhood, a potential critical period for depression-targeted intervention.
Steroid hormones, including those produced by the gonads and the adrenal glands, are known to influence brain development during sensitive periods of life. Until recently, most brain organisation was assumed to take place during early stages of development, with relatively little neurogenesis or brain re-organisation during later stages. However, an increasing body of research has shown that the developing brain is also sensitive to steroid hormone exposure during adolescence (broadly defined as the period from nutritional independence to sexual maturity). In this review, we examine how steroid hormones that are produced by the gonads and adrenal glands vary across the lifespan in a range of mammalian and bird species, and we summarise the evidence that steroid hormone exposure influences behavioural and brain development during early stages of life and during adolescence in these two taxonomic groups. Taking a cross-species, comparative perspective reveals that the effects of early exposure to steroid hormones depend upon the stage of development at birth or hatching, as measured along the altricial-precocial dimension. We then review the evidence that exposure to stress during adolescence impacts upon the developing neuroendocrine systems, the brain and behaviour. Current research suggests that the effects of adolescent stress vary depending upon the sex of the individual and type of stressor, and the effects of stress could involve several neural systems, including the serotonergic and dopaminergic systems. Experience of stressors during adolescence could also influence brain development via the close interactions between the stress hormone and gonadal hormone axes. While sensitivity of the brain to steroid hormones during early life and adolescence potentially leaves the developing organism vulnerable to external adversities, developmental plasticity also provides an opportunity for the developing organism to respond to current circumstances and for behavioural responses to influence the future life history of the individual.
Chronic stress is known to modulate cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding densities in corticolimbic structures, in a region-dependent manner; however, the ontogeny of these changes and the degree to which they recover following exposure to stress have yet to be determined. To this extent, we examined both the immediate and sustained effects (following a 40-day recovery period) of a repeated restraint stress paradigm (30-min restraint/day for 10 days) on CB1 receptor binding in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus and amygdala in both adolescent (stress onset at post-natal day [PND] 35) and adult (stress onset at PND 75) male Sprague-Dawley rats. Consistent with previous reports, we found that repeated stress in adult rats resulted in an increase in CB1 receptor binding in the PFC, a reduction in CB1 receptor binding in the hippocampus and no effect in the amygdala. Interestingly, adolescent rats exposed to repeated restraint stress did not show any change in hippocampal CB1 receptor density, but exhibited an upregulation of CB1 receptor binding in both the PFC and amygdala. In adults, a 40-day recovery period resulted in a normalization of CB1 receptor binding in the PFC, and surprisingly a pronounced upregulation of CB1 receptor binding in the hippocampus, possibly indicative of a rebound effect. Adolescents similarly exhibited this rebound increase in hippocampal CB1 receptor binding, despite a lack in immediate downregulation following repeated restraint. Of particular interest, adolescents exposed to stress were found to have a sustained downregulation of prefrontocortical CB1 receptors in adulthood, which may relate to some of the reported sustained behavioral effects of stress in adolescence. Collectively, these data indicate that the effects of chronic stress on cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding are modulated by the age of stress exposure and period of recovery following the cessation of stress.
In adult rodents, endocannabinoids (eCBs) regulate fast glucocorticoid (GC) feedback in the hypothalamus-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis, acting as retrograde messengers that bind to cannabinoid receptors (CB1R) and inhibit glutamate release from presynaptic CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). During the first two weeks of life, rat pups exhibit significant CRH and ACTH responses to stress although the adrenal GC output remains reduced. At the same time, pups also display increased sensitivity to GC feedback, but it is unclear whether eCBs play a role in mediating fast GC feedback in neonatal life. In our studies, we examined the role of eCBs in the rapid suppression of anoxia-induced ACTH release and determined whether eCB action could be modulated by the levels of circulating GCs present at the time of stress. PND8 pups were subjected to 3-min anoxia with AM251, a CB1R blocker, injected 30 min prior to stress onset. The effects of either metyrapone (MET) (a steroidogenic 11 beta-hydroxylase blocker) or methylprednisolone (PRED) (a synthetic GC) pretreatment on AM251 effect and the stress response were evaluated. Treatment with AM251 before stress onset tended to increase overall ACTH and CORT secretion, and also delayed the return to baseline ACTH. The AM251 effect on ACTH in PND8 pups was lost in MET-treated pups, who exhibited high basal and stimulated ACTH release and no CORT response to stress. Methylprednisolone suppressed ACTH stress responses although AM251 still delayed restoration of ACTH levels to the baseline. This suggests that the eCB effect on ACTH secretion in neonates is most evident when there is a dynamic fluctuation of corticosterone levels. Interestingly, AM251 increased basal and stimulated corticosterone secretion in all treatments including MET, suggestive of a direct action of CB1R blockade on adrenal steroidogenesis.
Adolescence is a time of continued brain maturation, particularly in limbic and cortical regions, which undoubtedly plays a role in the physiological and emotional changes coincident with adolescence. An emerging line of research has indicated that stressors experienced during this crucial developmental stage may affect the trajectory of this neural maturation and contribute to the increase in psychological morbidities, such as anxiety and depression, often observed during adolescence. In this review, we discuss the short- and long-term effects of periadolescent stress exposure on the structure and function of the brain. More specifically, we examine how stress at prepubertal and early adolescent stages of development affects the morphological plasticity of limbic and cortical brain regions, as well as the enduring effects of adolescent stress exposure on these brain regions in adulthood. We suggest that, due to a number of converging factors during this period of maturation, the adolescent brain may be particularly sensitive to stress-induced neurobehavioral dysfunctions with important consequences on an individual's immediate and long-term health and well-being.
It is well-known that the onset of puberty is associated with changes in mood as well as cognition. Stress can have an impact on these outcomes, which in many cases, can be more influential in females, suggesting that gender differences exist. The adolescent period is a vulnerable time for the onset of certain psychopathologies, including anxiety disorders, depression and eating disorders, which are also more prevalent in females. One factor which may contribute to stress-triggered anxiety at puberty is the GABAA receptor (GABAR), which is known to play a pivotal role in anxiety. Expression of 4 GABARs increases on the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells at the onset of puberty in the hippocampus, part of the limbic circuitry which governs emotion. This receptor is a sensitive target for the stress steroid 3-OH-5[]-pregnan-20-one or [allo]pregnanolone, which paradoxically reduces inhibition and increases anxiety during the pubertal period (post-natal day 35-44) of female mice in contrast to its usual effect to enhance inhibition and reduce anxiety. Spatial learning and synaptic plasticity are also adversely impacted at puberty, likely a result of increased expression of 4 GABARs on the dendritic spines of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells, which are essential for consolidation of memory. This review will focus on the role of these receptors in mediating behavioral changes at puberty. Stress-mediated changes in mood and cognition in early adolescence may have relevance for the expression of psychopathologies in adulthood.
Relative to other developmental periods, adolescence is characterized by risky decision making, increased perceived stress and heightened reactivity to acute stress. It is also during this time that individuals undergo significant neurodevelopment in brain regions that process decision making and stress. In this review, we summarize what is currently known about stress during adolescence, how it impacts risky decision-making, and how acute stress may exert neurobiological effects on circuitry that subserves decision-making in the developing brain. We conclude by suggesting future research directions that may help the field gain traction on this important, but relatively understudied, question.
The genetic, biological, and environmental backgrounds of an organism fundamentally influence the balance between risk and resilience to stress. Sex, age, and environment transact with responses to trauma in ways that can mitigate or exacerbate the likelihood that post-traumatic stress disorder will develop. Translational approaches to modeling affective disorders in animals will ultimately provide novel treatments and a better understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings behind these debilitating disorders. The extant literature on trauma/stress has focused predominately on limbic and cortical structures that innervate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and influence glucocorticoid-mediated negative feedback. It is through these neuroendocrine pathways that a self-perpetuating fear memory can propagate the long-term effects of early life trauma. Recent work incorporating translational approaches has provided novel pathways that can be influenced by early life stress, such as the glucocorticoid receptor chaperones, including FKBP51. Animal models of stress have differing effects on behavior and endocrine pathways; however, complete models replicating clinical characteristics of risk and resilience have not been rigorously studied. This review discusses a four-factor model that considers the importance of studying both risk and resilience in understanding the developmental response to trauma/stress. Consideration of the multifactorial nature of clinical populations in the design of preclinical models and the application of preclinical findings to clinical treatment approaches comprise the core of translational reciprocity, which is discussed in the context of the four-factor model.
Puberty is a period characterized by brain reorganization that contributes to the development of neural and behavioral responses to gonadal steroids. A single injection of the bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), during the pubertal period decreases sexual receptivity in response to ovarian hormones in adulthood. Because chronic estradiol treatment alleviates depression-like symptoms in ovariectomized adult mice, we investigated the effect of pubertal LPS treatment on estradiol's antidepressant effects. We hypothesized that pubertal LPS treatment would decrease the antidepressant-like effect of estradiol in adult ovariectomized female mice, as it decreases other behavioral responses to ovarian hormones. As expected, chronic estradiol treatment decreased depression-like behavior, as measured by the duration of immobility, in saline-treated mice from two different strains, as well as in mice treated with LPS in adulthood. In contrast, in mice treated pubertally with LPS, estradiol strikingly increased the duration of immobility. No difference in body weight and in locomotion was found among the groups, suggesting that the differences in depression-like behavior were not due to differences in body weight or locomotor activity between LPS-treated and control mice. These results suggest that exposure to an immune challenge during the pubertal period alters the responsiveness of depression-like behavior to estradiol.
The incidence of anxiety, mood, substance abuse disorders and schizophrenia increases during adolescence. Epidemiological evidence confirms that exposure to stress during sensitive periods of development can create vulnerabilities that put genetically predisposed individuals at increased risk for psychiatric disorders. Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a frequently identified schizophrenia susceptibility gene that has also been associated with the psychotic features of bipolar disorder. Previously, we established that Type II NRG1 is expressed in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis neurocircuitry. We also found, using a line of Nrg1 hypomorphic rats (Nrg1(Tn)), that genetic disruption of Type II NRG1 results in altered HPA axis function and environmental reactivity. The present studies used the Nrg1(Tn) rats to test whether Type II NRG1 gene disruption and chronic stress exposure during adolescence interact to alter adult anxiety- and fear-related behaviors. Male and female Nrg1(Tn) and wild-type rats were exposed to chronic variable stress (CVS) during mid-adolescence and then tested for anxiety-like behavior, cued fear conditioning and basal corticosterone secretion in adulthood. The disruption of Type II NRG1 alone significantly impacts rat anxiety-related behavior by reversing normal sex-related differences and impairs the ability to acquire cued fear conditioning. Sex-specific interactions between genotype and adolescent stress also were identified such that CVS-treated wild-type females exhibited a slight reduction in anxiety-like behavior and basal corticosterone, while CVS-treated Nrg1(Tn) females exhibited a significant increase in cued fear extinction. These studies confirm the importance of Type II NRG1 in anxiety and fear behaviors and point to adolescence as a time when stressful experiences can shape adult behavior and HPA axis function.
There is increasing evidence for adolescence as a time period vulnerable to environmental perturbations such as stress. What is unclear is the persistent nature of the effects of stress and how specific these effects are to the type of stressor. In this review, we describe the effects of chronic, unpredictable stress (CUS) exposure during adolescence on adult behavior and brain morphology and function in animal models. We provide evidence for adolescence as a critical window for the effects of physical CUS that persist into adulthood, with ramifications for morphological development, associated hippocampal-dependent tasks, and anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors. The results of this investigation are contrasted against those of social CUS stress exposure from the same time period that show reversible and, in the case of responses to drugs of abuse, potentially protective effects in adulthood. Finally, we discuss potential underlying mechanisms for these morphological and behavioral findings. It is our aim that the research highlighted in this review will aid in our understanding of the role of stress in adolescent mental health and development. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Stress, Emotional Behavior and the Endocannabinoid System.
Anxiety and depression are the most prevalent of the psychiatric disorders. The average age of onset of these disorders is in adolescence, and stressful experiences are recognized as an important pathway to such dysfunction. Until recently, however, most animal models of these disorders involved adult males. We provide a brief overview of anxiety and depression and the extent to which adolescent rodents are a valid model for their investigation, and briefly review the main measures of anxiety-like and depressive behaviour in rodents. The focus of the review is investigations in which adolescent rodents were exposed to chronic stressors, describing our research using social instability stress and that of other researchers using various social and non-social stressors. The evidence to date suggests stress in adolescence alters the trajectory of brain development, and particularly that of the hippocampus, increasing anxiety and depressive behaviour in adulthood.



Ghrelin (GHR) is an orexigenic gut peptide that modulates multiple homeostatic functions including gastric emptying, anxiety, stress, memory, feeding, and reinforcement. GHR is known to bind and activate growth-hormone secretagogue receptors (termed GHR-Rs). Of interest to our laboratory has been the assessment of the impact of GHR modulation of the locomotor activation and reward/reinforcement properties of psychostimulants such as cocaine and nicotine. Systemic GHR infusions augment cocaine stimulated locomotion and conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats, as does food restriction (FR) which elevates plasma ghrelin levels. Ghrelin enhancement of psychostimulant function may occur owing to a direct action on mesolimbic dopamine function or may reflect an indirect action of ghrelin on glucocorticoid pathways. Genomic or pharmacological ablation of GHR-Rs attenuates the acute locomotor-enhancing effects of nicotine, cocaine, amphetamine and alcohol and blunts the CPP induced by food, alcohol, amphetamine and cocaine in mice. The stimulant nicotine can induce CPP and like amphetamine and cocaine, repeated administration of nicotine induces locomotor sensitization in rats. Inactivation of ghrelin circuit function in rats by injection of a ghrelin receptor antagonist (e.g., JMV 2959) diminishes the development of nicotine-induced locomotor sensitization. These results suggest a key permissive role for GHR-R activity for the induction of locomotor sensitization to nicotine. Our finding that GHR-R null rats exhibit diminished patterns of responding for intracranial self-stimulation complements an emerging literature implicating central GHR circuits in drug reward/reinforcement. Finally, antagonism of GHR-Rs may represent a smoking cessation modality that not only blocks nicotine-induced reward but that also may limit weight gain after smoking cessation.


Disabled-1 (Dab1) is an adaptor protein that is an obligate effector of the Reelin signaling pathway, and is critical for neuronal migration and dendrite outgrowth during development. Components of the Reelin pathway are highly expressed during development, but also continue to be expressed in the adult brain. Here we investigated in detail the expression pattern of Dab1 in the postnatal and adult forebrain, and determined that it is expressed in excitatory as well as inhibitory neurons. Dab1 was found to be localized in different cellular compartments, including the soma, dendrites, presynaptic and postsynaptic structures. Mice that are deficient in Dab1, Reelin, or the Reelin receptors ApoER2 and VLDLR exhibit severely perturbed brain cytoarchitecture, limiting the utility of these mice for investigating the role of this signaling pathway in the adult brain. In this study, we developed an adult forebrain-specific and excitatory neuron-specific conditional knock-out mouse line, and demonstrated that Dab1 is a critical regulator of synaptic function and hippocampal-dependent associative and spatial learning. These dramatic abnormalities were accompanied by a reduction in dendritic spine size, and defects in basal and plasticity-induced Akt and ERK1/2 signaling. Deletion of Dab1 led to no obvious changes in neuronal positioning, dendrite morphology, spine density, or synaptic composition. Collectively, these data conclusively demonstrate an important role for Reelin-Dab1 signaling in the adult forebrain, and underscore the importance of this pathway in learning and memory.
The development and the ionic nature of bistable behavior in lumbar motoneurons were investigated in rats. One week after birth, almost all (80%) ankle extensor motoneurons recorded in whole-cell configuration displayed self-sustained spiking in response to a brief depolarization that emerged when the temperature was raised &gt;30C. The effect of L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers on self-sustained spiking was variable, whereas blockade of the persistent sodium current (I(NaP)) abolished them. When hyperpolarized, bistable motoneurons displayed a characteristic slow afterdepolarization (sADP). The sADPs generated by repeated depolarizing pulses summed to promote a plateau potential. The sADP was tightly associated with the emergence of Ca(2+) spikes. Substitution of extracellular Na(+) or chelation of intracellular Ca(2+) abolished both sADP and the plateau potential without affecting Ca(2+) spikes. These data suggest a key role of a Ca(2+)-activated nonselective cation conductance ((CaN)) in generating the plateau potential. In line with this, the blockade of (CaN) by flufenamate abolished both sADP and plateau potentials. Furthermore, 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB), a common activator of thermo-sensitive vanilloid transient receptor potential (TRPV) cation channels, promoted the sADP. Among TRPV channels, only the selective activation of TRPV2 channels by probenecid promoted the sADP to generate a plateau potential. To conclude, bistable behaviors are, to a large extent, determined by the interplay between three currents: L-type I(Ca), I(NaP), and a Na(+)-mediated I(CaN) flowing through putative TRPV2 channels.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most pervasive and lethal of all brain malignancies. One factor that contributes to this poor prognosis is the highly invasive character of the tumor. GBM is characterized by microscopic infiltration of tumor cells throughout the brain, whereas non-neural metastases, as well as select lower grade gliomas, develop as self-contained and clearly delineated lesions. Illustrated by rodent xenograft tumor models as well as pathological human patient specimens, we present evidence that one fundamental switch between these two distinct pathologies--invasion and noninvasion--is mediated through the tumor extracellular matrix. Specifically, noninvasive lesions are associated with a rich matrix containing substantial amounts of glycosylated chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), whereas glycosylated CSPGs are essentially absent from diffusely infiltrating tumors. CSPGs, acting as central organizers of the tumor microenvironment, dramatically influence resident reactive astrocytes, inducing their exodus from the tumor mass and the resultant encapsulation of noninvasive lesions. Additionally, CSPGs induce activation of tumor-associated microglia. We demonstrate that the astrogliotic capsule can directly inhibit tumor invasion, and its absence from GBM presents an environment favorable to diffuse infiltration. We also identify the leukocyte common antigen-related phosphatase receptor (PTPRF) as a putative intermediary between extracellular glycosylated CSPGs and noninvasive tumor cells. In all, we present CSPGs as critical regulators of brain tumor histopathology and help to clarify the role of the tumor microenvironment in brain tumor invasion.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) improves molecular, cellular, and behavioral measures of neural dysfunction in genetic models of Alzheimer's disease (Blurton-Jones et al., 2009; Nagahara et al., 2009). However, BDNF treatment after disease onset has not been reported to improve neuronal survival in these models. We now report prevention of neuronal loss with early life BDNF treatment in mutant mice expressing two amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutations associated with early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. APP transgenic mice underwent lentiviral BDNF gene delivery into the entorhinal cortices at age 2 months and were examined 5 months later. BDNF-treated mice exhibited significant improvements in hippocampal-dependent contextual fear conditioning compared with control-treated APP mice (p &lt; 0.05). Stereological analysis of entorhinal cortical cell number demonstrated 20% reductions in neuronal number in layers II-VI of the entorhinal cortex in untreated APP mutant mice compared with wild-type mice (p &lt; 0.0001), and significant amelioration of cell loss by BDNF (p &lt; 0.001). Moreover, BDNF gene delivery improved synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the entorhinal cortex and, through anterograde BDNF transport, in the hippocampus (p &lt; 0.01). Notably, BDNF did not affect amyloid plaque numbers, indicating that direct amyloid reduction is not necessary to achieve significant neuroprotective benefits in mutant amyloid models of Alzheimer's disease.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a potent regulator of neuronal activity, neurogenesis, and depressive-like behaviors; however, downstream effectors by which BDNF exerts these varying actions remain to be determined. Here we reveal that BDNF induces long-lasting enhancements in the efficacy of synaptic inhibition by stabilizing 2 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) at the cell surface, leading to persistent reductions in neuronal excitability. This effect is dependent upon enhanced phosphorylation of tyrosines 365 and 367 (Y365/7) in the GABA(A)R 2 subunit as revealed using mice in which these residues have been mutated to phenyalanines (Y365/7F). Heterozygotes for this mutation exhibit an antidepressant-like phenotype, as shown using behavioral-despair models of depression. In addition, heterozygous Y365/7F mice show increased levels of hippocampal neurogenesis, which has been strongly connected with antidepressant action. Both the antidepressant phenotype and the increased neurogenesis seen in these mice are insensitive to further modulation by BDNF, which produces robust antidepressant-like activity and neurogenesis in wild-type mice. Collectively, our results suggest a critical role for GABA(A)R 2 subunit Y365/7 phosphorylation and function in regulating the effects of BDNF.
Strong reactive cell proliferation occurs in the vestibular nuclei after unilateral vestibular neurectomy (UVN). Most of the newborn cells survive, differentiate into glial cells and neurons with GABAergic phenotype, and have been reported to contribute to recovery of the posturo-locomotor functions in adult cats. Because the GABAergic system modulates vestibular function recovery and the different steps of neurogenesis in mammals, we aimed to examine in our UVN animal model the effect of chronic infusion of GABA(A) receptor (R) agonist and antagonist in the vestibular nuclei. After UVN and one-month intracerebroventricular infusions of saline, GABA(A)R agonist (muscimol) or antagonist (gabazine), cell proliferation and differentiation into astrocytes, microglial cells, and neurons were revealed using immunohistochemical methods. We also determined the effects of these drug infusions on the recovery of posturo-locomotor and oculomotor functions through behavioral tests. Our results showed that surprisingly, one month after UVN, newborn cells did not survive in the UVN-muscimol group whereas the number of GABAergic pre-existent neurons increased, and the long-term behavioral recovery of the animals was drastically impaired. Conversely, a significant number of newborn cells survived up to 1 month in the UVN-gabazine group whereas the astroglial population increased, and these animals showed the fastest recovery in behavioral functions. This study reports for the first time that GABA plays multiple roles, ranging from beneficial to detrimental on the different steps of a functional postlesion neurogenesis and further, strongly influences the time course of vestibular function recovery.
Sleep is an essential and evolutionarily conserved behavior that is closely related to synaptic function. However, whether neuroligins (Nlgs), which are cell adhesion molecules involved in synapse formation and synaptic transmission, are involved in sleep is not clear. Here, we show that Drosophila Nlg4 (DNlg4) is highly expressed in large ventral lateral clock neurons (l-LNvs) and that l-LNv-derived DNlg4 is essential for sleep regulation. GABA transmission is impaired in mutant l-LNv, and sleep defects in dnlg4 mutant flies can be rescued by genetic manipulation of GABA transmission. Furthermore, dnlg4 mutant flies exhibit a severe reduction in GABAA receptor RDL clustering, and DNlg4 associates with RDLs in vivo. These results demonstrate that DNlg4 regulates sleep through modulating GABA transmission in l-LNvs, which provides the first known link between a synaptic adhesion molecule and sleep in Drosophila.
To determine why some pathways but not others produce sizable local field potentials (LFPs) and how far from the source can these be recorded, complementary experimental analyses and realistic modeling of specific brain structures are required. In the present study, we combined multiple in vivo linear recordings in rats and a tridimensional finite element model of the dentate gyrus, a curved structure displaying abnormally large positive LFPs. We demonstrate that the polarized dendritic arbour of granule cells (GCs), combined with the curved layered configuration of the population promote the spatial clustering of GC currents in the interposed hilus and project them through the open side at a distance from cell domains. LFPs grow up to 20 times larger than observed in synaptic sites. The dominant positive polarity of hilar LFPs was only produced by the synchronous activation of GCs in both blades by either somatic inhibition or dendritic excitation. Moreover, the corresponding anatomical pathways must project to both blades of the dentate gyrus as even a mild decrease in the spatial synchronization resulted in a dramatic reduction in LFP power in distant sites, yet not in the GC domains. It is concluded that the activation of layered structures may establish sharply delimited spatial domains where synaptic currents from one or another input appear to be segregated according to the topology of afferent pathways and the cytoarchitectonic features of the target population. These also determine preferred directions for volume conduction in the brain, of relevance for interpretation of surface EEG recordings.
In the postsynaptic density of glutamatergic synapses, the discs large (DLG)-membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of scaffolding proteins coordinates a multiplicity of signaling pathways to maintain and regulate synaptic transmission. Postsynaptic density-93 (PSD-93) is the most variable paralog in this family; it exists in six different N-terminal isoforms. Probably because of the structural and functional variability of these isoforms, the synaptic role of PSD-93 remains controversial. To accurately characterize the synaptic role of PSD-93, we quantified the expression of all six isoforms in the mouse hippocampus and examined them individually in hippocampal synapses. Using molecular manipulations, including overexpression, gene knockdown, PSD-93 knock-out mice combined with biochemical assays, and slice electrophysiology both in rat and mice, we demonstrate that PSD-93 is required at different developmental synaptic states to maintain the strength of excitatory synaptic transmission. This strength is differentially regulated by the six isoforms of PSD-93, including regulations of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor-active and inactive synapses, and activity-dependent modulations. Collectively, these results demonstrate that alternative combinations of N-terminal PSD-93 isoforms and DLG-MAGUK paralogs can fine-tune signaling scaffolds to adjust synaptic needs to regulate synaptic transmission.
Humans tend to use the self as a reference point to perceive the world and gain information about other people's mental states. However, applying such a self-referential projection mechanism in situations where it is inappropriate can result in egocentrically biased judgments. To assess egocentricity bias in the emotional domain (EEB), we developed a novel visuo-tactile paradigm assessing the degree to which empathic judgments are biased by one's own emotions if they are incongruent to those of the person we empathize with. A first behavioral experiment confirmed the existence of such EEB, and two independent fMRI experiments revealed that overcoming biased empathic judgments is associated with increased activation in the right supramarginal gyrus (rSMG), in a location distinct from activations in right temporoparietal junction reported in previous social cognition studies. Using temporary disruption of rSMG with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation resulted in a substantial increase of EEB, and so did reducing visuo-tactile stimulation time as shown in an additional behavioral experiment. Our findings provide converging evidence from multiple methods and experiments that rSMG is crucial for overcoming emotional egocentricity. Effective connectivity analyses suggest that this may be achieved by early perceptual regulation processes disambiguating proprioceptive first-person information (touch) from exteroceptive third-person information (vision) during incongruency between self- and other-related affective states. Our study extends previous models of social cognition. It shows that although shared neural networks may underlie emotional understanding in some situations, an additional mechanism subserved by rSMG is needed to avoid biased social judgments in other situations.
In human lateral temporal cortex, some regions show specific sensitivity to human motion. Here we examine whether such effects reflect a general biological-nonbiological organizational principle or a process specific to human-agent processing by comparing processing of human, animal, and tool motion in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment with healthy participants and a voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) study of patients with brain damage (77 stroke patients). The fMRI experiment revealed that in the lateral temporal cortex, the posterior superior temporal sulcus shows a preference for human and animal motion, whereas the middle part of the right superior temporal sulcus/gyrus (mSTS/STG) shows a preference for human and functional tool motion. VLSM analyses also revealed that damage to this right mSTS/STG region led to more severe impairment in the recognition of human and functional tool motion relative to animal motion, indicating the causal role of this brain area in human-agent motion processing. The findings for the right mSTS/STG cannot be reduced to a preference for articulated motion or processing of social variables since neither factor is involved in functional tool motion recognition. We conclude that a unidimensional biological-nonbiological distinction cannot fully explain the visual motion effects in lateral temporal cortex. Instead, the results suggest the existence of distinct components in right posterior temporal cortex and mSTS/STG that are associated, respectively, with biological motion and human-agent motion processing.
Humans with Down syndrome (DS) and Ts65Dn mice both show a reduced volume of the cerebellum due to a significant reduction in the density of granule neurons. Recently, cerebellar hypoplasia in Ts65Dn mice was rescued by a single treatment with SAG, an agonist of the Sonic hedgehog pathway, administered on the day of birth. In addition to normalizing cerebellar morphology, this treatment restored the ability to learn a spatial navigation task, which is associated with hippocampal function. It is not clear to what extent this improved performance results from restoration of the cerebellar architecture or a yet undefined role of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) in perinatal hippocampal development. The absence of a clearly demonstrated deficit in cerebellar function in trisomic mice exacerbates the problem of discerning how SAG acts to improve learning and memory. Here we show that phase reversal adaptation and consolidation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex is significantly impaired in Ts65Dn mice, providing for the first time a precise characterization of cerebellar functional deficits in this murine model of DS. However, these deficits do not benefit from the normalization of cerebellar morphology following treatment with SAG. Together with the previous observation that the synaptic properties of Purkinje cells are also unchanged by SAG treatment, this lack of improvement in a region-specific behavioral assay supports the possibility that a direct effect of Shh pathway stimulation on the hippocampus might explain the benefits of this potential approach to the improvement of cognition in DS.
The palmitoyl acyltransferase (PAT) DHHC8 is implicated in synaptic regulation but few DHHC8 substrates are known. Here we report that DHHC8 binds and palmitoylates the PDZ domain-containing protein PICK1 at a cysteine residue that is essential for long-term synaptic depression (LTD) in cultured mouse cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Cerebellar LTD is palmitoylation-dependent and induction of LTD requires DHHC8. Furthermore, PICK1 is a critical DHHC8 substrate whose palmitoylation is necessary for LTD. These results identify the first DHHC8 substrate required for a specific form of synaptic plasticity and provide new insights into synaptic roles of palmitoylation.
Niemann-Pick type C1 (NPC1) disease is a rare neurovisceral disorder characterized by intracellular accumulation of unesterified cholesterol, sphingolipids, and other lipids in the lysosomal compartment. A deregulation of lysosomal calcium has been identified as one of the earliest steps of the degenerative process. Since adenosine A2A receptors (A2ARs) control lysosome trafficking and pH, which closely regulates lysosomal calcium, we hypothesized a role for these receptors in NPC1. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of the A2AR agonist CGS21680 on human control and NPC1 fibroblasts. We show that CGS21680 raises lysosomal calcium levels and rescues mitochondrial functionality (mitochondrial inner membrane potential and expression of the complex IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain), which is compromised in NPC1 cells. These effects are prevented by the selective blockade of A2ARs by the antagonist ZM241385. The effects of A2AR activation on lysosomal calcium are not mediated by the cAMP/PKA pathway but they appear to involve the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. Finally, CGS21680 reduces cholesterol accumulation (Filipin III staining), which is the main criterion currently used for identification of a compound or pathway that would be beneficial for NPC disease, and such an effect is prevented by the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA-AM. Our findings strongly support the hypothesis that A2AR agonists may represent a therapeutic option for NPC1 and provide insights on their mechanisms of action.
Assimilating new information into existing knowledge is a fundamental part of consolidating new memories and allowing them to guide behavior optimally and is vital for conceptual knowledge (semantic memory), which is accrued over many years. Sleep is important for memory consolidation, but its impact upon assimilation of new information into existing semantic knowledge has received minimal examination. Here, we examined the integration process by training human participants on novel words with meanings that fell into densely or sparsely populated areas of semantic memory in two separate sessions. Overnight sleep was polysomnographically monitored after each training session and recall was tested immediately after training, after a night of sleep, and 1 week later. Results showed that participants learned equal numbers of both word types, thus equating amount and difficulty of learning across the conditions. Measures of word recognition speed showed a disadvantage for novel words in dense semantic neighborhoods, presumably due to interference from many semantically related concepts, suggesting that the novel words had been successfully integrated into semantic memory. Most critically, semantic neighborhood density influenced sleep architecture, with participants exhibiting more sleep spindles and slow-wave activity after learning the sparse compared with the dense neighborhood words. These findings provide the first evidence that spindles and slow-wave activity mediate integration of new information into existing semantic networks.
Although it is known that cytosolic/soluble proteins synthesized in cell bodies are transported at much lower overall velocities than vesicles in fast axonal transport, the fundamental basis for this slow movement is unknown. Recently, we found that cytosolic proteins in axons of mouse cultured neurons are conveyed in a manner that superficially resembles diffusion, but with a slow anterograde bias that is energy- and motor-dependent (Scott et al., 2011). Here we show that slow axonal transport of synapsin, a prototypical member of this rate class, is dependent upon fast vesicle transport. Despite the distinct overall dynamics of slow and fast transport, experimentally induced and intrinsic variations in vesicle transport have analogous effects on slow transport of synapsin as well. Dynamic cotransport of vesicles and synapsin particles is also seen in axons, consistent with a model where higher-order assemblies of synapsin are conveyed by transient and probabilistic associations with vesicles moving in fast axonal transport. We posit that such dynamic associations generate the slow overall anterogradely biased flow of the population (&quot;dynamic-recruitment model&quot;). Our studies uncover the underlying kinetic basis for a classic cytosolic/soluble protein moving in slow axonal transport and reveal previously unknown links between slow and fast transport, offering a clearer conceptual picture of this curious phenomenon.
Developing approaches to promote the regeneration of descending supraspinal axons represents an ideal strategy for rebuilding neuronal circuits to improve functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). Our previous studies demonstrated that genetic deletion of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) in mouse corticospinal neurons reactivates their regenerative capacity, resulting in significant regeneration of corticospinal tract (CST) axons after SCI. However, it is unknown whether nongenetic methods of suppressing PTEN have similar effects and how regenerating axons interact with the extrinsic environment. Herein, we show that suppressing PTEN expression with short-hairpin RNA (shRNA) promotes the regeneration of injured CST axons, and these axons form anatomical synapses in appropriate areas of the cord caudal to the lesion. Importantly, this model of increased CST regrowth enables the analysis of extrinsic regulators of CST regeneration in vivo. We find that regenerating axons avoid dense clusters of fibroblasts and macrophages in the lesion, suggesting that these cell types might be key inhibitors of axon regeneration. Furthermore, most regenerating axons cross the lesion in association with astrocytes, indicating that these cells might be important for providing a permissive bridge for axon regeneration. Lineage analysis reveals that these bridge-forming astrocytes are not derived from ependymal stem cells within the spinal cord, suggesting that they are more likely derived from a subset of mature astrocytes. Overall, this study reveals insights into the critical extrinsic and intrinsic regulators of axon regeneration and establishes shRNA as a viable means to manipulate these regulators and translate findings into other mammalian models.

To generate longer-term changes in behavior, experiences must be producing stable changes in neuronal morphology and synaptic connectivity. Tactile stimulation is a positive early experience that mimics maternal licking and grooming in the rat. Exposing rat pups to this positive experience can be completed easily and cost-effectively by using highly accessible materials such as a household duster. Using a cross-litter design, pups are either stroked or left undisturbed, for 15 min, three times per day throughout the perinatal period. To measure the neuroplastic changes related to this positive early experience, Golgi-Cox staining of brain tissue is utilized. Owing to the fact that Golgi-Cox impregnation stains a discrete number of neurons rather than all of the cells, staining of the rodent brain with Golgi-Cox solution permits the visualization of entire neuronal elements, including the cell body, dendrites, axons, and dendritic spines. The staining procedure is carried out over several days and requires that the researcher pay close attention to detail. However, once staining is completed, the entire brain has been impregnated and can be preserved indefinitely for ongoing analysis. Therefore, Golgi-Cox staining is a valuable resource for studying experience-dependent plasticity.
This unit presents an improved method for quantitative analysis of surface expression of membrane proteins utilizing a cold-adapted trypsin. Preservation of the proteolytic activity of the enzyme at 0 to 4C allows cleavage of surface-expressed membrane proteins at temperatures at which trafficking of the mammalian plasmalemmal proteins is blocked. This provides an important advantage over established trypsin-cleavage protocols since it can be applied to membrane proteins with a fast turnover rate of the membrane pool and a fast recycling rate. Compared to surface biotinylation, the method is less time consuming.


In addition to the primary symptoms that distinguish one disorder from the next, clinicians have identified, yet largely overlooked, another set of symptoms that appear across many disorders, termed secondary symptoms. In the emerging era of systems neuroscience, which highlights that many disorders share common deficits in global network features, the nonspecific nature of secondary symptoms should attract attention. Herein we provide a scholarly review of the literature on a subset of secondary symptoms--sensory and motor. We demonstrate that their pattern of appearance--across a wide range of psychopathologies, much before the full-blown disorder appears, and in healthy individuals who display a variety of negative symptoms--resembles the pattern of appearance of network abnormalities. We propose that sensory and motor secondary symptoms can be important indicators of underlying network aberrations and thus of vulnerable brain states putting individuals at risk for psychopathology following extreme circumstances.
In utero electroporation (IUE) is a technique which allows genetic modification of cells in the brain for investigating neuronal development. So far, the use of IUE for investigating behavior or neuropathology in the adult brain has been limited by insufficient methods for monitoring of IUE transfection success by non-invasive techniques in postnatal animals. For the present study, E16 rats were used for IUE. After intraventricular injection of the nucleic acids into the embryos, positioning of the tweezer electrodes was critical for targeting either the developing cortex or the hippocampus. Ventricular co-injection and electroporation of a luciferase gene allowed monitoring of the transfected cells postnatally after intraperitoneal luciferin injection in the anesthetized live P7 pup by in vivo bioluminescence, using an IVIS Spectrum device with 3D quantification software. Area definition by bioluminescence could clearly differentiate between cortical and hippocampal electroporations and detect a signal longitudinally over time up to 5 weeks after birth. This imaging technique allowed us to select pups with a sufficient number of transfected cells assumed necessary for triggering biological effects and, subsequently, to perform behavioral investigations at 3 month of age. As an example, this study demonstrates that IUE with the human full length DISC1 gene into the rat cortex led to amphetamine hypersensitivity. Co-transfected GFP could be detected in neurons by post mortem fluorescence microscopy in cryosections indicating gene expression present at 6 months after birth. We conclude that postnatal bioluminescence imaging allows evaluating the success of transient transfections with IUE in rats. Investigations on the influence of topical gene manipulations during neurodevelopment on the adult brain and its connectivity are greatly facilitated. For many scientific questions, this technique can supplement or even replace the use of transgenic rats and provide a novel technology for behavioral neuroscience.


We previously reported clinical improvement, increase in putamen [(18)F]-dopa uptake on PET imaging, and neuropathologic evidence of sprouting of dopaminergic fibers following chronic intraputaminal delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD).(1-3) We now provide clinical and PET evidence of persistent efficacy lasting for at least 3 years following cessation of GDNF infusion in a patient with PD. This is a single-case observational study, providing Class IV evidence.
Despite the well-documented benefits afforded the children of invested fathers in modern Western societies, some fathers choose not to invest in their children. Why do some men make this choice? Life History Theory offers an explanation for variation in parental investment by positing a trade-off between mating and parenting effort, which may explain some of the observed variance in human fathers' parenting behavior. We tested this hypothesis by measuring aspects of reproductive biology related to mating effort, as well as paternal nurturing behavior and the brain activity related to it. Both plasma testosterone levels and testes volume were independently inversely correlated with paternal caregiving. In response to viewing pictures of one's own child, activity in the ventral tegmental area--a key component of the mesolimbic dopamine reward and motivation system--predicted paternal caregiving and was negatively related to testes volume. Our results suggest that the biology of human males reflects a trade-off between mating effort and parenting effort, as indexed by testicular size and nurturing-related brain function, respectively.
The dorsal frontoparietal attention network has been subdivided into at least eight areas in humans. However, the circuitry linking these areas and the functions of different circuit paths remain unclear. Using a combination of neuroimaging techniques to map spatial representations in frontoparietal areas, their functional interactions, and structural connections, we demonstrate different pathways across human dorsal frontoparietal cortex for the control of spatial attention. Our results are consistent with these pathways computing object-centered and/or viewer-centered representations of attentional priorities depending on task requirements. Our findings provide an organizing principle for the frontoparietal attention network, where distinct pathways between frontal and parietal regions contribute to multiple spatial representations, enabling flexible selection of behaviorally relevant information.
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy is governed by longitudinal (T1) relaxation. For protein and nucleic acid experiments in solutions, it is well established that apparent T1 values can be enhanced by selective excitation of targeted resonances. The present study explores such longitudinal relaxation enhancement (LRE) effects for molecules residing in biological tissues. The longitudinal relaxation recovery of tissue resonances positioned both down- and upfield of the water peak were measured by spectrally selective excitation/refocusing pulses, and compared with conventional water-suppressed, broadband-excited counterparts at 9.4T. Marked LRE effects with up to threefold reductions in apparent T1 values were observed as expected for resonances in the 6-9ppm region; remarkably, statistically significant LRE effects were also found for several non-exchanging metabolite resonances in the 1-4ppm region, encompassing 30-50% decreases in apparent T1 values. These LRE effects suggest a novel means of increasing the sensitivity of tissue-oriented experiments, and open new vistas to investigate the nature of interactions among metabolites, water and macromolecules at a molecular level.
Thalamic neurons that signal an animal's direction of heading are crucial for spatial navigation. Both directional coding and flexible use of spatial memory are upended, however, when a rat has to find its way while upside down.
Interactions between people require shared high-level cognitive representations of action goals, intentions, and mental states, but do people also share their representation of space? The human ventral premotor (PMv) and parietal cortices contain neuronal populations coding for the execution and observation of actions, analogous to the mirror neurons identified in monkeys. This neuronal system is tuned to the location of the acting person relative to the observer and the target of the action. Therefore, it can be theorized that the observer's brain constructs a low-level, body-centered representation of the space around others similar to one's own peripersonal space representation. Single-cell recordings have reported that parietal visuotactile neurons discharge for objects near specific parts of a monkey's own body and near the corresponding body parts of another individual. In humans, no neuroimaging study has investigated this issue. Here, we identified neuronal populations in the human PMv that encode the space near both one's own hand and another person's hand. The shared peripersonal space representation could support social interactions by coding sensory events, actions, and cognitive processes in a common spatial reference frame.








Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a 41-amino acid neuropeptide that is involved in stress-related physiology and behavior, including control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Members of the CRF family of neuropeptides, including urocortin 1 (UCN 1), UCN 2, and UCN 3, bind to the G protein-coupled receptors, CRF type 1 (CRF1) and CRF2 receptors. In addition, CRF binding protein (CRFBP) binds both CRF and UCN 1 and can modulate their activities. There are multiple mechanisms through which CRF-related peptides may influence emotional behavior, one of which is through altering the activity of brainstem neuromodulatory systems, including serotonergic systems. CRF and CRF-related peptides act within the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), the major source for serotonin (5-HT) in the brain, to alter the neuronal activity of specific subsets of serotonergic neurons and to influence stress-related behavior. CRF-containing axonal fibers innervate the DR in a topographically organized manner, which may contribute to the ability of CRF to alter the activity of specific subsets of serotonergic neurons. CRF and CRF-related peptides can either increase or decrease serotonergic neuronal firing rates and serotonin release, depending on their concentrations and on the specific CRF receptor subtype(s) involved. This review aims to describe the interactions between CRF-related peptides and serotonergic systems, the consequences for stress-related behavior, and implications for vulnerability to anxiety and affective disorders.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) is responsible for sequestration of extracellular dopamine (DA). The psychostimulant amphetamine (AMPH) is a DAT substrate, which is actively transported into the nerve terminal, eliciting vesicular depletion and reversal of DA transport via DAT. Here, we investigate the role of the DAT C terminus in AMPH-evoked DA efflux using cell-permeant dominant-negative peptides. A peptide, which corresponded to the last 24 C-terminal residues of DAT (TAT-C24 DAT) and thereby contained the Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) binding domain and the PSD-95/Discs-large/ZO-1 (PDZ)-binding sequence of DAT, was made membrane-permeable by fusing it to the cell membrane transduction domain of the HIV-1 Tat protein (TAT-C24WT). The ability of TAT-C24WT but not a scrambled peptide (TAT-C24Scr) to block the CaMKII-DAT interaction was supported by co-immunoprecipitation experiments in heterologous cells. In heterologous cells, we also found that TAT-C24WT, but not TAT-C24Scr, decreased AMPH-evoked 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium efflux. Moreover, chronoamperometric recordings in striatum revealed diminished AMPH-evoked DA efflux in mice preinjected with TAT-C24WT. Both in heterologous cells and in striatum, the peptide did not further inhibit efflux upon KN-93-mediated inhibition of CaMKII activity, consistent with a dominant-negative action preventing binding of CaMKII to the DAT C terminus. This was further supported by the ability of a peptide with perturbed PDZ-binding sequence, but preserved CaMKII binding (TAT-C24AAA), to diminish AMPH-evoked DA efflux in vivo to the same extent as TAT-C24WT. Finally, AMPH-induced locomotor hyperactivity was attenuated following systemic administration of TAT-C24WT but not TAT-C24Scr. Summarized, our findings substantiate that DAT C-terminal protein-protein interactions are critical for AMPH-evoked DA efflux and suggest that it may be possible to target protein-protein interactions to modulate transporter function and interfere with psychostimulant effects.
Throughout this Reflections article, I have tried to follow up on the genesis in the 1960s and subsequent evolution of the concept of allosteric interaction and to examine its consequences within the past decades, essentially in the field of the neuroscience. The main conclusion is that allosteric mechanisms built on similar structural principles operate in bacterial regulatory enzymes, gene repressors (and the related nuclear receptors), rhodopsin, G-protein-coupled receptors, neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, and so on from prokaryotes up to the human brain yet with important features of their own. Thus, future research on these basic cybernetic sensors is expected to develop in two major directions: at the elementary level, toward the atomic structure and molecular dynamics of the conformational changes involved in signal recognition and transduction, but also at a higher level of organization, the contribution of allosteric mechanisms to the modulation of brain functions.
Neural aging as a progressive loss of function involves central and peripheral post-mitotic neurons and neural stem cells (NSCs). It promotes neurodegeneration, impairs neurogenesis, and can be considered a cause of cognitive impairment and sensory and motor deficits in the elderly. Age-related morphological atrophic changes and cellular alterations are addressed by neural aging mechanisms. Neurogenesis declines during aging through several mechanisms such as an increase in quiescence state, changes in lineage fate, telomerase dysfunction, the failure of the DNA repair system, increased apoptosis, and the impairment of self-renewal. The self-renewal transcriptional factor Sox2 has been correlated with retrotransposon L1 and certain cell-cycle- and epigenetic-related factors, which are sometimes considered age-related factors in NSC aging. As neurogenesis decreases, non-mitotic neurons undergo neurodegeneration by oxidative stress, sirtuin, insulin signaling and mTOR alteration, mitochondrial dysfunction, and protein misfolding and aggregation. As neurodegeneration and impaired neurogenesis promote the nervous system aging process, the identification of neuronal anti-aging is required to raise life expectancy. The role of melatonin in increasing neurogenesis and protecting against neurodegeneration has been investigated. Here, we review nervous system aging that is correlated with mechanisms of neurodegeneration and the impairment of neurogenesis and evaluate the effects of melatonin on these processes.





Progesterone is a gonadal steroid hormone whose physiological effects extend well beyond the strict confines of reproductive function. In fact, progesterone can have important effects on a variety of tissues, including the bone, the heart and the brain. Mechanistically, progesterone has been thought to exert its effects through the progesterone receptor (PR), a member of the nuclear steroid hormone superfamily, and as such, acts through specific progesterone response elements (PRE) within the promoter region of target genes to regulate transcription of such genes. This has been often described as the &quot;genomic&quot; mechanism of progesterone action. However, just as progesterone has a diverse range of tissue targets, the mechanisms through which progesterone elicits its effects are equally diverse. For example, progesterone can activate alternative receptors, such as membrane-associated PRs (distinct from the classical PR), to elicit the activation of several signaling pathways that in turn, can influence cell function. Here, we review various non-nuclear (i.e., non-genomic) signaling mechanisms that progesterone can recruit to elicit its effects, focusing our discussion primarily on those signaling mechanisms by which progesterone influences cell viability in the brain.
The nervous system and the immune system are two main regulators of homeostasis in the body. Communication between them ensures normal functioning of the organism. Immune cells and molecules are required for sculpting the circuitry and determining the activity of the nervous system. Within the parenchyma of the central nervous system (CNS), microglia constantly monitor synapses and participate in their pruning during development and possibly also throughout life. Classical inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), are released during neuronal activity and play a crucial role in regulating the strength of synaptic transmission. Systemically, proper functioning of the immune system is critical for maintaining normal nervous system function. Disruption of the immune system functioning leads to impairments in cognition and in neurogenesis. In this review we provide examples of the communication between the nervous and the immune systems in the interest of normal CNS development and function.

Ageing is due to an accumulation of various types of damage, and mitochondrial dysfunction has long been considered to be important in this process. There is substantial sequence variation in mammalian mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and the high mutation rate is counteracted by different mechanisms that decrease maternal transmission of mutated mtDNA. Despite these protective mechanisms, it is becoming increasingly clear that low-level mtDNA heteroplasmy is quite common and often inherited in humans. We designed a series of mouse mutants to investigate the extent to which inherited mtDNA mutations can contribute to ageing. Here we report that maternally transmitted mtDNA mutations can induce mild ageing phenotypes in mice with a wild-type nuclear genome. Furthermore, maternally transmitted mtDNA mutations lead to anticipation of reduced fertility in mice that are heterozygous for the mtDNA mutator allele (PolgA(wt/mut)) and aggravate premature ageing phenotypes in mtDNA mutator mice (PolgA(mut/mut)). Unexpectedly, a combination of maternally transmitted and somatic mtDNA mutations also leads to stochastic brain malformations. Our findings show that a pre-existing mutation load will not only allow somatic mutagenesis to create a critically high total mtDNA mutation load sooner but will also increase clonal expansion of mtDNA mutations to enhance the normally occurring mosaic respiratory chain deficiency in ageing tissues. Our findings suggest that maternally transmitted mtDNA mutations may have a similar role in aggravating aspects of normal human ageing.


Despite marked differences in the psychobiological profiles of depressed patients, clinical research has not supported selection of antidepressant (AD) medications based on neurochemistry. Prescribers have been advised to start all patients on the same class of ADs and then switch or combine them until benefit is achieved. New research may transform this practice. By matching clinical moderators to neurochemical mediators, health professionals may finally be able to overcome the disappointing remission rates associated with initial AD treatments and avoid the progressively worsening results associated with current trial and error approaches.
The G-protein activated, inward-rectifying potassium (K(+)) channels, &quot;GIRKs&quot;, are a family of ion channels (Kir3.1-Kir3.4) that has been the focus of intense research interest for nearly two decades. GIRKs are comprised of various homo- and heterotetrameric combinations of four different subunits. These subunits are expressed in different combinations in a variety of regions throughout the central nervous system and in the periphery. The body of GIRK research implicates GIRK in processes as diverse as controlling heart rhythm, to effects on reward/addiction, to modulation of response to analgesics. Despite years of GIRK research, very few tools exist to selectively modulate GIRK channels' activity and until now no tools existed that potently and selectively activated GIRKs. Here we report the development and characterization of the first truly potent, effective, and selective GIRK activator, ML297 (VU0456810). We further demonstrate that ML297 is active in two in vivo models of epilepsy, a disease where up to 40% of patients remain with symptoms refractory to present treatments. The development of ML297 represents a truly significant advancement in our ability to selectively probe GIRK's role in physiology as well as providing the first tool for beginning to understand GIRK's potential as a target for a diversity of therapeutic indications.








Neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons in both the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) and the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) have been implicated in food intake and obesity. However, while ARH NPY is highly expressed in the lean animal, DMH NPY mRNA expression is observed only after diet-induced obesity (DIO). Furthermore, while ARH NPY neurons are inhibited by leptin, the effect of this adipokine on DMH NPY neurons is unknown. In this study we show that in contrast to the consistent expression in the ARH, DMH NPY mRNA expression was undetectable until after 10 weeks in mice fed a high-fat diet, and peaked at 20 weeks. Surprisingly, electrophysiological experiments demonstrated that leptin directly depolarized and increased the firing rate of DMH NPY neurons in DIO mice. To further differentiate the regulation of DMH and ARH NPY populations, fasting decreased expression of DMH NPY expression, while it increased ARH NPY expression. However, treatment with a leptin receptor antagonist failed to alter DMH NPY expression, indicating that leptin may not be the critical factor regulating mRNA expression. Importantly, we also demonstrated that DMH NPY neurons coexpress cocaine amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART); however, CART mRNA expression in the DMH peaked earlier in the progression of DIO. This study demonstrates novel and important findings. First, NPY and CART are coexpressed in the same neurons within the DMH, and second, leptin stimulates DMH NPY neurons. These studies suggest that during the progression of DIO, there is an unknown signal that drives the expression of the orexigenic NPY signal within the DMH, and that the chronic hyperleptinemia increases the activity of these NPY/CART neurons.
Persistent neural activity, responses that outlast the stimuli that evoke them, plays an important role in neural computations and possibly in processes, such as working memory. Recent studies suggest that trace eyelid conditioning, which involves a temporal gap between the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli (the trace interval), requires persistent neural activity in a region of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). This persistent activity, which could be conveyed to cerebellum via a pathway through pons, may engage the cerebellum and allow for the expression of conditioned responses. Given the substantial reciprocity observed among many brain regions, it is essential to demonstrate that persistent responses in mPFC neurons are not simply a reflection of cerebellar feedback to the forebrain, leaving open the possibility that such responses could serve as input to the cerebellum. This concern is highlighted by studies showing that hippocampal learning-related activity is abolished by cerebellar inactivation. We inactivated the cerebellum while recording single-unit activity from the mPFC of rabbits trained with a forebrain-dependent trace eyelid conditioning procedure. We report that, whereas the responses of cells that show an onset of increased spike activity during the trace interval were abolished by cerebellar inactivation, persistent responses that begin during the conditioned stimulus and persisted into the trace interval were unaffected. Therefore, conditioned stimulus-evoked persistent responses remain the strongest candidate input pattern to support the cerebellar expression of learned responses.
Systemic inflammatory events often precipitate acute cognitive dysfunction in elderly and demented populations. Delirium is a highly prevalent neuropsychiatric syndrome that is characterized by acute inattention and cognitive dysfunction, for which prior dementia is the major predisposing factor and systemic inflammation is a frequent trigger. Inflammatory mechanisms of delirium remain unclear. We have modeled aspects of delirium during dementia by exploiting progressive neurodegeneration in the ME7 mouse model of prion disease and by superimposing systemic inflammation induced by the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Here, we have used this model to demonstrate that the progression of underlying disease increases the incidence, severity, and duration of acute cognitive dysfunction. This increasing susceptibility is associated with increased CNS expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 in microglia and perivascular macrophages. The COX-1-specific inhibitor SC-560 provided significant protection against LPS-induced cognitive deficits, and attenuated the disease-induced increase in hippocampal and thalamic prostaglandin E2, while the COX-2-specific inhibitor NS-398 was ineffective. SC-560 treatment did not alter levels of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1, tumor necrosis factor-, IL-6, or C-X-C chemokine ligand 1 in blood or brain, but systemic IL-1RA blocked LPS-induced cognitive deficits, and systemic IL-1 was sufficient to induce similar deficits in the absence of LPS. Furthermore, the well tolerated COX inhibitor ibuprofen was protective against IL-1-induced deficits. These data demonstrate that progressive microglial COX-1 expression and prostaglandin synthesis can underpin susceptibility to cognitive deficits, which can be triggered by systemic LPS-induced IL-1. These data contribute to our understanding of how systemic inflammation and ongoing neurodegeneration interact to induce cognitive dysfunction and episodes of delirium.
Odorant cues are recognized by receptors expressed on olfactory sensory neurons, the primary sensory neurons of the olfactory epithelium. Odorant receptors typically obey the &quot;one receptor, one neuron&quot; rule, in which the receptive field of the olfactory neuron is determined by the singular odorant receptor that it expresses. Odor-evoked receptor activity across the population of olfactory neurons is then interpreted by the brain to identify the molecular nature of the odorant stimulus. In the present study, we characterized the properties of a C family G-protein-coupled receptor that, unlike most other odorant receptors, is expressed in a large population of microvillous sensory neurons in the zebrafish olfactory epithelium and the mouse vomeronasal organ. We found that this receptor, OlfCc1 in zebrafish and its murine ortholog Vmn2r1, is a calcium-dependent, low-sensitivity receptor specific for the hydrophobic amino acids isoleucine, leucine, and valine. Loss-of-function experiments in zebrafish embryos demonstrate that OlfCc1 is required for olfactory responses to a diverse mixture of polar, nonpolar, acidic, and basic amino acids. OlfCc1 was also found to promote localization of other OlfC receptor family members to the plasma membrane in heterologous cells. Together, these results suggest that the broadly expressed OlfCc1 is required for amino acid detection by the olfactory system and suggest that it plays a role in the function and/or intracellular trafficking of other olfactory and vomeronasal receptors with which it is coexpressed.
Significant progress has been made uncovering functional brain networks, yet little is known about the corresponding structural covariance networks. The default network's functional architecture has been shown to change over the course of healthy and pathological aging. We examined cross-sectional and longitudinal datasets to reveal the structural covariance of the human default network across the adult lifespan and through the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We used a novel approach to identify the structural covariance of the default network and derive individual participant scores that reflect the covariance pattern in each brain image. A seed-based multivariate analysis was conducted on structural images in the cross-sectional OASIS (N = 414) and longitudinal Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (N = 434) datasets. We reproduced the distributed topology of the default network, based on a posterior cingulate cortex seed, consistent with prior reports of this intrinsic connectivity network. Structural covariance of the default network scores declined in healthy and pathological aging. Decline was greatest in the AD cohort and in those who progressed from mild cognitive impairment to AD. Structural covariance of the default network scores were positively associated with general cognitive status, reduced in APOE4 carriers versus noncarriers, and associated with CSF biomarkers of AD. These findings identify the structural covariance of the default network and characterize changes to the network's gray matter integrity across the lifespan and through the progression of AD. The findings provide evidence for the large-scale network model of neurodegenerative disease, in which neurodegeneration spreads through intrinsically connected brain networks in a disease specific manner.
Convergence of visual motion and vestibular information is essential for accurate spatial navigation. Such multisensory integration has been shown in cortex, e.g., the dorsal medial superior temporal (MSTd) and ventral intraparietal (VIP) areas, but not in the parieto-insular vestibular cortex (PIVC). Whether similar convergence occurs subcortically remains unknown. Many Purkinje cells in vermal lobules 10 (nodulus) and 9 (uvula) of the macaque cerebellum are tuned to vestibular translation stimuli, yet little is known about their visual motion responsiveness. Here we show the existence of translational optic flow-tuned Purkinje cells, found exclusively in the anterior part of the nodulus and ventral uvula, near the midline. Vestibular responses of Purkinje cells showed a remarkable similarity to those in MSTd (but not PIVC or VIP) neurons, in terms of both response latency and relative contributions of velocity, acceleration, and position components. In contrast, the spatiotemporal properties of optic flow responses differed from those in MSTd, and matched the vestibular properties of these neurons. Compared with MSTd, optic flow responses of Purkinje cells showed smaller velocity contributions and larger visual motion acceleration responses. The remarkable similarity between the nodulus/uvula and MSTd vestibular translation responsiveness suggests a functional coupling between the two areas for vestibular processing of self-motion information.
Dendrite development is controlled by the interplay of intrinsic and extrinsic signals affecting initiation, growth, and maintenance of complex dendrites. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) stimulate dendrite growth in cultures of sympathetic, cortical, and hippocampal neurons but it was unclear whether BMPs control dendrite morphology in vivo. Using a conditional knock-out strategy to eliminate Bmpr1a and Smad4 in immature noradrenergic sympathetic neurons we now show that dendrite length, complexity, and neuron cell body size are reduced in adult mice deficient of Bmpr1a. The combined deletion of Bmpr1a and Bmpr1b causes no further decrease in dendritic features. Sympathetic neurons devoid of Bmpr1a/1b display normal Smad1/5/8 phosphorylation, which suggests that Smad-independent signaling paths are involved in dendritic growth control downstream of BMPR1A/B. Indeed, in the Smad4 conditional knock-out dendrite and cell body size are not affected and dendrite complexity and number are increased. Together, these results demonstrate an in vivo function for BMPs in the generation of mature sympathetic neuron dendrites. BMPR1 signaling controls dendrite complexity postnatally during the major dendritic growth period of sympathetic neurons.
Although the central branches of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons do not spontaneously regenerate, a conditioning peripheral injury can promote their regeneration. A potential role of macrophages in axonal regeneration was proposed, but it has not been critically addressed whether macrophages play an essential role in the conditioning injury model. After sciatic nerve injury (SNI) in rats, the number of macrophages in DRGs gradually increased by day 7. The increase persisted up to 28 d and was accompanied by upregulation of inflammatory mediators, including oncomodulin. A macrophage deactivator, minocycline, reduced the macrophage number and expressions of the inflammatory mediators. Molecular signatures of conditioning effects were abrogated by minocycline, and enhanced regenerative capacity was substantially attenuated both in vitro and in vivo. Delayed minocycline infusion abrogated the SNI-induced long-lasting heightened neurite outgrowth potential, indicating a role for macrophages in the maintenance of regenerative capacity. Intraganglionic cAMP injection also resulted in an increase in macrophages, and minocycline abolished the cAMP effect on neurite outgrowth. However, conditioned media (CM) from macrophages treated with cAMP did not exhibit neurite growth-promoting activity. In contrast, CM from neuron-macrophage cocultures treated with cAMP promoted neurite outgrowth greatly, highlighting a requirement for neuron-macrophage interactions for the induction of a proregenerative macrophage phenotype. The growth-promoting activity in the CM was profoundly attenuated by an oncomodulin neutralizing antibody. These results suggest that the neuron-macrophage interactions involved in eliciting a proregenerative phenotype in macrophages may be a novel target to induce long-lasting regenerative processes after axonal injuries in the CNS.
Spatial representations and walking speed in rodents are consistently related to the phase, frequency, and/or amplitude of  rhythms in hippocampal local field potentials. However, neuropsychological studies in humans have emphasized the importance of parietal cortex for spatial navigation, and efforts to identify the electrophysiological signs of spatial navigation in humans have been stymied by the difficulty of recording during free exploration of complex environments. We resolved the recording problem and experimentally probed brain activity of human participants who were fully ambulant. On each of 2 d, electroencephalography was synchronized with head and body movement in 13 subjects freely navigating an extended virtual environment containing numerous unique objects.  phase and amplitude recorded over parietal cortex were consistent when subjects walked through a particular spatial separation at widely separated times. This spatial displacement  autocorrelation (STAcc) was quantified and found to be significant from 2 to 8 Hz within the environment. Similar autocorrelation analyses performed on an electrooculographic channel, used to measure eye movements, showed no significant spatial autocorrelations, ruling out eye movements as the source of STAcc. Strikingly, the strength of an individual's STAcc maps from day 1 significantly predicted object location recall success on day 2.  was also significantly correlated with walking speed; however, this correlation appeared unrelated to STAcc and did not predict memory performance. This is the first demonstration of memory-related, spatial maps in humans generated during active spatial exploration.
The human cerebral cortex appears to shrink during adolescence. To delineate the dynamic morphological changes involved in this process, 52 healthy male and female adolescents (11-17 years old) were neuroimaged twice using magnetic resonance imaging, approximately 2 years apart. Using a novel morphometric analysis procedure combining the FreeSurfer and BrainVisa image software suites, we quantified global and lobar change in cortical thickness, outer surface area, the gyrification index, the average Euclidean distance between opposing sides of the white matter surface (gyral white matter thickness), the convex (&quot;exposed&quot;) part of the outer cortical surface (hull surface area), sulcal length, depth, and width. We found that the cortical surface flattens during adolescence. Flattening was strongest in the frontal and occipital cortices, in which significant sulcal widening and decreased sulcal depth co-occurred. Globally, sulcal widening was associated with cortical thinning and, for the frontal cortex, with loss of surface area. For the other cortical lobes, thinning was related to gyral white matter expansion. The overall flattening of the macrostructural three-dimensional architecture of the human cortex during adolescence thus involves changes in gray matter and effects of the maturation of white matter.
Spatial variation in light intensity, called spatial contrast, comprises much of the visual information perceived by mammals, and the relative ability to detect contrast is referred to as contrast sensitivity (Purves et al., 2012). Recently, retinal dopamine D4 receptors (D4Rs) have been implicated in modulating contrast sensitivity (Jackson et al., 2012); however, the cellular and molecular mechanisms have not been elucidated. Our study demonstrates a circadian rhythm of contrast sensitivity that peaks during the daytime, and that its regulation involves interactions of D4Rs, the clock gene Npas2, and the clock-controlled gene adenylyl cyclase 1 (Adcy1) in a subset of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Targeted disruption of the gene encoding D4Rs reduces the amplitude of the contrast sensitivity rhythm by reducing daytime sensitivity and abolishes the rhythmic expression of Npas2 and Adcy1 mRNA in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) of the retina. Npas2(-/-) and Adcy1(-/-) mice show strikingly similar reductions in the contrast sensitivity rhythm to that in mice lacking D4Rs. Moreover, Adcy1 transcript rhythms were abolished in the GCL of Npas2(-/-) mice. Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that the Adcy1 promoter is selectively activated by neuronal PAS-domain protein 2 (NPAS2)/BMAL1. Our results indicate that the contrast sensitivity rhythm is modulated by D4Rs via a signaling pathway that involves NPAS2-mediated circadian regulation of Adcy1. Hence, we have identified a circadian clock mechanism in a subset of RGCs that modulates an important aspect of retinal physiology and visual processing.
The ability to synchronize movement to a steady beat is a fundamental skill underlying musical performance and has been studied for decades as a model of sensorimotor synchronization. Nevertheless, little is known about the neural correlates of individual differences in the ability to synchronize to a beat. In particular, links between auditory-motor synchronization ability and characteristics of the brain's response to sound have not yet been explored. Given direct connections between the inferior colliculus (IC) and subcortical motor structures, we hypothesized that consistency of the neural response to sound within the IC is linked to the ability to tap consistently to a beat. Here, we show that adolescent humans who demonstrate less variability when tapping to a beat have auditory brainstem responses that are less variable as well. One of the sources of this enhanced consistency in subjects who can steadily tap to a beat may be decreased variability in the timing of the response, as these subjects also show greater between-trial phase-locking in the auditory brainstem response. Thus, musical training with a heavy emphasis on synchronization of movement to musical beats may improve auditory neural synchrony, potentially benefiting children with auditory-based language impairments characterized by excessively variable neural responses.


Leucine rich repeat kinases 1 and 2 (LRRK1 and LRRK2) are paralogs which share a similar domain organization, including a serine-threonine kinase domain, a Ras of complex proteins domain (ROC), a C-terminal of ROC domain (COR), and leucine-rich and ankyrin-like repeats at the N-terminus. The precise cellular roles of LRRK1 and LRRK2 have yet to be elucidated, however LRRK1 has been implicated in tyrosine kinase receptor signaling, while LRRK2 is implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. In this report, we present a protocol to label the LRRK1 and LRRK2 proteins in cells with (32)P orthophosphate, thereby providing a means to measure the overall phosphorylation levels of these 2 proteins in cells. In brief, affinity tagged LRRK proteins are expressed in HEK293T cells which are exposed to medium containing (32)P-orthophosphate. The (32)P-orthophosphate is assimilated by the cells after only a few hours of incubation and all molecules in the cell containing phosphates are thereby radioactively labeled. Via the affinity tag (3xflag) the LRRK proteins are isolated from other cellular components by immunoprecipitation. Immunoprecipitates are then separated via SDS-PAGE, blotted to PVDF membranes and analysis of the incorporated phosphates is performed by autoradiography ((32)P signal) and western detection (protein signal) of the proteins on the blots. The protocol can readily be adapted to monitor phosphorylation of any other protein that can be expressed in cells and isolated by immunoprecipitation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) has been, until recently, mainly defined by the presence of characteristic motor symptoms, such as rigidity, tremor, bradykinesia/akinesia, and postural instability. Accordingly, pharmacological and surgical treatments have so far addressed these motor disturbances, leaving nonmotor, cognitive deficits an unmet clinical condition. At the preclinical level, the large majority of studies aiming at defining mechanisms and testing novel therapies have similarly focused on the motor aspects of PD. Unfortunately, deterioration of the executive functions, such as attention, recognition, working memory, and problem solving, often appear in an early, premotor phase of the disease and progressively increase in intensity, negatively affecting the quality of life of 50%-60% of PD patients. At present, the cellular mechanisms underlying cognitive impairments in PD patients are largely unknown and an adequate treatment is still missing. The preclinical research has recently developed new animal models that may open new perspectives for a more integrated approach to the treatment of both motor and cognitive symptoms of the disease. This review will provide an overview on the cognitive symptoms occurring in early PD patients and then focus on the rodent and nonhuman primate models so far available for the study of discriminative and spatial memory attention and learning abilities related to this pathological condition.
Recent studies in Aplysia have identified a new variation of synaptic plasticity in which modulatory transmitters enhance spontaneous release of glutamate, which then acts on postsynaptic receptors to recruit mechanisms of intermediate- and long-term plasticity. In this review I suggest the hypothesis that similar plasticity occurs in mammals, where it may contribute to reward, memory, and their dysfunctions in several psychiatric disorders. In Aplysia, spontaneous release is enhanced by activation of presynaptic serotonin receptors, but presynaptic D1 dopamine receptors or nicotinic acetylcholine receptors could play a similar role in mammals. Those receptors enhance spontaneous release of glutamate in hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, prefrontal cortex, ventral tegmental area, and nucleus accumbens. In all of those brain areas, glutamate can activate postsynaptic receptors to elevate Ca(2+) and engage mechanisms of early-phase long-term potentiation (LTP), including AMPA receptor insertion, and of late-phase LTP, including protein synthesis and growth. Thus, presynaptic receptors and spontaneous release may contribute to postsynaptic mechanisms of plasticity in brain regions involved in reward and memory, and could play roles in disorders that affect plasticity in those regions, including addiction, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
How does coordinated activity between distinct brain regions implement a set of learning rules to sculpt information processing in a given neural circuit? Using interneuron cell-type-specific optical activation and pharmacogenetic silencing in vitro, we show that temporally precise pairing of direct entorhinal perforant path (PP) and hippocampal Schaffer collateral (SC) inputs to CA1 pyramidal cells selectively suppresses SC-associated perisomatic inhibition from cholecystokinin (CCK)-expressing interneurons. The CCK interneurons provide a surprisingly strong feedforward inhibitory drive to effectively control the coincident excitation of CA1 pyramidal neurons by convergent inputs. Thus, in-phase cortico-hippocampal activity provides a powerful heterosynaptic learning rule for long-term gating of information flow through the hippocampal excitatory macrocircuit by the silencing of the CCK inhibitory microcircuit.
The CYFIP1/SRA1 gene is located in a chromosomal region linked to various neurological disorders, including intellectual disability, autism, and schizophrenia. CYFIP1 plays a dual role in two apparently unrelated processes, inhibiting local protein synthesis and favoring actin remodeling. Here, we show that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-driven synaptic signaling releases CYFIP1 from the translational inhibitory complex, triggering translation of target mRNAs and shifting CYFIP1 into the WAVE regulatory complex. Active Rac1 alters the CYFIP1 conformation, as demonstrated by intramolecular FRET, and is key in changing the equilibrium of the two complexes. CYFIP1 thus orchestrates the two molecular cascades, protein translation and actin polymerization, each of which is necessary for correct spine morphology in neurons. The CYFIP1 interactome reveals many interactors associated with brain disorders, opening new perspectives to define regulatory pathways shared by neurological disabilities characterized by spine dysmorphogenesis.
Neurons of the cerebral cortex are organized in layers and columns. Unlike laminar patterning, the mechanisms underlying columnar organization remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that ephrin-B1 plays a key role in this process through the control of nonradial steps of migration of pyramidal neurons. In vivo gain of function of ephrin-B1 resulted in a reduction of tangential motility of pyramidal neurons, leading to abnormal neuronal clustering. Conversely, following genetic disruption of ephrin-B1, cortical neurons displayed a wider lateral dispersion, resulting in enlarged ontogenic columns. Dynamic analyses revealed that ephrin-B1 controls the lateral spread of pyramidal neurons by limiting neurite extension and tangential migration during the multipolar phase. Furthermore, we identified P-Rex1, a guanine-exchange factor for Rac3, as a downstream ephrin-B1 effector required to control migration during the multipolar phase. Our results demonstrate that ephrin-B1 inhibits nonradial migration of pyramidal neurons, thereby controlling the pattern of cortical columns.
Human genetics has indicated a causal role for the protein -synuclein in the pathogenesis of familial Parkinson's disease (PD), and the aggregation of synuclein in essentially all patients with PD suggests a central role for this protein in the sporadic disorder. Indeed, the accumulation of misfolded -synuclein now defines multiple forms of neural degeneration. Like many of the proteins that accumulate in other neurodegenerative disorders, however, the normal function of synuclein remains poorly understood. In this article, we review the role of synuclein at the nerve terminal and in membrane remodeling. We also consider the prion-like propagation of misfolded synuclein as a mechanism for the spread of degeneration through the neuraxis.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) continuously supplies new interneurons that incorporate into pre-existing olfactory bulb circuitry. Khodosevich etal. (2013) show that connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) regulates a multicellular signaling cascade determining the number of postnatally born inhibitory interneurons in odor-activated glomeruli.

Psychoses are complex diseases resulting from the interaction between genetic vulnerability factors and various environmental risk factors during the brain development and leading to the emergence of the clinical phenotype at the end of adolescence. Among the mechanisms involved, a redox imbalance plays an important role, inducing oxidative stress damaging to developing neurons. As a consequence, the excitatory/inhibitory balance in cortex and the pathways connecting brain areas are both impaired. Childhood and adolescence appear as critical periods of vulnerability for deleterious environmental insults. Antioxidants, applied during the environmental impacts, should allow preventing these impairments as well as their clinical consequences.
A two-dimensional liquid chromatographic (LC) system was developed for the determination of protein-free and total (free + bound forms) positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand concentrations in plasma by direct plasma injection. The unbound PET radioligand was first analyzed by high-performance frontal analysis using a short gel-filtration column and phosphate buffered saline solution as the mobile phase. All the collected effluent from the gel-filtration column was then transferred to the second dimension consisting of a monolithic C-18 column and mixed (anionic and nonionic surfactants) micellar eluent for determination of the total PET radioligand concentration. The simultaneous analysis of protein binding and radiometabolism of [(11)C]PBR28 was completed within 11 min without any pretreatment of plasma and employing a single analytical system. This system allowed highly sensitive analysis of total [(11)C]PBR28 with a limit of detection (LOD) of 1.6 becquerel (Bq). The LOD for the determination of unbound [(11)C]PBR28 was 21 Bq. Finally, simultaneous measurements of protein binding and radiometabolism of [(11)C]PBR28 in human plasma were achieved for up to 50 min after radioligand administration.
Connexin hemichannels display two distinct forms of voltage-dependent gating, corresponding to the operation of Vj- or fast gates and loop- or slow gates. The carboxyl terminus (CT) of connexin 32 has been reported to be required for the operation of the Vj (fast) gates, but this conclusion was inferred from the loss of a fast kinetic component in macroscopic currents of CT-truncated intercellular channels elicited by transjunctional voltage. Such inferences are complicated by presence of both fast and slow gates in each hemichannel and the serial head-to-head arrangement of these gates in the intercellular channel. Examination of voltage gating in undocked hemichannels and Vj gate polarity reversal by a negative charge substitution (N2E) in the amino terminal domain allow unequivocal separation of the two gating processes in a Cx32 chimera (Cx32()43E1). This chimera expresses currents as an undocked hemichannel in Xenopus oocytes and provides a model system to study the molecular determinants and mechanisms of Cx32 voltage gating. Here, we demonstrate that both Vj- and loop gates are operational in a truncation mutation that removes all but the first four CT residues (ACAR(219)) of the Cx32()43E1 hemichannel. We conclude that an operational Cx32 Vj (fast) gate does not require CT residues 220-283, as reported previously by others.

Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling has emerged as an important regulator of sensory neuron development. Using a three-generation forward genetic screen in mice we have identified Megf8 as a novel modifier of BMP4 signaling in trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons. Loss of Megf8 disrupts axon guidance in the peripheral nervous system and leads to defects in development of the limb, heart, and left-right patterning, defects that resemble those observed in Bmp4 loss-of-function mice. Bmp4 is expressed in a pattern that defines the permissive field for the peripheral projections of TG axons and mice lacking BMP signaling in sensory neurons exhibit TG axon defects that resemble those observed in Megf8 (-/-) embryos. Furthermore, TG axon growth is robustly inhibited by BMP4 and this inhibition is dependent on Megf8. Thus, our data suggest that Megf8 is involved in mediating BMP4 signaling and guidance of developing TG axons. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01160.001.
Clinical and experimental studies implicate most neuromodulatory systems in epileptogenesis. The dopaminergic system has a seizure-modulating effect that crucially depends on the different subtypes of dopamine (DA) receptors involved and the brain regions in which they are activated. Specifically, DA plays a major role in the control of seizures arising in the limbic system. Studies performed in a wide variety of animal models contributed to illustrate the opposite actions of D1-like and D2-like receptor signaling in limbic epileptogenesis. Indeed, signaling from D1-like receptors is generally pro-epileptogenic, whereas D2-like receptor signaling exerts an anti-epileptogenic effect. However, this view might appear quite simplistic as the complex neuromodulatory action of DA in the control of epileptogenesis likely requires a physiological balance in the activation of circuits modulated by these two major DA receptor subtypes, which determines the response to seizure-promoting stimuli. Here we will review recent evidences on the identification of molecules activated by DA transduction pathways in the generation and spread of seizures in the limbic system. We will discuss the intracellular signaling pathways triggered by activation of different DA receptors in relation to their role in limbic epileptogenesis, which lead to the activation of neuronal death/survival cascades. A deep understanding of the signaling pathways involved in epileptogenesis is crucial for the identification of novel targets for the treatment of epilepsy.
Accumulation of misfolded proteins has been implicated in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases including prion diseases, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD). In the past decade, single-chain fragment variable (scFv) -based immunotherapies have been developed to target abnormal proteins or various forms of protein aggregates including A, SNCA, Htt, and PrP proteins. The scFvs are produced by fusing the variable regions of the antibody heavy and light chains, creating a much smaller protein with unaltered specificity. Because of its small size and relative ease of production, scFvs are promising diagnostic and therapeutic reagents for protein misfolded diseases. Studies have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of scFvs in preventing amyloid protein aggregation in preclinical models. Herein, we discuss recent developments of these immunotherapeutics. We review efforts of our group and others using scFv in neurodegenerative disease models. We illustrate the advantages of scFvs, including engineering to enhance misfolded conformer specificity and subcellular targeting to optimize therapeutic action.
Hippocampal cellular and molecular processes critical for memory consolidation are affected by the amount and quality of sleep attained. Questions remain with regard to how sleep enhances memory, what parameters of sleep after learning are optimal for memory consolidation, and what underlying hippocampal molecular players are targeted by sleep deprivation to impair memory consolidation and plasticity. In this review, we address these topics with a focus on the detrimental effects of post-learning sleep deprivation on memory consolidation. Obtaining adequate sleep is challenging in a society that values &quot;work around the clock.&quot; Therefore, the development of interventions to combat the negative cognitive effects of sleep deprivation is key. However, there are a limited number of therapeutics that are able to enhance cognition in the face of insufficient sleep. The identification of molecular pathways implicated in the deleterious effects of sleep deprivation on memory could potentially yield new targets for the development of more effective drugs.



Approximately 15% of all ischemic strokes (IS) occur in young adults and adolescents. To date, only limited prior public health and research efforts have specifically addressed stroke in the young. Early diagnosis remains challenging because of the lack of awareness and the relative infrequency of stroke compared with stroke mimics. Moreover, the causes of IS in the young are heterogeneous and can be relatively uncommon, resulting in uncertainties about diagnostic evaluation and cause-specific management. Emerging data have raised public health concerns about the increasing prevalence of traditional vascular risk factors in young individuals, and their potential role in increasing the risk of IS, stroke recurrence, and poststroke mortality. These issues make it important to formulate and enact strategies to increase both awareness and access to resources for young stroke patients, their caregivers and families, and health care professionals. The American Academy of Neurology recently convened an expert panel to develop a consensus document concerning the recognition, evaluation, and management of IS in young adults and adolescents. The report of the consensus panel is presented herein.

Reproductive success depends on a robust and appropriately timed preovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) surge, which is induced by the activation of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons in response to positive feedback from increasing estrogen levels. Here we document an increase in postsynaptic GluR2-lacking Ca2+ -permeable AMPA-type glutamate receptors (CP-AMPARs) at synapses on GnRH neurons on the day of proestrus in rats, coincident with the increase in estrogen levels. Functional blockade of CP-AMPARs depressed the synaptic responses only on the day of proestrus and concomitantly attenuated the LH surge. Thus, the phasic synaptic incorporation of postsynaptic CP-AMPARs on GnRH neurons is involved in the generation of the LH surge.
Nuclear factor (NF)-B acetylation has been shown to participate in a number of neurological processes by regulating the expression of certain genes. We have previously demonstrated the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) expression and nitric oxide (NO) production may be regulated by NF-B acetylation via an NF-B responsive element within the nNOS promoter in neuronal cells. p300 is a ubiquitous transcription coactivator with intrinsic histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity, which is important in the nervous system. In the present study, we aimed at probing if p300 participated in regulating the nNOS expression through the NF-B-mediated way. As a result, we found p300 enhanced the nNOS protein and mRNA levels in human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells by enhancing the binding of NF-B to the nNOS promoter and NF-B-mediated nNOS transcription. Meanwhile, p300 was shown to directly acetylate NF-B p65 and p50 subunits, interact with NF-B and bind to the NF-B responsive element region within the nNOS promoter. Taken together, our results indicate p300 acts as both an HAT and a coactivator in regulating NF-B-mediated nNOS expression, which provide some correlations between p300 and nNOS in neuronal cell, and suggest that some p300-related neurological disorders may be partially based on its effect on the nNOS expression.
The neuregulin 1 gene has repeatedly been identified as a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia, thus mice with genetic mutations in this gene offer a valuable tool for studying the role of neuregulin 1 in schizophrenia-related neurotransmission. In this study, slide-based receptor autoradiography was used to quantify glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), dopaminergic D2, cannabinoid CB1 and acetylcholine M1/4 receptor levels in the brains of male heterozygous transmembrane domain neuregulin 1 mutant (Nrg1(+/-)) mice at two ages. Mutant mice expressed small but significant increases in NMDA receptor levels in the cingulate cortex (7%, p=0.044), sensory cortex (8%, p=0.024), and motor cortex (8%, p=0.047), effects that were independent of age. In the nucleus accumbens and thalamus Nrg1(+/-) mice exhibited age-dependent alterations in NMDA receptors. Nrg1(+/-) mice showed a statistically significant increase in NMDA receptor levels in the nucleus accumbens of 14-week-old Nrg1(+/-) mice compared to control littermates of the same age (12%, p=0.026), an effect that was not seen in 20-week-old mice. In contrast, NMDA receptor levels in the thalamus, while initially unchanged in 14-week-old mice, were then decreased in the 20-week-old Nrg1(+/-) mice compared to control littermates of the same age (14%, p=0.011). Nrg1(+/-) mutant mice expressed a significant reduction in D2 receptor levels (13-16%) in the striatum compared to controls, independent of age. While there was a borderline significant increase (6%, p=0.058) in cannabinoid CB1 receptor levels in the substantia nigra of Nrg1(+/-) mice compared to controls, CB1 as well as acetylcholine M1/4 receptors showed no change in Nrg1(+/-) mice in any other brain region examined. These data indicate that a Nrg1 transmembrane mutation produces selective imbalances in glutamatergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission, which are two key systems believed to contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis. While the effects on these systems are subtle, they may underlie the susceptibility of these mutants to further impacts.
The abilities of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and exercise to counteract cognitive decay after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is getting increasing recognition; however, the possibility that these actions can be complementary remains just as an intriguing possibility. Here we have examined the likelihood that the combination of diet and exercise has the added potential to facilitate functional recovery following TBI. Rats received mild fluid percussion injury (mFPI) or sham injury and then were maintained on a diet high in DHA (1.2% DHA) with or without voluntary exercise for 12days. We found that FPI reduced DHA content in the brain, which was accompanied by increased levels of lipid peroxidation assessed using 4-hydroxy-2-hexenal (4-HHE). FPI reduced the enzymes acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (Acox1) and 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 4 (17-HSD4), and the calcium-independent phospholipases A2 (iPLA2), which are involved in metabolism of membrane phospholipids. FPI reduced levels of syntaxin-3 (STX-3), involved in the action of membrane DHA on synaptic membrane expansion, and also reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling through its tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) receptor. These effects of FPI were optimally counteracted by the combination of DHA and exercise. Our results support the possibility that the complementary action of exercise is exerted on restoring membrane homeostasis after TBI, which is necessary for supporting synaptic plasticity and cognition. It is our contention that strategies that take advantage of the combined applications of diet and exercise may have additional effects to the injured brain.
Cognitive dysfunction is relatively frequent in multiple sclerosis (MS) and it happens from the early stages of the disease. There is increasing evidence that the grey matter may be involved in autoimmune inflammation during relapses of MS. The purpose of this study was to evaluate if a single transfer of encephalitogenic T cells, mimicking a relapse of MS, may cause hippocampal damage and memory disturbances in rats. Lewis rats were injected with anti-MBP CD4+ T cells, that induced one-phase autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) with full recovery from motor impairments at 10-15 days. The spatial learning and memory were tested by the Morris water maze test in control and EAE animals, 30 and 90 days post-induction (dpi). The neural injury and inflammation was investigated in the hippocampus by immunohistochemistry and quantitative analyses. There was a marked decrease in the number of CA1 and CA4 pyramidal neurons 5 dpi. The loss of neurons then aggravated till the 90 dpi. An increase in microglial and astroglial activation and in pro-inflammatory cytokines mRNA expression in the hippocampus, were present 30 and 90 dpi. Nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA levels were also significantly elevated. The water maze test, however, did not reveal memory deficits. The present data indicate that a single transfer of autoimmune T cells results in preserved inflammation and probable on-going neuronal injury in the hippocampus, long after recovery from motor disturbances. These findings suggest that any relapse of the MS may start the neurodegenerative process in the hippocampus, which is not necessarily connected with memory deficits.
The kinetics of neurotransmitter release was recognized recently as an important contributor to synaptic efficiency. Since adenosine is the ubiquitous modulator of presynaptic release in peripheral and central synapses, in the current project we studied the action of this purine on the timing of acetylcholine quantal release from motor nerve terminals in the skeletal muscle. Using extracellular recording from frog neuromuscular junction we tested the action of adenosine on the latencies of single quantal events in the pro-oxidant and antioxidant conditions. We found that adenosine, in addition to previously known inhibitory action on release probability, also synchronized release by removing quantal events with long latencies. This action of adenosine on release timing was abolished by oxidants whereas in the presence of the antioxidant the synchronizing action of adenosine was further enhanced. Interestingly, unlike the timing of release, the inhibitory action of adenosine on release probability was redox-independent. Modulation of release timing by adenosine was mediated by purinergic A1 receptors as it was eliminated by the specific A1 antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) and mimicked by the specific A1 agonist N(6)-cyclopentyl-adenosine. Consistent with data obtained from dispersion of single quantal events, adenosine also reduced the rise-time of multiquantal synaptic currents. The latter effect was reproduced in the model based on synchronizing effect of adenosine on release timing. Thus, adenosine which is generated at the neuromuscular junction from the breakdown of the co-transmitter ATP induces the synchronization of quantal events. The effect of adenosine on release timing should preserve the fidelity of synaptic transmission via &quot;cost-effective&quot; use of less transmitter quanta. Our findings also revealed important crosstalk between purinergic and redox modulation of synaptic processes which could take place in the elderly or in neuromuscular diseases associated with oxidative stress like lateral amyotrophic sclerosis.
Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and age-matched typically-developing (TD) peers were tested on two forms of eyeblink conditioning (EBC), a Pavlovian associative learning paradigm where subjects learn to execute an appropriately-timed eyeblink in response to a previously neutral conditioning stimulus (CS). One version of the task, trace EBC, interposes a stimulus-free interval between the presentation of the CS and the unconditioned stimulus (US), a puff of air to the eye which causes the subjects to blink. In delay EBC, the CS overlaps in time with the delivery of the US, usually with both stimuli terminating simultaneously. ASD children performed normally during trace EBC, exhibiting no differences from TD subjects with regard to the learning rate or the timing of the conditioned response. However, when subsequently tested on delay EBC, subjects with ASD displayed abnormally-timed conditioned eye blinks that began earlier and peaked sooner than those of TD subjects, consistent with previous findings. The results suggest an impaired ability of children with ASD to properly time conditioned eye blinks which appears to be specific to delay EBC. We suggest that this deficit may reflect a dysfunction of the cerebellar cortex in which increases in the intensity or duration of sensory input can temporarily disrupt the accuracy of motor timing over short temporal intervals.
Individuals are exposed to stressful events in their daily life. The effects of stress on brain function ranges from highly adaptive to increasing the risk to develop psychopathology. For example, stressful experiences are remembered well which can be seen as a highly appropriate behavioral adaptation. On the other hand, stress is an important risk factor, in susceptible individuals, for depression and anxiety. An important question that remains to be addressed is how stress regulates brain function and what determines the threshold between adaptive and maladaptive responses. Excitatory synapses play a crucial role in synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity and behavioral adaptation. In this review we discuss how brief and prolonged exposure to stress, in adulthood and early life, regulate the function of these synapses, and how these effects may contribute to behavioral adaptation and psychopathology.
Withdrawal from opiates, such as heroin or oral narcotics, is characterized by a host of aversive physical and emotional symptoms. High rates of relapse and limited treatment success rates for opiate addiction have prompted a search for new approaches. For many opiate addicts, achieving abstinence may be further complicated by poly-drug use and co-morbid mental disorders. Research over the past decade has shed light on the influence of endocannabinoids (ECs) on the opioid system. Evidence from both animal and clinical studies point toward an interaction between these two systems, and suggest that targeting the EC system may provide novel interventions for managing opiate dependence and withdrawal. This review will summarize the literature surrounding the molecular effects of cannabinoids and opioids on the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system, a key circuit implicated in the negative sequelae of opiate addiction. A consideration of the trends and effects of marijuana use in those seeking treatment to abstain from opiates in the clinical setting will also be presented. In summary, the present review details how cannabinoid-opioid interactions may inform novel interventions in the management of opiate dependence and withdrawal.
Language is a signature of our species and our primary conduit for conveying the contents of our minds. The power of language derives not only from the exquisite detail of the signal itself but also from its intricate link to human cognition. To acquire a language, infants must identify which signals are part of their language and discover how these signals are linked to meaning. At birth, infants prefer listening to vocalizations of human and nonhuman primates; within 3 mo, this initially broad listening preference is tuned specifically to human vocalizations. Moreover, even at this early developmental point, human vocalizations evoke more than listening preferences alone: they engender in infants a heightened focus on the objects in their visual environment and promote the formation of object categories, a fundamental cognitive capacity. Here, we illuminate the developmental origin of this early link between human vocalizations and cognition. We document that this link emerges from a broad biological template that initially encompasses vocalizations of human and nonhuman primates (but not backward speech) and that within 6 mo this link to cognition is tuned specifically to human vocalizations. At 3 and 4 mo, nonhuman primate vocalizations promote object categorization, mirroring precisely the advantages conferred by human vocalizations, but by 6 mo, nonhuman primate vocalizations no longer exert this advantageous effect. This striking developmental shift illuminates a path of specialization that supports infants as they forge the foundational links between human language and the core cognitive processes that will serve as the foundations of meaning.
Acoustic communication is widespread in animals. According to the sensory drive hypothesis [Endler JA (1993) Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 340(1292):215-225], communication signals and perceptual systems have coevolved. A clear illustration of this is the evolution of the tetrapod middle ear, adapted to life on land. Here we report the discovery of a bone conduction-mediated stimulation of the ear by wave propagation in Sechellophryne gardineri, one of the world's smallest terrestrial tetrapods, which lacks a middle ear yet produces acoustic signals. Based on X-ray synchrotron holotomography, we measured the biomechanical properties of the otic tissues and modeled the acoustic propagation. Our models show how bone conduction enhanced by the resonating role of the mouth allows these seemingly deaf frogs to communicate effectively without a middle ear.
The basal ganglia are critical for selecting actions and evaluating their outcome. Although the circuitry for selection is well understood, how these nuclei evaluate the outcome of actions is unknown. Here, we show in lamprey that a separate evaluation circuit, which regulates the habenula-projecting globus pallidus (GPh) neurons, exists within the basal ganglia. The GPh neurons are glutamatergic and can drive the activity of the lateral habenula, which, in turn, provides an indirect inhibitory influence on midbrain dopamine neurons. We show that GPh neurons receive inhibitory input from the striosomal compartment of the striatum. The striosomal input can reduce the excitatory drive to the lateral habenula and, consequently, decrease the inhibition onto the dopaminergic system. Dopaminergic neurons, in turn, provide feedback that inhibits the GPh. In addition, GPh neurons receive direct projections from the pallium (cortex in mammals), which can increase the GPh activity to drive the lateral habenula to increase the inhibition of the neuromodulatory systems. This circuitry, thus, differs markedly from the &quot;direct&quot; and &quot;indirect&quot; pathways that regulate the pallidal (e.g., globus pallidus) output nuclei involved in the control of motion. Our results show that a distinct reward-evaluation circuit exists within the basal ganglia, in parallel to the direct and indirect pathways, which select actions. Our results suggest that these circuits are part of the fundamental blueprint that all vertebrates use to select actions and evaluate their outcome.



Proper brain wiring during development is pivotal for adult brain function. Neurons display a high degree of polarization both morphologically and functionally, and this polarization requires the segregation of mRNA, proteins, and lipids into the axonal or somatodendritic domains. Recent discoveries have provided insight into many aspects of the cell biology of axonal development including axon specification during neuronal polarization, axon growth, and terminal axon branching during synaptogenesis.
According to the standard model of systems consolidation (SMC), neocortical circuits are reactivated during the retrieval of declarative memories. This process initially requires the hippocampus. However, with the passage of time, neocortical circuits become strengthened and can eventually retrieve memory without input from the hippocampus. Although consistent with lesion data, these assumptions have been difficult to confirm experimentally. In the current review, we discuss recent methodological advances in behavioral neuroscience that are making it possible to test the basic assumptions of SMC for the first time. For example, new transgenic mice can be used to monitor the activity of individual neurons across the entire brain while optogenetic approaches provide precise control over the activity of these cells using light stimulation. These tools can be used to examine the reactivation of neocortical neurons during recent and remote memory retrieval and determine if this process requires the hippocampus.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptors (GLP-1R) expressed in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) are physiologically required for the control of feeding. Recently, NTS GLP-1R-mediated suppression of feeding was shown to occur via a rapid PKA-induced suppression of AMPK and activation of MAPK signaling. Unknown are the additional intracellular signaling pathways that account for the long-term hypophagic effects of GLP-1R activation. Because cAMP/PKA activity can promote PI3K/PIP3-dependent translocation of Akt to the plasma membrane, we hypothesize that hindbrain GLP-1R-mediated control of feeding involves a PI3K-Akt-dependent pathway. Importantly, the novel evidence presented here challenges the dogmatic view that PI3K phosphorylation results in an obligatory activation of Akt and instead supports a growing body of literature showing that activation of cAMP/PKA can inhibit Akt phosphorylation at the plasma membrane. Behavioral data show that inhibition of hindbrain PI3K activity by a fourth icv administration of LY-294002 (3.07 g) attenuated the food intake- and body weight-suppressive effects of a fourth icv administration of the GLP-1R agonist exendin-4 (0.3 g) in rats. Hindbrain administration of triciribine (10 g), an inhibitor of PIP3-dependent translocation of Akt to the cell membrane, also attenuated the intake-suppressive effects of a fourth icv injection of exendin-4. Immunoblot analyses of ex vivo NTS tissue lysates and in vitro GLP-1R-expressing neurons (GT1-7) support the behavioral findings and show that GLP-1R activation decreases phosphorylation of Akt in a time-dependent fashion. Current data reveal the requirement of PI3K activation, PIP3-dependent translocation of Akt to the plasma membrane, and suppression in phosphorylation of membrane-bound Akt to mediate the food intake-suppressive effects of hindbrain GLP-1R activation.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder marked by cognitive, psychiatric and motor decline, and is modifiable by unidentified environmental factors. We examined the effects of stress on cognitive function in R6/1 HD transgenic mice. Utilizing the Y-maze to assess short-term memory, we report that only female HD mice displayed vulnerability to 1h of confinement stress reflected by impaired memory acquisition. This could not be attributed to a different corticosterone response or exploratory behaviour in the task. This is the first demonstration of increased stress susceptibility in an animal model of HD involving a direct negative impact on cognitive function.
Activation of PKC, an abundant and developmentally regulated PKC isoform in the brain, has been implicated in memory throughout life and across species. Yet, direct evidence for a mechanistic role for PKC in memory is still lacking. Hence, we sought to evaluate this in rats, using short-term treatments with two PKC-selective peptides, the inhibitory V1-2 and the activating RACK, and the novel object recognition task (NORT). Our results show that the PKC-selective activator RACK, did not have a significant effect on recognition memory. In the short time frames used, however, inhibition of PKC activation with the peptide inhibitor V1-2 significantly impaired recognition memory. Moreover, when we addressed at the molecular level the immediate proximal signalling events of PKC activation in acutely dissected rat hippocampi, we found that RACK increased in a time-dependent manner phosphorylation of MARCKS and activation of Src, Raf, and finally ERK1/2, whereas V1-2 inhibited all basal activity of this pathway. Taken together, these findings present the first direct evidence that PKC activation is an essential molecular component of recognition memory and point toward the use of systemically administered PKC-regulating peptides as memory study tools and putative therapeutic agents.
Previously, we have shown that Dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32) knockout mice required significantly more trials to reach criterion than wild-type mice in an operant reversal-learning task. The present study was conducted to examine adult male and female DARPP-32 knockout mice and wild-type controls in a novel object recognition test. Wild-type and knockout mice exhibited comparable behavior during the initial exploration trials. As expected, wild-type mice exhibited preferential exploration of the novel object during the substitution test, demonstrating recognition memory. In contrast, knockout mice did not show preferential exploration of the novel object, instead exhibiting an increase in exploration of all objects during the test trial. Given that the removal of DARPP-32 is an intracellular manipulation, it seemed possible to pharmacologically restore some cellular activity and behavior by stimulating dopamine receptors. Therefore, a second experiment was conducted examining the effect of methylphenidate. The results show that methylphenidate increased horizontal activity in both wild-type and knockout mice, though this increase was blunted in knockout mice. Pretreatment with methylphenidate significantly impaired novel object recognition in wild-type mice. In contrast, pretreatment with methylphenidate restored the behavior of DARPP-32 knockout mice to that observed in wild-type mice given saline. These results provide additional evidence for a functional role of DARPP-32 in the mediation of processes underlying learning and memory. These results also indicate that the behavioral deficits in DARPP-32 knockout mice may be restored by the administration of methylphenidate.
Early life stress is shown to have a life-span outcome on human and animal behavior, increasing the risk for psychopathology. The gene methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), which encodes for a key enzyme in one carbon metabolism, shows a high prevalence of polymorphism in patients with developmental disorders. Here we examined the hypothesis that MTHFR deficiency results in an increased susceptibility of the developing brain to mild neonatal stress (NS). Mild NS failed to alter corticosterone levels in young and adult Wt mice. However, an elevated level of corticosterone was found in the MTHFR deficient-NS female, exemplifying enhanced sensitivity to NS. Behavioral phenotyping of Wt and MTHFR deficient mice provides evidence that the effect of mild NS may be amplified by the MTHFR deficient genotype. Distinct behavioral characteristics were altered in male and female mice. In general, three patterns of influence on mice behavior were observed: (1) an additive suppressive effect of NS and MTHFR deficiency on exploration and activity was evident in females; (2) stress related parameters were significantly sensitive to genotype in females, presenting an interaction between genotype and sex; (3) various aspects of behavior in a social setting were modified preferably in males by genotype, NS and the interaction between the two, while females exhibited a smaller effect that was restricted to NS with no genotype effect. Overall, our results support an interaction between mild NS, the MTHFR genotype and sex. We suggest using this animal model to study the molecular mechanism linking these two risk factors and their involvement in neurodevelopmental disorders such as schizophrenia and autism.
A highly regulated crosstalk exists between the immune and neuroendocrine systems with the altered immune responses in stress-related disorders being a valid example of this interaction. The Wister Kyoto (WKY) rat is an animal model with a genetic predisposition towards an exaggerated stress response and is used to study disorders such as depression and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), where stress plays a substantial role. The impact of a lipopolysaccride (LPS) immune challenge has not yet been investigated in this animal model to date. Hence our aim was to assess if the stress susceptible genetic background of the WKY rat was associated with a differential response to an acute immune challenge. Central and peripheral parameters previously shown to be altered by LPS administration were assessed. Under baseline conditions, WKY rats displayed visceral hypersensitivity compared to Sprague Dawley (SD) control rats. However, only SD rats showed an increase in visceral sensitivity following endotoxin administration. The peripheral immune response to the LPS was similar in both strains whilst the central neurochemistry was blunted in the WKY rats. Sickness behaviour was also abrogated in the WKY rats. Taken together, these data indicate that the genetic background of the WKY rat mitigates the response to infection centrally, but not peripherally. This implies that heightened stress-susceptibility in vulnerable populations may compromise the coordinated CNS response to peripheral immune activation.
It is thought that a close dialogue between the primary motor (M1) and somatosensory (S1) cortices is necessary for skilled motor learning. The extent of the relative S1 contribution in producing skilled reaching movements, however, is still unclear. Here we used anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), which is able to alter polarity-specific excitability in the S1, to facilitate skilled movement in intact behaving rats. We hypothesized that the critical role of S1 in reaching performance can be enhanced by bilateral tDCS. Pretrained rats were assigned to control or stimulation conditions: (1) UnAno: the unilateral application of an anodal current to the side contralateral to the paw preferred for reaching; (2) BiAno1: bilateral anodal current; (3) BiAno2: a bilateral anodal current with additional 30ms of 65A pulses every 5s. Rats received tDCS (65A; 10min/rat) to the S1 during skilled reach training for 20 days (online-effect phase). After-effect assessment occurred for the next ten days in the absence of electrical stimulation. Quantitative and qualitative analyses of online-effects of tDCS showed that UnAno and BiAno1 somatosensory stimulation significantly improve skilled reaching performance. Bilateral BiAno1 stimulation was associated with greater qualitative functional improvement than unilateral UnAno stimulation. tDCS-induced improvements were not observed in the after-effects phase. Quantitative cytoarchitectonic analysis revealed that somatosensory tDCS bilaterally increases cortical neural density. The findings emphasize the central role of bilateral somatosensory feedback in skill acquisition through modulation of cortico-motor excitability.
Selective phosphodiesterases (PDEs) inhibitors have been widely studied as therapeutic agents for treatment of various human diseases, including cardiotonics, vasodilators, smooth muscle relaxants, antidepressants, antithrombotics, antiasthmatics, and agents for improving learning and memory. Although Sildenafil() and Vardenafil() have similar chemical formulae, the same target and interact with many of the same residues at the active site of phosphodiesterse-5 (PDE-5), they exhibit both in vitro and in vivo some important functional differences that could differentially affect behavior. Therefore we assessed whether repeated and chronic administration of Vardenafil and Sildenafil at a dose based upon human treatment can differentially affect aggressive, social, emotional and sexual behavior. To this aim, the effects of Sildenafil (10mg/kg) or Vardenafil (2mg/kg) (t.i.w., for 5 weeks) were observed in CD1 subordinate male mice in a low aggression and social subordination context. The results show that Sildenafil increased competitive aggression, environmental and social exploration, and reduced anxiety like behaviors as compared to controls, whereas Vardenafil had a significant major effect on appetitive and consummatory aspect of sexual behavior. This demonstrates that Sildenafil and Vardenafil, although being structurally and functionally similar, are characterized by different neuro-behavioral actions and can have differential therapeutic potentials.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a measure of sensorimotor gating in diverse groups of animals including humans. Emotional states can influence PPI in humans both in typical subjects and in individuals with mental illness. Little is known about emotional regulation during PPI in rodents. We used ultrasonic vocalization recording to monitor emotional states in rats during PPI testing. We altered the predictability of the PPI trials to examine any alterations in gating and emotional regulation. We also examined PPI in animals selectively bred for high or low levels of 50kHz USV emission. Rats emitted high levels of 22kHz calls consistently throughout the PPI session. USVs were sensitive to prepulses during the PPI session similar to startle. USV rate was sensitive to predictability among the different levels tested and across repeated experiences. Startle and inhibition of startle were not affected by predictability in a similar manner. No significant differences for PPI or startle were found related to the different levels of predictability; however, there was a reduction in USV signals and an enhancement of PPI after repeated exposure. Animals selectively bred to emit high levels of USVs emitted significantly higher levels of USVs during the PPI session and a reduced ASR compared to the low and random selective lines. Overall, the results support the idea that PPI tests in rodents induce high levels of negative affect and that manipulating emotional styles of the animals alters the negative impact of the gating session as well as the intensity of the startle response.

2,4,5 dihydro 2,5 trimethylthiazoline (TMT) is a synthesized component of red fox anal secretions that reliably elicits defensive behaviors in rats and mice. TMT differs from other predator odors because it is a single molecule, it can be synthesized in large quantities, and the dose for exposure is highly controllable in an experimental setting. TMT has become a popular tool for studying the brain mechanisms that mediate innate fear behavior to olfactory stimuli. However, this view of TMT as a biologically relevant olfactory stimulus has been challenged by suggestions that the odor elicits fear behavior due to its irritating properties, presumably working through a nociceptive mechanism. To address this criticism our lab measured freezing behavior in rats during exposures to 2 odors (TMT and butyric acid) and H2O (no odor control) following either surgical transection of the trigeminal nerves or ablation of the olfactory bulbs. Our findings (Experiment 1) indicate that freezing behavior to TMT requires an intact olfactory system, as indicated by the loss of freezing following olfactory bulb removal. Experiment 2 revealed that rats with trigeminal nerve transection freeze normally to TMT, suggesting the olfactory system mediates this behavior to TMT. A replication of Experiment 1 that included contextual fear conditioning revealed that the decreased freezing behavior was not due to an inability of olfactory bulb ablated rats to freeze (Experiment 3). Taken together, these findings support TMT's role as an ecologically relevant predator odor useful in experiments of unconditioned fear that is mediated via olfaction and not nociception.
Genetic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome, fatal familial insomnia and prion protein cerebral amyloid angiopathy are clinically and neuropathologically distinct neurodegenerative diseases linked to mutations in the PRNP gene encoding the cellular prion protein (PrPC). How sequence variants of PRNP encode the information to specify these disease phenotypes is not known. It is suggested that each mutation produces a misfolded variant of PrPC with specific neurotoxic properties. However, structural studies of recombinant PrP did not detect major differences between wild-type and mutant molecules, pointing to the importance of investigating mutant PrPs from mammalian brains. We used surface plasmon resonance and a slot-blot immunoassay to analyse the antibody-binding profiles of soluble and insoluble PrP molecules extracted from the brains of transgenic mice modelling different prion diseases. By measuring the reactivity of monoclonal antibodies against different PrP epitopes, we obtained evidence of conformational differences between wild-type and mutant PrPs, and among different mutants. We detected structural heterogeneity in both monomeric and aggregated PrP, supporting the hypothesis that the phenotype of genetic prion diseases is encoded by mutant PrP conformation and assembly state.
The endogenous catecholamine release-inhibitory peptide catestatin (CST) regulates events leading to hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Earlier we studied the structure of CST by NMR, molecular modeling, and amino acid scanning mutagenesis. That structure has now been exploited for elucidation of interface pharmacophores that mediate binding of CST to its target, with consequent secretory inhibition. Designed pharmacophore models allowed screening of 3D structural domains. Selected compounds were tested on both cultured catecholaminergic cells and an in vivo model of hypertension; in each case, the candidates showed substantial mimicry of native CST actions, with preserved or enhanced potency and specificity. The approach and compounds have thus enabled rational design of novel drug candidates for treatment of hypertension or autonomic dysfunction.
Development of SAR in an octahydropyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole series of negative allosteric modulators of mGlu1 using a functional cell-based assay is described in this Letter. The octahydropyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole scaffold was chosen as an isosteric replacement for the piperazine ring found in the initial hit compound. Characterization of selected compounds in protein binding assays was used to identify the most promising analogs, which were then profiled in P450 inhibition assays in order to further assess the potential for drug-likeness within this series of compounds.
Antiangiogenic therapies are being pursued as a means of starving tumors of their energy supply. Although numerous studies show that such therapies render tumors hypoxic, just as many studies have, surprisingly, shown improved tumor oxygenation. These contradicting findings challenge both the original rationale for antiangiogenic therapy and our understanding of the physiology of tissue oxygenation. The flow-diffusion equation, which describes the relation between blood flow and the extraction of freely diffusible molecules in tissue, was recently extended to take the heterogeneity of capillary transit times (CTH) into account. CTH is likely to be high in the chaotic microvasculature of a tumor, increasing the effective shunting of blood through its capillary bed. We review the properties of the extended flow-diffusion equation in tumor tissue. Elevated CTH reduces the extraction of oxygen, glucose, and cytotoxic molecules. The extent to which their net extraction is improved by antiangiogenic therapy, in turn, depends on the extent to which CTH is normalized by the treatment. The extraction of oxygen and glucose are affected to different extents by elevated CTH, and the degree of aerobic glycolysis-known as the Warburg effect-is thus predicted to represent an adaptation to the CTH of the local microvasculature.

The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a transmembrane protein mostly recognized for its association with Alzheimer's disease. The physiological function of APP is still not completely understood much because of the redundancy between genes in the APP family. In this study we have used zebrafish to study the physiological function of the zebrafish APP homologue, appb, during development. We show that appb is expressed in post-mitotic neurons in the spinal cord. Knockdown of appb by 50-60% results in a behavioral phenotype with increased spontaneous coiling and prolonged touch-induced activity. The spinal cord motor neurons in these embryos show defective formation and axonal outgrowth patterning. Reduction in Appb also results in patterning defects and changed density of pre- and post-synapses in the neuromuscular junctions. Together, our data show that development of functional locomotion in zebrafish depends on a critical role of Appb in the patterning of motor neurons and neuromuscular junctions.
There is a brief summary of the background literature about purinergic signalling. The review then considers purinergic mechanosensory transduction involved in visceral, cutaneous and musculoskeletal nociception and on the roles played by P2X3, P2X2/3, P2X4, P2X7 and P2Y receptors in neuropathic and inflammatory pain. Current developments of compounds for the therapeutic treatment of both visceral and neuropathic pain are discussed.
GAB(A) (-aminobutyric acid) is abundantly expressed within the brain, and spinal cord pain circuits where it acts as the principal mediator of fast inhibitory neurotransmission. However, drugs that target GABA(A) receptor function such as the classical benzodiazepines have not been optimised to promote analgesia, are limited by side effects and are not routinely used for this purpose in humans. Compounds such as NS11394, L-838,417, HZ166 and TPA023 all bind to the same benzodiazepine site on the GABA(A) receptor to allosterically modulate receptor function and enhance the actions of GABA. By virtue of their ability to activate selected subtypes of GABA(A) receptors (principally those containing 2, 3 and 5 subunits) these compounds have been shown to possess excellent tolerability profiles in animals. Importantly, a number of these molecules also mediate profound analgesia in animal models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Other modulators such as neurosteroids bind to distinct sites on GABA(A) receptor  subunits, possess a unique pharmacology and are capable of targeting alternative GABA(A) receptor expressing populations. Moreover, neurosteroids also have pronounced analgesic actions in animal pain models. The continuing call for novel mechanism of action analgesics to target specific pathologies, especially in clinical neuropathic conditions, emphasizes the need to test modulators of GABA(A) receptor function in both human experimental pain models and pain patients.
This review selectively explores some areas of pain research that, until recently, have been poorly understood. We have chosen four topics that relate to clinical pain and we discuss the underlying mechanisms and related pathophysiologies contributing to these pain states. A key issue in pain medicine involves crucial events and mediators that contribute to normal and abnormal pain signaling, but remain unseen without genetic, biomarker or imaging analysis. Here we consider how the altered genetic make-up of familial pains reveals the human importance of channels discovered by preclinical research, followed by the contribution of receptors as stimulus transducers in cold sensing and cold pain. Finally we review recent data on the neuro-immune interactions in chronic pain and the potential targets for treatment in cancer-induced bone pain.
Preclinical research has recently uncovered new molecular mechanisms underlying the generation and transduction of pain, many of which represent opportunities for pharmacological intervention. Manipulating temperature-sensitive Transient Receptor Potential (TRP) channels (so-called &quot;thermoTRPs&quot;) on nociceptive neurons is a particularly attractive strategy in that it targets the beginning of the pain pathway. In the focus of current drug development efforts are the heat-sensitive TRPV1, warm-activated TRPV3, cold-responsive TRPA1, and cool-activated TRPM8 channels. TRPV1 desensitization by topical agonists (e.g. high concentration capsaicin creams and patches) has been in clinical use for decades to alleviate chronic painful conditions like diabetic neuropathy. Currently, site-specific resiniferatoxin (an ultrapotent capsaicin analogue) injections are being evaluated as &quot;molecular scalpels&quot; to achieve permanent analgesia in cancer patients with chronic, intractable pain. In the past few years a number of potent, small molecule TRPV1, TRPV3 and TRPA1 antagonists have been advanced into clinical trials for the treatment of inflammatory, neuropathic and visceral pain. TRPM8 antagonists are following closely behind for cold allodynia. Early TRPV1 antagonists in the clinic, however, showed worrisome adverse effects including hyperthermia and impaired noxious heat sensation. These adverse effects placed the patients at risk for scalding injury and prompted their withdrawal from the clinical trials. Second generation TRPV1 antagonists that do not cause core body temperature elevation have been reported, although the therapeutic utility of this class of compounds is not yet known. This review discusses the promise and challenges of developing TRP channel antagonists as a new generation of pain therapeutics.
The relationship between maternal stress during pregnancy in humans and the subsequent physical and mental health disorders in their children has inspired a wide array of studies on animal models. Almost all of these studies have used mammalian species, but more recently oviparous species in which the embryo develops outside the mother's body have received more attention. These new models facilitate disentangling of the underlying mechanism due to the accessibility of the prenatal environment, the egg. Studies in birds have found that maternal stress during egg formation induces phenotypic alterations in the offspring that hatch from these eggs. However, different offspring traits have been measured in different studies and potential underlying mechanisms are barely addressed. In this study we experimentally manipulated maternal corticosterone levels in laying hens. We found that mothers with experimentally elevated plasma corticosterone levels produced offspring that are smaller at hatching, less competitive, less fearful, have lower immunocompetence and higher plasma testosterone levels, as well as an alteration of visually guided behavioural lateralization. Earlier we have showed that eggs produced by these corticosterone treated mothers were lighter and contained lower concentrations of testosterone and progesterone in the yolk. While yolk hormones showed no correlation with any offspring traits, egg mass correlated positively with offspring's body mass from hatching until 10days of age and hatching mass correlated positively with the offspring's ability to compete for food, indicating that prenatal under nutrition might mediate some effects of maternal stress.
Mutations in the RNA binding protein fused in sarcoma/translated in liposarcoma (FUS/TLS) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Although ALS-linked mutations in FUS often lead to a cytosolic mislocalization of the protein, the pathogenic mechanisms underlying these mutations remain poorly understood. To gain insight into these mechanisms, we examined the biochemical, cell biological and functional properties of mutant FUS in neurons. Expression of different FUS mutants (R521C, R521H, P525L) in neurons caused axonal defects. A protein interaction screen performed to explain these phenotypes identified numerous FUS interactors including the spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) causing protein survival motor neuron (SMN). Biochemical experiments showed that FUS and SMN interact directly and endogenously, and that this interaction can be regulated by FUS mutations. Immunostaining revealed co-localization of mutant FUS aggregates and SMN in primary neurons. This redistribution of SMN to cytosolic FUS accumulations led to a decrease in axonal SMN. Finally, cell biological experiments showed that overexpression of SMN rescued the axonal defects induced by mutant FUS, suggesting that FUS mutations cause axonal defects through SMN. This study shows that neuronal aggregates formed by mutant FUS protein may aberrantly sequester SMN and concomitantly cause a reduction of SMN levels in the axon, leading to axonal defects. These data provide a functional link between ALS-linked FUS mutations, SMN and neuronal connectivity and support the idea that different motor neuron disorders such as SMA and ALS may be caused, in part, by defects in shared molecular pathways.
Although hippocampal neurons are well-distinguished by the morphological characteristics of their dendrites and their structural plasticity, the mechanisms involved in regulating their neurite initiation, dendrite growth, network formation and remodeling are still largely unknown, in part because the key molecules involved remain elusive. Identifying new dendrite-active cues could uncover unknown molecular mechanisms that would add significant understanding to the field and possibly lead to the development of novel neuroprotective therapy because these neurons are impaired in many neuropsychiatric disorders. In our previous studies, we deleted the gene encoding CRMP3 in mice and identified the protein as a new endogenous signaling molecule that shapes diverse features of the hippocampal pyramidal dendrites without affecting axon morphology. We also found that CRMP3 protects dendrites against dystrophy induced by prion peptide PrP(106-126). Here, we report that CRMP3 has a profound influence on neurite initiation and dendrite growth of hippocampal neurons in vitro. Our deletional mapping revealed that the C-terminus of CRMP3 probably harbors its dendritogenic capacity and supports an active transport mechanism. By contrast, overexpression of the C-terminal truncated CRMP3 phenocopied the effect of CRMP3 gene deletion with inhibition of neurite initiation or decrease in dendrite complexity, depending on the stage of cell development. In addition, this mutant inhibited the activity of CRMP3, in a similar manner to siRNA. Voltage-gated calcium channel inhibitors prevented CRMP3-induced dendritic growth and somatic Ca(2+) influx in CRMP3-overexpressing neurons was augmented largely via L-type channels. These results support a link between CRMP3-mediated Ca(2+) influx and CRMP3-mediated dendritic growth in hippocampal neurons.
Over the last two decades, thanks to the discovery of several pharmaceutical agents, multiple sclerosis (MS) has been transformed into a treatable disorder although the degree of therapeutic response may vary considerably. As more medications find their entry into the MS market, a clinician faces a mounting challenge of comparing risk and benefit profiles of various agents in an attempt to find the best treatment approach for each individual patient. In this review, we aim to summarize the available data on safety profiles of available MS therapies while focusing mostly on serious medication specific potential adverse events without discussing the teratogenic potential of each agent (unless there is a black box warning) or hypersensitivity reactions. Our goal is to provide a clinician with guidance on assuring the appropriate safety monitoring for patients treated with one of the agents discussed. We also comment on the future of risk management in MS and discuss possible enhancements to the current model of drug approval process and general strategies to improve the patient safety.


In order to make a direct link between the morphological and functional study of the nervous system, we established an experimental protocol for labeling individual neurons persistently without microscopic guidance by injecting a plasmid encoding fluorescent protein electroporatively after recording their activity extracellularly. Using a glass pipette filled with electrolyte solution containing a plasmid encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP), single-neuron recording and electroporation were performed on anesthetized rats. When performing the electroporation at the completion of recording, the degree of contact between the target neuron and the electrode tip was adjusted by monitoring the change of the trace of recorded action potentials and the increase of electrode resistance. The expression of GFP and its immunostaining with a polyclonal antibody enabled us to clearly see the basic structural components such as cell bodies, axons, dendrites, and even smaller components such as spines. Identification of the morphological subtypes of neurons was possible with every labeled neuron. The optimum condition for labeling was a 30% increase of the electrode resistance, and the labeling success rate evaluated 3 days after labeling was 40%. The rate evaluated one month after labeling was only slightly lower (33%). We also confirmed experimentally that this recording and labeling procedure can be similarly successful in head-fixed behaving rats. This new experimental protocol will be a breakthrough in systems neuroscience because it makes a direct link between the morphology and behavior-related activity of single neurons.
The automated measurement of rodent behaviour is crucial to advance research in neuroscience and pharmacology. Rats and mice are used as models for human diseases; their behaviour is studied to discover and develop new drugs for psychiatric and neurological disorders and to establish the effect of genetic variation on behavioural changes. Such behaviour is primarily labelled by humans. Manual annotation is labour intensive, error-prone and subject to individual interpretation. We present a system for automated behaviour recognition (ABR) that recognises the rat behaviours 'drink', 'eat', 'sniff', 'groom', 'jump', 'rear unsupported', 'rear wall', 'rest', 'twitch' and 'walk'. The ABR system needs no on-site training; the only inputs needed are the sizes of the cage and the animal. This is a major advantage over other systems that need to be trained with hand-labelled data before they can be used in a new experimental setup. Furthermore, ABR uses an overhead camera view, which is more practical in lab situations and facilitates high-throughput testing more easily than a side-view setup. ABR has been validated by comparison with manual behavioural scoring by an expert. For this, animals were treated with two types of psychopharmaca: a stimulant drug (Amphetamine) and a sedative drug (Diazepam). The effects of drug treatment on certain behavioural categories were measured and compared for both analysis methods. Statistical analysis showed that ABR found similar behavioural effects as the human observer. We conclude that our ABR system represents a significant step forward in the automated observation of rodent behaviour.
The aim of this study was to quantify the association between diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) parameters of the cervical spinal cord and neurological disability in patients with chronic traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). A cervical spinal cord 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with DTI sequences was performed on 28 patients with chronic traumatic SCI and 40 healthy control subjects. DTI metrics, including fractional anisotropy (FA), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), axial diffusivity (AD), and radial diffusivity (RD), were calculated within the normal-appearing spinal cord area at levels C2 or C3. Clinical assessment of the patients was performed according to the International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI) and the motor subscale of the Functional Independence Measure (FIM). The FA values of the patients with SCI were significantly lower than those of healthy control subjects (p&lt;0.000001). In contrast, the ADC and RD values of these patients were significantly higher than those of control subjects (ADC p&lt;0.0001, RD p&lt;0.00001). In patients with SCI, the FA values were positively correlated with the motor (pr=0.56, p&lt;0.01) and sensory (pr=0.66, p&lt;0.001) scores of ISNCSCI and with the motor subscale of FIM (pr=0.51, p&lt;0.01). DTI revealed spinal cord pathology, which was undetectable using conventional MRI. DTI changes in regions that were remote from the site of primary injury were most likely the result of secondary degeneration of white matter tracts. Decreased FA values were correlated with poorer motor and sensory function, as well as a lack of independence in daily living. DTI is a promising quantitative and objective tool that may be used in the clinical assessment of patients with SCI.
It is well known that the cerebellum is important for movement control and plays a critical role in balance and locomotion. As such, one of the most characteristic and sensitive signs of cerebellar damage is gait ataxia. However, characterizing ataxic gait is no easy task, because gait patterns are highly variable. This variability seems to result from the interaction of different factors, namely, (1) the primary motor deficits in balance control and multi-joint coordination and oculomotor dysfunction, (2) the safety strategies used, and (3) inaccurate adjustments in patients with loss of balance. In this report, we review different approaches to analyzing ataxic gait and studies to identify and quantify the different factors contributing to this movement disorder. We also discuss the influence of the cerebellum in adaptive locomotor control, the interaction between cognitive load and gait in dual-task paradigms, and the recent advances in rehabilitation of gait and posture for patients with cerebellar degeneration. In the second part, we discuss open questions concerning cerebellar mechanisms in multi-joint coordination during different walking conditions. Furthermore, we point out potential future directions in motor rehabilitation, with the objective of identifying predictors of rehabilitation outcome and the development of individualized training programs that potentially involve rehabilitation technology.
Locomotion is a purposeful, goal-directed behavior initiated by signals arising from either volitional processing in the cerebral cortex or emotional processing in the limbic system. Regardless of whether the locomotion initiation is volitional or emotional, locomotion is accompanied by automatic controlled movement processes, such as the adjustment of postural muscle tone and rhythmic limb movements. Sensori-motor integration in the brainstem and the spinal cord plays crucial roles in this process. The basic locomotor motor pattern is generated by spinal interneuronal networks, termed central pattern generators (CPGs). Responding to signals in proprioceptive and skin afferents, the spinal interneuronal networks modify the locomotor pattern in cooperation with descending signals from the brainstem structures and the cerebral cortex. Information processing between the basal ganglia, the cerebellum, and the brainstem may enable automatic regulation of muscle tone and rhythmic limb movements in the absence of conscious awareness. However, when a locomoting subject encounters obstacles, the subject has to intentionally adjust bodily alignment to guide limb movements. Such an intentional gait modification requires motor programming in the premotor cortices. The motor programs utilize one's bodily information, such as the body schema, which is preserved and updated in the temporoparietal cortex. The motor programs are transmitted to the brainstem by the corticoreticulospinal system, so that one's posture is anticipatorily controlled. These processes enable the corticospinal system to generate limb trajectory and achieve accurate foot placement. Loops from the motor cortical areas to the basal ganglia and the cerebellum can serve this purpose.
The increased awareness of the importance of gait and postural control to quality of life and functional independence has led many research groups to study the pathophysiology, epidemiology, clinical, and therapeutic aspects of these motor functions. In recognition of the increased awareness of the significance of this topic, the Movement Disorders journal is devoting this entire issue to gait and postural control. Leading research groups provide critical reviews of the current knowledge and propose future directions for this evolving field. The intensive work in this area throughout the world has created an urgent need for a unified language. Because gait and postural disturbances are so common, the clinical classification should be clear, straightforward, and simple to use. As an introduction to this special issue, we propose a new clinically based classification scheme that is organized according to the dominant observed disturbance, while taking into account the results of a basic neurological exam. The proposed classification differentiates between continuous and episodic gait disturbances because this subdivision has important ramifications from the functional, prognostic, and mechanistic perspectives. We anticipate that research into gait and postural control will continue to flourish over the next decade as the search for new ways of promoting mobility and independence aims to keep up with the exponentially growing population of aging older adults. Hopefully, this new classification scheme and the articles focusing on gait and postural control in this special issue of the Movement Disorders journal will help to facilitate future investigations in this exciting, rapidly growing area.
The parabrachial complex is classically seen as a major neural knot that transmits viscero- and somatosensory information toward the limbic and thalamic forebrain. In the present review we summarize recent findings that imply an emerging role of the parabrachial complex as an integral part of the ascending reticular arousal system, which promotes wakefulness and cortical activation. The ascending parabrachial projections that target wake-promoting hypothalamic areas and the basal forebrain are largely glutamatergic. Such fast synaptic transmission could be even more significant in promoting wakefulness and its characteristic pattern of cortical activation than the cholinergic or mono-aminergic ascending pathways that have been emphasized extensively in the past. A similar role of the parabrachial complex could also apply for its more established function in control of breathing. Here the parabrachial respiratory neurons may modulate and adapt breathing via the control of respiratory phase transition and upper airway patency, particularly during respiratory and non-respiratory behavior associated with wakefulness.
Respiratory control differs dramatically across sleep stages. Indeed, along with rapid eye movements (REM), respiration was one of the first physiological variables shown to be modulated across sleep stages. The study of sleep stages, their physiological correlates, and neurobiological underpinnings present a challenge because of the fragility and unpredictability of individual stages, not to mention sleep itself. Although anesthesia has often substituted as a model for a unitary stage of slow-wave (non-REM) sleep, it is only recently that urethane anesthesia has been proposed to model the full spectrum of sleep given the presence of spontaneous brain state alternations and concurrent physiological correlates that appear remarkably similar to natural sleep. We describe this model, its parallels with natural sleep, and its power for studying modulation of respiration. Specifically, we report data on the EEG characteristics across brain states under urethane anesthesia, the dependence of brain alternations on neurotransmitter systems, and the observations on state dependent modulation of respiration.

A high-speed and high-sensitive direct plasma radiometabolite analysis method for positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands has been developed. It was based on micellar/high submicellar liquid chromatography (LC) using a semi-preparative alkyl-bonded silica rod column in conjunction with steep gradient and high flow rate for rapid macromolecule removal from plasma without significant sample preparation and fast/efficient separation of PET radioligands from their radiometabolites. Excellent separation of target PET radioligand from its radiometabolites was achieved within 4 min with a limit of detection of 1 Bq (Bq) level. This method was successfully applied to study the radiometabolism for a wide variety of (11)C and (18)F labeled radioligands in human or monkey plasma. The improved sensitivity and throughput permitted the analysis of a large number of plasma samples for accurate determination PET radioligands during quantitative PET imaging studies. Micellar/high submicellar LC together with a monolithic column is an attractive alternative method to determine the radiometabolism of PET radioligands in plasma.


Lyme Borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi that is transmitted through the bite of infected ticks. Both B cell-mediated humoral immunity and T cell immunity develop during natural Borrelia infection. However, compared with humoral immunity, the T cell response to Borrelia infection has not been well elucidated. In this study, a novel T cell-based assay was developed and validated for the sensitive detection of antigen-specific T cell response to B. burgdorferi. Using interferon-g as a biomarker, we developed a new enzyme-linked immunospot method (iSpot Lyme) to detect Borrelia antigen-specific effector/memory T cells that were activated in vivo by exposing them to recombinant Borrelia antigens ex vivo. To test this new method as a potential laboratory diagnostic tool, we performed a clinical study with a cohort of Borrelia positive patients and healthy controls. We demonstrated that the iSpot Lyme assay has a significantly higher specificity and sensitivity compared with the Western Blot assay that is currently used as a diagnostic measure. A comprehensive evaluation of the T cell response to Borrelia infection should, therefore, provide new insights into the pathogenesis, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of Lyme disease.


The transformation of a normal brain in epileptic (epileptogenesis) is associated with extensive morpho-functional alterations, including cell death, axonal and dendritic plasticity, neurogenesis, and others. Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) appear to be very strongly implicated in these phenomena. In this review, we focus on the involvement of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family members. Available data demonstrate that the FGFs are highly involved in the generation of the morpho-functional alterations in brain circuitries associated with epileptogenesis. For example, data on FGF2, the most studied member, suggest that it may be implicated both in seizure susceptibility and in seizure-induced plasticity, exerting different, and apparently contrasting effects: favoring acute seizures but reducing seizure-induced cell death. Even if many FGF members are still unexplored and very limited information is available on the FGF receptors, a complex and fascinating picture is emerging: multiple FGFs producing synergic or antagonistic effects one with another (and/or with other NTFs) on biological parameters that, in turn, facilitate or oppose transformation of the normal tissue in epileptic. In principle, identifying key elements in these phenomena may lead to effective therapies, but reaching this goal will require confronting a huge complexity. One first step could be to generate a &quot;neurotrophicome&quot; listing the FGFs (and all other NTFs) that are active during epileptogenesis. This should include identification of the extent to which each NTF is active (concentrations at the site of action); how it is active (local representation of receptor subtypes); when in the natural history of disease this occurs; how the NTF at hand will possibly interact with other NTFs. This is extraordinarily challenging, but holds the promise of a better understanding of epileptogenesis and, at large, of brain function.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are critical in the control of gene expression, and dysregulation of their activity has been implicated in a broad range of diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular, and neurological diseases. HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) employing different zinc chelating functionalities such as hydroxamic acids and benzamides have shown promising results in cancer therapy. Although it has also been suggested that HDACi with increased isozyme selectivity and potency may broaden their clinical utility and minimize side effects, the translation of this idea to the clinic remains to be investigated. Moreover, a detailed understanding of how HDACi with different pharmacological properties affect biological functions in vitro and in vivo is still missing. Here, we show that a panel of benzamide-containing HDACi are slow tight-binding inhibitors with long residence times unlike the hydroxamate-containing HDACi vorinostat and trichostatin-A. Characterization of changes in H2BK5 and H4K14 acetylation following HDACi treatment in the neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y revealed that the timing and magnitude of histone acetylation mirrored both the association and dissociation kinetic rates of the inhibitors. In contrast, cell viability and microarray gene expression analysis indicated that cell death induction and changes in transcriptional regulation do not correlate with the dissociation kinetic rates of the HDACi. Therefore, our study suggests that determining how the selective and kinetic inhibition properties of HDACi affect cell function will help to evaluate their therapeutic utility.
Multiple lines of evidence support the notion that DNA ligase III (LIG3), the only DNA ligase found in mitochondria, is essential for viability in both whole organisms and in cultured cells. Previous attempts to generate cells devoid of mitochondrial DNA ligase failed. Here, we report, for the first time, the derivation of viable LIG3-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts. These cells lack mtDNA and are auxotrophic for uridine and pyruvate, which may explain the apparent lethality of the Lig3 knock-out observed in cultured cells in previous studies. Cells with severely reduced expression of LIG3 maintain normal mtDNA copy number and respiration but show reduced viability in the face of alkylating and oxidative damage, increased mtDNA degradation in response to oxidative damage, and slow recovery from mtDNA depletion. Our findings clarify the cellular role of LIG3 and establish that the loss of viability in LIG3-deficient cells is conditional and secondary to the (0) phenotype.
Low-density lipoprotein receptors (LRPs) are present extensively on cells outside of the nervous system and classically exert roles in lipoprotein metabolism. It has been reported recently that LRP1 activation could phosphorylate the neurotrophin receptor TrkA in PC12 cells and increase neurite outgrowth from developing cerebellar granule cells. These intriguing findings led us to explore the hypothesis that LRP1 activation would activate canonical neurotrophic factor signaling in adult neurons and promote axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury. We now find that treatment of adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro with LRP1 agonists (the receptor binding domain of -2-macroglobulin or the hemopexin domain of matrix metalloproteinase 9) induces TrkC, Akt, and ERK activation; significantly increases neurite outgrowth (p &lt; 0.01); and overcomes myelin inhibition (p &lt; 0.05). These effects require Src family kinase activation, a classic LRP1-mediated Trk transactivator. Moreover, intrathecal infusions of LRP1 agonists significantly enhance sensory axonal sprouting and regeneration after spinal cord injury in rats compared with control-infused animals (p &lt; 0.05). A significant role is established for lipoprotein receptors in sprouting and regeneration after CNS injury, identifying a novel class of therapeutic targets to explore for traumatic neurological disorders.
Living organisms possess biological clocks that resonate with environmental cycles in light, temperature, and food availability. Recently, circadian oscillations in the redox state of peroxiredoxin have been described as an additional non-transcriptional timekeeping mechanism. Of note, this redox cycle is conserved in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. How the classical &quot;transcription-translation feedback loop&quot; model and this redox oscillation are related is still poorly understood. In this minireview, we describe the most recent evidence pointing to cross-talk between the circadian clock and the redox status of the cell.


Rational modification of the potent calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist MK-3207 led to a series of analogues with enhanced CNS penetrance and a convenient chemical handle for introduction of a radiolabel. A number of (11)C-tracers were synthesized and evaluated in vivo, leading to the identification of [(11)C]8 ([(11)C]MK-4232), the first positron emission tomography tracer for the CGRP receptor.



Clinical application of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) for stroke is limited by hemorrhagic transformation, which narrows rtPA's therapeutic window. In addition, mounting evidence indicates that rtPA is potentially neurotoxic if it traverses a compromised blood brain barrier. Here, we demonstrated that pyruvate protects cultured HT22 neuronal and primary microvascular endothelial cells co-cultured with primary astrocytes from oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD)/reoxygenation stress and rtPA cytotoxicity. After 3 or 6h OGD, cells were reoxygenated with 11mmol/L glucosepyruvate (8mmol/L) and/or rtPA (10g/ml). Measured variables included cellular viability (calcein AM and annexin-V/propidium iodide), reactive oxygen species (ROS; mitosox red and 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein diacetate), NADPH, NADP(+) and ATP contents (spectrophotometry), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) activities (gelatin zymography), and cellular contents of MMP2, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP2), and phosphor-activation of anti-apoptotic p70s6 kinase, Akt and Erk (immunoblot). Pyruvate prevented the loss of HT22 cells after 3h OGDrtPA. After 6h OGD, rtPA sharply lowered cell viability; pyruvate dampened this effect. Three hours OGD and 4h reoxygenation with rtPA increased ROS formation by about 50%. Pyruvate prevented this ROS formation and doubled cellular NADPH/NADP(+) ratio and ATP content. In endothelial cell monolayers, 3h OGD and 24h reoxygenation increased FITC-dextran leakage, indicating disruption of intercellular junctions. Although rtPA exacerbated this effect, pyruvate prevented it while sharply lowering MMP2/TIMP2 ratio and increasing phosphorylation of p70s6 kinase, Akt and Erk. Pyruvate protects neuronal cells and microvascular endothelium from hypoxia-reoxygenation and cytotoxic action of rtPA while reducing ROS and activating anti-apoptotic signaling. These results support the proposed use of pyruvate as an adjuvant to dampen the side effects of rtPA treatment, thereby extending rtPA's therapeutic window.
An increasing number of in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that anesthesia and surgery could be risk factors for later cognitive impairment in the young and aged brain. General anesthesia has been shown to impair spatial memory in rats and this performance is dependent on hippocampal function and postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis. Anesthetic induced alteration of one or more stages of postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis may in part explain this cognitive impairment following anesthesia. Three different populations of proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) were labeled with different thymidine analogs (EdU, IdU, and CldU) at 4, 8, and 21 days, respectively, in young (3-month-old) and aged (20-month-old) rats prior to a 3h exposure to isoflurane, control, propofol, or 10% intralipid. 24h following general anesthesia, brains were collected for analysis. The number of cells co-localized with neuronal differentiation and maturation labels with each of the thymidine analogs was quantified. In addition, new cell proliferation 24hr following anesthesia was assessed with anti-Ki67. The effect of anesthesia on astrocytes was also assessed with anti-S100. Isoflurane or propofol did not affect new cell proliferation, as assessed by Ki67, in the DG of young or aged rats. However, propofol significantly decreased the number of differentiating neurons and increased the number of astrocytes in the DG of young, but not aged, rats. Isoflurane significantly decreased the number of maturing neurons and increased the number of astrocytes in the DG of aged, but not young, rats. Isoflurane and propofol anesthesia altered postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis in an age and agent dependent matter.
The sex hormone progesterone has been shown to improve outcomes in animal models of a number of neurologic diseases, including traumatic brain injury, ischemia, spinal cord injury, peripheral nerve injury, demyelinating disease, neuromuscular disorders, and seizures. Evidence suggests it exerts its neuroprotective effects through several pathways, including reducing edema, improving neuronal survival, and modulating inflammation and apoptosis. In this review, we summarize the functional outcomes and pathophysiologic mechanisms attributed to progesterone treatment in neurologic disease. We then comment on the breadth of evidence for the use of progesterone in each neurologic disease family. Finally, we provide support for further human studies using progesterone to treat several neurologic diseases.

Olfactory sensory neurons innervate the olfactory bulb in stereotyped patterns according to the odorant receptors they express. A study by Nakashima et al. in this issue demonstrates that the odorant receptor's level of intrinsic activity-in the absence of activating odorant-influences the guidance of olfactory axons to their targets.
This year, the Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award will be shared by Richard Scheller and Thomas Sdhof for their elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying neurotransmitter release. Their discoveries provided insight into the molecular basis of synaptic transmission and enhanced our understanding of how synaptic dysfunction may cause neuropsychiatric disorders.
Adult oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are located adjacent to demyelinated lesion and contribute to myelin repair. The crucial step in remyelination is the migration of OPCs to the demyelinated area; however, the mechanism of OPC migration remains to be fully elucidated. Here we show that prostacyclin (prostaglandin I2, PGI2) promotes OPC migration, thereby promoting remyelination and functional recovery in mice after demyelination induced by injecting lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) into the spinal cord. Prostacyclin analogs enhanced OPC migration via a protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent mechanism, and prostacyclin synthase expression was increased in the spinal cord after LPC injection. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of prostacyclin receptor (IP receptor) impaired remyelination and motor recovery, whereas the administration of a prostacyclin analog promoted remyelination and motor recovery after LPC injection. Our results suggest that prostacyclin could be a key molecule for facilitating the migration of OPCs that are essential for repairing demyelinated areas, and it may be useful in treating disorders characterized by demyelination.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by the expansion of polyglutamine repeats in the gene for huntingtin (Htt). In HD, the corpus striatum selectively degenerates despite the uniform expression of mutant huntingtin (mHtt) throughout the brain and body. Striatal selectivity reflects the binding of the striatal-selective protein Rhes to mHtt to augment cytotoxicity, but molecular mechanisms underlying the toxicity have been elusive. Here, we report that the Golgi protein acyl-CoA binding domain containing 3 (ACBD3) mediates mHtt cytotoxicity via a Rhes/mHtt/ACBD3 complex. ACBD3 levels are markedly elevated in the striatum of HD patients, in a striatal cell line harboring polyglutamine repeats, and in the brains of HD mice. Moreover, ACBD3 deletion abolishes HD neurotoxicity, which is increased by ACBD3 overexpression. Enhanced levels of ACBD3 elicited by endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial, and Golgi stresses may account for HD-associated augmentation of ACBD3 and neurodegeneration.
Despite the importance of the discharge frequency in neuronal communication, little is known about the firing-rate patterns of cortical populations. Using large-scale recordings from multiple layers of the entorhinal-hippocampal loop, we found that the firing rates of principal neurons showed a lognormal-like distribution in all brain states. Mean and peak rates within place fields of hippocampal neurons were also strongly skewed. Importantly, firing rates of the same neurons showed reliable correlations in different brain states and testing situations, as well as across familiar and novel environments. The fraction of neurons that participated in population oscillations displayed a lognormal pattern. Such skewed firing rates of individual neurons may be due to a skewed distribution of synaptic weights, which is supported by our observation of a lognormal distribution of the efficacy of spike transfer from principal neurons to interneurons. The persistent skewed distribution of firing rates implies that a preconfigured, highly active minority dominates information transmission in cortical networks.
Neural underpinnings of morality are not yet well understood. Researchers in moral neuroscience have tried to find specific structures and processes that shed light on how morality works. Here, we review the main brain areas that have been associated with morality at both structural and functional levels and speculate about how it can be studied. Orbital and ventromedial prefrontal cortices are implicated in emotionally-driven moral decisions, while dorsolateral prefrontal cortex appears to moderate its response. These competing processes may be mediated by the anterior cingulate cortex. Parietal and temporal structures play important roles in the attribution of others' beliefs and intentions. The insular cortex is engaged during empathic processes. Other regions seem to play a more complementary role in morality. Morality is supported not by a single brain circuitry or structure, but by several circuits overlapping with other complex processes. The identification of the core features of morality and moral-related processes is needed. Neuroscience can provide meaningful insights in order to delineate the boundaries of morality in conjunction with moral psychology.


Visual search in real life involves complex displays with a target among multiple types of distracters, but in the laboratory, it is often tested using simple displays with identical distracters. Can complex search be understood in terms of simple searches? This link may not be straightforward if complex search has emergent properties. One such property is linear separability, whereby search is hard when a target cannot be separated from its distracters using a single linear boundary. However, evidence in favor of linear separability is based on testing stimulus configurations in an external parametric space that need not be related to their true perceptual representation. We therefore set out to assess whether linear separability influences complex search at all. Our null hypothesis was that complex search performance depends only on classical factors such as target-distracter similarity and distracter homogeneity, which we measured using simple searches. Across three experiments involving a variety of artificial and natural objects, differences between linearly separable and nonseparable searches were explained using target-distracter similarity and distracter heterogeneity. Further, simple searches accurately predicted complex search regardless of linear separability (r = 0.91). Our results show that complex search is explained by simple search, refuting the widely held belief that linear separability influences visual search.


Chondroitin sulfate (CS) proteoglycans (CSPGs) are known to be primary inhibitors of neuronal regeneration at scar sites. However, a variety of CSPGs are also involved in neuronal growth and guidance during other physiological stages. Sulfation patterns of CS chains influence their interactions with various growth factors in the central nervous system (CNS), thus influencing neuronal growth, inhibition, and pathfinding. This report demonstrates the use of differentially sulfated CS chains for neuronal navigation. Surface-immobilized patterns of CS glycosaminoglycan chains were used to determine neuronal preference toward specific sulfations of five CS variants: CS-A, CS-B (dermatan sulfate), CS-C, CS-D, and CS-E. Neurons preferred CS-A, CS-B, and CS-E and avoided CS-C containing lanes. In addition, significant alignment of neurites was observed using underlying lanes containing CS-A, CS-B, and CS-E chains. To utilize differential preference of neurons toward the CS variants, a binary combinations of CS chains were created by backfilling a neuro-preferred CS variant between the microcontact printed lanes of CS-C stripes, which are avoided by neurons. The neuronal outgrowth results demonstrate for the first time that a combination of sulfation variants of CS chains without any protein component of CSPG is sufficient for directing neuronal outgrowth. Biomaterials with surface immobilized GAG chains could find numerous applications as bridging devices for tackling CNS injuries where directional growth of neurons is critical for recovery.
The apelin receptor (APJ; gene symbol APLNR) is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor gene family. Neural gene expression patterns of APJ, and its cognate ligand apelin, in the brain implicate the apelinergic system in the regulation of a number of physiological processes. APJ and apelin are highly expressed in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, which regulates fluid homeostasis, in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, which controls the neuroendocrine response to stress, and in the forebrain and lower brainstem regions, which are involved in cardiovascular function. Recently, apelin, synthesised and secreted by adipocytes, has been described as a beneficial adipokine related to obesity, and there is growing awareness of a potential role for apelin and APJ in glucose and energy metabolism. In this review we provide a comprehensive overview of the structure, expression pattern and regulation of apelin and its receptor, as well as the main second messengers and signalling proteins activated by apelin. We also highlight the physiological and pathological roles that support this system as a novel therapeutic target for pharmacological intervention in treating conditions related to altered water balance, stress-induced disorders such as anxiety and depression, and cardiovascular and metabolic disorders.


Cathodal trans-spinal direct current (c-tsDC) stimulation is a powerful technique to modulate spinal excitability. However, the manner in which c-tsDC stimulation modulates cortically evoked simple single-joint and complex multijoint movements is unknown. To address this issue, anesthetized mice were suspended with the hindlimb allowed to move freely in space. Simple and complex multijoint movements were elicited with short and prolonged trains of electrical stimulation, respectively, delivered to the area of primary motor cortex representing the hindlimb. In addition, spinal cord burst generators are known to be involved in a variety of motor activities, including locomotion, postural control, and voluntary movements. Therefore, to shed light into the mechanisms underlying movements modulated by c-tsDC stimulation, spinal circuit activity was induced using GABA and glycine receptor blockers, which produced three rates of spinal bursting activity: fast, intermediate, and slow. Characteristics of bursting activity were assessed during c-tsDC stimulation. During c-tsDC stimulation, significant increases were observed in (1) ankle dorsiflexion amplitude and speed; (2) ankle plantarflexion amplitude, speed, and duration; and (3) complex multijoint movement amplitude, speed, and duration. However, complex multijoint movement tracing showed that c-tsDC did not change the form of movements. In addition, spinal bursting activity was significantly modulated during c-tsDC stimulation: (1) fast bursting activity showed increased rate, amplitude, and duration; (2) intermediate bursting activity showed increased rate and duration, but decreased amplitude; and (3) slow bursting activity showed increased rate, but decreased duration and amplitude. These results suggest that c-tsDC stimulation amplifies cortically evoked movements through spinal mechanisms.
We showed recently that exposure to whisker vibrations enhances coding efficiency in rat barrel cortex despite increasing correlations in variability (Adibi et al., 2013). Here, to understand how adaptation achieves this improvement in sensory representation, we decomposed the stimulus information carried in neuronal population activity into its fundamental components in the framework of information theory. In the context of sensory coding, these components are the entropy of the responses across the entire stimulus set (response entropy) and the entropy of the responses conditional on the stimulus (conditional response entropy). We found that adaptation decreased response entropy and conditional response entropy at both the level of single neurons and the pooled activity of neuronal populations. However, the net effect of adaptation was to increase the mutual information because the drop in the conditional entropy outweighed the drop in the response entropy. The information transmitted by a single spike also increased under adaptation. As population size increased, the information content of individual spikes declined but the relative improvement attributable to adaptation was maintained.
One of the key brain regions in cognitive processing and executive function is the prefrontal cortex (PFC), which receives cholinergic input from basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. We evaluated the contribution of synaptically released acetylcholine (ACh) to executive function by genetically targeting the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in the mouse forebrain. Executive function was assessed using a pairwise visual discrimination paradigm and the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRT). In the pairwise test, VAChT-deficient mice were able to learn, but were impaired in reversal learning, suggesting that these mice present cognitive inflexibility. Interestingly, VAChT-targeted mice took longer to reach criteria in the 5-CSRT. Although their performance was indistinguishable from that of control mice during low attentional demand, increased attentional demand revealed striking deficits in VAChT-deleted mice. Galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor used in Alzheimer's disease, significantly improved the performance of control mice, but not of VAChT-deficient mice on the 5-CSRT. In vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy showed altered levels of two neurochemical markers of neuronal function, taurine and lactate, suggesting altered PFC metabolism in VAChT-deficient mice. The PFC of these mice displayed a drastic reduction in the splicing factor heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1 (hnRNPA2/B1), whose cholinergic-mediated reduction was previously demonstrated in Alzheimer's disease. Consequently, several key hnRNPA2/B1 target transcripts involved in neuronal function present changes in alternative splicing in VAChT-deficient mice, including pyruvate kinase M, a key enzyme involved in lactate metabolism. We propose that VAChT-targeted mice can be used to model and to dissect the neurochemical basis of executive abnormalities.
Improvement in performance following cognitive training is known to be further enhanced when coupled with brain stimulation. Here we ask whether training-induced changes can be maintained long term and, crucially, whether they can extend to other related but untrained skills. We trained overall 40 human participants on a simple and well established paradigm assessing the ability to discriminate numerosity--or the number of items in a set--which is thought to rely on an &quot;approximate number sense&quot; (ANS) associated with parietal lobes. We coupled training with parietal stimulation in the form of transcranial random noise stimulation (tRNS), a noninvasive technique that modulates neural activity. This yielded significantly better and longer lasting improvement (up to 16 weeks post-training) of the precision of the ANS compared with cognitive training in absence of stimulation, stimulation in absence of cognitive training, and cognitive training coupled to stimulation to a control site (motor areas). Critically, only ANS improvement induced by parietal tRNS + Training transferred to proficiency in other parietal lobe-based quantity judgment, i.e., time and space discrimination, but not to quantity-unrelated tasks measuring attention, executive functions, and visual pattern recognition. These results indicate that coupling intensive cognitive training with tRNS to critical brain regions resulted not only in the greatest and longer lasting improvement of numerosity discrimination, but importantly in this enhancement being transferable when trained and untrained abilities are carefully chosen to share common cognitive and neuronal components.
The enormous potential of modern molecular neuroanatomical tools lies in their ability to determine the precise connectivity of the neuronal cell types comprising the innate circuitry of the brain. We used transgenically targeted viral tracing to identify the monosynaptic inputs to the projection neurons of layer II of medial entorhinal cortex (MEC-LII) in mice. These neurons are not only major inputs to the hippocampus, the structure most clearly implicated in learning and memory, they also are &quot;grid cells.&quot; Here we address the question of what kinds of inputs are specifically targeting these MEC-LII cells. Cell-specific infection of MEC-LII with recombinant rabies virus results in unambiguous labeling of monosynaptic inputs. Furthermore, ratios of labeled neurons in different regions are largely consistent between animals, suggesting that label reflects density of innervation. While the results mostly confirm prior anatomical work, they also reveal a novel major direct input to MEC-LII from hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Interestingly, the vast majority of these direct hippocampal inputs arise not from the major hippocampal subfields of CA1 and CA3, but from area CA2, a region that has historically been thought to merely be a transitional zone between CA3 and CA1. We confirmed this unexpected result using conventional tracing techniques in both rats and mice.
Thalamocortical circuits govern cognitive, sensorimotor, and sleep-related network processes, and generate pathological activities during absence epilepsy. Inhibitory control of thalamocortical (TC) relay neurons is partially mediated by GABA released from neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus (nRT), acting predominantly via synaptic 122 GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). Importantly, TC neurons also express extrasynaptic 42 GABA(A)Rs, although how they cooperate with synaptic GABA(A)Rs to influence relay cell inhibition, particularly during physiologically relevant nRT output, is unknown. To address this question, we performed paired whole-cell recordings from synaptically coupled nRT and TC neurons of the ventrobasal (VB) complex in brain slices derived from wild-type and extrasynaptic GABA(A)R-lacking, 4 &quot;knock-out&quot; (4(0/0)) mice. We demonstrate that the duration of VB phasic inhibition generated in response to nRT burst firing is greatly reduced in 4(0/0) pairs, suggesting that action potential-dependent phasic inhibition is prolonged by recruitment of extrasynaptic GABA(A)Rs. Furthermore, the influence of nRT tonic firing frequency on VB holding current is also greatly reduced in 4(0/0) pairs, implying that the 4-GABA(A)R-mediated tonic conductance of relay neurons is dynamically influenced, in an activity-dependent manner, by nRT tonic firing intensity. Collectively, our data reveal that extrasynaptic GABA(A)Rs of the somatosensory thalamus do not merely provide static tonic inhibition but can also be dynamically engaged to couple presynaptic activity to postsynaptic excitability. Moreover, these processes are highly sensitive to the -selective allosteric modulator, DS2 and manipulation of GABA transport systems, revealing novel opportunities for therapeutic intervention in thalamocortical network disorders.
Burst firing has been reported as a pathological activity of subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons in Parkinson's disease. However, the origin of bursts and their causal link with motor deficits remain unknown. Here we tested the hypothesis that dopamine D5 receptors (D5Rs), characterized by a high constitutive activity, may contribute to the emergence of burst firing in STN. We tested whether inhibiting D5R constitutive activity depresses burst firing and alleviates motor impairments in the 6-OHDA rat model of Parkinson's disease. Intrasubthalamic microinjections of either an inverse agonist of D5Rs, flupenthixol, or a D2R antagonist, raclopride, were applied. Behavioral experiments, in vivo and in vitro electrophysiological recordings, and ex vivo functional neuroanatomy studies were performed. Using [(5)S]GTP binding autoradiography, we show that application of flupenthixol inhibits D5R constitutive activity within the STN. Furthermore, flupenthixol reduced evoked burst in brain slices and converted pathological burst firing into physiological tonic, single-spike firing in 6-OHDA rats in vivo. This later action was mimicked by calciseptine, a Cav1 channel blocker. Moreover, the same treatment dramatically attenuated motor impairment in this model and normalized metabolic hyperactivity in both STN and substantia nigra pars reticulata, the main output structure of basal ganglia in rats. In contrast, raclopride as well as saline did not reverse burst firing and motor deficits, confirming the selective action of flupenthixol on D5Rs. These results are the first to demonstrate that subthalamic D5Rs are involved in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and that administering an inverse agonist of these receptors may lessen motor symptoms.
We used a mouse model of the schizophrenia-predisposing 22q11.2 microdeletion to evaluate how this genetic lesion affects cortical neural circuits at the synaptic, cellular, and molecular levels. Guided by cognitive deficits, we demonstrated that mutant mice display robust deficits in high-frequency synaptic transmission and short-term plasticity (synaptic depression and potentiation), as well as alterations in long-term plasticity and dendritic spine stability. Apart from previously reported reduction in dendritic complexity of layer 5 pyramidal neurons, altered synaptic plasticity occurs in the context of relatively circumscribed and often subtle cytoarchitectural changes in neuronal density and inhibitory neuron numbers. We confirmed the pronounced DiGeorge critical region 8 (Dgcr8)-dependent deficits in primary micro-RNA processing and identified additional changes in gene expression and RNA splicing that may underlie the effects of this mutation. Reduction in Dgcr8 levels appears to be a major driver of altered short-term synaptic plasticity in prefrontal cortex and working memory but not of long-term plasticity and cytoarchitecture. Our findings inform the cortical synaptic and neuronal mechanisms of working memory impairment in the context of psychiatric disorders. They also provide insight into the link between micro-RNA dysregulation and genetic liability to schizophrenia and cognitive dysfunction.
Although neurons are normally unable to regenerate their axons after injury to the CNS, this situation can be partially reversed by activating the innate immune system. In a widely studied instance of this phenomenon, proinflammatory agents have been shown to cause retinal ganglion cells, the projection neurons of the eye, to regenerate lengthy axons through the injured optic nerve. However, the role of different molecules and cell populations in mediating this phenomenon remains unclear. We show here that neutrophils, the first responders of the innate immune system, play a central role in inflammation-induced regeneration. Numerous neutrophils enter the mouse eye within a few hours of inducing an inflammatory reaction and express high levels of the atypical growth factor oncomodulin (Ocm). Immunodepletion of neutrophils diminished Ocm levels in the eye without altering levels of CNTF, leukemia inhibitory factor, or IL-6, and suppressed the proregenerative effects of inflammation. A peptide antagonist of Ocm suppressed regeneration as effectively as neutrophil depletion. Macrophages enter the eye later in the inflammatory process but appear to be insufficient to stimulate extensive regeneration in the absence of neutrophils. These data provide the first evidence that neutrophils are a major source of Ocm and can promote axon regeneration in the CNS.
Current models of brain development support the view that VEGF, a signaling protein secreted by neuronal cells, regulates angiogenesis and neuronal development. Here we demonstrate an autonomous and pivotal role for endothelial cell-derived VEGF that has far-reaching consequences for mouse brain development. Selective deletion of Vegf from endothelial cells resulted in impaired angiogenesis and marked perturbation of cortical cytoarchitecture. Abnormal cell clusters or heterotopias were detected in the marginal zone, and disorganization of cortical cells induced several malformations, including aberrant cortical lamination. Critical events during brain development-neuronal proliferation, differentiation, and migration were significantly affected. In addition, axonal tracts in the telencephalon were severely defective in the absence of endothelial VEGF. The unique roles of endothelial VEGF cannot be compensated by neuronal VEGF and underscores the high functional significance of endothelial VEGF for cerebral cortex development and from disease perspectives.
The cytoplasmic regulatory protein p62 (Sequestosome 1/A170) is known to modulate various receptor-mediated intracellular signaling pathways. p62 deficiency was shown to result in mature-onset obesity in mice, but the mechanisms underlying this abnormality remained unclear. Here we report that hyperphagia due to central leptin resistance is the cause of obesity in p62(-/-) mice. We found that these mice show hyperphagia. Restriction of food to the amount eaten by wild-type mice prevented excess body weight gain and fat accumulation, suggesting that overfeeding is the primary cause of obesity in p62(-/-) mice. Brain-specific p62 deficiency caused mature-onset obesity to the same extent as in p62(-/-) mice, further supporting a neuronal mechanism as the major cause of obesity in these mice. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that p62 is highly expressed in hypothalamic neurons, including POMC neurons in the arcuate nucleus. Central leptin resistance was observed even in young preobese p62(-/-) mice. We found a defect in intracellular distribution of the transcription factor Stat3, which is essential for the action of leptin, in p62(-/-) mice. These results indicate that brain p62 plays an important role in bodyweight control by modulating the central leptin-signaling pathway and that lack of p62 in the brain causes leptin resistance, leading to hyperphagia. Thus, p62 could be a clinical target for treating obesity and metabolic syndrome.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is thought to play a central role in modulating responses during conflict. Computational models have suggested that the location of the STN in the basal ganglia, as well as its numerous connections to conflict-related cortical structures, allows it to be ideally situated to act as a global inhibitor during conflict. Additionally, recent behavioral experiments have shown that deep brain stimulation to the STN results in impulsivity during high-conflict situations. However, the precise mechanisms that mediate the &quot;hold-your-horses&quot; function of the STN remain unclear. We recorded from deep brain stimulation electrodes implanted bilaterally in the STN of 13 human subjects with Parkinson's disease while they performed a flanker task. The incongruent trials with the shortest reaction times showed no behavioral or electrophysiological differences from congruent trials, suggesting that the distracter stimuli were successfully ignored. In these trials, cue-locked STN theta band activity demonstrated phase alignment across trials and was followed by a periresponse increase in theta power. In contrast, incongruent trials with longer reaction times demonstrated a relative reduction in theta phase alignment followed by higher theta power. Theta phase alignment negatively correlated with subject reaction time, and theta power positively correlated with trial reaction time. Thus, when conflicting stimuli are not properly ignored, disruption of STN theta phase alignment may help operationalize the hold-your-horses role of the nucleus, whereas later increases in the amplitude of theta oscillations may help overcome this function.
Spatial and temporal cues govern the genesis of a diverse array of neurons located in the dorsal spinal cord, including dI1-dI6, dIL(A), and dIL(B) subtypes, but their physiological functions are poorly understood. Here we generated a new line of conditional knock-out (CKO) mice, in which the homeobox gene Tlx3 was removed in dI5 and dIL(B) cells. In these CKO mice, development of a subset of excitatory neurons located in laminae I and II was impaired, including itch-related GRPR-expressing neurons, PKC-expressing neurons, and neurons expressing three neuropeptide genes: somatostatin, preprotachykinin 1, and the gastrin-releasing peptide. These CKO mice displayed marked deficits in generating nocifensive motor behaviors evoked by a range of pain-related or itch-related stimuli. The mutants also failed to exhibit escape response evoked by dynamic mechanical stimuli but retained the ability to sense innocuous cooling and/or warm. Thus, our studies provide new insight into the ontogeny of spinal neurons processing distinct sensory modalities.
The absence of consistent end organ abnormalities in many chronic pain syndromes has led to a search for maladaptive CNS mechanisms that may explain their clinical presentations and course. Here, we addressed the role of brain regional -opioid receptor-mediated neurotransmission, one of the best recognized mechanisms of pain regulation, in chronic back pain in human subjects. We compared -opioid receptor availability in vivo at baseline, during pain expectation, and with moderate levels of sustained pain in 16 patients with chronic nonspecific back pain (CNBP) and in 16 age- and gender-matched healthy control subjects, using the -opioid receptor-selective radioligand [(11)C]carfentanil and positron emission tomography. We found that CNBP patients showed baseline increases in thalamic -opioid receptor availability, contrary to a previously studied sample of patients diagnosed with fibromyalgia. During both pain expectation and sustained pain challenges, CNBP patients showed regional reductions in the capacity to activate this neurotransmitter system compared with their control sample, further associated with clinical pain and affective state ratings. Our results demonstrate heterogeneity in endogenous opioid system functional measures across pain conditions, and alterations in both receptor availability and endogenous opioid function in CNBP that are relevant to the clinical presentation of these patients and the effects of opioid analgesics on -opioid receptors.
Motor behaviors result from the interplay between the brain and the spinal cord. Reticulospinal neurons, situated between the supraspinal structures that initiate motor movements and the spinal cord that executes them, play key integrative roles in these behaviors. However, the molecular identities of mammalian reticular formation neurons that mediate motor behaviors have not yet been determined, thus limiting their study in health and disease. In the medullary reticular formation of the mouse, we identified neurons that express the transcription factors Lhx3 and/or Chx10, and demonstrate that these neurons form a significant component of glutamatergic reticulospinal pathways. Lhx3-positive medullary reticular formation neurons express Fos following a locomotor task in the adult, indicating that they are active during walking. Furthermore, they receive functional inputs from the mesencephalic locomotor region and have electrophysiological properties to support tonic repetitive firing, both of which are necessary for neurons that mediate the descending command for locomotion. Together, these results suggest that Lhx3/Chx10 medullary reticular formation neurons are involved in locomotion.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) mediates cell signaling essential for axon outgrowth, but the associated substrates and underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We identified in Xenopus laevis embryos a novel posttranscriptional mechanism whereby JNK regulates axonogenesis by phosphorylating a specific site on heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP K). Both JNK inhibition and hnRNP K knockdown inhibited axon outgrowth and translation of hnRNP K-regulated cytoskeletal RNAs (tau and neurofilament medium), effects that were alleviated by expressing phosphomimetic, but not phosphodeficient, forms of hnRNP K. Immunohistochemical and biochemical analyses indicated that JNK phosphorylation of hnRNP K occurred within the cytoplasm and was necessary for the translational initiation of hnRNP K-targeted RNAs but not for hnRNP K intracellular localization or RNA binding. Thus, in addition to its known roles in transcription and cytoskeletal organization, JNK acts posttranscriptionally through hnRNP K to regulate translation of proteins crucial for axonogenesis.
Szechuan pepper, a widely used ingredient in the cuisine of many Asian countries, is known for the tingling sensation it induces on the tongue and lips. While the molecular mechanism by which Szechuan pepper activates tactile afferent fibres has been clarified, the tingling sensation itself has been less studied, and it remains unclear which fibres are responsible. We investigated the somatosensory perception of tingling in humans to identify the characteristic temporal frequency and compare this to the established selectivity of tactile afferents. Szechuan pepper was applied to the lower lip of participants. Participants judged the frequency of the tingling sensation on the lips by comparing this with the frequencies of mechanical vibrations applied to their right index finger. The perceived frequency of the tingling was consistently at around 50 Hz, corresponding to the range of tactile RA1 afferent fibres. Furthermore, adaptation of the RA1 channel by prolonged mechanical vibration reliably reduced the tingling frequency induced by Szechuan pepper, confirming that the frequency-specific tactile channel is shared between Szechuan pepper and mechanical vibration. Combining information about molecular reactions at peripheral receptors with quantitative psychophysical measurement may provide a unique method for characterizing unusual experiences by decomposing them into identifiable minimal units of sensation.





DOCK proteins constitute a family of evolutionarily conserved guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for Rho family of GTPases. Although DOCK family proteins do not contain the Dbl homology domain typically found in GEFs, they mediate the GTP-GDP exchange reaction through DHR-2 domain. Accumulating evidence indicates that the DOCK proteins act as major GEFs in varied biological settings. For example, DOCK2, which is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells, regulates migration and activation of leukocytes through Rac activation. On the other hand, it was recently reported that mutations of DOCK8, another member of the DOCK family proteins, cause a combined immunodeficiency syndrome in humans. This article reviews the structure, functions and signaling of DOCK2 and DOCK8, especially focusing on their roles in immune responses.
Intellectual disability (ID) imposes a major medical and social-economical problem in our society. It is defined as a global reduction in cognitive and intellectual abilities, associated with impaired social adaptation. The causes of ID are extremely heterogeneous and include non-genetic and genetic changes. Great progress has been made over recent years towards the identification of ID-related genes, resulting in a list of approximately 450 genes. A prominent neuropathological feature of patients with ID is altered dendritic spine morphogenesis. These structural abnormalities, in part, reflect impaired cytoskeleton remodeling and are associated with synaptic dysfunction. The dynamic, actin-rich nature of dendritic spines points to the Rho GTPase family as a central contributor, since they are key regulators of actin dynamics and organization. It is therefore not surprising that mutations in genes encoding regulators and effectors of the Rho GTPases have been associated with ID. This review will focus on the role of Rho GTPase signaling in synaptic structure/function and ID.
Rhes is a small GTPase whose expression is highly enriched in striatum. It shares homology with Ras proteins, but also contains a C-terminal extension, thus suggesting additional functions. Signaling by 7 transmembrane receptors through heterotrimeric G proteins is inhibited by Rhes. However, perhaps the most remarkable feature of this small GTPase described thus far is that it can account for the selective vulnerability of the striatum in Huntington's Disease (HD). HD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by a poly-glutamine expansion in the protein huntingtin. Despite the presence of huntingtin throughout the brain and the rest of the body, the striatum is selectively degenerated. Recent work shows that Rhes acts as an E3 ligase for attachment of SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier). As this post-translational modification decreases the formation of huntingtin aggregates and promotes cell death, this property of Rhes offers an explanation for selective striatal vulnerability in HD. In addition, the sequestering of Rhes through its binding to mutant huntingtin may decrease the ability of Rhes to perform vital physiological functions in the neuron. Thus, as Rhes is an attractive candidate for HD therapy, a thorough understanding of its physiological functions will allow for specific targeting of its pathological functions.
Saccoglossus kowalevskii (the acorn worm) is a hemichordate belonging to the superphylum of deuterostome bilateral animals. Hemichordates are sister group to echinoderms, and closely related to chordates. S. kowalevskii has chordate like morphological traits and serves as an important model organism, helping developmental biologists to understand the evolution of the central nervous system (CNS). Despite being such an important model organism, the signalling system repertoire of the largest family of integral transmembrane receptor proteins, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is largely unknown in S. kowalevskii. Here, we identified 260 unique GPCRs and classified as many as 257 of them into five main mammalian GPCR families; Glutamate (23), Rhodopsin (212), Adhesion (18), Frizzled (3) and Secretin (1). Despite having a diffuse nervous system, the acorn worm contains well conserved orthologues for human Adhesion and Glutamate family members, with a similar N-terminal domain architecture. This is particularly true for genes involved in CNS development and regulation in vertebrates. The average sequence identity between the GPCR orthologues in human and S. kowalevskii is around 47%, and this is same as observed in couple of the closest vertebrate relatives, Ciona intestinalis (41%) and Branchiostoma floridae (~47%). The Rhodopsin family has fewer members than vertebrates and lacks clear homologues for 6 of the 13 subgroups, including olfactory, chemokine, prostaglandin, purine, melanocyte concentrating hormone receptors and MAS-related receptors. However, the peptide and somatostatin binding receptors have expanded locally in the acorn worm. Overall, this study is the first large scale analysis of a major signalling gene superfamily in the hemichordate lineage. The establishment of orthologue relationships with genes involved in neurotransmission and development of the CNS in vertebrates provides a foundation for understanding the evolution of signal transduction and allows for further investigation of the hemichordate neurobiology.

Whether and how the parts of a visual object are grouped together to form an integrated (&quot;holistic&quot;) representation is a central question in cognitive neuroscience. Although the face is considered to be the quintessential example of holistic representation, this issue has been the subject of much debate in face perception research. The implication of holistic processing is that the response to the whole cannot be predicted from the sum of responses to the parts. Here we apply techniques from nonlinear systems analysis to provide an objective measure of the nonlinear integration of parts into a whole, using the left and right halves of a face stimulus as the parts. High-density electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded in 15 human participants presented with two halves of a face stimulus, flickering at different frequencies (5.88 vs. 7.14 Hz). Besides specific responses at these fundamental frequencies, reflecting part-based responses, we found intermodulation components (e.g., 7.14 - 5.88 = 1.26 Hz) over the right occipito-temporal hemisphere, reflecting nonlinear integration of the face halves. Part-based responses did not depend on the relative alignment of the two face halves, their spatial separation, or whether the face was presented upright or inverted. By contrast, intermodulations were virtually absent when the two halves were spatially misaligned and separated. Inversion of the whole face configuration also reduced specifically the intermodulation components over the right occipito-temporal cortex. These observations indicate that the intermodulation components constitute an objective, configuration-specific signature of an emergent neural representation of the whole face that is distinct from that generated by the parts themselves.

Unusual late-onset complications of brain irradiation, characterized by reversible neurologic focal signs, seizures, and MRI alterations, have recently been reported and classified as stroke-like migraine attacks after radiation therapy (SMART)(1) and peri-ictal pseudoprogression (PIPG).(2.)



We present a case of acute neuroborreliosis in the setting of long-term treatment with natalizumab. A 33-year-old man was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) in 1999. Following failure of various immunomodulatory treatments including interferon and immunoglobulin, he was treated with mitoxantrone from May 2000 to August 2004. Due to persistently high disease activity, he was also treated with cyclophosphamide (December 2005-April 2006) and then azathioprine (April-June 2006), which were both discontinued due to adverse effects. After the patient scored 6.5 on the Expanded Disability Status Scale and had 2 relapses in 2006, we initiated natalizumab therapy (300 mg monthly, starting September 2006). The patient improved significantly in ambulation and the relapse rate slowed as well.


It is generally thought that macronutrients stimulate intake when sensed in the mouth (e.g., sweet taste) but as food enters the GI tract its effects become inhibitory, triggering satiation processes leading to meal termination. Here we report experiments extending recent work (see Zukerman et al., 2011 [1]) showing that under some circumstances nutrients sensed in the gut produce a positive feedback effect, immediately promoting continued intake. In one experiment, rats with intragastric (IG) catheters were accustomed to consuming novel flavors in saccharin daily while receiving water infused IG (5ml/15min). The very first time glucose (16% w/w) was infused IG instead of water, intake accelerated within 6min of infusion onset and total intake increased 29% over baseline. Experiment 2 replicated this stimulatory effect with glucose infusion but not fructose nor maltodextrin. Experiment 3 showed that the immediate intake stimulation is specific to the flavor accompanying the glucose infusion. Rats were accustomed to flavored saccharin being removed and replaced with the same or a different flavor. When glucose infusion accompanied the first bottle, intake from the second bottle was stimulated only when it contained the same flavor, not when the flavor switched. Thus we confirm not only that glucose sensed postingestively can have a rapid, positive feedback effect ('appetition' as opposed to 'satiation') but that it is sensory-specific, promoting continued intake of a recently encountered flavor. This sensory-specific motivation may represent an additional psychobiological influence on meal size, and further, has implications for the mechanisms of learned flavor-nutrient associations.
Laboratory rats alternate between behaviorally active and inactive states every 1-2h throughout the 24hour day, the ultradian basic rest-activity cycle (BRAC). During the behaviorally active phases of the BRAC, brown adipose tissue (BAT) temperature, body and brain temperature, and arterial pressure and heart rate increase in an integrated manner. Since the BAT temperature increases are substantially greater than the corresponding body and brain temperature increases, BAT thermogenesis contributes to the body and brain temperature increases. When food is available ad libitum, eating commences approximately 15min after the onset of an episodic increase in BAT temperature, and not at other times. If no food is available, the rat still disturbs the empty food container approximately 15min after the onset of an episodic increase in BAT temperature, and not at other times. The increase in brain temperature that precedes eating may facilitate the cognitive processing that occurs during the search for food, when the rat engages with the external environment. Rather than being triggered by changes in levels of body fuels or other meal-associated factors, in sedentary laboratory rats with ad libitum access to food, meal initiation normally occurs as part of the centrally-programmed ultradian BRAC. BRAC-associated BAT temperature increases occur in a thermoneutral environment and they are not preceded by falls in body or brain temperature, so they are not homeostatic thermoregulatory responses. The pattern of integrated behaviors and physiological functions associated with the BRAC presumably reflects Darwinian natural selection, and homeostatic thermoregulatory explanations of the BRAC-associated changes in temperature should be considered in this context.
Systemic administration of sulfated cholecystokinin-8 (CCK) activates neurons within the hindbrain nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) that project directly to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and these projections underlie the ability of exogenous CCK to activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) stress axis. CCK inhibits food intake, increases NTS neuronal cFos expression, and activates the HPA axis in a dose-dependent manner. While the hypophagic effects of exogenous CCK are attenuated in food-deprived rats, CCK dose-response relationships for NTS and hypothalamic activation in fed and fasted rats are unknown. Within the NTS, noradrenergic A2 and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) neurons express cFos after high doses of CCK, and both neuronal populations project directly to the medial parvocellular (mp)PVN. We hypothesized that increasing and correlated proportions of A2, GLP-1, and mpPVN neurons would express cFos in rats after increasing doses of CCK, and that food deprivation would attenuate both hindbrain and hypothalamic neural activation. To test these hypotheses, ad libitum-fed (ad lib) and overnight food-deprived (DEP) rats were anesthetized and perfused with fixative 90min after i.p. injection of 1.0ml saline vehicle containing CCK at doses of 0, 3, or 10g/kg BW. Additional ad lib and DEP rats served as non-handled (NH) controls. Brain tissue sections were processed for dual immunocytochemical localization of cFos and dopamine--hydroxylase to identify A2 neurons, or cFos and GLP-1. Compared to negligible A2 cFos activation in NH control rats, i.p. vehicle and CCK dose-dependently increased A2 activation, and this was significantly attenuated by DEP. DEP also attenuated mpPVN cFos expression across all treatment groups, and A2 activation was strongly correlated with mpPVN activation in both ad lib and DEP rats. In ad lib rats, large and similar numbers of GLP-1 neurons expressed cFos across all i.p. treatment groups, regardless of CCK dose. Surprisingly, DEP nearly abolished baseline GLP-1 cFos expression in NH controls, and also in rats after i.p. injection of vehicle or CCK. We conclude that CCK-induced hypothalamic cFos activation is strongly associated with A2 activation, whereas the relationship between mpPVN and GLP-1 activation is less clear. Furthermore, activation of A2, GLP-1, and mpPVN neurons is significantly modulated by feeding status, suggesting a mechanism through which food intake and metabolic state might impact hypothalamic neuroendocrine responses to homeostatic challenge.
While a graduate student in the late 1960s I trained rats to lower their blood glucose in response to an arbitrary cue, a phenomenon called conditioned hypoglycemia. Over many years as my colleagues and I attempted to understand the underlying physiology of conditioned insulin secretion and conditioned hypoglycemia, it became clear that there were many implications that were highly important, including the entry of insulin into the brain, the existence of insulin receptors in certain brain areas, neural reflexes that project to insulin-secreting B-cells in the pancreas, the entrainment of those reflexes to improve the efficiency of meal-taking, and the possibility of adiposity signals from the body to the brain that influence behavior and metabolism. This article summarizes how we tackled each of these areas of research.

Impaired learning and memory performance is often found in aging as an early sign of dementia. It is associated with neuronal loss and reduced functioning of cholinergic networks. Here we present evidence that the neurokinin3 receptors (NK3-R) and their influence on acetylcholine (ACh) release may represent a crucial mechanism that underlies age-related deficits in learning and memory. Repeated pharmacological stimulation of NK3-R in aged rats was found to improve learning in the water maze and in object-place recognition. This treatment also enhanced in vivo acetylcholinergic activity in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala but reduced NK3-R mRNA expression in the hippocampus. Furthermore, NK3-R agonism incurred a significantly higher increase in ACh levels in aged animals that showed superior learning than in those that were most deficient in learning. Our findings suggest that the induced activation of ACh, rather than basal ACh activity, is associated with superior learning in the aged. To test whether natural variation in NK3-R function also determines learning and memory performance in aged humans, we investigated 209 elderly patients with cognitive impairments. We found that of the 15 analyzed single single-nucleotide ploymorphism (SNPs) of the NK3-R-coding gene, TACR3, the rs2765 SNP predicted the degree of impairment of learning and memory in these patients. This relationship could be partially explained by a reduced right hippocampus volume in a subsample of 111 tested dementia patients. These data indicate the NK3-R as an important target to predict and improve learning and memory performance in the aged organism.
A clinical hallmark of human alphaherpesvirus infections is peripheral pain or itching. Pseudorabies virus (PRV), a broad host range alphaherpesvirus, causes violent pruritus in many different animals, but the mechanism is unknown. Previous in vitro studies have shown that infected, cultured peripheral nervous system (PNS) neurons exhibited aberrant electrical activity after PRV infection due to the action of viral membrane fusion proteins, yet it is unclear if such activity occurs in infected PNS ganglia in living animals and if it correlates with disease symptoms. Using two-photon microscopy, we imaged autonomic ganglia in living mice infected with PRV strains expressing GCaMP3, a genetically encoded calcium indicator, and used the changes in calcium flux to monitor the activity of many neurons simultaneously with single-cell resolution. Infection with virulent PRV caused these PNS neurons to fire synchronously and cyclically in highly correlated patterns among infected neurons. This activity persisted even when we severed the presynaptic axons, showing that infection-induced firing is independent of input from presynaptic brainstem neurons. This activity was not observed after infections with an attenuated PRV recombinant used for circuit tracing or with PRV mutants lacking either viral glycoprotein B, required for membrane fusion, or viral membrane protein Us9, required for sorting virions and viral glycoproteins into axons. We propose that the viral fusion proteins produced by virulent PRV infection induce electrical coupling in unmyelinated axons in vivo. This action would then give rise to the synchronous and cyclical activity in the ganglia and contribute to the characteristic peripheral neuropathy.
Recruitment of release-competent vesicles during sustained synaptic activity is one of the major factors governing short-term plasticity. During bursts of synaptic activity, vesicles are recruited to a fast-releasing pool from a reluctant vesicle pool through an actin-dependent mechanism. We now show that newly recruited vesicles in the fast-releasing pool do not respond at full speed to a strong Ca(2+) stimulus, but require approximately 4 s to mature to a &quot;superprimed&quot; state. Superpriming was found to be altered by agents that modulate the function of unc13 homolog proteins (Munc13s), but not by calmodulin inhibitors or actin-disrupting agents. These findings indicate that recruitment and superpriming of vesicles are regulated by separate mechanisms, which require integrity of the cytoskeleton and activation of Munc13s, respectively. We propose that refilling of the fast-releasing vesicle pool proceeds in two steps, rapid actin-dependent &quot;positional priming,&quot; which brings vesicles closer to Ca(2+) sources, followed by slower superpriming, which enhances the Ca(2+) sensitivity of primed vesicles.
Presenilin (PS) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and loss of PS causes progressive memory impairment and age-related neurodegeneration in the mouse cerebral cortex. In hippocampal neurons, PS is essential for neurotransmitter release, NMDA receptor-mediated responses, and long-term potentiation. PS is also involved in the regulation of calcium homeostasis, although the precise site of its action is less clear. Here we investigate the mechanism by which PS regulates synaptic function and calcium homeostasis using acute hippocampal slices from PS conditional knockout mice and primary cultured postnatal hippocampal neurons, in which PS is inducibly inactivated. Using two different calcium probes, Fura-2 and Mag-Fura-2, we found that inactivation of PS in primary hippocampal neurons does not affect calcium concentration in the endoplasmic reticulum. Rather, in the absence of PS, levels of ryanodine receptor (RyR) are reduced in the hippocampus, measured by Western analysis and radioligand binding assay, although the mRNA expression is unaffected. RyR-mediated function is also impaired, as indicated by reduced RyR agonist-induced calcium release from the ER and RyR-mediated synaptic responses in the absence of PS. Furthermore, knockdown of RyR expression in wild-type hippocampal neurons by two independent shRNAs to levels comparable with the RyR protein reduction in PS-deficient hippocampal neurons mimics the defects exhibited in calcium homeostasis and presynaptic function. Collectively, our findings show that PS regulates calcium homeostasis and synaptic function via RyR and suggest that disruption of intracellular calcium homeostasis may be an early pathogenic event leading to presynaptic dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a peptide found in the brain and autonomic nervous system, which is associated with anxiety, depression, epilepsy, learning and memory, sleep, obesity and circadian rhythms. NPY has recently gained much attention as an endogenous antiepileptic and antidepressant agent, as drugs with antiepileptic and/or mood-stabilizing properties may exert their action by increasing NPY concentrations, which in turn can reduce anxiety and depression levels, dampen seizures or increase seizure threshold. We have used human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells to investigate the effect of valproate (VPA) and amitriptyline (AMI) on NPY expression at therapeutic plasma concentrations of 0.6mM and 630nM, respectively. In addition, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) known to differentiate SH-SY5Y cells into a neuronal phenotype and to increase NPY expression through activation of protein kinase C (PKC) was applied as a positive control (16nM). Cell viability after drug treatment was tested with a 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. NPY expression was measured using immunofluorescence and quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Results from immunocytochemistry have shown NPY levels to be significantly increased following a 72h but not 24h VPA treatment. A further increase in expression was observed with simultaneous VPA and TPA treatment, suggesting that the two agents may increase NPY expression through different mechanisms. The increase in NPY mRNA by VPA and TPA was confirmed with qRT-PCR after 72h. In contrast, AMI had no effect on NPY expression in SH-SY5Y cells. Together, the data point to an elevation of human NPY mRNA and peptide levels by therapeutic concentrations of VPA following chronic treatment. Thus, upregulation of NPY may have an impact in anti-cancer treatment of neuroblastomas with VPA, and antagonizing hypothalamic NPY effects may help to ameliorate VPA-induced weight gain and obesity without interfering with the desired central effects of VPA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. Although there are no drugs that modify the disease process, exposure to an enriched environment (EE) can slow the disease progression. Here, we characterize the effects of AD and EE on the post-transcriptional regulators, microRNAs (miRNAs), which may contribute to the detrimental and beneficial effects of AD and EE, respectively, on synaptic plasticity-related proteins and AD pathology. We found for the first time miRNAs that were inversely regulated in AD and EE, and may affect synaptic proteins and modulators, molecular factors associated with AD pathology, and survival and neuroprotective factors. MiRNAs that were upregulated only in 3xTgAD mice model of AD compared with their control mice were localized to synapses, predicted to downregulate essential synaptic proteins and are highly associated with regulating apoptosis, AD-associated processes and axon guidance. Studying the progressive change in miRNAs modulation during aging of 3xTgAD mice, we identified miRNAs that were regulated in earlier stages of AD, suggesting them as potential AD biomarkers. Last, we characterized AD- and EE-related effects in the mouse hippocampus on tomosyn protein levels, an inhibitor of the synaptic transmission machinery. While EE reduced tomosyn levels, tomosyn levels were increased in old 3xTgAD mice, suggesting a role for tomosyn in the impairment of synaptic transmission in AD. Interestingly, we found that miR-325 regulates the expression levels of tomosyn as demonstrated by a luciferase reporter assay, and that miR-325 was downregulated in AD and upregulated following EE. These findings improve our understanding of the molecular and cellular processes in AD pathology, following EE, and the interplay between the two processes, and open new avenues for the studies of understanding and controlling AD.
There is abundant evidence that dysfunction of the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic signaling system is implicated in the pathology of schizophrenia and mood disorders. Less is known about the alterations in protein expression of GABA receptor subunits in brains of subjects with schizophrenia and mood disorders. We have previously demonstrated reduced expression of GABA(B) receptor subunits 1 and 2 (GABBR1 and GABBR2) in the lateral cerebella of subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder. In the current study, we have expanded these studies to examine the mRNA and protein expression of 12 GABA(A) subunit proteins (1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 1, 2, 3, , , 2 and 3) in the lateral cerebella from the same set of subjects with schizophrenia (N=9-15), bipolar disorder (N=10-15) and major depression (N=12-15) versus healthy controls (N=10-15). We found significant group effects for protein levels of the 2-, 1- and -subunits across treatment groups. We also found a significant group effect for mRNA levels of the 1-subunit across treatment groups. New avenues for treatment, such as the use of neurosteroids to promote GABA modulation, could potentially ameliorate GABAergic dysfunction in these disorders.
We present 16 years old girl with primary breast lymphoma involving the both breasts simultaneously and co-incidence of central nervous system (CNS) involvement which originated from the breast, in addition to evidence of lymphoma in multi-organ such as skin, mediastinum and some abdominal viscera. Bilaterality has been observed in some series, but reports are few and series are often very small. Radiologic features may be indistinguishable from those of the other breast malignancies, but it can be concluded that primary involvement of the breast with lymphoma should be considered when breast mass or inflammatory changes occur in a patient without any previously diagnosed lymphoma. The clinical behavior, imaging and therapeutic procedures are discussed. The findings of this report may have clinical impact on oncologists or that may alter the disease concept of bilateral breast lymphoma.
The polarity proteins LKB1 and SAD-A/B are key regulators of axon specification in the developing cerebral cortex. Recent studies now show that this mechanism cannot be generalized to other classes of neurons: instead, SAD-A/B functions downstream of neurotrophin signaling in sensory neurons to mediate a later stage of axon development - arborization in the target field.
Melanopsin-expressing photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (pRGCs) represent a third class of retinal photoreceptor. These cells are intrinsically photosensitive, but also receive inputs from rod and cone photoreceptors, acting as the primary sensory conduit mediating non-image-forming responses to light. Multiple subtypes of pRGC have been described in the mouse retina with characteristic morphologies and functional properties, and which perform distinct physiological roles. Here, we examine the levels of melanopsin expression and distribution of pRGC subtypes across the mouse retina, identifying a previously unreported anatomical and functional specialization of the melanopsin system. Our results show a dorsal-ventral gradient in the expression of melanopsin and the distribution of pRGCs, which, combined with dorsal-ventral gradients in ultraviolet-sensitive and medium-wavelength-sensitive cone opsin expression, produce dramatic variations in the ratio of cone opsins and pRGCs across the retina. Using c-fos expression as a marker of light activation in vivo, we show that the responses of pRGCs are spectrally tuned by gradients in cone opsin expression depending on their location in the retina. These data illustrate the importance of classical photoreceptors in providing spectral tuning of pRGC light responses and have important implications for the complexity of non-image-forming responses to light.
Neurocomputational models of optimal decision making ascribe a crucial role-the computation of conflict between choice alternatives-to the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Specifically, these models predict that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the STN will diminish the influence of decision conflict on decision making. In this work, patients with Parkinson's disease judged the direction of motion in random dot stimuli while ON and OFF DBS. To induce decision conflict, we varied the task difficulty (motion coherence), leading to increased reaction time (RT) in trials with greater task difficulty in healthy subjects. Results indicate that DBS significantly influences performance for perceptual decisions under high decision conflict. RT increased substantially OFF DBS as the task became more difficult, and a diffusion model best accounted for behavioral data. In contrast, ON DBS, the influence of task difficulty on RT was significantly reduced and a race model best accounted for the observed data. Individual data fits of evidence accumulation models demonstrate different information processing under distinct DBS states. Furthermore, ON DBS, speed-accuracy tradeoffs affected the magnitude of decision criterion adjustment significantly less compared to OFF DBS. Together, these findings suggest a crucial role for the STN in adjusting decision making during high-conflict trials in perceptual decision making.
The stochastic accumulation framework provides a mechanistic, quantitative account of perceptual decision-making and how task performance changes with experimental manipulations. Importantly, it provides an elegant account of the speed-accuracy trade-off (SAT), which has long been the litmus test for decision models, and also mimics the activity of single neurons in several key respects. Recently, we developed a paradigm whereby macaque monkeys trade speed for accuracy on cue during visual search task. Single-unit activity in frontal eye field (FEF) was not homomorphic with the architecture of models, demonstrating that stochastic accumulators are an incomplete description of neural activity under SAT. This paper summarizes and extends this work, further demonstrating that the SAT leads to extensive, widespread changes in brain activity never before predicted. We will begin by reviewing our recently published work that establishes how spiking activity in FEF accomplishes SAT. Next, we provide two important extensions of this work. First, we report a new chronometric analysis suggesting that increases in perceptual gain with speed stress are evident in FEF synaptic input, implicating afferent sensory-processing sources. Second, we report a new analysis demonstrating selective influence of SAT on frequency coupling between FEF neurons and local field potentials. None of these observations correspond to the mechanics of current accumulator models.





Many studies in humans have shown that adverse experience in early life is associated with accelerated reproductive timing, and there is comparative evidence for similar effects in other animals. There are two different classes of adaptive explanation for associations between early-life adversity and accelerated reproduction, both based on the idea of predictive adaptive responses (PARs). According to external PAR hypotheses, early-life adversity provides a 'weather forecast' of the environmental conditions into which the individual will mature, and it is adaptive for the individual to develop an appropriate phenotype for this anticipated environment. In internal PAR hypotheses, early-life adversity has a lasting negative impact on the individual's somatic state, such that her health is likely to fail more rapidly as she gets older, and there is an advantage to adjusting her reproductive schedule accordingly. We use a model of fluctuating environments to derive evolveability conditions for acceleration of reproductive timing in response to early-life adversity in a long-lived organism. For acceleration to evolve via the external PAR process, early-life cues must have a high degree of validity and the level of annual autocorrelation in the individual's environment must be almost perfect. For acceleration to evolve via the internal PAR process requires that early-life experience must determine a significant fraction of the variance in survival prospects in adulthood. The two processes are not mutually exclusive, and mechanisms for calibrating reproductive timing on the basis of early experience could evolve through a combination of the predictive value of early-life adversity for the later environment and its negative impact on somatic state.

Bilateral striopallidodentate calcinosis, commonly known as Fahr's disease is a rare clinical entity present mainly with extrapyramidal signs and accompanied with metabolic, biochemical, neuroradiological and neuropsychiatric situations. It is characterised by the symmetrical and bilateral intracranial deposition of calcium associated with cell loss in the basal ganglia, cerebral cortex and cerebellum.In this study, we discussed two brothers' cases of Fahr's diseases who presented with different symptomatology. The first presented with walking difficulty, cramps and dysarthria and moderate memory impairment whereas the second with vertigo, ataxia, forgetfulness and headache. CT scans of both patients revealed intracranial diffuse bilateral calcifications in the basal ganglia and the cerebellum. The second patient revealed progressive cerebral atrophy but reduction in the calcification. Fahr's disease, although encountered rarely, should also be taken into account in the differential diagnosis of cases with abnormal intracranial calcifications along with other familial, congenital and metabolic diseases and syndromes.
Melatonin is primarily synthesized and secreted by the pineal gland during darkness in a normal diurnal cycle. In addition to its intrinsic antioxidant property, the neurohormone has renowned regulatory roles in the control of circadian rhythm and exerts its physiological actions primarily by interacting with the G protein-coupled MT1 and MT2 transmembrane receptors. The two melatonin receptor subtypes display identical ligand binding characteristics and mediate a myriad of signaling pathways, including adenylyl cyclase inhibition, phospholipase C stimulation and the regulation of other effector molecules. Both MT1 and MT2 receptors are widely expressed in the central nervous system as well as many peripheral tissues, but each receptor subtype can be linked to specific functional responses at the target tissue. Given the broad therapeutic implications of melatonin receptors in chronobiology, immunomodulation, endocrine regulation, reproductive functions and cancer development, drug discovery and development programs have been directed at identifying chemical molecules that bind to the two melatonin receptor subtypes. However, all of the melatoninergics in the market act on both subtypes of melatonin receptors without significant selectivity. To facilitate the design and development of novel therapeutic agents, it is necessary to understand the intrinsic differences between MT1 and MT2 that determine ligand binding, functional efficacy, and signaling specificity. This review summarizes our current knowledge in differentiating MT1 and MT2 receptors and their signaling capacities. The use of homology modeling in the mapping of the ligand-binding pocket will be described. Identification of conserved and distinct residues will be tremendously useful in the design of highly selective ligands.
In order to efficiently deploy our limited visual processing resources, we must decide what information is relevant and to be prioritized and what information should rather be ignored. To detect visual information that we know is relevant but that is not very salient, we need to set our system to prioritize and combine information from different visual dimensions (e.g., size, color, motion). Four experiments examined the allocation of processing resources across different visual dimensions when observers searched for a singleton target defined by a conjunction of size (primary dimension: the target was always large) with either color or motion (secondary dimension: variable across trials) within heterogeneously sized, colored, and moving distractors. The results revealed search reaction times to be substantially increased in a given trial in which the secondary target dimension was changed from the preceding trial--indicative of a suboptimal distribution of dimensional weights carried over from the previous trial and of attentional weight being bound by the (need to filter within the) primary dimension, thereby reducing the weight available for processing the secondary dimensions. Semantic precueing of the secondary dimension and visual marking of the search-irrelevant items in the primary dimension reduced these costs significantly. However, observers were limited in their ability to implement both top-down sets simultaneously. These findings argue in favor of a parallel distribution of dimensional processing resources across multiple visual dimensions and, furthermore, that visual marking releases attentional weight bound to the primary dimension, thus permitting more efficient (parallel) processing in the secondary dimensions.
Abstract available from the publisher.
There is a high prevalence of behavioral disorders that feature hyperactivity in individuals with severe inner ear dysfunction. What remains unknown is whether inner ear dysfunction can alter the brain to promote pathological behavior. Using molecular and behavioral assessments of mice that carry null or tissue-specific mutations of Slc12a2, we found that inner ear dysfunction causes motor hyperactivity by increasing in the nucleus accumbens the levels of phosphorylated adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate response element-binding protein (pCREB) and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK), key mediators of neurotransmitter signaling and plasticity. Hyperactivity was remedied by local administration of the pERK inhibitor SL327. These findings reveal that a sensory impairment, such as inner ear dysfunction, can induce specific molecular changes in the brain that cause maladaptive behaviors, such as hyperactivity, that have been traditionally considered exclusively of cerebral origin.


Vitelliform macular dystrophies (VMD) are inherited retinal dystrophies characterized by yellow, round deposits visible upon fundus examination and encountered in individuals with juvenile Best macular dystrophy (BMD) or adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (AVMD). Although many BMD and some AVMD cases harbor mutations in BEST1 or PRPH2, the underlying genetic cause remains unknown for many affected individuals. In a large family with autosomal-dominant VMD, gene mapping and whole-exome sequencing led to the identification of a c.713T&gt;G (p.Leu238Arg) IMPG1 mutation, which was subsequently found in two other families with autosomal-dominant VMD and the same phenotype. IMPG1 encodes the SPACR protein, a component of the rod and cone photoreceptor extracellular matrix domains. Structural modeling indicates that the p.Leu238Arg substitution destabilizes the conserved SEA1 domain of SPACR. Screening of 144 probands who had various forms of macular dystrophy revealed three other IMPG1 mutations. Two individuals from one family affected by autosomal-recessive VMD were homozygous for the splice-site mutation c.807+1G&gt;T, and two from another family were compound heterozygous for the mutations c.461T&gt;C (p.Leu154Pro) and c.1519C&gt;T (p.Arg507()). Most cases had a normal or moderately decreased electrooculogram Arden ratio. We conclude that IMPG1 mutations cause both autosomal-dominant and-recessive forms of VMD, thus indicating that impairment of the interphotoreceptor matrix might be a general cause of VMD.
To investigate the extent to which the proportion of schizophrenia's additive genetic variation tagged by SNPs is shared by populations of European and African descent, we analyzed the largest combined African descent (AD [n = 2,142]) and European descent (ED [n=4,990]) schizophrenia case-control genome-wide association study (GWAS) data set available, the Molecular Genetics of Schizophrenia (MGS) data set. We show how a method that uses genomic similarities at measured SNPs to estimate the additive genetic correlation (SNP correlation [SNP-rg]) between traits can be extended to estimate SNP-rg for the same trait between ethnicities. We estimated SNP-rg for schizophrenia between the MGS ED and MGS AD samples to be 0.66 (SE = 0.23), which is significantly different from 0 (p(SNP-rg = 0) = 0.0003), but not 1 (p(SNP-rg = 1) = 0.26). We re-estimated SNP-rg between an independent ED data set (n=6,665) and the MGS AD sample to be 0.61 (SE = 0.21, p(SNP-rg = 0) = 0.0003, p(SNP-rg = 1) = 0.16). These results suggest that many schizophrenia risk alleles are shared across ethnic groups and predate African-European divergence.

Many neurons degenerate after injuries resulting from overstimulation, drugs, genetic mutations, and aging. Although several growth factors and neurotrophins delay degeneration and promote regrowth of neural processes, the role of fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) in mammalian spiral ganglion neurons (SGN) neurite outgrowth has not been examined. This study develops and uses SGN cell cultures suitable for experimental analysis, it investigates whether FGF8a and FGF8b isoforms affect the neurite outgrowth from SGN cultured in vitro. We found that both FGF8a and FGF8b promoted the outgrowth of neurites from cultured SGN. This response is mediated by FGF receptors and involves the activation of IB-mediated NFB signaling pathway. These findings suggest that, besides its morphogenetic role during development, FGF8 may have trophic functions in the adult which are relevant to regeneration.
Age-associated dysregulation of sleep can be worsened by Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD and sleep restriction both impair cognition, yet it is unknown if mild chronic sleep restriction modifies the proteopathic processes involved in AD. The goal of this work was to test the hypothesis that sleep restriction worsens memory impairments, and amyloid -peptide (A) and pTau accumulations in the brain in a mouse model of AD, with a focus on a role for circulating glucocorticoids (GC). Male 3xTgAD mice were subjected to sleep restriction (SR) for 6h/day for 6 weeks using the modified multiple platform technique, and behavioral (Morris water maze, fear conditioning, open field) and biochemical (immunoblot) outcomes were compared to mice undergoing daily cage transfers (large cage control; LCC) as well as control mice that remained in their home cage (control; CTL). At one week, both LCC and SR mice displayed significant elevations in plasma corticosterone compared to CTL (p&lt;0.002). By four weeks, SR mice displayed a two-fold increase in circulating corticosterone levels compared to CTL. Behavioral data indicated deficits in contextual and cued memory in SR mice that were not present for LCC or CTL (p&lt;0.04). Both A and pTau levels increased in the cortex of SR mice compared to CTL and LCC; however these changes were not noted in the hippocampus. Significant positive correlations between cortical A and pTau levels and circulating corticosterone indicate a potential role for GCs in mediating behavioral and biochemical changes observed after sleep restriction in a mouse model of AD.

Liver is one of the major organs in vertebrates and hepatocytes are damaged by many factors. The liver cell maintenance and multiplication after injury and treatment gained immense interest. The present study investigated the role of Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) and serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) coupled with chitosan nanoparticles in the functional regulation of Gamma aminobutyric acid B and 5-hydroxy tryptamine 2A receptors mediated cell signaling mechanisms, extend of DNA methylation and superoxide dismutase activity during enhanced liver cell proliferation. Liver injury was achieved by partial hepatectomy of male Wistar rats and the GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticles treatments were given intraperitoneally. The experimental groups were sham operated control (C), partially hepatectomised rats with no treatment (PHNT), partially hepatectomised rats with GABA chitosan nanoparticle (GCNP), 5-HT chitosan nanoparticle (SCNP) and a combination of GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticle (GSCNP) treatments. In GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticle treated group there was a significant decrease (P&lt;0.001) in the receptor expression of Gamma aminobutyric acid B and a significant increase (P&lt;0.001) in the receptor expression of 5-hydroxy tryptamine 2A when compared to PHNT. The cyclic adenosine monophosphate content and its regulatory protein, presence of methylated DNA and superoxide dismutase activity were decreased in GCNP, SCNP and GSCNP when compared to PHNT. The Gamma aminobutyric acid B and 5-hydroxy tryptamine 2A receptors coupled signaling elements played an important role in GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticles induced liver cell proliferation which has therapeutic significance in liver disease management.
Melanoma incidence is dramatically increasing and the available treatments beyond partial efficacy have severe side effects. Retinoids are promising anticancer agents, but their clinical use has been limited by their toxicity, although a combination with other agents can possibly generate a therapeutic action at lower dosage. Thus, we investigated the effects of all-trans-retinoic acid combined with the antiestrogen endoxifen on melanoma cell proliferation and the effects were compared with its pro-drug tamoxifen. Moreover, we evaluated the effects of these combinations on non-neoplasic cells and assessed mitochondrial bioenergetic functions, to predict their potential toxicity. Individually, all-trans-retinoic acid and the antiestrogens endoxifen and tamoxifen decreased melanoma cell biomass, cell viability and DNA synthesis, without increased cell death, suggesting that the compounds inhibited cell proliferation. Noteworthy, endoxifen decreased cell proliferation more efficiently than tamoxifen. The combination of endoxifen with all-trans-retinoic acid enhanced the antiproliferative effects of the compounds individually more potently than tamoxifen, which did not enhance the effects induced by all-trans-retinoic acid alone, and blocked cell cycle progression in G1. Moreover, the combination of all-trans-retinoic acid with endoxifen significantly decreased melanoma cells migration, whereas the combination with tamoxifen did not present significant effects. At the concentrations used the compounds did not induce cytotoxicity in non-neoplasic cells and liver mitochondrial bioenergetic function was not affected. Altogether, our results show for the first time that a combined treatment of all-trans-retinoic acid with endoxifen may provide an anti-proliferative and anti-migration effect upon melanoma cells without major toxicity, offering a powerful therapeutic strategy for malignant melanoma.
Oroxylin A, a major flavonoid in Scutellaria baicalensis, has been shown to alleviate attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)-like behaviors in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of ADHD. As part of our continuing effort to discover effective ADHD drug candidates, we synthesized a number of oroxylin A derivatives and characterized their biological activities. Among all oroxylin A analogs, compound 7-7 (5,7-dihydroxy-6-methoxy-4'-phenoxyflavone) showed the most remarkable inhibition of dopamine reuptake alike methylphenidate, a dopamine transporter (DAT) blocker and typical drug for ADHD, and oroxylin A. It did not influence norepinephrine reuptake unlike atomoxetine, a selective norepinephrine inhibitor. Moreover, compound 7-7 reduced hyperactivity, sustained inattention and impulsivity in the SHR as measured by the open field, Y-maze and electro-foot shock aversive water drinking tests, respectively. Most drugs that enhance brain dopamine levels (e.g. DAT blockers like cocaine and methylphenidate) produce behavioral effects like those of stimulants causing them to be abused. However, the repeated treatment of compound 7-7 failed to elicit locomotor sensitization in rats, and neither produced conditioned place preference response nor maintained self-administration behavior. Altogether, the present study suggests the promising therapeutic value of compound 7-7 as an ADHD drug. Furthermore, compound 7-7 may be considered as an alternative therapy to psychostimulant ADHD treatments (e.g. amphetamine and methylphenidate) for which use has been deemed controversial due to their abuse liability.
This article describes current experimental models of status epilepticus (SE) and neuronal injury for use in the screening of new therapeutic agents. Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder characterized by recurrent unprovoked seizures. SE is an emergency condition associated with continuous seizures lasting more than 30 min. It causes significant mortality and morbidity. SE can cause devastating damage to the brain leading to cognitive impairment and increased risk of epilepsy. Benzodiazepines are the first-line drugs for the treatment of SE, however, many people exhibit partial or complete resistance due to a breakdown of GABA inhibition. Therefore, new drugs with neuroprotective effects against the SE-induced neuronal injury and degeneration are desirable. Animal models are used to study the pathophysiology of SE and for the discovery of newer anticonvulsants. In SE paradigms, seizures are induced in rodents by chemical agents or by electrical stimulation of brain structures. Electrical stimulation includes perforant path and self-sustaining stimulation models. Pharmacological models include kainic acid, pilocarpine, flurothyl, organophosphates and other convulsants that induce SE in rodents. Neuronal injury occurs within the initial SE episode, and animals exhibit cognitive dysfunction and spontaneous seizures several weeks after this precipitating event. Current SE models have potential applications but have some limitations. In general, the experimental SE model should be analogous to the human seizure state and it should share very similar neuropathological mechanisms. The pilocarpine and diisopropylfluorophosphate models are associated with prolonged, diazepam-insensitive seizures and neurodegeneration and therefore represent paradigms of refractory SE. Novel mechanism-based or clinically relevant models are essential to identify new therapies for SE and neuroprotective interventions.













In the present study we examined the effects of normal aging in the hippocampus and cerebellum, as well as behaviors associated with these substrates. A total of 67 CB6F1 hybrid mice were tested at one of five ages (4, 8, 12, 18 or 25 months) on the context pre-exposure facilitation effect (CPFE) modification of fear conditioning, rotorod, Barnes maze, acoustic startle, Morris water maze (MWM) and 500-ms trace eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC). Behavioral tasks were chosen to increase the ability to detect age-related changes in learning, as trace EBCC is considered a more difficult paradigm (compared to delay EBCC) and the CPFE has been found to be more sensitive to hippocampus insults than standard contextual fear conditioning. To assess the effects of age on the brain, hippocampus volume was calculated and unbiased stereology was used to estimate the number of Purkinje neurons in the cerebellar cortex. A significant, age-related loss of Purkinje neurons was found-beginning at 12 months of age-and hippocampus volume remained stable over the adult life span. Age-related impairment was found, beginning at 12-18 months in the rotorod, and mice with fewer Purkinje neurons showed greater impairment in this task. CB6F1 mice retained auditory acuity across the life span and mice aged 25 months showed significant age-related impairment in the EBCC task; however, deficits were not associated with the loss of Purkinje neurons. Although the CPFE task is considered more sensitive to hippocampus insult, no age-related impairment was found. Spatial memory retention was impaired in the Barnes maze at 25 months, but no significant deficits were seen in the MWM. These results support the finding of differential aging in the hippocampus and cerebellum.
Because consumption of processed foods has increased in the last decades and so far its potential influence on emotionality and susceptibility to stress is unknown, we studied the influence of different fatty acids (FA) on behavioral and biochemical parameters after acute restrain stress (AS) exposure. Two sequential generations of female rats were supplemented with soybean oil (control group; C-SO), fish oil (FO) and hydrogenated vegetable fat (HVF) from pregnancy and during lactation. At 41days of age, half the animals of each supplemented group were exposed to AS and observed in open field and elevated plus maze task, followed by euthanasia for biochemical assessments. The HVF-supplemented group showed higher anxiety-like symptoms per se, while the C-SO and FO groups did not show these behaviors. Among groups exposed to AS, HVF showed locomotor restlessness in the open field, while both C-SO and HVF groups showed anxiety-like symptoms in the elevated plus maze, but this was not observed in the FO group. Biochemical evaluations showed higher lipoperoxidation levels and lower cell viability in cortex in the HVF group. In addition, HVF-treated rats showed reduced catalase activity in striatum and hippocampus, as well as increased generation of reactive species in striatum, while FO was associated with increased cell viability in the hippocampus. Among groups exposed to AS, HVF increased reactive species generation in the brain, decreased cell viability in the cortex and striatum, and decreased catalase activity in the striatum and hippocampus. Taken together, our findings show that the type of FA provided during development and growth over two generations is able to modify the brain oxidative status, which was particularly adversely affected by trans fat. In addition, the harmful influence of chronic consumption of trans fats as observed in this study can enhance emotionality and anxiety parameters resulting from stressful situations of everyday life, which can trigger more severe neuropsychiatric conditions.
Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) induces demyelination in susceptible strains of mice through a CD4(+) Th1 T cell-mediated immunopathological process. TMEV infection produces a syndrome in mice that resembles multiple sclerosis. In this work, we focused on the increased expression of the genes encoding voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel subunits in SJL/J mouse astrocytes infected in culture with a BeAn strain of TMEV. Affymetrix DNA murine genome U74v2 DNA microarray hybridized with cRNA from mock- and TMEV-infected astrocytes revealed the upregulation of four sequences encoding Ca(2+)-binding and Ca(2+) channel subunit proteins. The DNA hybridization results were further validated using conventional RT-PCR and quantitative RT-PCR, demonstrating the increased expression of mRNA encoding channel subunit proteins. Western blotting also showed the increased synthesis of L- and N-type channel subunit specific proteins after infection. The reduced expression and the functional upregulation of functional voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels in mock- and TMEV-infected cells, respectively, was demonstrated using voltage clamp experiments. TMEV infection in mouse astrocytes induced a Ca(2+) current with a density proportional to the amount of viral particles used for infection. The use of Ca(2+) channel blockers, nimodipine and -conotoxin-GVIA, showed that both functional L- and N-type Ca(2+) channels were upregulated in infected astrocytes. The upregulation of Ca(2+) channels in astrocytes after TMEV infection provides insight into the molecular processes and potential role of astrocyte Ca(2+) dysregulation in the pathophysiology of encephalomyelitis and is important for the development of novel therapeutic strategies leading to prevention of neurodegeneration.
The kinin-B2 receptor (B2BKR) activated by its endogenous ligand bradykinin participates in various metabolic processes including the control of arterial pressure and inflammation. Recently, functions for this receptor in brain development and protection against glutamate-provoked excitotoxicity have been proposed. Here, we report neuroprotective properties for bradykinin against organophosphate poisoning using acute hippocampal slices as an in vitro model. Following slice perfusion for 10min with diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) to initiate the noxious stimulus, responses of pyramidal neurons upon an electric impulse were reduced to less than 30% of control amplitudes. Effects on synaptic-elicited population spikes were reverted when preparations had been exposed to bradykinin 30min after challenging with DFP. Accordingly, bradykinin-induced population spike recovery was abolished by HOE-140, a B2BKR antagonist. However, the kinin-B1 receptor (B1BKR) agonist Lys-des-Arg(9)-bradykinin, inducing the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK/MAPK) and cell death, abolished bradykinin-mediated neuroprotection, an effect, which was reverted by the ERK inhibitor PD98059. In agreement with pivotal B1BKR functions in this process, antagonism of endogenous B1BKR activity alone was enough for restoring population spike activity. On the other hand pralidoxime, an oxime, reactivating acetylcholinesterase (AChE) after organophosphate poisoning, induced population spike recovery after DFP exposure in the presence of bradykinin and Lys-des-Arg(9)-bradykinin. Lys-des-Arg(9)-bradykinin did not revert protection exerted by pralidoxime, however when instead bradykinin and Ly-des-Arg(9)-bradykinin were superfused together, recovery of population spikes diminished. These findings again confirm the neuroprotective feature of bradykinin, which is, diminished by its endogenous metabolites, stimulating the B1BKR, providing a novel understanding of the physiological roles of these receptors.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has become the standard surgical procedure for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN) has emerged as a potential target for DBS in patients whose quality of life is compromised by freezing of gait and falls. To date, only a few groups have published their long-term clinical experience with PPN stimulation. Bearing in mind that the Barrington (Bar) nucleus and some adjacent nuclei (also known as the micturition centre) are close to the PPN and may be affected by DBS, the aim of the present study was to review the anatomical location of this structure in human and other species. To this end, the Bar nucleus area was analysed in mouse, monkey and human tissues, paying particular attention to the anatomical position in humans, where it has been largely overlooked. Results confirm that anatomical location renders the Bar nucleus susceptible to influence by the PPN DBS lead or to diffusion of electrical current. This may have an undesirable impact on the quality of life of patients.
Hyperbaric oxygen-induced seizures are classified as brief, generalized tonic-clonic seizures. They are believed to cause no residual cognitive damage, although this has not been investigated in depth. In the present study, we examined whether hyperbaric oxygen-induced seizures cause impairment of behavioral and cognitive abilities. Cognitive status was assessed using four behavioral tests: Y-maze, novel object recognition, the elevated plus maze, and a passive avoidance task. Three time intervals were examined: 24h, and 7 and 30 days after the seizures. We found transient impairment of performance in the compressed group on three tests (the novel object recognition paradigm, the Y-maze paradigm, and the passive avoidance task). On the elevated plus maze test, the impairment persisted. The time interval to the appearance of deficits and to eventual recovery was not the same for the different tests. We conclude that hyperbaric oxygen-induced seizures result in transient impairment of performance on behavioral tests in a mouse model. Further investigation is required to establish the mechanism and location of injury, and to determine whether the performance decrement on the elevated plus maze test represents permanent damage or transient damage with slow resolution. These new findings should be taken into account when planning hyperbaric oxygen treatments, to ensure that the chosen protocol is therapeutic yet minimizes the risk of CNS oxygen toxicity.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely used for the treatment of a spectrum of anxiety disorders, yet paradoxically they may increase symptoms of anxiety when treatment is first initiated. Despite extensive research over the past 30 years focused on SSRI treatment, the precise mechanisms by which SSRIs exert these opposing acute and chronic effects on anxiety remain unknown. By testing the behavioral effects of SSRI treatment on Pavlovian fear conditioning, a well characterized model of emotional learning, we have the opportunity to identify how SSRIs affect the functioning of specific brain regions, including the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and hippocampus. In this review, we first define different stages of learning involved in cued and context fear conditioning and describe the neural circuits underlying these processes. We examine the results of numerous rodent studies investigating how acute SSRI treatment modulates fear learning and relate these effects to the known functions of serotonin in specific brain regions. With these findings, we propose a model by which acute SSRI administration, by altering neural activity in the extended amygdala and hippocampus, enhances both acquisition and expression of cued fear conditioning, but impairs the expression of contextual fear conditioning. Finally, we review the literature examining the effects of chronic SSRI treatment on fear conditioning in rodents and describe how downregulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the amygdala and hippocampus may mediate the impairments in fear learning and memory that are reported. While long-term SSRI treatment effectively reduces symptoms of anxiety, their disruptive effects on fear learning should be kept in mind when combining chronic SSRI treatment and learning-based therapies, such as cognitive behavioral therapy.
Numerous studies have shown that human endogenous retrovirus W family (HERV-W) envelope gene (env) is related to various diseases but the underlying mechanism has remained poorly understood. Our previous study showed that there was abnormal expression of HERV-W env in sera of patients with schizophrenia. In this paper, we reported that overexpression of the HERV-W env elevated the levels of small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel protein 3 (SK3) in human neuroblastoma cells. Using a luciferase reporter system and RNA interference method, we found that functional cAMP response element site was required for the expression of SK3 triggered by HERV-W env. In addition, it was also found that the SK3 channel was activated by HERV-W env. Further study indicated that cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) was required for the activation of the SK3 channel. Thus, a novel signaling mechanism of how HERV-W env influences neuronal activity and contributes to mental illnesses such as schizophrenia was proposed.
The parasympathetic control of heart rate arises from premotor cardiac vagal neurons (CVNs) located in the nucleus ambiguus (NA). Previous microinjection studies in NA show that dopamine evokes a decrease in heart rate, but the underlying mechanisms responsible for these responses were not identified. This study tested whether dopamine modulates inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic and/or excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission to CVNs. Retrogradely labeled CVNs were identified in an in vitro rat brainstem slice preparation and synaptic events were recorded using whole cell voltage clamp techniques. Bath application of dopamine (100 M) had no effect on excitatory synaptic events, but reversibly inhibited the frequency (but not amplitude) of GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in CVNs. Similarly, dopamine (10 M and 100 M) inhibited glycinergic IPSC frequency by ~50% and 70% respectively. The reduction in inhibitory neurotransmission to CVNs by dopamine was prevented by the sodium channel blocker TTX (1M) indicating that the dopamine mediated effects were action potential dependent. Dopamine evoked responses were mimicked by the D2-like receptor agonist, Quinpirole but not D1-like receptor agonist, SKF 38393. In addition, the dopamine mediated depression of inhibitory synaptic responses were prevented by the D2-like receptor antagonist sulpiride, but not by D1-like or adrenergic or serotonergic receptor antagonists, suggesting that these responses were D2-like receptor mediated and not D1-like or adrenergic or 5-HT receptor mediated. These data suggest that dopamine acts via dis-inhibition, and diminishes inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic neurotransmission to CVNs, which would be predicted to increase parasympathetic activity to the heart and evoke a bradycardia.
The endocannabinoid system is implicated in the neurobiology of cocaine addiction. This study evaluated the status of cannabinoid (CB) CB1 and CB2 receptors, the endocytic cycle of CB1 receptors, G protein-coupled receptor regulatory kinases (GRK), and associated signaling (mammalian target of rapamicin (mTOR) and 70kDa ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K)) in brain cortices of drug abusers and cocaine- and cannabinoid-treated rodents. The main results indicate that in cocaine adddicts, but not in mixed cocaine/opiate or opiate abusers, CB1 receptor protein in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) was reduced (-44%, total homogenate) with a concomitant receptor redistribution and/or internalization (decreases in membranes and increases in cytosol). In cocaine addicts, the reductions of CB1 receptors and GRK2/3/5 (-26% to -30%) indicated receptor desensitization. CB2 receptor protein was not significantly altered in the PFC of cocacine addicts. Chronic cocaine in mice and rats also reduced CB1 receptor protein (-41% and -80%) in the cerebral cortex inducing receptor redistribution and/or internalization. The CB1 receptor agonist WIN55212-2 caused receptor downregulation (decreases in membranes and cytosol) and the antagonists rimonabant and AM281 induced opposite effects (receptor upregulation in membranes and cytosol). Rimonabant and AM281 also behaved as inverse agonists on the activation of mTOR and its target p70S6K. Chronic cocaine in mice was associated with tolerance to the acute activation of mTOR and p70S6K. In long-term cocaine addicts, mTOR and p70S6K activations were not altered when compared with controls, indicating that CB1 receptor signaling was dampened. The dysregulation of CB1 receptor, GRK2/3/5, and mTOR/p70S6K signaling by cocaine may contribute to alterations of neuroplasticity and/or neurotoxicity in brains of cocaine addicts.
Sex differences in brain and behavior exist across vertebrates, but the molecular factors regulating their development are largely unknown. Songbirds exhibit substantial sexual dimorphisms. In zebra finches, only males sing, and the brain areas regulating song learning and production are much larger in males. Recent data suggest that sex chromosome genes (males ZZ; females ZW) may play roles in sexual differentiation. The present studies tested the hypothesis that a Z-gene, tubulin-specific chaperone protein A (TBCA), contributes to sexual differentiation of the song system. This taxonomically conserved gene is integral to microtubule synthesis, and within the song system, its mRNA is specifically increased in males compared to females in the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN), a region critical for song learning and plasticity. Using in situ hybridization, Western blot analysis, and immunohistochemistry, we observed effects of both age and sex on TBCA mRNA and protein expression. The transcript is increased in males compared to females at three juvenile ages, but not in adults. TBCA protein, both the number of immunoreactive cells and relative concentration in LMAN, is diminished in adults compared to juveniles. The latter was also increased in males compared to females at post-hatching day 25. With double-label immunofluorescence and retrograde tract tracing, we also document that the majority of TBCA+ cells in LMAN are neurons, and that they include robust nucleus of the arcopallium-projecting cells. These results indicate that TBCA is both temporally and spatially primed to facilitate the development of a sexually dimorphic neural pathway critical for song.
Various protein motifs play a key role in regulating protein biogenesis and trafficking. Here, we discovered that three distinct motifs regulate the trafficking of acid-sensing ion channel 1a (ASIC1a), the primary neuronal proton receptor which plays critical roles in neurological diseases including stroke, multiple sclerosis and seizures. Mutating the PDZ binding motif of ASIC1a increased its surface expression and current density. In contrast, mutating either a RRGK motif or a KEAKR motif reduced ASIC1a surface expression and acid-activated current density. Mutating or deleting the RRGK motif also reduced pH sensitivity and the rate of desensitization of ASIC1a. These changes were likely due to a change in ASIC1a biogenesis; mutating either the RRGK or KEAKR motif reduced N-glycosylation of ASIC1a while mutating the PDZ binding motif had the opposite effect. Our results demonstrate that these C-terminal motifs are important for ASIC1a trafficking and channel function. In addition, in contrast to multiple previous studies, which all show that K/R containing motifs lead to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention, our findings indicate that these motifs can also be required for efficient trafficking.
Cortical spontaneous activity reflects an animal's behavioral state and affects neural responses to sensory stimuli. The correlation between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic input to single neurons is a key parameter in models of cortical circuitry. Recent measurements demonstrated highly correlated synaptic excitation and inhibition during spontaneous &quot;up-and-down&quot; states, during which excitation accounted for approximately 80% of inhibitory variance (Shu et al., 2003; Haider et al., 2006). Here we report in vivo whole-cell estimates of the correlation between excitation and inhibition in the rat visual cortex under pentobarbital anesthesia, during which up-and-down states are absent. Excitation and inhibition are weakly correlated, relative to the up-and-down state: excitation accounts for less than 40% of inhibitory variance. Although these correlations are lower than when the circuit cycles between up-and-down states, both behaviors may arise from the same circuitry. Our observations provide evidence that different correlational patterns of excitation and inhibition underlie different cortical states.
Over the years it has become crystal clear that a variety of processes encode time-of-day information, ranging from gene expression, protein stability, or subcellular localization of key proteins, to the fine tuning of network properties and modulation of input signals, ultimately ensuring that physiology and behavior are properly synchronized to a changing environment. The purpose of this review is to put forward examples (as opposed to generate a comprehensive revision of all the available literature) in which the circadian system displays a remarkable degree of plasticity, from cell autonomous to circuit-based levels. In the literature, the term circadian plasticity has been used to refer to different concepts. The obvious one, more literally, refers to any change that follows a circadian (circa=around, diem=day) pattern, i.e. a daily change of a given parameter. The discovery of daily remodeling of neuronal structures will be referred herein as structural circadian plasticity, and represents an additional and novel phenomenon modified daily. Finally, any plasticity that has to do with a circadian parameter would represent a type of circadian plasticity; as an example, adjustments that allow organisms to adapt their daily behavior to the annual changes in photoperiod is a form of circadian plasticity at a higher organizational level, which is an emergent property of the whole circadian system. Throughout this work we will revisit these types of changes by reviewing recent literature delving around circadian control of clock outputs, from the most immediate ones within pacemaker neurons to the circadian modulation of rest-activity cycles.
The olfactory bulb (OB) has been recently identified as a circadian oscillator capable of operating independently of the master circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. OB oscillations manifest as rhythms in clock genes, electrical activity, and odor sensitivity. Dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin have been shown to modulate olfactory information processing by the OB and may be part of the mechanism that underlies diurnal changes in olfactory sensitivity. Rhythmic release of these neurotransmitters could generate OB rhythms in electrical activity and olfactory sensitivity. We hypothesized that these monoamines were rhythmically released in the OB. To test our hypotheses, we examined monoamine levels in the OB, over the course of a day, by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection. We observed that dopamine and its metabolite, 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, rhythmically fluctuate over the day. In contrast, norepinephrine is arrhythmic. Serotonin and its metabolite hydroxyindoleacetic acid appear to rhythmically fluctuate. Each of these monoamines has been shown to alter OB circuit behavior and influence odor processing. Rhythmic release of serotonin may be a mechanism by which the suprachiasmatic nuclei communicate, indirectly, with the OB.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a prevalent debilitating psychiatric mood that contributes to increased rates of disability and suicide. However, the pathophysiology underlying MDD remains poorly understood. A growing number of studies have associated dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) with depression, but no proteomic study has been conducted to assess PFC protein expression in a preclinical model of depression. Using the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rat model of depression, differential protein expression between the PFC proteomes of CUMS and control rats was assessed through two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight-tandem mass spectrometry. Differential protein expression was analyzed for Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway over-representation. Four differential proteins were selected for Western blotting validation. Twenty-nine differential proteins were identified in the PFC of CUMS rats relative to control rats. Through KEGG analysis, energy and glutathione metabolic pathways were determined to be the most significantly altered biological pathways. Two of the four differential proteins selected for Western blotting validation - glyoxalase 1 and dihydropyrimidinase-related protein 2 - were found to be significantly downregulated in CUMS relative to control rats. In conclusion, proteomic analysis reveals that energy and glutathione metabolism are the most significantly altered biological pathways in the CUMS rat model of depression. Further investigation on these processes and proteins in the PFC is key to a better understanding of the underlying pathophysiology of MDD.
Immediate early transcription is an integral part of the neuronal response to environmental stimulation and serves many brain processes including development, learning, triggers of programmed cell death, and reaction to injury and drugs. Following a stimulus, neurons express a select few genes within a short period of time without undergoing de novo protein translation. Referred to as the 'gateway to genetic response', these immediate early genes (IEGs) are either expressed within a few minutes of stimulation or later within the hour. In neuronal IEGs that are expressed rapidly, productive elongation in response to neuronal activity is jump-started by constitutive transcription initiation together with RNA polymerase II stalling in the vicinity of the promoter. IEGs expressed later in the hour do not depend on this mechanism. On the basis of this Polymerase II poising, we propose that the immediate early genes can be grouped in two distinct classes: the rapid and the delayed IEGs. The possible biological relevance of these classes in neurons is discussed.
The neurobiological mechanisms underlying the suppression of neuropathic pain by spinal cord stimulation (SCS) are still incompletely known. The present study aims at exploring whether the descending pain control system in the rostroventromedial medulla (RVM) exerts a role in the attenuation of neuropathic pain by SCS. Experiments were performed in the rat spared nerve injury (SNI) pain model. The effects of SCS on neuronal activity of pronociceptive ON-like, antinociceptive OFF-like, and neutral cells, including 5-HT-like cells, in the RVM were analyzed in SCS responding and SCS non-responding SNI animals as well as in nave controls. Decreased spontaneous activities in OFF-like cells and increased spontaneous activities in ON-like cells were observed in SNI animals, whereas the spontaneous activities of 5-HT-like and neutral cells were unchanged. SCS produced a prominent increase in the discharge of OFF- and 5-HT-like cells in SCS responding, but not in non-responding SNI animals or controls. Discharge rates of ON-like and neutral cell were not affected by SCS. In awake SNI animals, microinjection of a GABAA receptor agonist, muscimol, into the RVM significantly attenuated the antihypersensitivity effect induced by SCS while a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist, naltrexone, was ineffective. It is concluded that SCS may shift the reciprocal inhibitory and facilitatory pain modulation balance controlled by the RVM in favor of inhibition. This increase in the descending antinociceptive effect operates in concert with segmental spinal mechanisms in producing pain relief.
A growing interest in sensory system plasticity in the natural context of motherhood has created the need to investigate how intrinsic physiological state (e.g., hormonal, motivational, etc.) interacts with sensory experience to drive adaptive cortical plasticity for behaviorally relevant stimuli. Using a maternal mouse model of auditory cortical inhibitory plasticity for ultrasonic pup calls, we examined the role of pup care versus maternal physiological state in the long-term retention of this plasticity. Very recent experience caring for pups by Early Cocarers, which are virgins, produced stronger call-evoked lateral-band inhibition in auditory cortex. However, this plasticity was absent when measured post-weaning in Cocarers, even though it was present at the same time point in Mothers, whose pup experience occurred under a maternal physiological state. A two-alternative choice phonotaxis task revealed that the same animal groups (Early Cocarers and Mothers) demonstrating stronger lateral-band inhibition also preferred pup calls over a neutral sound, a correlation consistent with the hypothesis that this inhibitory mechanism may play a mnemonic role and is engaged to process sounds that are particularly salient. Our electrophysiological data hint at a possible mechanism through which the maternal physiological state may act to preserve the cortical plasticity: selectively suppressing detrimental spontaneous activity in neurons that are responsive to calls, an effect observed only in Mothers. Taken together, the maternal physiological state during the care of pups may help maintain the memory trace of behaviorally salient infant cues within core auditory cortex, potentially ensuring a more rapid induction of future maternal behavior.
Adult neurogenesis occurs throughout life; however the majority of new neurons do not survive. Enhancing the survival of these new neurons will increase the likelihood that these neurons could return function following injury. Inhibition of Rho kinase is known to increase neurite outgrowth and regeneration. Previous work in our lab has demonstrated a role for Rho kinase inhibition and survival of new born neurons from the sub-ventricular zone. In this study we examined the role of Rho kinase inhibition on hippocampal neurogenesis. Two concentrations of Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632 (20 and 100 M) and the proliferative marker EdU were infused in the lateral ventricle for 7 days. Quantification of doublecortin+/EdU+ cells on the 7th day showed that cell numbers were not significantly different, suggesting no effect on neuroblast generation. Following infusion of 100M Y27632, the number of newborn NeuN+/EdU+ neurons at 35 days in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus of the ipsilateral side of the infusion did not display a significant difference; however there was an increase on the contralateral side, suggesting a dose effect. Infusion of a lower dose (20 M) of Y27632 resulted in an increase in NeuN+/EdU+ cells in the granular cell layer of the ipsilateral side at 35 days. These mice also demonstrated enhanced spatial memory as tested by the Y maze with no significant changes in anxiety or novel object recognition. Rho kinase inhibition enhanced the survival of new born neurons in the dentate gyrus with a specific dosage effect. These results suggest that inhibition of Rho kinase following injury could be beneficial for increasing the survival of new neurons that may aid recovery.
Accumulating evidence indicates that activation of spinal cord astrocytes contributes importantly to nerve injury and inflammation-induced persistent pain and chronic opioid-induced antinociceptive tolerance. Phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) and induction of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) in spinal astrocytes have been implicated in astrocytes-mediated pain. Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is a serine protease that has been extensively used to treat stroke. We examined the potential involvement of tPA in chronic opioid-induced antinociceptive tolerance and activation of spinal astrocytes using tPA knockout (tPA(-/-)) mice and astrocyte cultures. tPA(-/-) mice exhibited unaltered nociceptive pain and morphine-induced acute analgesia. However, the antinociceptive tolerance, induced by chronic morphine (10mg/kg/day, s.c.), is abrogated in tPA(-/-) mice. Chronic morphine induces tPA expression in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-expressing spinal cord astrocytes. Chronic morphine also increases IL-1 expression in GFAP-expressing astrocytes, which is abolished in tPA-deficient mice. In cultured astrocytes, morphine treatment increases tPA, IL-1, and pERK expression, and the increased IL-1 and pERK expression is abolished in tPA-deficient astrocytes. tPA is also sufficient to induce IL-1 and pERK expression in astrocyte cultures. Intrathecal injection of tPA results in up-regulation of GFAP and pERK in spinal astrocytes but not up-regulation of ionized calcium binding adapter molecule 1 in spinal microglia. Finally, intrathecal tPA elicits persistent mechanical allodynia, which is inhibited by the astroglial toxin alpha-amino adipate and the MEK (ERK kinase) inhibitor U0126. Collectively, these data suggest an important role of tPA in regulating astrocytic signaling, pain hypersensitivity, and morphine tolerance.
The article reviews evidence for sensitive periods in the sensory systems and considers their neuronal mechanisms from the viewpoint of the system's neuroscience. It reviews the essential cortical developmental steps and shows its dependence on experience. It differentiates feature representation and object representation and their neuronal mechanisms. The most important developmental effect of experience is considered to be the transformation of a naive cortical neuronal network into a network capable of categorization, by that establishing auditory objects. The control mechanisms of juvenile and adult plasticity are further discussed. Total absence of hearing experience prevents the patterning of the naive auditory system with subsequent extensive consequences on the auditory function. Additional to developmental changes in synaptic plasticity, other brain functions like corticocortical interareal couplings are also influenced by deprivation. Experiments with deaf auditory systems reveal several integrative effects of deafness and their reversibility with experience. Additional to developmental molecular effects on synaptic plasticity, a combination of several integrative effects of deprivation on brain functions, including feature representation (affecting the starting point for learning), categorization function, top-down interactions and cross-modal reorganization close the sensitive periods and may contribute to their critical nature. Further, non-auditory effects of auditory deprivation are discussed. To reopen critical periods, removal of molecular breaks in synaptic plasticity and focused training therapy on the integrative effects are required.
Increasing evidence has linked membrane cholesterol to amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing. -Sitosterol (BS) is one of the most common forms of plant sterols, with the structure very similar to that of cholesterol. Using HT22 mouse hippocampal cells, this study investigated whether the substitution of membrane cholesterol with BS influences APP metabolism. It was found that cholesterol/BS substitution promoted nonamyloidogenic processing of APP without affecting membrane fluidity. Additional experiments suggest that the effect of membrane BS on APP metabolism is associated with the migration of APP from lipid rafts toward non-raft regions. Given that dietary BS can enter the brain and accumulates in the plasma membrane of brain cells, these results suggest a potential use of BS in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease.
Central neuropathic pain (CNP) in the spinal cord, such as chronic pain after spinal cord injury (SCI), is an incurable ailment. However, little is known about the spinal cord mechanisms underlying CNP. Recently, reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been recognized to play an important role in CNP of the spinal cord. However, it is unclear how ROS affect synaptic transmission in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. To clarify how ROS impact on synaptic transmission, we investigated the effects of ROS on synaptic transmission in rat spinal cord substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Administration of tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH), an ROS donor, into the spinal cord markedly increased the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in SG neurons. This t-BOOH-induced enhancement was not suppressed by the Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin. However, in the presence of a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, t-BOOH did not generate any sEPSCs. Furthermore, in the presence of a transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) channel antagonist (HC-030031) or a transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel antagonist (capsazepine or AMG9810), the t-BOOH-induced increase in the frequency of sEPSCs was inhibited. These results indicate that ROS enhance the spontaneous release of glutamate from presynaptic terminals onto SG neurons through TRPA1 and TRPV1 channel activation. Excessive activation of these ion channels by ROS may induce central sensitization in the spinal cord and result in chronic pain such as that following SCI.
The loss of independent control of finger movements impairs the dexterous use of the hand. Focal hand dystonia is characterised by abnormal structural and functional changes at the cortical and subcortical regions responsible for individuated finger movements and by the loss of surround inhibition in the finger muscles. However, little is known about the pathophysiological impact of focal dystonia on the independent control of finger movements. Here we addressed this issue by asking pianists with and without focal dystonia to repetitively strike a piano key with one of the four fingers as fast as possible while the remaining digits kept the adjacent keys depressed. Using principal component analysis and cluster analysis to the derived keystroke data, we successfully classified pianists according to the presence or absence of dystonic symptoms with classification rates and cross-validation scores of approximately 90%. This confirmed the effects of focal dystonia on the individuated finger movements. Interestingly, the movement features that contributed to successful classification differed across fingers. Compared to healthy pianists, pianists with an affected index finger were characterised predominantly by stronger keystrokes, whereas pianists with affected middle or ring fingers exhibited abnormal temporal control of the keystrokes, such as slowness and rhythmic inconsistency. The selective alternation of the movement features indicates a finger-specific loss of the independent control of finger movements in focal dystonia of musicians.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), a neuropeptide contained in neural terminals innervating brainstem vagal motor neurons, enhances vagal outflow to modify multisystemic visceral functions and food intake. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity are accompanied by impaired vagal functioning. We examined the possibility that impaired brainstem TRH action may contribute to the vagal dysregulation of food intake in Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats, a T2D model with hyperglycemia and impaired central vagal activation by TRH. Food intake induced by intracisternal injection of TRH analog was reduced significantly by 50% in GK rats, compared to Wistar rats. Similarly, natural food intake in the dark phase or food intake after an overnight fast was reduced by 56-81% in GK rats. Fasting (48h) and refeeding (2h)-associated changes in serum ghrelin, insulin, peptide YY, pancreatic polypeptide and leptin, and the concomitant changes in orexigenic or anorexigenic peptide expression in the brainstem and hypothalamus, all apparent in Wistar rats, were absent or markedly reduced in GK rats, with hormone release stimulated by vagal activation, such as ghrelin and pancreatic polypeptide, decreased substantially. Fasting-induced Fos expression accompanying endogenous brainstem TRH action decreased by 66% and 91%, respectively, in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) in GK rats, compared to Wistar rats. Refeeding abolished fasting-induced Fos-expression in the NTS, while that in the DMV remained in Wistar but not GK rats. These findings indicate that dysfunctional brainstem TRH-elicited vagal impairment contributes to the disturbed food intake in T2D GK rats, and may provide a pathophysiological mechanism which prevents further weight gain in T2D and obesity.
Illumination conditions appear to influence working efficacy in everyday life. In the present study, we obtained electroencephalogram (EEG) correlates of working-memory load, and investigated how these waveforms are modulated by illumination conditions. We hypothesized that illumination conditions may affect cognitive performance. We designed an EEG study to monitor and record participants' EEG during the Sternberg working memory task under four different illumination conditions. Illumination conditions were generated with a factorial design of two color-temperatures (3000 and 7100 K) by two illuminance levels (150 and 700 lx). During a working memory task, we observed that high illuminance led to significantly lower frontal EEG theta activity than did low illuminance. These differences persisted despite no significant difference in task performance between illumination conditions. We found that the latency of an early event-related potential component, such as N1, was significantly modulated by the illumination condition. The fact that the illumination condition affects brain activity but not behavioral performance suggests that the lighting conditions used in the present study did not influence the performance stage of behavioral processing. Nevertheless, our findings provide objective evidence that illumination conditions modulate brain activity. Further studies are necessary to refine the optimal lighting parameters for facilitating working memory.

Since brain ischemia is one of the leading causes of adult disability and death, neuroprotection of the ischemic brain is of particular importance. Acute neuroprotective strategies usually have the aim of suppressing glutamate excitotoxicity and an excessive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function. Clinically tolerated antagonists should antagonize an excessive NMDA receptor function without compromising the normal synaptic function. Kynurenic acid (KYNA) an endogenous metabolite of the tryptophan metabolism, may be an attractive neuroprotectant in this regard. The manipulation of brain KYNA levels was earlier found to effectively enhance the histopathological outcome of experimental ischemic/hypoxic states. The present investigation of the neuroprotective capacity of L-kynurenine sulfate (L-KYNs) administered systemically after reperfusion in a novel distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (dMCAO) model of focal ischemia/reperfusion revealed that in contrast with earlier results, treatment with L-KYNs worsened the histopathological outcome of dMCAO. This contradictory result indicates that post-ischemic treatment with L-KYNs may be harmful.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) has been considered one of the molecular culprits for neuropathic pain. Understanding how LPA changes the function of primary afferent fibers might be an essential step for clarifying the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain. The present study was designed to identify the primary afferent fibers (A, A, or C) participating in LPA-induced allodynia in ddY mice. Mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia were evaluated by the von Frey filament test and thermal paw withdrawal test, respectively. Sensory nerve fiber responsiveness was measured using a Neurometer. Daily repeated intrathecal treatment with LPA led to a decrease in the mechanical, but not thermal nociceptive threshold, and a reduction in the threshold for paw withdrawal induced by 2000-Hz (A fiber) and 250-Hz (A fiber), but not 5-Hz (C fiber) sine-wave electrical stimulation. When the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) receptor agonist resiniferatoxin (RTX) was administered subcutaneously before the start of LPA treatment, LPA-induced mechanical allodynia and A and A fiber hypersensitivity demonstrated by neurometry were not affected, indicating that TRPV1-expressing nerve fibers (possibly C fibers) might not be essential for LPA-induced allodynia. LPA-induced allodynia was reversed by treatment with RTX at 7 days after the start of LPA treatment. Expression of TRPV1 on myelinated nerve fibers after repeated intrathecal LPA treatment was observed in the dorsal root ganglion. These results suggest that sensitization of A and A fibers, but not C fibers, contributes to the development of intrathecally administered LPA-induced mechanical allodynia. Moreover, increased or newly expressed TRPV1 receptors in A and A fibers are considered to be involved in the maintenance of LPA-induced allodynia.
Non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep electroencephalographic (EEG) delta power (~0.5-4 Hz), also known as slow wave activity (SWA), is typically enhanced after acute sleep deprivation (SD) but not after chronic sleep restriction (CSR). Recently, sleep-active cortical neurons expressing neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) were identified and associated with enhanced SWA after short acute bouts of SD (i.e., 6h). However, the relationship between cortical nNOS neuronal activity and SWA during CSR is unknown. We compared the activity of cortical neurons expressing nNOS (via c-Fos and nNOS immuno-reactivity, respectively) and sleep in rats in three conditions: (1) after 18-h of acute SD; (2) after five consecutive days of sleep restriction (SR) (18-h SD per day with 6h ad libitum sleep opportunity per day); (3) and time-of-day matched ad libitum sleep controls. Cortical nNOS neuronal activity was enhanced during sleep after both 18-h SD and 5 days of SR treatments compared to control treatments. SWA and NREM sleep delta energy (the product of NREM sleep duration and SWA) were positively correlated with enhanced cortical nNOS neuronal activity after 18-h SD but not 5days of SR. That neurons expressing nNOS were active after longer amounts of acute SD (18h vs. 6h reported in the literature) and were correlated with SWA further suggest that these cells might regulate SWA. However, since these neurons were active after CSR when SWA was not enhanced, these findings suggest that mechanisms downstream of their activation are altered during CSR.
Schizophrenia is a severe condition that has been associated with functional abnormalities in dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Neurokinin-3 receptors (NK3Rs) of the tachykinin family of neuropeptides modulate the activity of VTA DA neurons and might be involved in DA abnormalities relevant to schizophrenia. Recent work from our lab showed that systemic injection of the dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist apomorphine in rats, which mimics schizophrenia-like behaviors in humans, also evoked a redistribution of NK3Rs in DA neurons of the rat VTA. In the present study, VTA microinjection of the selective NK3R antagonist SB222200 (1 nmol/0.2 l) or the nuclear import blocker SN50 (2 g/0.2 l) was performed in awake rats 10 min prior to systemic injection of apomorphine. VTA sections were dual immunolabeled for the NK3R (immunogold) and the dopamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, immunoperoxidase). Electron microscopic quantifications of somatic and dendritic densities of NK3 immunogold particles were compared in rats receiving central and systemic injections. In DA (TH-labeled) dendrites, VTA microinjection of SB222200 prevented the apomorphine-evoked decrease in surface NK3R density as well as the apomorphine-induced increase in cytoplasmic NK3R density. In contrast, VTA microinjection of SN50, but not SB222200, prevented the apomorphine-induced increase in nuclear NK3R density. VTA microinjection of SB222200 or SN50 without apomorphine had no effect on the NK3R distribution or density in TH and non-TH profiles within the VTA. In non-TH, presumably GABAergic neurons of the VTA, the NK3R densities in somata and dendrites were not significantly changed by apomorphine with or without SB222200. The results suggest that the NK3R antagonist SB222200 is effective against the apomorphine-evoked NK3R internalization in VTA DA dendrites, but does not prevent nuclear NK3R trafficking in VTA DA neurons. These results might have important implications in targeting NK3R antagonists in basic or clinical studies.
Pain from cancer can be severe, difficult to treat, and greatly diminishes patients' quality of life. It is therefore important to gain new information on the mechanisms of cancer pain and develop new treatment strategies. We have used a murine model of bone cancer pain to investigate underlying peripheral neural mechanisms and novel treatment approaches. In this model, implantation of fibrosarcoma cells into and around the calcaneous bone produces mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in mice. C-fiber nociceptors in tumor-bearing mice develop spontaneous ongoing activity and sensitization to thermal stimuli. However, it is unclear whether sensitization of nociceptors to mechanical stimuli underlies the mechanical hyperalgesia seen in tumor-bearing mice. We therefore examined responses of C-fiber nociceptors to suprathreshold mechanical stimuli in tumor-bearing mice and found they did not differ from those of C-nociceptors in control mice. Thus, sensitization of C-fiber nociceptors to mechanical stimulation does not appear to underlie tumor-evoked mechanical hyperalgesia in this murine model of bone cancer pain. We also examined the effect of the non-selective cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, on spontaneous activity and responses evoked by mechanical stimuli of C-fiber nociceptors innervating the tumor-bearing paw. Selective CB1 and CB2 antagonists were administered to determine the contribution of each receptor subtype to the effects of WIN 55,212-2. Intraplantar administration of WIN 55,212-2 attenuated spontaneous discharge and responses evoked by mechanical stimulation of C-fiber nociceptors. These effects were inhibited by prior intraplantar administration of selective CB1 (AM281) or CB2 (AM630) receptor antagonists but not by vehicle. These results indicate that activation of either CB1 or CB2 receptors reduced the spontaneous activity of C-fiber nociceptors associated with tumor growth as well as their evoked responses. Our results provide further evidence that activation of peripheral cannabinoid receptors may be a useful target for the treatment of cancer pain.
In the present study, we investigated the multisensory gain as the difference of speech recognition accuracies between the audio-visual (AV) and auditory-only (A) conditions, and the multisensory gain as the difference between the event-related potentials (ERPs) evoked under the AV condition and the sum of the ERPs evoked under the A and visual-only (V) conditions in different noise environments. Videos of a female speaker articulating the Chinese monosyllable words accompanied with different levels of pink noise were used as the stimulus materials. The selected signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) were -16, -12, -8, -4 and 0 dB. Under the A, V and AV conditions the accuracy of the speech recognition was measured and the ERPs evoked under different conditions were analyzed, respectively. The behavioral results showed that the maximum gain as the difference of speech recognition accuracies between the AV and A conditions was at the -12 dB SNR. The ERP results showed that the multisensory gain as the difference between the ERPs evoked under the AV condition and the sum of ERPs evoked under the A and V conditions at the -12 dB SNR was significantly higher than those at the other SNRs in the time window of 130-200 ms in the area from frontal to central region. The multisensory gains in audio-visual speech recognition at different SNRs were not completely accordant with the principle of inverse effectiveness, but confirmed to cross-modal stochastic resonance.
Goal-directed reaching is important for the activities of daily living. Populations of neurons in the primary motor cortex that project to spinal motor circuits are known to represent the kinematics of reaching movements. We investigated whether repetitive practice of goal-directed reaching movements induces use-dependent plasticity of those kinematic characteristics, in a manner similar to finger movements, as had been shown previously. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to evoke upper extremity movements while the forearm was resting in a robotic cradle. Plasticity was measured by the change in kinematics of these evoked movements following goal-directed reaching practice. Baseline direction of TMS-evoked arm movements was determined for each subject. Subjects then practiced three blocks of 160 goal-directed reaching movements in a direction opposite to the baseline direction (14 cm reach 180 from baseline direction) against a 75-Nm spring field. Changes in TMS-evoked whole arm movements were assessed after each practice block and after 5 min following the end of practice. Direction and the position of the point of peak velocity of TMS-evoked movements were significantly altered following training and at a 5-min interval following training, while amplitude did not show significant changes. This was accompanied by changes in the motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) of the shoulder and elbow agonist muscles that partly explained the change in direction, mainly by increase in agonist MEP, without significant changes in antagonists. These findings demonstrate that the arm representation accessible by motor cortical stimulation under goes rapid plasticity induced by goal-directed robotic reach training in healthy subjects.
Recent in vivo data show ensemble activity in medial entorhinal neurons that demonstrates 'look-ahead' activity, decoding spatially to reward locations ahead of a rat deliberating at a choice point while performing a cued, appetitive T-Maze task. To model this experiment's look-ahead results, we adapted previous work that produced a model where scans along equally probable directions activated place cells, associated reward cells, grid cells, and persistent spiking cells along those trajectories. Such look-ahead activity may be a function of animals performing scans to reduce ambiguity while making decisions. In our updated model, look-ahead scans at the choice point can activate goal-associated reward and place cells, which indicate the direction the virtual rat should turn at the choice point. Hebbian associations between stimulus and reward cell layers are learned during training trials, and the reward and place layers are then used during testing to retrieve goal-associated cells based on cue presentation. This system creates representations of location and associated reward information based on only two inputs of heading and speed information which activate grid cell and place cell layers. We present spatial and temporal decoding of grid cell ensembles as rats are tested with perfect and imperfect stimuli. Here, the virtual rat reliably learns goal locations through training sessions and performs both biased and unbiased look-ahead scans at the choice point. Spatial and temporal decoding of simulated medial entorhinal activity indicates that ensembles are representing forward reward locations when the animal deliberates at the choice point, emulating in vivo results.
The Kavli Prize in Neuroscience was awarded for the third time in September 2012, by the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters in Oslo. The accompanying Kavli Prize Symposium on Neuroscience, held in Bergen and Trondheim, was a showcase of excellence in neuroscience research. The common theme of the Symposium presentations was the mechanisms by which animals adapt to their environment. The symposium speakers--Michael Greenberg, Erin Schuman, Chiara Cirelli, Michael Meaney, Catherine Dulac, Hopi Hoekstra, and Stanislas Dehaene--covered topics ranging from the molecular and cellular levels to the systems level and behavior. Thus a single amino acid change in a transcriptional repressor can disrupt gene regulation through neural activity (Greenberg). Deep sequencing analysis of the neuropil transcriptome indicates that a large fraction of the synaptic proteome is synthesized in situ in axons and dendrites, permitting local regulation (Schuman). The nature of the 'reset' function that makes animals dependent of sleep is being revealed (Cirelli). Maternal behavior can cause changes in gene expression that stably modify behavior in the offspring (Meaney). Removal of a single sensory channel protein in the vomero-nasal organ can switch off male-specific and switch on female-specific innate behavior of mice in response to environmental stimulation (Dulac). Innate behaviors can be stably transmitted from parent to offspring through generations even when those behaviors cannot be expressed, as illustrated by the elaborate burrowing behavior in a rodent species, in which independent genetic regions regulate distinct modules of the burrowing pattern (Hoekstra). Finally, at the other extreme of the nature-nurture scale, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) analysis in children and adults identified a brain area specifically involved in reading (Dehaene). As the area must originally have developed for a purpose other than reading, such as shape recognition, this illustrates the use of a previously formed neural structure to tackle a new challenge.
Recent clinical trials have demonstrated that treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors after stroke enhances motor functional recovery; however, the underlying mechanisms remain to be further elucidated. We hypothesized that daily administration of the clinical drug citalopram would produce these functional benefits via enhancing neurovascular repair in the ischemic peri-infarct region. To test this hypothesis, focal ischemic stroke was induced in male C57/B6 mice by permanent ligation of distal branches of the middle cerebral artery to the barrel cortex and 7-min occlusion of the bilateral common carotid arteries. Citalopram (10mg/kg, i.p.) was injected 24h after stroke and daily thereafter. To label proliferating cells, bromo-deoxyuridine was injected daily beginning 3 days after stroke. Immunohistochemical and functional assays were performed to elucidate citalopram-mediated cellular and sensorimotor changes after stroke. Citalopram treatment had no significant effect on infarct formation or edema 3 days after stroke; however, citalopram-treated mice had better functional recovery than saline-treated controls 3 and 14 days after stroke in the adhesive removal test. Increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor was detected in the peri-infarct region 7 days after stroke in citalopram-treated animals. The number of proliferating neural progenitor cells and the distance of neuroblast migration from the sub-ventricular zone toward the ischemic cortex were significantly greater in citalopram-treated mice at 7 days after stroke. Immunohistochemical staining and co-localization analysis showed that citalopram-treated animals generated more new neurons and microvessels in the peri-infarct region 21 and 28 days after stroke. Taken together, these results suggest that citalopram promotes post-stroke sensorimotor recovery likely via enhancing neurogenesis, neural cell migration and the microvessel support in the peri-infarct region of the ischemic brain.
Animal alarm calls can encode information about a predator's category, size, distance or threat level. In non-human primates, alarm calls typically refer to broad classes of disturbances, in some instances to specific predators. Here, we present the results of a field experiment with a New World primate, the black-fronted titi monkey (Callicebus nigrifrons), designed to explore the information conveyed by their alarm call system. Adults produced sequences consisting of two main alarm call types that conveyed, in different parts of the utterance, information about a predator's type and location. In particular, sequence compositions differed depending on whether the predator was a mammalian carnivore or a raptor, and whether it was detected in a tree or on the ground. This is the first demonstration of a sequence-based alarm call system in a non-human animal that has the capacity to encode both location and type of predatory threat.


The extracellular potential of excitable and nonexcitable cells with respect to ground is 0 mV. One of the known exceptions in mammals is the cochlear duct, where the potential is 80-100 mV, called the endocochlear potential (EP). The EP serves as the &quot;battery&quot; for transduction of sound, contributing toward the sensitivity of the auditory system. The stria vascularis (StV) of the cochlear duct is the station where the EP is generated, but the cell-specific roles in the StV are ill defined. Using the intermediate cell (IC)-specific tyrosinase promoter, under the control of diphtheria toxin (DT), we eliminated and/or halted differentiation of neural crest melanocytes after migration to the StV. The ensuing adult transgenic mice are profoundly deaf. Additionally, the EP was abolished. Expression of melanocyte early marker and Kir4.1 in ICs precedes the onset of pigment synthesis. Activation of DT leads to loss of ICs. Finally, in accord with the distinct embryology of retinal pigmented cells, transgenic mice with toxigenic ablation of neural crest-derived melanocytes have intact visual responses. We assert that the tyrosinase promoter is the distinct target for genetic manipulation of IC-specific genes.
The noradrenergic (NA) projections arising from the locus ceruleus (LC) to the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis have been implicated in the formation of emotional memory. Since NA neurons in the LC (LC-NA neurons) abundantly express orexin receptor-1 (OX1R) and receive prominent innervation by orexin-producing neurons, we hypothesized that an OX1R-mediated pathway is involved in the physiological fear learning process via regulation of LC-NA neurons. To evaluate this hypothesis, we examined the phenotype of Ox1r(-/-) mice in the classic cued and contextual fear-conditioning test. We found that Ox1r(-/-) mice showed impaired freezing responses in both cued and contextual fear-conditioning paradigms. In contrast, Ox2r(-/-) mice showed normal freezing behavior in the cued fear-conditioning test, while they exhibited shorter freezing time in the contextual fear-conditioning test. Double immunolabeling of Fos and tyrosine hydroxylase showed that double-positive LC-NA neurons after test sessions of both cued and contextual stimuli were significantly fewer in Ox1r(-/-) mice. AAV-mediated expression of OX1R in LC-NA neurons in Ox1r(-/-) mice restored the freezing behavior to the auditory cue to a comparable level to that in wild-type mice in the test session. Decreased freezing time during the contextual fear test was not affected by restoring OX1R expression in LC-NA neurons. These observations support the hypothesis that the orexin system modulates the formation and expression of fear memory via OX1R in multiple pathways. Especially, OX1R in LC-NA neurons plays an important role in cue-dependent fear memory formation and/or retrieval.
Vocal learning in songbirds, like speech acquisition in humans, entails a period of sensorimotor integration during which vocalizations are evaluated via auditory feedback and progressively refined to achieve an imitation of memorized vocal sounds. This process requires the brain to compare feedback of current vocal behavior to a memory of target vocal sounds. We report the discovery of two distinct populations of neurons in a cortico-basal ganglia circuit of juvenile songbirds (zebra finches, Taeniopygia guttata) during vocal learning: (1) one in which neurons are selectively tuned to memorized sounds and (2) another in which neurons are selectively tuned to self-produced vocalizations. These results suggest that neurons tuned to learned vocal sounds encode a memory of those target sounds, whereas neurons tuned to self-produced vocalizations encode a representation of current vocal sounds. The presence of neurons tuned to memorized sounds is limited to early stages of sensorimotor integration: after learning, the incidence of neurons encoding memorized vocal sounds was greatly diminished. In contrast to this circuit, neurons known to drive vocal behavior through a parallel cortico-basal ganglia pathway show little selective tuning until late in learning. One interpretation of these data is that representations of current and target vocal sounds in the shell circuit are used to compare ongoing patterns of vocal feedback to memorized sounds, whereas the parallel core circuit has a motor-related role in learning. Such a functional subdivision is similar to mammalian cortico-basal ganglia pathways in which associative-limbic circuits mediate goal-directed responses, whereas sensorimotor circuits support motor aspects of learning.
Although it is well established that the perirhinal cortex (PRC) makes an important contribution to recognition memory, the specific nature of this contribution remains uncertain. The finding that PRC activity is reduced for old compared with new items is typically attributed to the recovery of a long-term memory (LTM) signal. However, because old items are processed more easily or fluently than new items, reduced PRC activity could reflect increased fluency rather than LTM retrieval per se. We tested this hypothesis in humans using fMRI and a well-validated method to manipulate fluency: the masked priming paradigm. Some words during an old-new recognition test were preceded by conceptually related words (primes) that were subliminally presented (masked). The behavioral results replicated previous findings using this paradigm, whereby the fluency manipulation increased &quot;oldness&quot; responses to both old and new items. The fMRI analyses yielded two main sets of results. First, in the case of new items, which are independent from LTM retrieval, masked priming reduced PRC activity and predicted behavioral misattribution of fluency to oldness. Second, in the case of old items, the same PRC region showing fluency-related reductions for new items also contributed to &quot;old&quot; responding to old items. Individual differences in PRC attenuation also predicted oldness ratings to old items, and fluency modulated PRC connectivity with other brain regions associated with processing oldness signals, including visual cortex and right lateral prefrontal cortex. These results support a broader view in which the PRC serves a function more general than memory.
Activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis plays a vital role in promoting adaptation during acute stress, but adverse effects of chronic stress may result from overactivity of this system. Recent evidence highlights a subdivision of GABAergic neurons within anterior bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (aBST) that integrates and relays inhibitory influences to HPA-effector neurons in paraventricular hypothalamus during acute stress, notably from medial prefrontal [prelimbic (PL)] and hippocampal [ventral subiculum (vSUB)] cortical fields. Here we localize the site and candidate mechanism of neuroplasticity within upstream regions of this inhibitory network after chronic variable stress (CVS). Rats bearing retrograde tracer injections in aBST underwent CVS for 14 d. Retrogradely labeled and unlabeled neurons in vSUB and PL were selected for intracellular dye filling, followed by three-dimensional imaging and analysis of dendritic arborization and spine morphometry. Whereas PL neurons displayed decreases in dendritic branching and spine density after CVS, aBST-projecting cells showed a selective loss of mature mushroom-shaped spines. In a follow-up experiment, CVS-treated and control rats were exposed to a novel restraint challenge for assay of HPA activation and engagement of aBST-projecting cortical regions. CVS animals showed enhanced HPA output and decreased Fos activation in aBST-projecting PL neurons compared with acutely stressed controls. In contrast, vSUB failed to show any significant differences in structural plasticity or functional activation patterns after CVS. These findings define a mechanism whereby synaptic destabilization in the PL  aBST pathway may dampen its ability to impart inhibitory control over the HPA axis after chronic stress exposure.
After brain stroke microglia/macrophages (M/M) undergo rapid activation with dramatic morphological and phenotypic changes that include expression of novel surface antigens and production of mediators that build up and maintain the inflammatory response. Emerging evidence indicates that M/M are highly plastic cells that can assume classic pro-inflammatory (M1) or alternative anti-inflammatory (M2) activation after acute brain injury. However a complete characterization of M/M phenotype marker expression, their colocalization and temporal evolution in the injured brain is still missing. Immunofluorescence protocols specifically staining relevant markers of M/M activation can be performed in the ischemic brain. Here we present immunofluorescence-based protocols followed by three-dimensional confocal analysis as a powerful approach to investigate the pattern of localization and co-expression of M/M phenotype markers such as CD11b, CD68, Ym1, in mouse model of focal ischemia induced by permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (pMCAO). Two-dimensional analysis of the stained area reveals that each marker is associated to a defined M/M morphology and has a given localization in the ischemic lesion. Patterns of M/M phenotype marker co-expression can be assessed by three-dimensional confocal imaging in the ischemic area. Images can be acquired over a defined volume (10 m z-axis and a 0.23 m step size, corresponding to a 180 x 135 x 10 m volume) with a sequential scanning mode to minimize bleed-through effects and avoid wavelength overlapping. Images are then processed to obtain three-dimensional renderings by means of Imaris software. Solid view of three dimensional renderings allows the definition of marker expression in clusters of cells. We show that M/M have the ability to differentiate towards a multitude of phenotypes, depending on the location in the lesion site and time after injury.

Although many studies have identified neural correlates of memory, relatively little is known about the circuit properties connecting single-neuron physiology to behavior. Here we developed a modeling framework to bridge this gap and identify circuit interactions capable of maintaining short-term memory. Unlike typical studies that construct a phenomenological model and test whether it reproduces select aspects of neuronal data, we directly fit the synaptic connectivity of an oculomotor memory circuit to a broad range of anatomical, electrophysiological, and behavioral data. Simultaneous fits to all data, combined with sensitivity analyses, revealed complementary roles of synaptic and neuronal recruitment thresholds in providing the nonlinear interactions required to generate the observed circuit behavior. This work provides a methodology for identifying the cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying short-term memory and demonstrates how the anatomical structure of a circuit may belie its functional organization.
Soluble amyloid- oligomers (Ao) trigger Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology and bind with high affinity to cellular prion protein (PrP(C)). At the postsynaptic density (PSD), extracellular Ao bound to lipid-anchored PrP(C) activates intracellular Fyn kinase to disrupt synapses. Here, we screened transmembrane PSD proteins heterologously for the ability to couple Ao-PrP(C) with Fyn. Only coexpression of the metabotropic glutamate receptor, mGluR5, allowed PrP(C)-bound Ao to activate Fyn. PrP(C) and mGluR5 interact physically, and cytoplasmic Fyn forms a complex with mGluR5. Ao-PrP(C) generates mGluR5-mediated increases of intracellular calcium in Xenopus oocytes and in neurons, and the latter is also driven by human AD brain extracts. In addition, signaling by Ao-PrP(C)-mGluR5 complexes mediates eEF2 phosphorylation and dendritic spine loss. For mice expressing familial AD transgenes, mGluR5 antagonism reverses deficits in learning, memory, and synapse density. Thus, Ao-PrP(C) complexes at the neuronal surface activate mGluR5 to disrupt neuronal function.
Dopamine neurons are well known for signaling reward-prediction errors. In this issue, Matsumoto and Takada (2013) show that some dopamine neurons also signal salient events during progression through a visual search task requiring working memory and sustained attention.
It has been postulated that selective temporal coordination between neurons and development of functional neuronal assemblies are fundamental for brain function and behavior. Still, there is little evidence that functionally relevant coordination emerges preferentially in neuronal assemblies directly controlling behavioral output. We investigated coherence between primary motor cortex and the dorsal striatum as rats learn an abstract operant task. Striking coherence developed between these regions during learning. Interestingly, coherence was selectively increased in cells controlling behavioral output relative to adjacent cells. Furthermore, the temporal offset of these interactions aligned closely with corticostriatal conduction delays, demonstrating highly precise timing. Spikes from either region were followed by a consistent phase in the other, suggesting that network feedback reinforces coherence. Together, these results demonstrate that temporally precise coherence develops during learning specifically in output-relevant neuronal populations and further suggest that correlations in oscillatory activity serve to synchronize widespread brain networks to produce behavior.
Dopamine is essential to cognitive functions. However, despite abundant studies demonstrating that dopamine neuron activity is related to reinforcement and motivation, little is known about what signals dopamine neurons convey to promote cognitive processing. We therefore examined dopamine neuron activity in monkeys performing a delayed matching-to-sample task that required working memory and visual search. We found that dopamine neurons responded to task events associated with cognitive operations. A subset of dopamine neurons were activated by visual stimuli if the monkey had to store the stimuli in working memory. These neurons were located dorsolaterally in the substantia nigra pars compacta, whereas ventromedial dopamine neurons, some in the ventral tegmental area, represented reward prediction signals. Furthermore, dopamine neurons monitored visual search performance, becoming active when the monkey made an internal judgment that the search was successfully completed. Our findings suggest an anatomical gradient of dopamine signals along the dorsolateral-ventromedial axis of the ventral midbrain.








Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene have been identified in pedigrees of autosomal-dominant familial Parkinson's disease (PARK8). It has been shown that the kinase activity of LRRK2 is required for its neuronal toxicity, although how familial Parkinson mutations affect the function of LRRK2 has not been well characterized. In the present study, we systematically characterized the autophosphorylation of LRRK2 by phosphopeptide mapping and identified Thr1348, Thr1349, and Thr1357 as the major autophosphorylation sites. We found that the autophosphorylation at Thr1357 is downregulated by the Y1699C mutation, possibly through a conformational alteration of the ROC domain. We also found that I2020T mutant LRRK2 undergoes excessive autophosphorylation in cell lysates in vitro at a low concentration of ATP. These results highlight the differential effects of familial mutations in LRRK2 on its conformation and enzymatic properties.





The modified DNA base 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) is enriched in neurons where it may contribute to gene regulation and cellular identity. To determine how 5hmC influences gene expression in an in vivo neuronal population, we assessed the patterning and function of the base along the developmental lineage of the main olfactory epithelium-from multipotent stem cells through neuronal progenitors to mature olfactory sensory neurons (mOSNs). We find that 5hmC increases over gene bodies during mOSN development with substantial patterning occuring between the progenitor and mOSN stages. Although gene-body 5hmC levels correlate with gene expression in all three developmental cell types, this association is particularly pronounced within mOSNs. Overexpression of Tet3 in mOSNs markedly alters gene-body 5hmC levels and gene expression in a manner consistent with a positive role for 5hmC in transcription. Moreover, Tet3 overexpression disrupts olfactory receptor expression and the targeting of axons to the olfactory bulb, key molecular and anatomical features of the olfactory system. Our results suggest a physiologically significant role for gene-body 5hmC in transcriptional facilitation and the maintenance of cellular identity independent of its function as an intermediate to demethylation.
Drug addictions including alcoholism are characterized by degradation of executive control over behavior and increased compulsive drug seeking. These profound behavioral changes are hypothesized to involve a shift in the regulation of behavior from prefrontal cortex to dorsal striatum (DLS). Studies in rodents have shown that ethanol disrupts cognitive processes mediated by the prefrontal cortex, but the potential effects of chronic ethanol on DLS-mediated cognition and learning are much less well understood. Here, we first examined the effects of chronic EtOH on DLS neuronal morphology, synaptic plasticity, and endocannabinoid-CB1R signaling. We next tested for ethanol-induced changes in striatal-related learning and DLS in vivo single-unit activity during learning. Mice exposed to chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) vapor exhibited expansion of dendritic material in DLS neurons. Following CIE, DLS endocannabinoid CB1 receptor signaling was down-regulated, and CB1 receptor-dependent long-term depression at DLS synapses was absent. CIE mice showed facilitation of DLS-dependent pairwise visual discrimination and reversal learning, relative to air-exposed controls. CIE mice were also quicker to extinguish a stimulus-reward instrumental response and faster to reduce Pavlovian approach behavior under an omission schedule. In vivo single-unit recording during learning revealed that CIE mice had augmented DLS neuronal activity during correct responses. Collectively, these findings support a model in which chronic ethanol causes neuroadaptations in the DLS that prime for greater DLS control over learning. The shift to striatal dominance over behavior may be a critical step in the progression of alcoholism.
The identity and forms of activating ligands for ion channels are fundamental to their physiological roles in rapid electrical signaling. P2X receptor channels are ATP-activated cation channels that serve important roles in sensory signaling and inflammation, yet the active forms of the nucleotide are unknown. In physiological solutions, ATP is ionized and primarily found in complex with Mg(2+). Here we investigated the active forms of ATP and found that the action of MgATP(2-) and ATP(4-) differs between subtypes of P2X receptors. The slowly desensitizing P2X2 receptor can be activated by free ATP, but MgATP(2-) promotes opening with very low efficacy. In contrast, both free ATP and MgATP(2-) robustly open the rapidly desensitizing P2X3 subtype. A further distinction between these two subtypes is the ability of Mg(2+) to regulate P2X3 through a distinct allosteric mechanism. Importantly, heteromeric P2X2/3 channels present in sensory neurons exhibit a hybrid phenotype, characterized by robust activation by MgATP(2-) and weak regulation by Mg(2+). These results reveal the existence of two classes of homomeric P2X receptors with differential sensitivity to MgATP(2-) and regulation by Mg(2+), and demonstrate that both restraining mechanisms can be disengaged in heteromeric channels to form fast and sensitive ATP signaling pathways in sensory neurons.

Many neurons resemble other cells in developing embryos in migrating long distances before they differentiate. However, despite shared basic machinery, neurons differ from other migrating cells. Most dramatically, migrating neurons have a long and dynamic leading process, and may extend an axon from the rear while they migrate. Neurons must coordinate the extension and branching of their leading processes, cell movement with axon specification and extension, switching between actin and microtubule motors, and attachment and recycling of diverse adhesion proteins. New research is needed to fully understand how migration of such morphologically complicated cells is coordinated over space and time.
Neurons are highly polarized cells that often project axons a considerable distance. To respond to axonal damage, neurons must transmit a retrograde signal to the nucleus to enable a transcriptional stress response. Here we describe a mechanism by which this signal is propagated through injury-induced stabilization of dual leucine zipper-bearing kinase (DLK/MAP3K12). After neuronal insult, specific sites throughout the length of DLK underwent phosphorylation by c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs), which have been shown to be downstream targets of DLK pathway activity. These phosphorylation events resulted in increased DLK abundance via reduction of DLK ubiquitination, which was mediated by the E3 ubiquitin ligase PHR1 and the de-ubiquitinating enzyme USP9X. Abundance of DLK in turn controlled the levels of downstream JNK signaling and apoptosis. Through this feedback mechanism, the ubiquitin-proteasome system is able to provide an additional layer of regulation of retrograde stress signaling to generate a global cellular response to localized external insults.

Quantitative sensory testing (QST) investigates the graded psychophysical response to controlled thermal, mechanical, electrical or chemical stimuli, allowing quantification of clinically relevant perception and pain thresholds. The methods are ubiquitously used in experimental and clinical pain research, and therefore, the need for uniform assessment procedures has been emphasised. However, varying consistency and transparency in the statistical methodology seem to occur in the QST literature. Sixteen publications, evaluating aspects of QST variability, from 2010 to 2012, were critically reviewed in detail. A considerable heterogeneity in the statistical evaluations of test-retest data was demonstrated. The authors, using a secondary analysis of published data for didactic purposes, propose and present minimal requirements for reporting of test-retest QST data.
The pathophysiology of spinal cord injury (SCI) involves post-traumatic inflammation and glial scarring which interfere with repair and recovery. Self-assembling peptides (SAPs) are molecules designed for tissue engineering. Here, we tested the performance of K2(QL)6K2 (QL6), a SAP that attenuates inflammation and glial scarring, and facilitates functional recovery. We injected QL6 into the spinal cord tissue of rats 24 h after clip compression SCI. QL6 led to a significant reduction in post-traumatic apoptosis, inflammation and astrogliosis. It also resulted in significant tissue preservation as determined by quantitative histomorphometry. Furthermore, QL6 promoted axonal preservation/regeneration, demonstrated by BDA anterograde and Fluorogold retrograde tracing. In vitro experiments found that a QL6 scaffold enhanced neuronal differentiation and suppressed astrocytic development. The electrophysiology confirmed that QL6 led to significant functional improvement of axons, including increased conduction velocity, reduced refractoriness and enhanced high-frequency conduction. These neuroanatomical and electrophysiological improvements were associated with significant neurobehavioral recovery as assessed by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan technique. As the first detailed examination of the pathophysiological properties of QL6 in SCI, this work reveals the therapeutic potential of SAPs, and may suggest an approach for the reconstruction of the injured spinal cord.

Vascular complications can arise from transsphenoidal surgery (TSS) and have a high incidence of mortality and serious morbidity. Though haemorrhage from the injury to internal carotid is well know, ischaemic complication after TSS is rare. We report a series of four patients who remained unconscious after TSS, and on postoperative imaging infarcts were seen distributed in the rostral basilar artery. The possible mechanism of this complication is described.
Olfactory impairment is a common feature of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Olfactory bulb (OB) pathology in these diseases shows an increased number of olfactory dopaminergic cells, protein aggregates and dysfunction of neurotransmitter systems. Since cholinergic denervation might be a common underlying pathophysiological feature, the objective of this study was to determine cholinergic innervation of the OB in 27 patients with histological diagnosis of PD (n = 5), AD (n = 14), DLB (n = 8) and 8 healthy control subjects. Cholinergic centrifugal inputs to the OB were clearly reduced in all patients, the most significant decrease being in the DLB group. We also studied cholinergic innervation of the OB in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys (n = 7) and 7 intact animals. In MPTP-monkeys, we found that cholinergic innervation of the OB was reduced compared to control animals (n = 7). Interestingly, in MPTP-monkeys, we also detected a loss of cholinergic neurons and decreased dopaminergic innervation in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, which is the origin of the centrifugal cholinergic input to the OB. All these data suggest that cholinergic damage in the OB might contribute, at least in part, to the olfactory dysfunction usually exhibited by these patients. Moreover, decreased cholinergic input to the OB found in MPTP-monkeys suggests that dopamine depletion in itself might reduce the cholinergic tone of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons.




High performance thin-layer chromatography was used to determine the concentration of -carotene and lutein in the whole body and digestive gland-gonad complex (DGG) of uninfected Biomphalaria glabrata snails and those infected with Schistosoma mansoni for 6 and 8 weeks. Pigments were extracted from the snails using acetone and separated on EMD Millipore reversed phase C-18 plates with concentration zone using petroleum ether-acetonitrile-methanol (1:1:2) mobile phase. After development, two yellow pigment zones, lutein and -carotene, were identified with respective Rf values of 0.55 and 0.13 and then quantified by densitometry. Statistical analysis of the weight percentages of each pigment showed a significant decrease (P &lt; 0.05) in the concentration of -carotene in the DGGs of infected B. glabrata at 6 and 8 weeks post-infection compared to the uninfected snails. No significant differences were seen in the concentrations of -carotene in the whole body of the uninfected versus infected snail samples. Changes in the lutein concentration of the infected DGG and whole snail bodies were insignificant compared to the uninfected controls. In conclusion, larval S. mansoni infection caused a significant decrease in the -carotene concentration of the DGG at 6 and 8 weeks post infection.
Inflammation plays a critical role in mediating brain injury induced by neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE). The mechanisms underlying inflammatory responses to ischemia may be shared by neonatal and adult brains; however, HIE exhibits a unique inflammation phenotype that results from the immaturity of the neonatal immune system. This review will discuss the current knowledge concerning systemic and local inflammatory responses in the acute and subacute stages of HIE. The key components of inflammation, including immune cells, adhesion molecules, cytokines, chemokines and oxidative stress, will be reviewed, and the differences between neonatal and adult inflammatory responses to cerebral ischemic injury will also be discussed.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Val(66)Met genotype has been associated with neurobehavioral deficits. To examine its relevance for addiction, we examined BDNF genotype differences in drug-seeking behavior. Heroin-dependent volunteers (n = 128) completed an interview that assessed past-month naturalistic drug-seeking/use behaviors. In African Americans (n = 74), the Met allele was uncommon (carrier frequency 6.8%); thus, analyses focused on European Americans (n = 54), in whom the Met allele was common (carrier frequency 37.0%). In their natural setting, Met carriers (n = 20) reported more time- and cost-intensive heroin-seeking and more cigarette use than Val homozygotes (n = 34). BDNF Val(66)Met genotype predicted 18.4% of variance in 'weekly heroin investment' (purchasing time  amount  frequency). These data suggest that the BDNF Met allele may confer a 'preferred drug-invested' phenotype, resistant to moderating effects of higher drug prices and non-drug reinforcement. These preliminary hypothesis-generating findings require replication, but are consistent with pre-clinical data that demonstrate neurotrophic influence in drug reinforcement. Whether this genotype is relevant to other abused substances besides opioids or nicotine, or treatment response, remains to be determined.
Abnormal expression patterns of phospholipase C-1(PLC-1) in specific brain areas of patients with schizophrenia, and its high genetic linkage to the disorder implicated a pathogenetical involvement of PLC-1 signaling system. The schizophrenia-related behavioral phenotypes displayed in the mutant mice lacking PLC-1 (PLC-1 KO) suggested that PLC1-linked signaling pathways may be involved in the neural system whose function is disrupted in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. In the brain, PLC-1 is known to be linked to muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, metabotropic glutamatergic, serotonergic, and oxytocinergic systems. The objective of this review is to provide an overview of the current knowledge regarding these schizophrenia-related behaviors and discuss the probable ways in which PLC-1signalling can be involved in the neural mechanisms for each behavior, which may help suggest future directions for research in this area.
The hallmark of mammalian phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins (PITPs) is to transfer phosphatidylinositol between membrane compartments. In the mammalian genome, there are three genes that code for soluble PITP proteins, PITP, PITP and RdgB and two genes that code for membrane-associated multi-domain proteins (RdgBI and II) containing a PITP domain. PITP and PITP constitute Class I PITPs whilst the RdgB proteins constitute Class II proteins based on sequence analysis. The PITP domain of both Class I and II can sequester one molecule of phosphatidylinositol (PI) in its hydrophobic cavity. Therefore, in principle, PITPs are therefore ideally poised to couple phosphatidylinositol delivery to the PI kinases for substrate provision for phospholipases C during cell activation. Since phosphatidylinositol (4,5)bisphosphate plays critical roles in cells, particularly at the plasma membrane, where it is a substrate for both phospholipase C and phosphoinositide-3-kinases as well as required as an intact lipid to regulate ion channels and the actin cytoskeleton, homeostatic mechanisms to maintain phosphatidylinositol(4,5)bisphosphate levels are vital. To maintain phosphatidylinositol levels, phospholipase C activation inevitably leads to the resynthesis of PI at the endoplasmic reticulum where the enzymes are located. Phosphatidic acid generated at the plasma membrane during phospholipase C activation needs to move to the ER for conversion to PI and here we provide evidence that Class II PITPs are also able to bind and transport phosphatidic acid. Thus RdgB proteins could couple PA and PI transport bidirectionally during phospholipase C signalling.




Immunologically-silent phagocytosis of apoptotic cells is critical to maintaining tissue homeostasis and innate immune balance. Aged phagocytes reduce their functional activity, leading to accumulation of unphagocytosed debris, chronic sterile inflammation and exacerbation of tissue aging and damage. Macrophage dysfunction plays an important role in immunosenescence. Microglial dysfunction has been linked to age-dependent neurodegenerations. Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Despite several reports on the characterization of aged phagocytes, the role of phagocyte dysfunction in tissue aging and degeneration is yet to be fully appreciated. Lack of knowledge of molecular mechanisms by which aging reduces phagocyte function has hindered our capability to exploit the therapeutic potentials of phagocytosis for prevention or delay of tissue degeneration. This review summarizes our current knowledge of phagocyte dysfunction in aged tissues and discusses possible links to age-related diseases. We highlight the challenges to decipher the molecular mechanisms, present new research approaches and envisage future strategies to prevent phagocyte dysfunction, tissue aging and degeneration.










Exposure to hypobaric hypoxia is sufficient to decrease cardiac PCr/ATP and alters skeletal muscle energetics in humans. Cellular mechanisms underlying the different metabolic responses of these tissues and the time-dependent nature of these changes are currently unknown, but altered substrate utilization and mitochondrial function may be a contributory factor. We therefore sought to investigate the effects of acute (1 day) and more sustained (7 days) hypoxia (13% O) on the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) and its targets in mouse cardiac and skeletal muscle. In the heart, PPAR expression was 40% higher than in normoxia after 1 and 7 days of hypoxia. Activities of carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT) I and -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (HOAD) were 75% and 35% lower, respectively, after 1 day of hypoxia, returning to normoxic levels after 7 days. Oxidative phosphorylation respiration rates using palmitoyl-carnitine followed a similar pattern, while respiration using pyruvate decreased. In skeletal muscle, PPAR expression and CPT I activity were 20% and 65% lower, respectively, after 1 day of hypoxia, remaining at this level after 7 days with no change in HOAD activity. Oxidative phosphorylation respiration rates using palmitoyl-carnitine were lower in skeletal muscle throughout hypoxia, while respiration using pyruvate remained unchanged. The rate of CO production from palmitate oxidation was significantly lower in both tissues throughout hypoxia. Thus cardiac muscle may remain reliant on fatty acids during sustained hypoxia, while skeletal muscle decreases fatty acid oxidation and maintains pyruvate oxidation.
We present the case of a 12-year-old girl with abnormal extrapyramidal movements associated with basal ganglia lesions after electrical injury. After her injury, our patient initially did well and recovered from acute cardiovascular and hemodynamic instability, and the results of her neurological examination, head computed tomography scan, and electroencephalogram were normal on discharge from hospital. Two weeks after discharge, she developed extrapyramidal movements, and head magnetic resonance imaging showed areas of bilateral, symmetrical enhanced associated with signal intensity in the basal ganglia, hypoxic encephalopathy, and cerebral edema that may have occurred secondary to the cardiopulmonary arrest that she suffered immediately after her accident. The symptoms disappeared after low dose levodopa was instituted and have not recurred during the 15 months of treatment. Injury and death from electric current, although rare, are not uncommon and occur mostly as a result of accidental contact with a live wire. This is the first case report documenting the use of levodopa for extrapyramidal movements secondary to high-tension electrocution.
Presents an obituary for George A. Miller (1920-2012). Miller ranks among the most important psychologists of the 20th century. In addition to writing one of the best known papers in the history of psychology (&quot;The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on Our Capacity for Processing Information,&quot; published in Psychological Review in 1956), Miller also fomented the cognitive revolution, invented psycholinguistics and cognitive psychology, imported powerful ideas from the theories of information, communication, grammar, semantics, and artificial intelligence, and left us a sparkling oeuvre that proves that a rigorous scientist needn't write in soggy prose. Honors rained down on Miller. APA gave him the Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions (1963), the American Psychological Foundation Gold Medal Award for Life Achievement in Psychological Science (1990), the William James Book Award (1992, for The Science of Words), and the Award for Lifetime Contributions to Psychology (2003), and named a prize after him, as did the Cognitive Neuroscience Society. Miller was also honored by the Association for Psychological Science and the American Speech and Hearing Association. In 2000, he won the John P. McGovern Award in the Behavioral Sciences from the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and in 1991, the National Medal of Science, the country's highest scientific honor.
Our objective was to investigate the potential of muscle volume, measured with magnetic resonance (MR), as a biomarker to quantify disease progression in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this longitudinal pilot study, we first sought to determine the stability of volumetric muscle MR measurements in 11 control subjects at two time-points. We assessed feasibility of detecting atrophy in four patients with ALS, followed at three-month intervals for 12 months. Muscle power and MR volume were measured in thenar eminence (TEm), first dorsal interosseous (1DIO), tibialis anterior (TA) and tongue. Changes over time were assessed using linear regression models and t-tests. Results demonstrated that, in controls, no volumetric MR changes were seen (mean volume variation in all muscles &lt; 5%, p &gt; 0.1). In patients, between-subject heterogeneity was identified. Trends for volume loss were found in TEm (mean, - 26.84%, p = 0.056) and TA (- 8.29%, p = 0.077), but not in 1DIO (- 18.47%, p = 0.121) or tongue (&lt; 5%, p = 0.367). In conclusion, volumetric muscle MR appears a stable measure in controls, and progressive volume loss was demonstrable in individuals with ALS in whom clinical weakness progressed. In this small study, subclinical atrophy was not demonstrable using muscle MR. Clinico-radiological discordance between muscle weakness and MR atrophy could reflect a contribution of upper motor neuron pathology.
Mutations in profilin-1 (PFN1) have recently been identified in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Because of the considerable overlap between ALS and the common subtype of frontotemporal dementia, which is characterized by transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 pathology (FTLD-TDP), we tested cohorts of ALS and FTLD-TDP patients for PFN1 mutations. DNA was obtained from 342 ALS patients and 141 FTLD-TDP patients at our outpatient clinic and brain bank for neurodegenerative diseases at the Mayo Clinic Florida, Jacksonville, USA. We screened these patients for mutations in coding regions of PFN1 by Sanger sequencing. Subsequently, we used TaqMan genotyping assays to investigate the identified variant in 1167 control subjects. From the results, one variant, p.E117G, was detected in one ALS patient, one FTLD-TDP patient, and two control subjects. The mutation frequency of patients versus control subjects was not significantly different (p-value = 0.36). Moreover, PFN1 and TDP-43 staining of autopsy material did not differ between patients with or without this variant. In conclusion, the p.E117G variant appears to represent a benign polymorphism. PFN1 mutations, in general, are rare in ALS and FTLD-TDP patients.
The prognostic role of riluzole, enteral nutrition (EN), non-invasive ventilation (NIV) and interdisciplinary care in ALS is still debated. A population based study has been performed focusing on ALS survival, with particular attention to prognostic factors and therapeutic intervention. All patients diagnosed with ALS between 2000 and 2009 and residing in Modena, Italy, have been registered. A centre for motor neuron disease (MND) has been active in our province since 2000, in addition to a prospective registry collecting all incident cases. One hundred and ninety-three incident cases have been collected during the 10 years of the study. Results demonstrated that median survival was 41 months (the overall three-year and five-year survival rates being 54.36% and 28.81%, respectively). Based on univariate analysis, factors related to survival were: age at diagnosis, gender, site of onset, phenotype, riluzole treatment and tracheostomy. In the Cox multivariable model, the factors independently related to a longer survival were age (p &lt; 0.01), site of onset (p = 0.02) and riluzole treatment (p &lt; 0.01), with a median gain in survival of 29 months (patients aged &lt; 55 years compared with patients  55 years), 20 months (spinal versus bulbar onset), and 12 months (riluzole, yes vs. no), respectively. In conclusion, the study has confirmed the prognostic role of clinical features, but has surprisingly demonstrated that riluzole prolonged life significantly longer than NIV and EN. This observational study described the effects of ALS management in a setting that may approximate routine clinical practice more closely than randomized controlled trial (RCT); effects of uncontrolled potential confounders, however, cannot be excluded.
Abstract We present a case of concurrent cystic fibrosis (CF) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To our knowledge this is the first reported coincidence of these two diseases. Although TDP-43 dysfunction has been linked to both pathologies, it does not appear to be pivotal in this individual who does not display TDP-43 mediated aberrant splicing of the CFTR gene or carry a mutation in the TARDBP gene. Alternative reasons for the coincidence are discussed including medication, infection, hypoxia and loss of function of the CFTR channel. Our findings await validation by others, but as the prognosis of CF improves then clinicians in both fields should be aware of the possibilities highlighted by this case.
A female patient with multiple chemical sensitivity and previous anaphylactoid reactions to local anaesthetics was admitted for removal of a thigh skin tumour under hypnosis as sole anaesthesia. The hypnotic protocol included hypnotic focused analgesia and a pre-operative pain threshold test. After inducing hypnosis, a wide excision was performed, preserving the deep fascia, and the tumour was removed; the patient's heart rate and blood pressure did not increase during the procedure. When the patient was de-hypnotised, she reported no pain and was discharged immediately. Our case confirms the efficacy of hypnosis and demonstrates that it may be valuable as a sole anaesthetic method in selected cases. Hypnosis can prevent pain perception and surgical stress as a whole, comparing well with anaesthetic drugs.

The mammalian olfactory bulb (OB) has all the features of a whole mammalian brain but in a more reduced space: neuronal lamination, sensory inputs, afferences, or efferences to other centers of the central nervous system, or a contribution of new neural elements. Therefore, it is widely considered as &quot;a brain inside the brain.&quot; Although this rostral region has the same origin and general layering as the other cerebral cortices, some distinctive features make it very profitable in experimentation in neurobiology: the sensory inputs are driven directly on its surface, the main output can be accessed anatomically, and new elements appear in it throughout adult life. These three morphological characteristics have been manipulated to analyze further the response of the whole OB. The present review offers a general outlook into the consequences of such experimentation in the anatomy, connectivity and neurochemistry of the OB after (a) sensory deprivation, mainly by naris occlusion; (b) olfactory deinnervation by means of olfactory epithelium damage, olfactory nerve interruption, or even olfactory tract disruption; (c) the removal of the principal neurons of the OB; and (d) management of the arrival of newborn interneurons from the rostral migratory stream. These experiments were performed using surgical or chemical methods, but also by means of the analysis of genetic models, some of whose olfactory components are missing, colorless or mismatching within the wild-type scenario of odor processing.
Neuroanatomy is considered to be one of the most difficult anatomical subjects for students. To provide motivation and improve learning outcomes in this area, clinical cases and neurosurgical images from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) tractographies produced using an intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging apparatus (MRI/DTI) were presented and discussed during integrated second-year neuroanatomy, neuroradiology, and neurosurgery lectures over the 2008-2011 period. Anonymous questionnaires, evaluated according to the Likert scale, demonstrated that students appreciated this teaching procedure. Academic performance (examination grades for neuroanatomy) of the students who attended all integrated lectures of neuroanatomy, was slightly though significantly higher compared to that of students who attended these lectures only occasionally or not at all (P=0.04). Significantly better results were obtained during the national progress test (focusing on morphology) by students who attended the MRI/DTI-assisted lectures, compared to those who did so only in part or not at all, compared to the average student participating in the national test. These results were obtained by students attending the second, third and, in particular, the fourth year (P0.0001) courses during the three academic years mentioned earlier. This integrated neuroanatomy model can positively direct students in the direction of their future professional careers without any extra expense to the university. In conclusion, interactive learning tools, such as lectures integrated with intraoperative MRI/DTI images, motivate students to study and enhance their neuroanatomy education.
In 2011, Macquarie University moved to a three-session academic year which included two 13-week sessions (traditional mode) and one seven-week session (intensive mode). This study was designed to compare the intensive and traditional modes of delivery in a unit of undergraduate neuroanatomy. The new intensive mode neuroanatomy unit provided the same quantity and quality of material to the same standard, delivered by the same teachers and over the same total hours, but in a shorter timeframe. All students enrolled in session 2 (traditional mode) and session 3 (intensive mode) were invited to participate in this study. The main outcome measures were the final course grades and level of satisfaction with the course. Although there was no significant difference between the two cohorts in self-rated level of knowledge (P = 0.148), the traditional mode cohort achieved significantly higher final grades compared to the intensive mode cohort (P = 0.001). Similarly, the distribution of final grades was also different between the two cohorts. The two cohorts were equally satisfied with the unit overall, and with the lectures and tutorials. However, the intensive mode cohort was more satisfied with the laboratory practical classes compared to the traditional mode cohort (P &lt; 0.001). Thus this study demonstrates that in the case of neuroanatomy, which is high in content, when the course is taught to the same standards as exist in the traditional mode of delivery, the students do not do as well even though they enjoy the course equally.
Apoptosis, known as programmed cell death, plays a crucial role in normal development and tissue homeostasis. Apoptosis is also involved in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Amnesia refers to the loss of memory and can also be a warning sign of neurodegenerative diseases. The antioxidant properties of Ginkgo biloba extract was known previously. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine the effects of Ginkgo biloba extract on the rat's hippocampal apoptotic neurons number after Scopolamine based amnesia. Thirty-six adult male Wistar rats were used. Rats were randomly divided into control, sham, protective and treatment groups. The rats in the sham group received only scopolamine hydrobromide (3mg/kg) intraperitoneally. The rats in the protective and treatment groups received Ginkgo biloba extract (40, 80mg/kg) for 7days intraperitoneally before/after scopolamine injection. Then 48h after the last injection, the brains of rats were withdrawn and fixed with paraformaldehyde, and then, after histological processing, the slices were stained with the TUNEL kit for apoptotic neurons. Data were compared by the ANOVA Post Hoc Tukey test; P&lt;0.05 was considered significant. Our results showed that Scopolamine (in the sham group) increased significantly the number of apoptotic neurons in all areas of the hippocampus compared with the control. Whereas, Ginkgo biloba extract reduce the neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampus before and/or after encounter with scopolamine. We concluded that pretreatment and treatment injection of Ginkgo biloba extract can have a protective effect for neurons and it can limit apoptosis in all area of the hippocampus.
One of the consequences of oxygen metabolism is the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) which in a situation of imbalance with antioxidants can damage several biomolecules, compromise cell function and even lead to cellular death. The particularities of the sperm cell make it particularly vulnerable to ROS attack compromising its functionality, mirrored in terms of fertility outcome and making the study of the origin of sperm ROS, as well as the alterations they cause very important. In the present work, we used UVB irradiation, an easy experimental approach known as a potent inducer of ROS formation, to better understand the origin of ROS damage without any confounding effects that usually exist in disease models in which ROS are reported to play a role. To address these issues we evaluated sperm mitochondrial ROS production using the Mitosox Red Probe, mitochondrial membrane potential using the JC-1 probe, lipid peroxidation through BODIPY probe and vitality using PI. We observed that UVB irradiation leads to an increase in sperm mitochondrial ROS production and lipid peroxidation that occur previously to an observable mitochondrial dysfunction. We concluded that sperm UVB irradiation appears to be a good and easily manipulated in vitro model system to study mitochondria-induced oxidative stress in spermatozoa and its consequences, which may be relevant in terms of dissecting the action pathways of many other pathologies, drugs and contaminants, including endocrine disruptors.

Facial expressions have been studied mainly in chimpanzees and have been shown to be important social signals. In platyrrhine and strepsirrhine primates, it has been doubted that facial expressions are differentiated enough, or the species socially capable enough, for facial expressions to be part of their communication system. However, in a series of experiments presenting olfactory, auditory and visual stimuli, we found that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) displayed an unexpected variety of facial expressions. Especially, olfactory and auditory stimuli elicited obvious facial displays (such as disgust), some of which are reported here for the first time. We asked whether specific facial responses to food and predator-related stimuli might act as social signals to conspecifics. We recorded two contrasting facial expressions (fear and pleasure) as separate sets of video clips and then presented these to cage mates of those marmosets shown in the images, while tempting the subject with food. Results show that the expression of a fearful face on screen significantly reduced time spent near the food bowl compared to the duration when a face showing pleasure was screened. This responsiveness to a cage mate's facial expressions suggests that the evolution of facial signals may have occurred much earlier in primate evolution than had been thought.
Dopaminergic therapies such as levodopa have provided benefit for millions of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and revolutionized the treatment of this disorder. However patients continue to experience disability despite the best of modern treatment. Dopaminergic and surgical therapies are associated with potentially serious side effects. Non-motor and non-dopaminergic features such as freezing, falling, and dementia are not adequately controlled with available medications and represent the major source of disability for advanced patients. And, the disease continues to relentlessly progress. Major therapeutic unmet needs include a dopaminergic therapy that is not associated with serious side effects, a therapy that addresses the non-motor and non-dopaminergic features of the disease, and a disease-modifying therapy that slows or stops disease progression. This review will consider current attempts to address these issues and the obstacles that must be overcome in order to develop more effective therapies for PD.
The development of new therapeutics for sleep disorders is increasingly dependent upon understanding the basic brain circuitry that underlies sleep-wake regulation, and how it may be pharmacologically manipulated. In this review, we consider the pathophysiological basis of major sleep disorders that often are seen by neurologists, including excessive daytime sleepiness, insomnia, narcolepsy, rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, and restless legs syndrome, as well as circadian disorders, and we review the current and potential future therapeutic approaches.
We review recent advances in the treatment and prevention of acute ischemic stroke, including the current state of endovascular therapy, in light of 5 randomized controlled trials published this past year. Although no benefit of endovascular therapy over intravenous (IV) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) has been demonstrated, endovascular therapy is an appropriate treatment for acute ischemic stroke patients within the t-PA window who are ineligible for IV t-PA but have a large vascular occlusion. These trials reveal promises and current limitations of endovascular therapy, and comparison of reperfusion therapies remains an important area of research. One common theme is the strong association between a faster time to reperfusion, improved outcome, and reduced mortality. Primary and secondary stroke prevention trials emphasize the importance of aggressive management of medical risk factors as part of any preventative strategy. New oral anticoagulants, for example, offer cost-effective risk reduction in patients with atrial fibrillation, and may represent an opportunity for those with cryptogenic stroke. We highlight areas of unmet need and promising research in stroke, including the need to deliver proven therapies to more patients, and the need to recruit patients into clinical trials that better define the role of endovascular and other stroke therapies. Finally, improvement in strategies to recover speech, cognition, and motor function has the potential to benefit far more stroke patients than any acute stroke therapy, and represents the greatest opportunity for research in the coming century.

Numerous researchers have highlighted the social determinants of athletes' attitude toward pain, yet little is known about the role of cognitive processes and emotions that are related to pain in sport endeavors. There is evidence, in a dot probe paradigm, that individuals with chronic pain selectively orient their attention toward pain-related stimuli, but no studies have differentiated between the two attentional processes of hypervigilance that are evident in athletes: facilitated detection of threat and difficulty in disengaging attention from threatening stimuli. In the present study using a dot probe paradigm, we examined whether professional rugby players (N=58) with high pain-related anxiety (HPA) would show an attentional bias for pain-related threat, and whether this hypervigilance would reflect difficulty disengaging from threat or facilitated detection of threat. Rugby players with HPA oriented their attention toward pain-related threat with a concomitant difficulty disengaging from threat. Difficulty disengaging from painful stimuli may increase anxiety, and thus be maladaptive in sport. This is the first study to identify pain-related anxiety as a vulnerability marker in athletes' attentional biases.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and activins are phylogenetically conserved proteins, belonging to the transforming growth factor- superfamily, that signal through the phosphorylation of receptor-regulated Smad proteins, activating different cell responses. They are involved in various steps of skin morphogenesis and wound repair, as can be evidenced by the fact that their expression is increased in skin injuries. BMPs play not only a role in bone regeneration but are also involved in cartilage, tendon-like tissue and epithelial regeneration, maintain vascular integrity, capillary sprouting, proliferation/migration of endothelial cells and angiogenesis, promote neuron and dendrite formation, alter neuropeptide levels and are involved in immune response modulation, at least in animal models. On the other hand, activins are involved in wound repair through the regulation of skin and immune cell migration and differentiation, re-epithelialization and granulation tissue formation, and also promote the expression of collagens by fibroblasts and modulate scar formation. This review aims at enunciating the effects of BMPs and activins in the skin, namely in skin development, as well as in crucial phases of skin wound healing, such as inflammation, angiogenesis and repair, and will focus on the effects of these proteins on skin cells and their signaling pathways, exploring the potential therapeutic approach of the application of BMP-2, BMP-6 and activin A in chronic wounds, particularly diabetic foot ulcerations.
Reflex anoxic seizures (RAS) are important in the differential diagnosis of non-epileptic paroxysmal events in infants and preschool-aged children. They are classically provoked by a sudden distressing stimulus, which causes loss of consciousness followed by stiffening and brief clonic movements affecting some or all limbs, often misinterpreted as an epileptic seizure. The underlying pathophysiology is a vagal-induced brief cardiac asystole with resultant transient cerebral hypoperfusion. Parents and carers who witness the event are understandably anxious, and the mainstay of management are ensuring the appropriate timely diagnosis of RAS and excluding cardiac arrhythmia. A detailed history from a witness is all that is needed to diagnose this condition and investigations like EEG or neuroimaging should be avoided. Education and reassurance remain the mainstay in the management. Some children benefit from medical treatment with atropine or fluoxetine; however, there is a lack of evidence for pharmacological treatment. Cardiac pacing is the only definitive treatment, and is reserved for frequent, severe cases in joint consultation with the cardiologist.
We set out to assess the feasibility of exploiting expression of the mCherry gene, after lentiviral infection, in order visualise bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) by optical imaging, and to provide proof of principle of this approach as a method for cell tracking and quantification in pre-clinical models. Commercial hMSCs were infected with a lentiviral vector carrying the mCherry gene under the control of the phosphoglycerate kinase promoter. After extensive in vitro culture, infected hMSCs were analysed for viability, morphology, differentiation capability, and maintenance of fluorescence. Thereafter, mCherry-positive cells were transplanted into unilaterally 6-hydroxy-dopamine lesioned rats (an experimental model of Parkinson's disease). Our analysis showed that hMSCs can be efficiently transduced with the lentiviral vector, retaining their biological features even in the long term. Intrastriatally transplanted mCherry-positive hMSCs can be detected ex vivo by a sensitive cooled CCD camera, both in the whole brain and in serial slices, and relatively quantified. Our protocol was found to be a reliable means of studying the viability of implanted hMSCs. mCherry labelling appears to be readily applicable in the post-transplantation tracking of stem cells and could favour the rapid development of new therapeutic targets for clinical treatments.
The cognitive trait of hypnotizability, associated with the proneness to accept suggestions, exhibits several physiological correlates including the modulation of sensorimotor integration and, in particular, of postural control. In this respect, we have shown that, at eyes closure, healthy subjects with high hypnotizability scores (highs) having their feet 2 cm apart show larger and faster body sway with respect to low hypnotizable individuals (lows). The aim of the present study was to investigate whether hypnotizability modulates body sway during slightly more demanding and very difficult postural conditions such as feet together bipedal posture and one legged stance, respectively. The Center of Pressure (CoP) Area, mean Velocity, the CoP mean position (Xmean, Ymean) and its variability (SDx, SDy) in the frontal and sagittal planes were acquired in 18 highs (9 females) and 18 lows (9 females). Results showed that the previously observed lows' smaller and slower body sway was not present any longer. Nonetheless, hypnotizability interacted with gender in the modulation of the variability of the CoP movement in the frontal plane during both the bipedal feet together posture and one legged stance, as significant gender differences were observed only among lows. In conclusion, results confirm a role of hypnotizability in sensorimotor integration and support the relevance of hypnotic assessment in clinical settings, as hypnotizability may be responsible for part of the postural variability.



Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal motoneuron disease with no current effective treatment. Accumulation of abnormal protein inclusions containing SOD1, TARDBP, FUS, among other proteins, is a pathological hallmark of ALS. Autophagy is the major degradation pathway involved in the clearance of damaged organelles and protein aggregates. Although autophagy has been shown to efficiently degrade ALS-linked mutant protein in cell culture models, several studies suggest that autophagy impairment may also contribute to disease pathogenesis. In this report, we tested the potential use of trehalose, a disaccharide that induces MTOR-independent autophagy, in the development of experimental ALS. Administration of trehalose to mutant SOD1 transgenic mice significantly prolonged life span and attenuated the progression of disease signs. These effects were associated with decreased accumulation of SOD1 aggregates and enhanced motoneuron survival. The protective effects of trehalose were associated with increased autophagy levels in motoneurons. Cell culture experiments demonstrated that trehalose led to mutant SOD1 degradation by autophagy in NSC34 motoneuron cells and also protected primary motoneurons against the toxicity of conditioned media from mutant SOD1 transgenic astrocytes. At the mechanistic level, trehalose treatment led to a significant upregulation in the expression of key autophagy-related genes at the mRNA level including Lc3, Becn1, Sqstm1 and Atg5. Consistent with these changes, trehalose administration enhanced the nuclear translocation of FOXO1, an important transcription factor involved in the activation of autophagy in neurons. This study suggests a potential use of trehalose and enhancers of MTOR-independent autophagy for the treatment of ALS.
Pavlovian fear conditioning is an ideal model to investigate how learning and memory are influenced by alcohol use during adolescence because the neural mechanisms involved have been studied extensively. In Exp 1, adolescent and adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were non-injected or injected with saline, 1 or 1.5 g/kg ethanol intraperitoneally 10 min prior to tone or context conditioning. Twenty-four hours later, animals were tested for tone or context retention and extinction, with examination of extinction retention conducted 24h thereafter. In Exp 2, a context extinction session was inserted between the tone conditioning and the tone fear retention/extinction days to reduce pre-CS baseline freezing levels at test. Basal levels of acquisition, fear retention, extinction, and extinction retention after tone conditioning were similar between adolescent and adult rats. In contrast adolescents showed faster context extinction than adults, while again not differing from adults during context acquisition, retention or extinction retention. In terms of ethanol effects, adolescents were less sensitive to ethanol-induced context retention deficits than adults. No age differences emerged in terms of tone fear retention, with ethanol disrupting tone fear retention at both ages in Exp 1, but at neither age in Exp 2, a difference seemingly due to group differences in pre-CS freezing during tone testing in Exp 1, but not Exp 2. These results suggest that age differences in the acute effects of ethanol on cognitive function are task-specific, and provide further evidence for age differences cognitive functioning in a task thought to be hippocampally related.
Social withdrawal is one of several negative symptoms of schizophrenia, all of which are poorly treated by current therapies. One challenge in developing agents with efficacy against negative symptoms is the lack of suitable preclinical models. The social approach test was used as the basis for developing an assay to test emerging therapies for negative symptoms. NMDA antagonists and dopamine agonists have been used extensively to produce or disrupt behaviors thought to be rodent correlates of positive and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. The aim of these studies was to determine whether sociability of mice in the 3-chamber social approach test could be disrupted and whether this paradigm could have utility in predicting efficacy against negative symptoms. The criteria for such a model were: a lack of response to antipsychotics and attenuation by agents such as the glycine agonist, d-cycloserine, which has been shown to possess clinical efficacy against negative symptoms. Administration of the NMDA antagonists MK-801, PCP, or ketamine did not disrupt sociability. In contrast, Grin1 hypomorph mice displayed a social deficit which was not reversed by atypical antipsychotics or d-serine. d-Amphetamine disrupted sociability without stimulating locomotor activity and its effect was not reversed by antipsychotics. The GABAA inverse agonist, FG-7142, reduced sociability and this was reversed by the GABAA antagonist, flumazenil and dcycloserine, but not by clozapine, or the GABAA benzodiazepine anxiolytic, alprazolam. Based on our criteria, the GABAA model warrants further evaluation to confirm that this paradigm has utility as a preclinical model for predicting efficacy against negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
To identify genes involved in anxiety/fear traits, we analyzed the gene expression profile in the amygdala of genetically heterogeneous NIH-HS rats. The NIH-HS rat stock has revealed to be a unique genetic resource for the fine mapping of Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) to very small genomic regions, due to the high amount of genetic recombinants accumulated along more than 50 breeding generations, and for the same reason it can be expected that those genetically heterogeneous rats should be especially useful for studying differential gene expression as a function of anxiety-(or other)-related traits. We selected high- and low-anxious NIH-HS rats differing in their number of avoidances in a single 50-trial session of the two-way active avoidance task. Rats were also tested in unconditioned anxiety tests (e.g., elevated zero-maze). Three weeks after behavioural testing, the amygdala was dissected and prepared for the microarray study. There appeared 6 significantly down-regulated and 28 up-regulated genes (fold-change &gt;|2|, FDR&lt;0.05) between the low- and high-anxious groups, with central nervous system-related functions. Regression analyses (stepwise) revealed that differential expression of some genes could be predictive of anxiety/fear responses. Among those genes for which the present results suggest a link with individual differences in trait anxiety, six relevant genes were examined with qRT-PCR, four of which (Ucn3, Tacr3, H2-M9 and Arr3) were validated. Remarkably, some of them are characterized by sharing known functions related with hormonal HPA-axis responses to (and/or modulation of) stress, anxiety or fear, and putative involvement in related neurobehavioural functions. The results confirm the usefulness of NIH-HS rats as a good animal model for research on the neurogenetic basis of anxiety and fear, while suggesting the involvement of some neuropeptide/neuroendocrine pathways on the development of differential anxiety profiles.
Many symptoms in multiple sclerosis (MS) can be related to changes in the levels of key neurotransmitters. These neurotransmitters have a direct role in the maintenance of neurons and also have immunomodulatory properties. Previously we have shown that when treatment began prior to the onset of clinical signs, daily treatment with the monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor phenelzine (PLZ), which also elevates CNS levels of GABA, lead to substantial behavioral improvements in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model for MS. To determine whether PLZ could have beneficial effects in an already established disease state, we conducted experiments in which PLZ treatment only began when mice with EAE exhibited the first clinical signs of the disease. Using this more clinically relevant treatment approach, we find that PLZ treatment can reduce the severity of clinical signs and improve exploratory behaviors for the duration of the experiment in mice with EAE. Treatment with PLZ did not affect the infiltration of CD4+ T-cells into the spinal cord nor did it reduce the degree of reactive gliosis as measured by Iba1 immunostaining. Beginning PLZ treatment after the start of clinical signs did however lead to significantly better 5-HT innervation density in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and also resulted in higher levels of GABA, dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain and spinal cord. These results indicate that even in an established EAE disease state, PLZ can have clinical benefits. These benefits likely derive from PLZ's ability to normalize the innervation to ventral horn motor neuron pools as well as the elevations in GABA and biogenic amines that have been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties.
Psychological stress has attracted much interest as a potential modulator of response control processes. However, especially in dual-task situations, the effect of psychological stress is less understood. In the current study we investigated these effects. &quot;Thirty six&quot; healthy young male participants were exposed to stress applying the socially evaluated cold pressor task (SECPT) or a control condition. Afterwards they participated in a psychological refractory period (PRP) paradigm comprising two tasks (a &quot;tone task&quot; and a &quot;letter task&quot;). With the PRP task, four different stimulus onset asynchronies (SOA) were realized separating the tone from the letter task. The results show that stress improves task processing efficiency in dual-tasks. Stressed participants showed a reduced PRP effect (i.e., shorter response times), which was especially prominent in the short SOAs conditions (16 and 133ms). The analysis of the response times suggests that stress increases dual-tasking performance by modulating the efficiency to process the different tasks and not because 'cognitive flexibility' and switching between task components at the bottleneck is altered. Increases in processing efficiency in dual-tasks were predictable by means of individual salivary cortisol levels.
Female rats exhibit greater intake and motivation to self-administer cocaine. In females but not males, isolation by itself is a stressor, which could lead to increased drug intake. Therefore, we hypothesized that social housing would buffer against stress and reduce the motivation to self-administer cocaine primarily in females. Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were housed individually or in same-sex pairs. The individually housed rats and one of each pair were allowed to self-administer (SA) a low dose of cocaine (0.2 mg/kg/inf) on a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule for one week. Motivation for cocaine SA was measured for an additional 2 weeks on a progressive ratio schedule. Isolated females had greater cocaine-intake on the FR1 schedule and greater motivation to take cocaine than males. Pair-housing in females, but not males, attenuated the motivation to take cocaine. Isolated females, but not males, showed escalation of their motivation to take cocaine, which was attenuated by pair housing of females. Concluding, the motivation to take cocaine escalates in females but not males, and pair-housing of females attenuates this escalation.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) has a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Modulation of STN activity (by lesions, pharmacological or electrical stimulation) has been shown to improve motor parameters in PD patients and in animal models of PD. In an attempt to characterize the neurochemical bases for such antiparkinsonian action, we address specific neurotransmitter systems via local pharmacological manipulation of the STN in hemiparkinsonian rats. Here, we have focused on the GABAergic and glutamatergic receptors in the STN. In animals with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigro-striatal tract, we administered either the selective GABAA-agonist muscimol (0.5 g and 1.0 g), the non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine; 2.5 g), or vehicle (0.25 l) into the STN. The effects of GABAergic and glutamatergic modulation of the STN on motor parameters were assessed by gauging rotational behavior and locomotion. Application of muscimol ipsilateral to the side of dopamine-depletion influenced turning behavior in a dose-dependent fashion, with the low dose re-adjusting turning behavior to a non-biased distribution, and the high dose evoking contraversive turning. The administration of MK-801 did not have such effects. These findings give evidence for the involvement of GABAergic activation in the STN in the compensation of motor asymmetries in the hemiparkinsonian rat, whereas N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-antagonism was ineffective in this model of PD.
Transgenic mice are a valuable tool in the investigation of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. The triple transgenic mouse (3Tg-AD) is a model of Alzheimer's disease that possesses age-related amyloid beta plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and cell death as well as cognitive decline. Because maternal effects may interact with pup genotype in determining behavior phenotypes, we used a cross-fostering paradigm to investigate the effects of maternal genotype on behavioral development of the 3Tg-AD mouse model and its wildtype control (B6129S1F2) from 2 to 24 days of age. Developmental patterns of behavior were influenced by both pup and maternal genotype. The 3Tg-AD mice were delayed in sensory reflexes, showed less activity and poorer habituation to a novel object, but showed advanced development of motor reflexes compared to wildtype pups. While there were no differences in levels of maternal care between transgenic and control mothers, maternal genotype affected the development of several pup reflexes (body weight, hindlimb grasp reflex, loss of crossed extensor reflex, vibrissae response, righting reflex) and the number of horizontal and vertical beam breaks in an open field. This study is the first to examine neurobehavioral development and maternal behavior in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, and highlights the importance of investigating the consequences of early environmental experience as well as genetic manipulation on behavioral development.

The reinforcing effects of addictive drugs are thought to be more robust when the onset of the drug's effects is fast. It is unclear whether this concept extends to intravenous self-administration (IVSA) of nicotine. We therefore sought to examine the effects of infusion duration on nicotine IVSA in rats. Male Lister hooded rats (n=8) were given daily 1 h limited access to fixed ratio-3 nicotine IVSA (0.03 mg/kg/infusion). Once nicotine IVSA was established, the effect of infusion duration on nicotine seeking was evaluated at a constant unit dose and volume (0.5, 5.0, and 19.6 s compared with the 1-s training infusion duration). Active responses were significantly reduced when the infusion duration was increased (i.e. 5 or 19.6 s compared with 0.5 and 1 s), and the effect was qualitatively similar to saline substitution. The likelihood of maintaining a reliable IVSA in rats was reduced by increasing the infusion duration. The infusion duration therefore represents an important determinant of nicotine reinforcement in rats.
In the last few years, the variety and recreational use of 'legal high' designer stimulants has increased to unprecedented levels. Since their rapid emergence in drug markets, numerous adverse physical and psychological effects have been extensively reported. However, less is understood about the potential for compulsive use of and addiction to these drugs. Recently, a small collection of scientific studies assessing the abuse liability of these drugs has emerged. This new knowledge has been derived primarily from animal studies using behaviorally based procedures which include intravenous self-administration, conditioned place preference, intracranial self-stimulation, and drug discrimination. In this review we present a brief history of the recent rise in designer stimulant use followed by a short methodological description of the aforementioned procedures. We then review neurochemical and abuse liability studies on designer stimulants that have been examined to date. Finally, we conclude with a discussion of these collective findings, our current understanding of the abuse liability of these drugs in relation to each other and the illicit drugs they are designed to mimic, and recommend future research directions.
A number of psychostimulant-like cathinone compounds are being sold as 'legal' alternatives to methamphetamine or cocaine. The purpose of these experiments was to determine whether cathinone compounds stimulate motor activity and have discriminative stimulus effects similar to those of cocaine and/or methamphetamine. 3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV), methylone, mephedrone, naphyrone, flephedrone, and butylone were tested for locomotor stimulant effects in mice and subsequently for substitution in rats trained to discriminate cocaine (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) or methamphetamine (1 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) from saline. All compounds fully substituted for the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine and methamphetamine. Several commonly marketed cathinones produce discriminative stimulus effects comparable with those of cocaine and methamphetamine, which suggests that these compounds are likely to have similar abuse liabilities. MDPV and naphyrone produced locomotor stimulant effects that lasted much longer than those of cocaine or methamphetamine and therefore may be of particular concern, particularly because MDPV is one of the most commonly found substances associated with emergency room visits because of adverse effects of taking 'bath salts'.
Substance abuse is a significant public health concern both domestically and worldwide. The persistent use of substances regardless of aversive consequences forces the user to give higher priority to the drug than to normal activities and obligations. The harmful and hazardous use of psychoactive substances can lead to a dependence syndrome. In this regard, the genetic and neurobiological underpinnings of reward-seeking behavior need to be fully understood in order to develop effective pharmacotherapies and other methods of treatment. Animal models are often implemented in preclinical screening for testing the efficacy of novel treatments. Several paradigms exist that model various facets of addiction including sensitization, tolerance, withdrawal, drug seeking, extinction, and relapse. Self-administration and, most notably, conditioned place preference (CPP) are relatively simple tests that serve as indicators of the aforementioned aspects of addiction by means of behavioral quantification. CPP is a commonly used technique to evaluate the motivational effects of compounds and experiences that have been associated with a positive or negative reward, which capitalizes on the basic principles of Pavlovian conditioning. During training, the unconditioned stimulus is consistently paired with a neutral set of environmental stimuli, which obtain, during conditioning, secondary motivational properties that elicit approach behavior in the absence of the unconditioned stimulus. For over 50 years, rodents have been the primary test subjects. However, the zebrafish (Danio rerio) is gaining favor as a valuable model organism in the fields of biology, genetics, and behavioral neuroscience. This paper presents a discussion on the merits, advantages, and limitations of the zebrafish model and its utility in relation to CPP.
Semantic ambiguity is typically measured by summing the number of senses or dictionary definitions that a word has. Such measures are somewhat subjective and may not adequately capture the full extent of variation in word meaning, particularly for polysemous words that can be used in many different ways, with subtle shifts in meaning. Here, we describe an alternative, computationally derived measure of ambiguity based on the proposal that the meanings of words vary continuously as a function of their contexts. On this view, words that appear in a wide range of contexts on diverse topics are more variable in meaning than those that appear in a restricted set of similar contexts. To quantify this variation, we performed latent semantic analysis on a large text corpus to estimate the semantic similarities of different linguistic contexts. From these estimates, we calculated the degree to which the different contexts associated with a given word vary in their meanings. We term this quantity a word's semantic diversity (SemD). We suggest that this approach provides an objective way of quantifying the subtle, context-dependent variations in word meaning that are often present in language. We demonstrate that SemD is correlated with other measures of ambiguity and contextual variability, as well as with frequency and imageability. We also show that SemD is a strong predictor of performance in semantic judgments in healthy individuals and in patients with semantic deficits, accounting for unique variance beyond that of other predictors. SemD values for over 30,000 English words are provided as supplementary materials.
