1. Two major types of ion-ion interaction are demonstrated in the pore of the L-type Ca2+ channel, the 'lock-in' and the 'enhancement' effect. The former denotes that the ion at a certain site in the pore cannot move if the neighbouring site is occupied by the other ion. The latter denotes that the ion occupying a certain site may facilitate the exist of the other ion in the neighbouring site. 2. With inward currents carried by 300 mM external Li+, the exit rates of the blocking Ca2+ ion are decreased by approximately 4 times when the internal Li+ concentration is increased from 55 to 300 mM. With outward currents carried by 300 mM internal Li+, the exist rates of the blocking Ca2+ ion are decreased by approximately 2.5 times when the external Li+ concentration is increased from 55 to 300 mM. These findings demonstrate the 'lock-in' effect. 3. When inward currents are carried in Li+ in the cell-attached configuration, the on-rates of the external Ca2+ are decreased in a rectangular hyperbolic fashion with increasing external Li+ concentration (apparent dissociation constant (Kd) approximately 75 mM in activity), suggesting competition between Ca2+ and Li+ for a certain site. On the other hand, the off-rates of the blocking Ca2+ ion are increased linearly with increasing external Li+ concentration between 75 and 850 mM, and the line extrapolates to the zero point, indicating that Ca2+ exist is negligible at zero Li+. This finding demonstrates not only the existence of the enhancement effect in the channel, but also the indispensability of such an effect for Ca2+ to exit the pore. Moreover, a linear relationship up to 850 mM Li+ suggests that the affinity of Li+ to the enhancement sites is very low (apparent Kd very high) when a Ca2+ ion is present in the neighbouring site. 4. The unitary conductances of inward Ba2+ currents in the cell-attached configuration are increased with increasing Ba2+ concentration. The apparent Kd obtained from a rectangular hyperbolic fit to the data is approximately 6 mM Ba2+ (in activity). When inward Ba2+ currents are blocked by Cd2+, the on-rates of Cd2+ are decreased with increasing Ba2+ concentration also in a rectangular hyperbolic fashion, and the apparent Kd is approximately 5.5 mM. The similar Kd from these two different experiments suggests the high-affinity set can accommodate no more than two Ba2+ ions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Both inward and outward unitary Li+ currents through the L-type Ca2+ channel and discrete block of such currents by either internal or external Ca2+ are recorded. Detailed kinetic analyses are obtained for all of the four experimental configurations (internal or external Ca2+ block of either inward or outward Li+ currents). 2. No matter from which side the blocking Ca2+ ion comes, the exit (unblocking) rates are always the same at the same potential in the same direction of Li+ current flow. This indicates that the high-affinity Ca2+ binding site (the blocking site) is in the pore, and internal and external Ca2+ both go to the same site to produce the block. In other words, there can only be one high-affinity Ca2+ binding site or one set of such sites (sites separated by insignificant barriers) in the pore. Furthermore, the direction of exit of the blocking Ca2+ ion is always with, not against, the Li+ current flow. This suggests ion-ion interaction (the 'long pore effect') in the high-affinity sites. Therefore there must be more than one high-affinity site in the pore. Overall it is concluded that the pore must contain a set of high-affinity Ca2+ binding sites separated by insignificant energy barriers. 3. The voltage dependence of the off- (exit) rates is very similar in amplitude for all the four experimental configurations (e-fold change per approximately 25 mV depolarization or hyperpolarization). This strong voltage dependence in every configuration cannot be explained by any Ca2+ energy profile alone and must include a certain contribution from Li+. The mechanism underlying such a contribution seems to reside in the enhancement effect of Li+ on the exist of Ca2+. 4. The on-rates (blocking rates) for external Ca2+ are always fast no matter whether the Li+ currents are outward or inward. In certain cases the rates even approach the diffusion-controlled limit (approximately 10(9) M-1 S-1). This suggests that the high-affinity sites are very easily accessible from the outside, and probably there is no other ionic site located between the external pore mouth and the high-affinity sites. 5. The on-rates for internal Ca2+ are fast and voltage independent in outward Li+ currents, but are very slow and strongly voltage dependent in inward Li+ currents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Eight children with developmental language impairment (LI) and eight age-, sex-, socioeconomic-status-, and I.Q.-matched controls were given tests of comprehension and expression of affective intent in spoken language and through facial expression. The LI children performed significantly more poorly than did controls in both comprehension and spontaneous expression of vocal affect. On tasks involving emotional facial expression, the opposite results were observed: The LI children were more dramatic in their expression of facial affect than were the controls. Children with language impairment appear to have a deficit in affective comprehension and expression that is modality-specific, i.e., limited to vocal affect. The heightened range of affective facial expression that they demonstrate may be a compensatory mechanism to offset their difficulties with vocal affect.
A &quot;sensory conflict&quot; model of spatial orientation was developed. This mathematical model was based on concepts derived from observer theory, optimal observer theory, and the mathematical properties of coordinate rotations. The primary hypothesis is that the central nervous system of the squirrel monkey incorporates information about body dynamics and sensory dynamics to develop an internal model. The output of this central model (expected sensory afference) is compared to the actual sensory afference, with the difference defined as &quot;sensory conflict.&quot; The sensory conflict information is, in turn, used to drive central estimates of angular velocity (&quot;velocity storage&quot;), gravity (&quot;gravity storage&quot;), and linear acceleration (&quot;acceleration storage&quot;) toward more accurate values. The model successfully predicts &quot;velocity storage&quot; during rotation about an earth-vertical axis. The model also successfully predicts that the time constant of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex is reduced and that the axis of eye rotation shifts toward alignment with gravity following postrotatory tilt. Finally, the model predicts the bias, modulation, and decay components that have been observed during off-vertical axis rotations (OVAR).
Three-dimensional squirrel monkey eye movements were recorded during and immediately following rotation around an earth-vertical yaw axis (160 degrees/s steady state, 100 degrees/s2 acceleration and deceleration). To study interactions between the horizontal angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) and head orientation, postrotatory VOR alignment was changed relative to gravity by tilting the head out of the horizontal plane (pitch or roll tilt between 15 degrees and 90 degrees) immediately after cessation of motion. Results showed that in addition to post rotatory horizontal nystagmus, vertical nystagmus followed tilts to the left or right (roll), and torsional nystagmus followed forward or backward (pitch) tilts. When the time course and spatial orientation of eye velocity were considered in three dimensions, the axis of eye rotation always shifted toward alignment with gravity, and the postrotatory horizontal VOR decay was accelerated by the tilts. These phenomena may reflect a neural process that resolves the sensory conflict induced by this postrotatory tilt paradigm.
We report a patient with a long-standing, unilateral lesion of the midbrain who showed ipsidirectional loss of torsional quick phases, impairment of all vertical eye movements and normal horizontal eye movements. The findings are consistent with recent reports of the effects of experimental lesions, in monkeys, of the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus and the interstitial nucleus of Cajal.
The development of the nervous system can be studied only if the age of the embryo is exactly known. Since it is difficult to control reproduction in female cats, we tried to time fertilization very precisely to within one hour by using either artificial insemination, or by mating females in oestrus induced by light programming. In one trial, this programming was associated with male or female stimuli according to the work of McClintock (1971, 1978, 1984) and Preti et al. (1986).
This study was designed to investigate patterns of fibrils organization in histochemically stained otoconia. Transmission electron microscope and video imaging were used. These data indicate that otoconia of the chick (Gallus domesticus) inner ear may have central cores in vivo. The data also show that the ultrastructural organization of fibrils fixed with aldehydes and histochemical stains follows trajectories that conform to the hexagonal shape of otoconia. These changes in direction may contribute to the formation of a central core. The existence of central cores is important for the in vivo buoyancy of otoconia. Packing of fibrils is tighter after phosphotungstic acid (PTA) stained otoconia than with other histochemical stains, which usually produce looser packing of fibrils and seemingly larger central core. TEM of tilted and untilted material showed that turning of fibrils occurs at the points where the face angles of otoconia form and where central cores exist. Video image processing of the images allowed reconstructing a template which, if assumed to repeat and change trajectories, would fit the pattern of fibrils seen in fixed otoconia. Since it is highly unlikely that aldehyde primary fixation or PTA stain caused such drastic change in the direction of fibrils, the template derived from these results may closely approximate patterns of otoconia fibrils packing in vivo. However, if the above is correct, the perfect crystallographic diffraction pattern of unfixed otoconia do not correspond to patterns of fixed fibrils.
Buspirone, an azospirone compound, is a nonsedative anxiolytic that has achieved wide usage since its introduction in 1987. Although relatively free of side-effects, there have been several instances of dyskinesia and dystonia associated with the use of buspirone. We report two patients with persistent movement disorders that developed after prolonged treatment with the drug. One patient developed a lasting problem of cervical-cranial dystonia and tremors after treatment with buspirone at a dosage of 40 mg/day for several weeks. Another, receiving 30 mg/day for 6 weeks, experienced an exacerbation of preexisting spasmodic torticollis and tardive dyskinesia as well as the onset of involuntary phonations. As shown by these and other examples, buspirone poses the risk for inducing or exacerbating several types of movement disorders.
We studied visual (VEP) and brainstem auditory (BAEP) evoked potential changes in 23 patients with early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) to establish the nature of the changes as well as their relationship to dopaminergic (DA) and serotonergic (5-HT) disturbances, as determined by cerebrospinal fluid levels of homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). We also compared these parameters between the young onset (YOPD) and juvenile Parkinsonism (JP), the two subgroups of EOPD, to look for any possible differences between the two. In EOPD, the mean P100 latency of the VEP was significantly prolonged compared to controls (p &lt; 0.001). However, within EOPD the evoked potential parameters were not significantly different between YOPD and the JP subgroups. P100 latency was abnormal in six patients (YOPD: 5, JP: 1) (26%). Six patients (YOPD: 3, JP:3) (26%) had abnormal BAEP. A significant negative correlation (r: -0.89, p &lt; 1%) was observed between the P100 latency and CSF HVA levels. No correlation was observed between the BAEP interpeak latencies and either CSF HVA or 5-HIAA levels. This study suggests that VEP and BAEP abnormalities do occur in EOPD (in both YOPD and JP), and that the prolongation of P100 latency is secondary to DA deficiency as in PD. The cause of BAEP abnormalities is probably independent of DA and 5-HT disturbances. The only difference between EOPD and classical PD was the higher incidence of BAEP abnormalities in EOPD. There was no correlation between the VEP or BAEP changes to either the age at onset or duration of EOPD.
The NMDA (N-methyl D-aspartate) receptors in the brain play a critical role in synaptic plasticity, synaptogenesis and excitotoxicity. Molecular cloning has demonstrated that NMDA receptors consist of several homologous subunits (NMDAR1, 2A-2D). A variety of studies have suggested that protein phosphorylation of NMDA receptors may regulate their function and play a role in many forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation. We have examined the phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor subunit NMDAR1 (NR1) by protein kinase C (PKC) in cells transiently expressing recombinant NR1 and in primary cultures of cortical neurons. PKC phosphorylation occurs on several distinct sites on the NR1 subunit. Most of these sites are contained within a single alternatively spliced exon in the C-terminal domain, which has previously been proposed to be on the extracellular side of the membrane. These results demonstrate that alternative splicing of the NR1 messenger RNA regulates its phosphorylation by PKC, and that mRNA splicing is a novel mechanism for regulating the sensitivity of glutamate receptors to protein phosphorylation. These results also provide evidence that the C-terminal domain of the NR1 protein is located intracellularly, suggesting that the proposed transmembrane topology model for glutamate receptors may be incorrect.

A primary culture of chromaffin cells was prepared from adult rats and the stability of cell contents, NPY and catecholamines (CAs), during the culture was studied. The responsiveness of cultured chromaffin cells to NGF or secretagogues and the possible role of NPY on the CA secretion from cultured chromaffin cells were investigated. After plating of isolated cells, there was marked decrease in the cell content of CAs but a significant increase in the cell content of NPY. Though both NPY and CAs in the cultured cells were positively regulated by NGF, the results of this study seemed to suggest a differential regulation for NPY and CAs in the chromaffin cell. The cultured chromaffin cells secreted NPY and CAs in response to stimulation by nicotine. The nicotine stimulated secretion of CA was enhanced by the presence of IgG fraction, prepared from NPY antiserum, in the secretion medium. The results suggested that NPY was co-released with CAs from chromaffin cells and then acted as a modulator on CA secretion.
We report a case of foreign accent syndrome (FAS) without aphasia. The patient was a right-handed, 44-year-old woman, a native Japanese. Disposition and inversion of pitch accents and appearance of unnecessary stress accents made her speech sound foreign, like that of a Korean. MRI demonstrated an infarction in the middle fifth of the posterior lateral aspect of the left precentral gyrus. Limited motor cortex damage causes FAS without dysarthria, apraxia of speech, or aphasia.
Conventional views of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) have emphasized testing with caloric stimuli and by passively rotating patients at low frequencies in a chair. The properties of the VOR tested under these conditions differ from the performance of this reflex during the natural function for which it evolved--locomotion. Only the VOR (and not visually mediated eye movements) can cope with the high-frequency angular and linear perturbations of the head that occur during locomotion; this is achieved by generating eye movements at short latency (&lt; 16 msec). Interpretation of vestibular testing is enhanced by the realization that, although the di- and trisynaptic components of the VOR are essential for this short-latency response, the overall accuracy and plasticity of the VOR depend upon a distributed, parallel network of neurons involving the vestibular nuclei. Neurons in this network variously upon a distributed, parallel network of neurons involving the vestibular nuclei. Neurons in this network variously encode inputs from the labyrinthine semicircular canals and otoliths, as well as from the visual and somatosensory systems. The central vestibular pathways branch to contact vestibular cortex (for perception) and the spinal cord (for control of posture). Thus, the vestibular nuclei basically coordinate the stabilization of gaze and posture, and contribute to the perception of verticality and self-motion. Consequently, brainstem disorders that disrupt the VOR cause not just only nystagmus, but also instability of posture (eg, increased fore-aft sway in patients with downbeat nystagmus) and disturbance of spatial orientation (eg, tilt of the subjective visual vertical in Wallenberg's syndrome).
Two patients with slowly progressive muscle atrophy limited to only one leg are reported. They had pes equinovarus deformity and muscle weakness in the affected leg but no symptom in the other limbs. Muscle biopsies from the affected leg showed dystrophic changes consisting of variation in muscle fiber size, endomysial fibrosis, and necrotic and regenerating fibers. Dystrophin was normally expressed at the surface membrane of the muscle fibers. These two patients possibly had a variant of distal muscular dystrophy, though a neural influence could not be completely excluded.
The importance of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) in the autoimmune inflammatory myopathies, especially polymyositis (PM), has been emphasized. We have studied the degradative activity of granzyme A, a cytotoxic molecule with trypsin-like specificity in CTL granules, on several muscle proteins in vitro. Our study reveals that granzyme A hydrolyzes dystrophin, myosin, and nebulin, but not laminin, alpha-actinin, vinculin, and connectin in vitro. Among these proteins, nebulin is more susceptible to proteolysis, followed by dystrophin, myosin heavy chain, and myosin light chains, in that order. This result implies an important role of granzyme A in CTL-mediated muscle fiber damage in PM.
An understanding of K+ channel structure is a critical step in developing an appreciation of the function and regulation of these proteins. We have begun a biochemical analysis of the early steps in K+ channel formation following translation into endoplasmic reticulum membranes. In our experiments, a series of K+ channel subunit protein deletions were constructed and then tested for posttranslational processing and assembly. We find that all deletions containing the S1 domain are inserted into the membrane. The loop between S1 and S2 is glycosylated; thus, this segment is topologically extracellular. Translated subunit proteins mix in the membrane, then assemble into tetramers. This subunit assembly is critically driven by a conserved, self-tetramerizing sequence in the N-terminal cytoplasmic region, which we have named the tetramerization 1 domain.
P77PMC rat is a breed of rat with congenital audiogenic seizure(AS). AS attacks were suppressed by cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) at a dose of 50 micrograms/kg, but not at 25 micrograms/kg. Radioimmunoassay study showed that the CCK-8 immunoreactivity (IR) in the cerebrocortex and hippocampus is much lower in P77PMC rats than that of Wistar rats. The results suggest that a low cerebral content of CCK-8 may account for the high susceptibility of audiogenic seizure in P77PMC rats.
We examined the antioxidant and pro-oxidant activities of p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol (p-HBA), the major component of Gastrodia elata Bl. (GE), and compared them with those of vanillin, which is also a component of GE and a known antioxidant. Both p-HBA and vanillin are powerful scavengers of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl hydrozyl, superoxide and hydroxyl radicals. Like vanillin, p-HBA also inhibits iron-dependent lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenate, microsomes and mitochondria. In addition, p-HBA and vanillin in a dose-dependent fashion inhibit Fe(II)-H2O2-induced damage to benzoate, deoxyribose, glutamic acid, 2-aminobutyric acid and methionine, as well as benzoate hydroxylation. Vanillin has a pro-oxidant effect on Fe(III)-superoxide-induced damage to benzoate, deoxyribose, amino acids and benzoate hydroxylation, whereas p-HBA shows no pro-oxidant activity in the system. Vanillin and p-HBA stimulate bleomycin-iron-dependent damage to DNA only at very high concentrations. These findings suggest that the antioxidant effect of GE extract in the rat brain may result from the antioxidant actions of p-HBA and other phenolic compounds such as vanillin at the cellular and molecular level in brain.
In patients with severe drug-resistant partial epilepsy, undergoing Stereo-EEG investigations, spatial definition of the &quot;epileptogenic area&quot; is mainly based on spontaneous seizures recordings, but also on seizures induced by intracerebral electrical stimulation (ES). Only &quot;trains&quot; ES (TES, 50 pps) are currently used with this aim; &quot;shocks&quot; ES (SES, 1 pps) are principally applied to localize motor pathways. We have shown, during a prospective study concerning 10 temporal lobe epileptic patients, that SES could frequently induce seizures, especially when stimulation is applied in the anterior part of the Ammon's horn. Even if its efficacy seems lower than by TES, this kind of stimulation, in the majority of the cases, does reproduce isolated ictal subjective symptomatology, allowing the visualization of the progressive organisation of ictal electrical discharges, and avoids &quot;unexpected&quot; (&quot;false positive&quot;?) clinical responses.
In order to elucidate the role of NO in LTP, we have investigated a biochemical effector of NO action at hippocampal synapses, guanylyl cyclase. We have observed that LTP-inducing stimuli elicit an increase in the activity of guanylyl cyclase, an effect blocked by inhibitors of NO synthase. Extracellular application of hemoglobin, which binds NO and thereby blocks its actions, also attenuated the increase in guanylyl cyclase activity. Taken together, these results provide direct biochemical evidence for an elevation of NO levels with LTP-inducing stimulation, and support the hypothesis that NO can function as a transcellular messenger in the hippocampus. These findings also implicate guanylyl cyclase as a target of NO and demonstrate that while NO is elevated with LTP-inducing stimuli, the activity of NO synthase is not necessary for induction of LTP by all stimulus paradigms.

To assess the cytotoxicity of four clays containing an aluminum silicate--montmorillonite, bentonite, kaolinite and erionite--we used human umbilical vein endothelial, N1E-115 neuroblastoma, and ROC-1 oligodendroglial cells. Morphological examination, lactate dehydrogenase release and fatty acid release were used as indices of trauma. The clays were added in suspension to the cell cultures at concentrations of 0.1, 0.03 and 0.01 mg/ml of medium and the cells were incubated for 1, 6 and 24 h. The clays did not lyse ROC-1 and N1E-115 cells and did not cause a dose-dependent increase in fatty acid levels at 24 h. There were no significant increases in lactate dehydrogenase activity in N1E-115 neuroblastoma or ROC-1 oligodendroglial cells. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells, montmorillonite, kaolinite and bentonite caused a dose-dependent increase in fatty acids at 24 h. All three clays caused cell lysis. We postulate that the cytotoxicity of the clays containing an aluminum silicate towards endothelial cells may disrupt the blood-brain barrier in the affected areas, allowing the entry of the clay particle into the brain. Aluminum silicate clays caused a dose-dependent release of fatty acids in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. The clays also caused lysis of these cells. ROC-1 oligodendroglia and N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells were not lysed by the clays, suggesting that this is not a general phenomenon.
Calmodulin, a ubiquitous calcium-binding protein which is involved in many biological processes, including cell proliferation and differentiation, has been shown to be encoded by three genes from which five calmodulin messenger RNAs are transcribed. In our previous studies, using the PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line as a model system for neuronal differentiation, all five calmodulin messenger RNAs were found to be present, and treatment with both nerve growth factor and dibutyryl cyclic AMP, which induce neurite outgrowth in these cells, increased the level of calmodulin and differentially increased the levels of the various calmodulin messenger RNAs. In an attempt to uncover the nature of the differential increase in the calmodulin messenger RNAs during neuronal differentiation, we examined here the subcellular distribution of the individual calmodulin messenger RNAs in PC12 cells treated with nerve growth factor and dibutyryl cyclic AMP by in situ hybridization cytochemistry, using radiolabeled oligodeoxynucleotide probes. Using an oligodeoxynucleotide probe which detects all of the calmodulin transcripts, the calmodulin messenger RNAs were found to be distributed throughout the cell bodies of differentiated PC12 cells; significant amounts of calmodulin messenger RNAs were also found in most neurites (approximately 70% of the total number). Using specific probes for the calmodulin messenger RNAs derived from each calmodulin gene, distinct patterns of localization of the different calmodulin messenger RNAs were revealed. The messenger RNAs from calmodulin genes I and II were readily detected in all cell bodies and in about one-half of the neurites. In contrast, a weak signal for the messenger RNAs from calmodulin gene III was associated with cell bodies, while no significant signal was found in neurites. A population distribution analysis of the labeling of individual PC12 cell bodies, as determined by counting autoradiographic grains, revealed differences in the relative abundance of each group of messenger RNAs derived from each of the three calmodulin genes. The order of relative abundance of the messenger RNAs in cell bodies was found to be: calmodulin gene II messenger RNA &gt; calmodulin gene I messenger RNAs &gt; calmodulin gene III messenger RNAs. An analysis of the labeling density along neurites indicated a similar density of neuritic messenger RNAs from calmodulin gene I and calmodulin gene II, whereas there was no significant signal for the messenger RNAs from calmodulin gene III.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Pavlovian conditioning of the rabbit's nictitating membrane response was used to determine whether the retardation of learning produced by enkephalin derivatives was mediated through an action on mu- or delta-opioid receptors. Intraventricular injection of the highly selective mu-agonist, [D-Ala2, MePhe4, Gly-ol5] enkephalin (DAMGO) significantly retarded (2 nmol) or completely blocked (20 nmol) the acquisition of conditioned responses. The retarded or blocked acquisition of conditioned responses produced by DAMGO could still be detected when the rabbits were tested two days after cessation of drug injections, suggesting that DAMGO had affected learning and not simply performance of conditioned responses. Intraventricular injection of a comparable dose (20 nmol) of the highly selective delta-agonist, [D-Pen2,5] enkephalin (DPDPE) did not retard learning. A higher dose of DPDPE (200 nmol), which would be expected to act at both mu- and delta-receptors, did produce a retardation of acquisition that was comparable to the effects of a 2-nmol dose of DAMGO. However, unlike DAMGO, the retardation of learning produced by this dose of DPDPE appeared to be due, at least in part, to a reduction in the aversive properties of the unconditioned stimulus. The retardation of learning produced by 2 nmol of DAMGO and 200 nmol of DPDPE was due to an action on an opioid receptor because this effect was blocked by a subcutaneous injection of naloxone (2.5 mumol/kg), a specific opioid antagonist. The stereoselective effects of the mu-opioid agonist levorphanol further confirmed that the retarded learning was mediated through actions at the mu-opioid receptor. Autoradiographic studies indicated that a 2-nmol, intraventricular dose of DAMGO achieved contents greater than 1 pmol/mg in tissue lying within 2 mm of the lateral ventricle, third ventricle and cerebral aqueduct. These data suggest that enkephalins produce a retardation of learning through an effect on the mu-type of opioid receptor and that at least one locus of their actions is produced at periventricular sites lying within 2 mm of the ventricles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Quantitative receptor autoradiography using [3H]GABA under selective conditions was used to characterize the pharmacology, distribution, cellular localization, and development of GABAB binding sites in rodent cerebellum. Pharmacologic analysis of [3H]GABA binding showed that drugs active at GABAB receptors displaced [3H]GABA with the following order of potency: 3-aminopropylphosphonous acid &gt; CGP 35348 = 2-hydroxysaclofen &gt; phaclofen. GTP-gamma-S and GDP-beta-S also diminished potently [3H]GABA binding in a dose-dependent manner. The pattern of [3H]GABA binding to GABAB binding sites was systematically mapped throughout the rat cerebellum. GABAB binding was greatest in the molecular layer and a pattern of parasagittal zonation was observed in the molecular layer of lobules VII-X in adult rats. The cellular localization of GABAB binding was investigated using lesion techniques. Neither methyl azoxymethanol lesions of cerebellar granule cells nor 3-acetylpyridine lesions of climbing fibers resulted in a decrease in [3H]GABA binding. Homozygote stumbler mutant mice, deficient in Purkinje cell dendrites, had a significant decrease in [3H]GABA binding in the molecular layer. These results suggest that the majority of cerebellar molecular layer GABAB binding sites detected by [3H]GABA autoradiography are located on Purkinje cell dendrites. Examination of [3H]GABA binding to GABAB binding sites during development revealed that binding in the molecular layer peaks between postnatal day 14 and postnatal day 28 and then decreases to adult levels. Transient expression of high levels of GABAB binding was observed in the deep cerebellar nuclei, peaking at postnatal day 3 and decreasing to adult levels by postnatal day 21. Our investigation of GABAB pharmacology yielded data in agreement with previously reported results. We have described a parasagittal pattern of GABAB binding in the cerebellar molecular layer and assigned the majority of cerebellar GABAB binding sites to Purkinje cell dendrites. Finally, development studies reveal transient peaks in GABAB binding in the cerebellar molecular layer and deep cerebellar nuclei.
The responsiveness of neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus to angiotensin II was investigated using extracellular single unit recording techniques in rat brain slices. Bath application of angiotensin II at a concentration of 3 x 10(-7) M for 2-5 min resulted in excitatory responses in 50.4% of 141 paraventricular cells tested. The mean increase in firing rate was 2.12 +/- 0.20 (mean +/- S.E.M.) spikes/s, which represents a mean increase in activity of 149.8 +/- 16.5%. Angiotensin II-sensitive neurons usually displayed irregular, phasic, or very slow spontaneous activity, with the majority of these neurons located in the magnocellular region. Under physiological blockade of synaptic transmission with low Ca2+/high Mg2+ medium, neuronal responses to this peptide remained in 12 (92.3%) of 13 cells tested. Application of three successive doses of angiotensin II ranging from 3 x 10(-9)-3 x 10(-7) M showed that neuronal responses were dose-dependent with an estimated threshold of 10(-8) M. In comparison with angiotensin III, angiotensin II not only stimulated more paraventricular cells, but usually induced larger excitatory responses. Angiotensin II subtype 1 receptor antagonist losartan completely blocked angiotensin II responsiveness in each of 14 paraventricular cells tested whereas PD 123319, an angiotensin II subtype 2 receptor antagonist, exhibited a partial inhibitory effect in about one half of another 13 cells. In addition, single unit in vitro subfornical organ recordings demonstrate that angiotensin II evokes greater excitatory responses than in the paraventricular nucleus and that these effects are abolished by losartan application. These results support the hypothesis that within both the paraventricular nucleus and subfornical organ angiotensin II is a bioactive peptide which modulates neuronal activity and thus may exert significant control over neuroendocrine and autonomic functions.
A preparation of the hindpaw-skin together with the saphenous nerve from the adult rat was maintained in vitro. This was used to characterize the properties of sensory receptors with slowly conducting nerve fibres (C- and A delta) and to evaluate the effects of capsaicin and the capsaicin antagonist, capsazepine. Mechano-heat sensitive C-fibres were the most sensitive to capsaicin (threshold &lt; 0.3 microM) applied to the receptive field. Other types of C-fibres were less sensitive (mechano-cold sensitive fibres threshold 1 microM) or insensitive (high- and low-threshold mechano-sensitive fibres). Mechano-heat and mechano-cold sensitive A delta-receptors were also activated by capsaicin but high- and low-threshold mechano-sensitive A delta-fibres were insensitive to capsaicin (maximum concentration 3 microM). The capsaicin-induced activation of mechano-heat sensitive C-fibres was concentration dependent with an EC50 = 350 nM. Responses to capsaicin, administered at submaximal concentrations were highly reproducible when administrations were separated by 30 min. Administrations at greater frequency reduced responsiveness to capsaicin. This was accompanied by a slowing of conduction velocity or production of a conduction blockade which was reversible after a few minutes. The activation of mechano-heat sensitive C-fibres by capsaicin could be prevented by capsazepine, indicating the involvement of specific capsaicin receptor-sites. These data show that fine afferents in the rat hindpaw-skin retain receptive properties when maintained in vitro. These fibres exhibit differential sensitivity to capsaicin; mechano-heat sensitive C-fibres being the most sensitive. The activation of this class of fibre was mediated via a specific capsaicin-receptor.
We have investigated the effect of intracranial injections of the amnestic anti-metabolite, 2-deoxygalactose, and antibodies to the neural cell adhesion molecule on retention of a one-trial passive avoidance task in chicks. Groups of chicks received bilateral intracranial injections of 10 mumol/hemisphere 2-deoxygalactose or 10 microliters/hemisphere anti-neural cell adhesion molecule and were tested 24 h following training. 2-Deoxygalactose injections were amnestic when administered at a previously established time (30 min pre-training). Here we show that the agent is also amnestic when injected within a second time window occurring specifically 6-8 h after training. Administration of 2-deoxygalactose between 2 and 6 h or after 8 h post-training was without effect on retention tested 24 h following training. Anti-neural cell adhesion molecule injections were amnestic only when performed at a time which coincided with the second phase of 2-deoxygalactose susceptibility. Further experiments demonstrated that the neural cell adhesion molecule is one of the molecules into which 2-deoxygalactose is incorporated. Additionally, we investigated the extent of diffusion of 2-deoxygalactose and anti-neural cell adhesion molecule following their injection, with respect to their residence in forebrain loci known to be involved in the memory for passive avoidance. We interpret these data as indicating that two waves of glycoprotein synthesis are necessary for the establishment of long-term memory for the experience of passive avoidance training. The evidence is discussed in the context of earlier results indicating that the two waves involve different glycoprotein species and, possibly, different forebrain regions. We speculate that the late phase of glycoprotein synthesis coincides with, and is required for, modulation of cell-cell adhesion processes, reflecting the selection and stabilization of synapses which maintain an enduring representation of long-term memory.
In monolayer cultures of hippocampal neurons from newborn rats, an immunocytochemical quantitative study was carried out to investigate age-dependent arrangement of the neural cell adhesion molecules in different parts of cell membranes. On the fifth and 12th day in vitro, neural cell adhesion molecules were labelled with specific antibodies and protein A conjugated to colloidal gold particles. Samples of randomly selected electron micrographs that displayed labelled membrane fragments of cell bodies, growth cones, and axons were numerically analysed for the five- and 12-day in vitro neurons. Neural cell adhesion molecules surface topography was quantitatively described and compared, using a statistical stereological approach. The mean surface density of labelled neural cell adhesion molecules was found to be approximately 2.5 times higher in growth cone membranes relative to somatic and axonal membranes in five-day in vitro neurons. By the 12th day in vitro, this density decreases in somatic membranes (approximately 18%) and increases in axonal membranes (approximately 60%). Representative spectra of lateral intervals between labels as well as images that show typical topography of label on membrane surfaces were simulated. The results revealed regular patterns of neural cell adhesion molecules on the somatic surface and allowed consideration of neural cell adhesion molecules arrangement in a view of membrane adhesion properties. Participation of cytoskeleton in neural cell adhesion molecules rearrangement is discussed.
Neurotransmitters and growth factors can trigger activation of a newly described family of mitogen-activated protein kinases. To help define the role of this kinase family in signal transduction in the nervous system, we have conducted immunohistochemical studies to localize p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase in rat brain sections. Light-microscopic studies revealed staining in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites that is particularly prominent in superficial layers of the neocortex, the hippocampal CA3 region and dentate gyrus, as well as cerebellar Purkinje cells. Discrete staining of oligodendrocytes was also apparent in fiber tracts, indicating expression of p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase in both neuronal and glial cell types. Electron-microscopic studies demonstrated that staining in dendrites is closely associated with microtubules. In the cell bodies, prominent staining was associated with the Golgi apparatus. In contrast, immunolabeling of synaptic terminals was not detected. Previous studies have demonstrated that p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase responds to neuronal stimulation. Immunohistochemical studies presented in this paper demonstrate prominent staining for this kinase in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites. Therefore, this kinase is likely to play a key role in postsynaptic signal transduction. As both p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase and microtubule-associated protein 2, an in vitro substrate of p42 mitogen-activated kinase, are associated with dendritic microtubules, this kinase may mediate effects of growth factors or neurotransmitters on the dendritic cytoskeleton.
The microspectrophotometric technique allows a direct in vivo measurement of brain extracellular acetylcholinesterase. An optical probe associated with electrodes for stimulation was implanted in striatum of anaesthetized rats to determine the effects of neuronal excitation on the acetylcholinesterase activity. Electrical stimulations induced a reversible increase in acetylcholinesterase activity of about 30 to 50%, with a recovery to baseline occurring after 1 or 2 h. Furthermore, iterative electrical stimulation induced a progressive fading of this phenomenon. An enhancement of acetylcholinesterase activity was also observed by stimulations with potassium injections through a canal of the probe. These results suggest mainly an intracellular origin of the released enzyme and estimate its contribution at about 40% of the whole extracellular enzyme activity.
The effect of pargyline on dopamine neurotransmission was investigated by trans-striatal microdialysis combined with Fos immunohistochemistry. Pargyline, 75 mg/kg i.p., increased dopamine and acetylcholine output while drastically decreased dopamine deaminated metabolites. Administration of pargyline resulted in the appearance of Fos-positive nuclei distributed along a gradient around the dialysis probe. Pretreatment with the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 potentiated the effect of pargyline on dopamine output while preventing that on acetylcholine output and on Fos formation. Similarly, lack of calcium in the perfusion medium abolished the effect of pargyline on dopamine and acetylcholine output and on Fos formation. In rats not implanted with dialysis probes pargyline administration resulted in only rare Fos-positive nuclei in the dorsal caudate. The present study indicates that pargyline stimulates dopamine transmission in the dorsal caudate in the area around the dialysis probe but not distant from the fibre or in unimplanted rats. This effect appears to reflect an interaction between the drug-induced changes and those locally elicited by the probe.
This study demonstrates that gonadal steroids (estradiol, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone) can regulate the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the adult male rat brain. Previously, we showed that castration of adult male rats increased glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA in the hippocampus and that this increase was additive with the increase induced by deafferenting entorhinal cortex lesions [Day et al. (1990) Molec. Endocr. 4, 1995-2002 . We extended these effects of castration and entorhinal cortex lesion to glial fibrillary acidic protein, using immunoassays. Furthermore, we found regional differences in responses to castration and inhibited by sex steroids. In contrast, hypothalamic glial fibrillary acidic protein expression was inhibited by castration. Similar regional differences were also shown for astrocyte glial fibrillary acidic protein distribution by immunocytochemistry. The regional specificity of glial fibrillary acidic protein expression after castration and sex steroid replacement is pertinent to the role of astrocytes in synaptic plasticity in unlesioned adults as well as in responses to lesions where the steroid milieu has been shown to influence sprouting.
Central type I and type II corticosteroid receptors play a principle role in the regulation of corticosterone secretion. Although the binding capacity of these receptors is thought to be regulated essentially hormonally, there is also evidence for a direct neural control. For example, experimental manipulation of central serotoninergic and noradrenergic activities modifies the binding capacity of type I and type II corticosteroid receptors via a corticosterone-independent mechanism. In this study, we tested the effect of lesions of dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area on corticosteroid receptor binding capacity. The study was performed in adrenalectomized rats whose corticosterone levels were maintained within normal limits by corticosterone pellets and corticosterone in their drinking water during the dark period to generate the circadian rhythm. Binding properties of corticosteroid receptors were analysed in target regions of the lesioned neurons, including the ventral and dorsal striatum. Corticosteroid receptors in the hippocampus were also studied as a control as these lesions do not significantly affect dopamine content in this structure. Three weeks after the lesion, type II corticosteroid receptor affinity was increased in the ventral striatum. There was no effect on receptors in the dorsal striatum or hippocampus. Our results, together with other reports showing that dopamine inhibits the expression of corticosteroid receptors in the anterior pituitary, suggest that dopamine transmission exerts a negative control on central corticosteroid receptors.
The nucleus submedius in the medial thalamus has been known to receive spinothalamic and trigeminothalamic fibers, and to contain neurons which can be activated by noxious stimuli. These previous findings suggest that the nucleus submedius may be involved in the processing and relay of pain-related information. In the present study, we immunohistochemically observed in the rat and cat that the nucleus submedius was distributed with a considerable amount of serotoninergic fibers. After iontophoretic injection of cholera toxin B subunit into the nucleus submedius, the sequential double-antigen immunofluorescence histochemistry for retrogradely transported cholera toxin B subunit and serotonin revealed that the serotoninergic fibers to the nucleus submedius arose mainly from the dorsal raphe nucleus, and additionally from the ventrolateral and medial parts of the midbrain periaqueductal gray. The direct projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the nucleus submedius were confirmed by anterograde axonal tracing after iontophoretic injection of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin into the dorsal raphe nucleus. The disappearance of almost all serotoninergic fibers in the nucleus submedius was also observed after destruction of the dorsal raphe nucleus. The fluorescent retrograde double-labeling with Diamidino Yellow and Fast Blue further revealed that some neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus projecting directly to the nucleus submedius sent their axon collaterals to the ventrolateral orbital region of the cerebral cortex, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, nucleus raphe magnus, caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus, or spinal cord. The possible roles of the serotoninergic projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the nucleus submedius in pain control and/or the olfactolimbic functions are discussed.
In the present study, we have investigated the effects of an activation of the ascending serotonergic pathway on the cerebral blood supply to a number (63) of well-defined neuroanatomical structures. To this end, we have measured the local cerebral blood flow during electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus. Measurement of regional blood flow was performed in the conscious rat through the use of the [14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiographic technique. Stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus induced increases (&gt; 15% compared to control) in cerebral blood flow in 17 structures of which statistical significance (P &lt; 0.05) was achieved in nine; raphe stimulation significantly decreased flow in three regions. The greatest increases (+71 and +46%) were found in the frontal sensorimotor and posterior parietal cortices. Other increases were noted in relay stations of the extrapyramidal and limbic systems. Stimulation induced a decrease in two regions of the primary auditory system and in the lateral habenular nucleus. These results show that activation of the serotonergic pathway in the conscious rat effects regional cerebral blood flow heterogeneously, differing from the widespread increase in glucose utilization that we previously observed using the same experimental paradigm. Statistical analyses indicated that activation of the dorsal raphe nucleus resulted in a global modification of the flow-metabolism ratio. Moreover, in 19 out of 31 regions analysed, this ratio is significantly altered as compared to control. The dichotomy between raphe-induced changes in flow and glucose-metabolism could be explained by one or both of two hypotheses; firstly there could be a direct serotonergic innervation of cerebral resistance vessels; secondly, during raphe stimulation it could be that glucose use is not the primary determinant of tissue perfusion.
Embryonic striatal grafts transplanted into excitotoxin-damaged host striatum develop a heterogeneous structure in which some regions resemble striatum but others do not. In the experiments reported here, we tested for the possibility that the regions resembling striatum were actually derived from host neurons that migrated into the grafts, rather than being derived from donor cells. We placed embryonic striatal grafts into host brains in which striatal cells had been multiply pulse-labeled with [3H]thymidine. Four groups of host rats were exposed to [3H]thymidine at embryonic days 12 and 13-15, 15-18, 16-19, or 20 to postnatal day 1, and were allowed to reach maturity. One week prior to grafting, lesions of the caudoputamen were made unilaterally in each host rat by injecting ibotenic acid. At grafting, dissociated cells from embryonic days 14-16 rat striatal primordia were injected bilaterally into the host caudoputamen. The locations of [3H]thymidine-labeled neurons were analysed by autoradiography eight to 16.5 months post-grafting. Despite the presence of many intensely labeled neurons in the host striatum of rats in all four groups, intensely labeled neurons were rarely found in the cores of grafts. A few weakly labeled small cells appeared in the graft cores, and occasional strongly or weakly labeled medium-sized cells appeared at the margins of the graft zones. Some perivascular cells associated with blood vessels in the grafts were also weakly labeled, but the gliotic tissue surrounding the graft zones was not labeled. These results suggest that very few host striatal neurons migrate into the cores of intrastriatal grafts, or that, if they do, such neurons return to the host striatum or do not survive. At most, surviving host striatal neurons have limited spatial interactions with donor cells at the margins of the grafts, both in the damaged and in the intact host striatal environment. These observations, combined with our previous finding that [3H]thymidine-labeled cells derived from embryonic day 15 striatal primordia do not appear in the host striatum, indicate that no extensive mutual migrations of striatal donor neurons and host neurons occur in the zones of grafting.
Acetylcholine release in the frontal cortex of awake rats after acute or chronic lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and grafting of cholinergic-rich basal forebrain tissue was studied by in vivo microdialysis. Three to four weeks and five months after a unilateral quisqualic acid lesion of the nucleus basalis, and five months after lesion and cortical implantation of a basal forebrain cell suspension, acetylcholine release was characterized during a range of pharmacological and behavioural manipulations. Neostigmine (5 microM) was added to the perfusion fluid in order to inhibit the degradation of acetylcholine. The extracellular levels of acetylcholine in normal animals increased three- to four-fold when KCl (100 mM) was added to the perfusion medium and was reduced by 80% after addition of tetrodotoxin (1 microM). The nucleus basalis lesion resulted in a 60% reduction in baseline acetylcholine levels compared to normal and the response to KCl-evoked depolarization was significantly reduced. There were no differences between the acute and chronic lesion groups during any of the manipulations performed. Rats with grafts showed baseline levels of acetylcholine about 70% higher than normal, and responded to both KCl (two-fold increased acetylcholine release) and tetrodotoxin (85% reduced levels). All groups showed lower acetylcholine levels during halothane anaesthesia (on average 70-85% reduction). Sensory stimulation by handling resulted in a two-fold increase in acetylcholine release in normal animals, whereas the absolute responses in the lesioned controls were significantly weaker. Rats with grafts increased their acetylcholine release after handling to an extent not different to normal or lesioned controls. Immobilization stress induced an almost two-fold increase in cortical acetylcholine levels in normal rats, whereas the effect in the lesion-only groups was very weak. The grafts responded to the immobilization with an enhanced acetylcholine overflow that was significantly higher than in lesioned controls. The results showed that the reduction in frontocortical acetylcholine release induced by excitotoxic lesions of the nucleus basalis did not recover spontaneously over several months. Intracortical cholinergic-rich grafts obtained from the fetal basal forebrain provided a source of acetylcholine release with firing-dependent properties which could be modulated by behaviourally stressful stimuli. The ability of the grafts to respond to behavioural manipulation strongly suggests that the host brain can functionally influence graft neuronal activity during ongoing behaviour. Host control of graft activity may play a role in the recovery of the lesion-induced deficits seen with these types of grafts.
Extracellular space volume fraction, tortuosity and nonspecific uptake of tetramethylammonium--three diffusion parameters of brain tissue--were measured in gray matter of the somatosensory neocortex and subcortical white matter of the rat during postnatal development. The three parameters were determined from concentration-time profiles of tetramethylammonium in postnatal days 2-120 in vivo. Tetramethylammonium concentration was measured with ion-selective microelectrodes positioned 130-200 microns from an iontophoretic source. Data were correlated with cytoarchitectonic structure and average thickness of the regions in 0-90-day-old rats using rapidly frozen tissue. Extracellular space volume fraction was largest in the newborn rats and diminished with age. In two-to three-day-old animals, volume fraction (mean +/- S.E.) was 0.36 +/- 0.04 in layers III and IV, 0.38 +/- 0.02 in layer V, 0.41 +/- 0.01 in layer VI and 0.46 +/- 0.01 in white matter. The earliest decrease in volume fraction was found in layers V and VI at postnatal days 6-7 followed by a decrease in layer III and IV at postnatal days 8-9 and in white matter at postnatal days 10-11. A further dramatic reduction in volume fraction occurred in all cortical layers and especially in the white matter between postnatal days 10 and 21. There was no further decrease in volume fraction between postnatal day 21 and adults (90-120 days old). The adult volume fraction values were: layer II, 0.19 +/- 0.002; III, 0.20 +/- 0.004; IV, 0.21 +/- 0.003; V, 0.22 +/- 0.003; VI, 0.23 +/- 0.007; white matter, 0.20 +/- 0.008. Values of tortuosity ranged between 1.51 and 1.65, nonspecific cellular uptake varied from 3.3 x 10(-3)/s to 6.3 x 10(-3)/s. The variations in each parameter were not statistically significant at any age. These data represent the first characterization of diffusion parameters in a developing brain. They confirm previous histological indications of a relatively large extracellular volume fraction during early postnatal development. The constancy of the tortuosity shows that diffusion of small molecules is no more hindered in the developing brain than in the adult. The large extracellular space volume fraction of the neonatal brain could significantly dilute ions, metabolites and neuroactive substances released from cells, relative to release in adults, and may be a factor in preventing anoxia, seizure and spreading depression in young animals. The diffusion characteristics could also play an important role in the developmental process itself.
The electrotonic structure of lobster olfactory receptor cells was evaluated using general purpose simulation software in a compartmental model derived from electron-microscopic reconstruction. The model with non-uniform membrane resistance (Rm) was used to (i) simulate current spread and (ii) determine if the electronic structure of the cell improves signal recognition in the soma. The odor-evoked conductance change in dendrites was calculated according to the Michaelis-Menten equation with the assumption that the outer dendritic segments function as independent stimulus detectors. The inflection point of the concentration-response function measured in the soma was shifted to lower concentrations relative to that measured in the ciliary (outer dendritic) arbor. The shift, which was greater for inputs with lower efficacy (represented in the model by smaller Hill coefficients) and for the dynamic phase of the response than for the steady-state phase, effectively increased the selectivity of the somatic response. Randomized input distributed uniformly to progressively more restricted areas of the ciliary arbor showed that stimulation of larger areas (presumably the entire ciliary arbor) decreased the statistical variability of the somatic response.
The indole alkaloids ibogaine and harmaline are beta-carboline derivatives that cause both hallucinations and tremor. Reports that ibogaine may have potent anti-addictive properties have led to initiatives that it be tested for the treatment of opiate and cocaine addiction. In this study, ibogaine-treated rats were analysed for evidence of neurotoxic effects because human clinical trials of ibogaine have been proposed. We recently found that ibogaine induces a marked glial reaction in the cerebellum with activated astrocytes and microglia aligned in parasagittal stripes within the vermis. Based on those findings, the present study was conducted to investigate whether ibogaine may cause neuronal injury or degeneration. The results demonstrate that, after treatment with ibogaine or harmaline, a subset of Purkinje cells in the vermis degenerates. We observed a loss of the neuronal proteins microtubule-associated protein 2 and calbindin co-extensive with loss of Nissl-stained Purkinje cell bodies. Argyrophilic staining of Purkinje cell bodies, dendrites and axons was obtained with the Gallyas reduced silver method for degenerating neurons. Degenerating neurons were confined to narrow parasagittal stripes within the vermis. We conclude that both ibogaine and harmaline have selective neurotoxic effects which lead to degeneration of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar vermis. The longitudinal stripes of neuronal damage may be related to the parasagittal organization of the olivocerebellar climbing fiber projection. Since these drugs produce sustained activation of inferior olivary neurons, we hypothesize that release of an excitatory amino acid from climbing fiber synaptic terminals may lead to excitotoxic degeneration of Purkinje cells.
Applying quantitative microscopic histochemistry, the activity of acetylcholinesterase was determined in the various layers of the rat hippocampus at three different levels along the rostrocaudal extent. Two age groups of animals were examined: young adults (two to three months old) and aged subjects (26 months old). Young adults were divided into controls, and animals killed eight and 35 days following bilateral ibotenate lesioning of the medial septum-diagonal band complex. Aged rats were divided into controls and animals 35 days post-lesion. Analysis of variance revealed that the mean acetylcholinesterase activities of the entire hippocampus of individuals were not significantly different between young and aged rats when averaged across controls and 35 days post-lesion. There was a significant decrease of acetylcholinesterase activity (-52%) in young adults eight days post-lesion as compared to controls, but a significant increase (+63%) took place until 35 days post-lesion as compared to eight days post-lesion. Significantly lower activities existed, however, in young (-22%) and aged rats (-18%) 35 days post-lesion as compared to controls. This decrease in mean activity was not age dependent. As acetylcholinesterase is considered to be a good cholinergic indicator in the hippocampus, the results suggest a homotypic collateral sprouting from spared cholinergic afferents following ibotenate lesion of the medial septum-diagonal band complex in young and aged rats. Based on the data obtained, it is reasonable to assume that there was no difference in the post-lesional plasticity of neuronal acetylcholinesterase between young adult and aged rats.
Apolipoprotein E is synthesized and secreted by astrocytes in the hippocampus following lesions of the entorhinal cortex. It was proposed that apolipoprotein E, by analogy to its role in cholesterol transport in circulation, could be involved in the salvage and reutilization of non-esterified cholesterol released during terminal breakdown. The salvaged cholesterol could then be transported to neurons by apolipoprotein E-complexes and taken up via the apolipoprotein E/apolipoprotein B (low-density lipoprotein) receptor. To test this hypothesis, we have examined low-density lipoprotein receptor binding in brain sections of rats undergoing hippocampal reinnervation. The number of neuronal cells labelled by fluorescent Dil-low-density lipoprotein as well as the density of [125I]low-density lipoprotein binding sites in the dentate gyrus were found to increase in parallel with the extent of cholinergic reinnervation occurring in the deafferented hippocampus. In contrast, hippocampal cholesterol synthesis fell by more than 60% at eight days post-lesion, but eventually returned to control levels at 30 days post-lesion. The transient loss of cholesterol synthesis coincided with a peak in hippocampal apolipoprotein E expression. A concomitant accumulation of sudanophilic lipids (cholesterol esters and phospholipids) was detected in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and in the hilar region. The present findings suggest that non-esterified cholesterol released during terminal breakdown is esterified, transported via the apolipoprotein E transport system to neurons undergoing reinnervation, and take-up through the low-density lipoprotein receptor pathway where it is presumably used as a precursor molecule for the synthesis of new synapses and terminals.
The hippocampus can be induced by deafferentation to selectively reorganize its neuronal input. Entorhinal cortex lesion, which causes degeneration of the perforant pathway, evokes sprouting of septal afferents as well as glutamatergic commissural/associational fibers in the deafferentated zone of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Although the process of reactive synaptogenesis that follows deafferentation has been extensively studied, at present little is known about its molecular basis and the mechanism of initiation. In this study, following unilateral lesion of the entorhinal cortex, the time-course of possible alterations of insulin-like growth factors I and II, and insulin binding sites were evaluated by in vitro quantitative receptor autoradiography. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor I receptor binding sites did not exhibit any significant variation between the contralateral and ipsilateral hippocampal formation at any time periods following lesion except in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (P &lt; 0.05) at day 8. However, when compared with the unlesioned animals, a differential time-dependent response of [125I]insulin-like growth factor I binding sites was noted in selective layers of the hippocampus. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor II receptor binding sites showed a significant decrease (P &lt; 0.05) in the ipsilateral granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus only at day 14 post lesion. Interestingly, compared to controls, a dramatic bilateral increase (P &lt; 0.05) in [125I]insulin-like growth factor II binding was evident between days 1 and 8 in most layers of the hippocampal formation. A lesion-induced bilateral increase (P &lt; 0.05) in [125I]insulin binding sites was evident in all layers of the hippocampus between two to eight days and at 30 days post lesion. In selective layers, however, a significant increase (P &lt; 0.05) in [125I]insulin binding sites was also observed at days 1 and 14 after lesion. These results, which are compatible with the process of degeneration and/or sprouting of the terminal fibers, suggest possible involvement of insulin-like growth factors and insulin in the sequence of molecular events that occur to facilitate neuronal repair and to promote neuronal survival following entorhinal cortex lesion.
Parvalbumin immunoreactivity is examined in the hippocampus of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) in controls and in animals subjected to 20 min of forebrain ischaemia produced by bilateral clipping of the carotids. In comparison with other species, the hippocampus of the gerbil is characterized by strong immunoreactivity of the (presumably excitatory) perforant pathway, and weak immunoreactivity (low numbers of neurons and scarce dendritic arbors) in nonpyramidal nerve cells (inhibitory neurons) of the CA1 area. These properties may play some role in the development and maintenance of seizures in this susceptible species. Parvalbumin immunoreactivity is rapidly and ephemerally increased in the hippocampus 15 min after reperfusion. Later on, there is a transitory decrease of parvalbumin immunoreactivity which is followed by an increase 6 h later in the stratum granulare hilus and CA3 area, and not until the first and second days in the CA1 area. This increase significantly surpasses the number of immunoreactive neurons in control animals in CA1 and CA3 from 48 h after reperfusion onwards. The effect is similar using different anaesthetics and does not occur in sham-operated animals. In contrast with these findings, the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the somatosensory cortex is not affected in our model of forebrain ischaemia. On the other hand, GABA-immunoreactive neurons in CA1 are preserved during the first week after reperfusion, although an increase in the number of these cells occurs at the end of this period. Delayed neuronal death occurs in the CA1 area 48 h after ischaemia, and marked reduction in the number of CA1 neurons is found by the end of the first week. Eighty per cent of the remaining cells in CA1 at day 7, and 83% at day 15, are parvalbumin-immunoreactive nonpyramidal neurons in contrast to 3% parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells in control animals. These findings indicate that GABAergic neurons in CA1 are preserved after forebrain ischaemia, and that parvalbumin in CA1 neurons is associated with survival.
We have compared the ability of Mller cells and astrocytes to induce the formation of barrier properties in blood vessels. Mller cells cultured from the rabbit retina, and astrocytes and meningeal cells cultured from the rat cerebral cortex, were injected into the anterior chamber of the rat eye, where they formed aggregates on the iris. We have examined the barrier properties of the vessels in those aggregates and, for comparison, the barrier properties of vessels in the retina, ciliary processes and iris. Two tracers were perfused intravascularly to test barrier properties. The movement of Evans Blue was assessed by light microscopy, and the movement of horseradish peroxidase by light and electron microscopy. Our results indicate that Mller cells share the ability of astrocytes to induce the formation of barrier properties by vascular endothelial cells, and we suggest that Mller cells play a major role in the formation of barrier properties in retinal vessels.
Peptide YY immunoreactivity was detected in neuronal elements in the upper digestive tract of the rat, cat, ferret and pig by immunocytochemistry and radioimmunoassay combined with high-performance liquid chromatography. The two peptide YY antisera used do not recognize the related peptides neuropeptide Y and pancreatic polypeptide. In the rat peptide YY-immunoreactive nerve fibres were virtually restricted to the stomach smooth muscle of the minor curvature where they were numerous. Peptide YY-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies occurred in small ganglia on the serosal surface of the minor curvature. In the cat and ferret peptide YY-immunoreactive nerve fibres occurred in the circular smooth muscle layer of both the minor and major curvatures of the stomach and also in the upper small intestine; such fibres were numerous also in myenteric ganglia in these regions. In the pig, they were few but had roughly the same distribution as in the cat and ferret, except that they were quite numerous in thick muscle bundles close to the oesophagogastric junction. The presence of peptide YY-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies within the myenteric ganglia along the upper digestive tract of cat, ferret and pig, and in serosal ganglia of the rat stomach, indicates that at least some of the peptide YY-immunoreactive fibres demonstrated originate in or close to the gut wall. Double-staining experiments revealed that virtually all peptide YY-containing neurons and nerve fibres were distinct from those storing neuropeptide Y. Peptide YY-immunoreactive endocrine cells were encountered not only in the lower intestines but also in the stomach of the four species studied. In the antrum such cells were numerous and constituted a subpopulation of the gastrin-containing cells. In the oxyntic mucosa they were few and contained somatostatin. Radioimmunoassay revealed peptide YY-like peptides in gastric mucosa and smooth muscle from the upper digestive tract of all four species examined. The results of high-performance liquid chromatography suggest that the peptide YY-like material in the upper digestive tract is distinct from neuropeptide Y and pancreatic polypeptide and identical with authentic peptide YY except in the antral mucosa where only a small proportion of the peptide YY-immunoreactive material eluted like authentic peptide YY.
Autoradiographic techniques revealed that 5-hydroxytryptamine1A, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B and 5-hydroxytryptamine1C/2 binding sites are differentially distributed in the spinal cords of adult male rats. In the dorsal horn, 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites were dense in all laminae; 5-hydroxytryptamine1B sites were more dense in laminae I, III and IV than in lamina II; while 5-hydroxytryptamine1C/2 sites were very sparse. The dorsal commissure gray matter also exhibited very dense 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine1B binding. In the intermediate and central gray matter, all three sites were moderately dense at autonomic levels, with exceptionally dense1C/2 binding restricted to the intermediolateral nucleus at rostral thoracic levels. In the ventral horn, 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine1B sites were very sparse (except for very dense 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites located in the dorsolateral nucleus of the pudendal nerve), while 5-hydroxytryptamine1C/2 sites were relatively dense in motor nuclei. Surprisingly, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B sites were moderately dense in the dorsal column corticospinal tract. These studies will provide an anatomical perspective for interpretation of the complex role of 5-hydroxytryptamine in regulating spinal cord function.
Changes in nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA expression in the rat hippocampus following 20 min of transient forebrain ischemia were evaluated using Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization histochemistry. Twelve hours after the insult, the level of nerve growth factor messenger RNA increased markedly in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus and by day 2 returned to control levels. The level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA showed a persistent and moderate increase. The highest expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was seen in the dentate granule cells on day 2 after the insult, and then the expression returned to the control levels. At 2 days post-ischemia, contents of messenger RNAs for nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor were reduced in the CA1 region, which may represent delayed loss of vulnerable CA1 pyramidal neurons. In contrast to brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor messenger RNA expression, the level of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA declined in the CA1, the CA2 and the dentate granular layer immediately after ischemic insult. In the CA1 region, the reduced expression persisted for at least seven days, but in the dentate gyrus, neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA expression returned to the control levels after two days of post-ischemic recovery. These results suggest that nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 genes are differentially regulated and that each of their gene products may play different roles in the central nervous system under pathophysiological conditions.
The serotonergic innervation of the adult and developing lateral septum of the rat was studied with immunocytochemical techniques at the light and electron microscopic levels. A few, relatively thick serotonergic fibres are found in the lateral septum at the time of birth, but they are restricted to its medial part. They subsequently extend towards the lateral ventricle, increase in number and attain their final distribution pattern by the end of the first postnatal week. Thereafter they become finer, with regularly spaced varicosities, show a higher density, and generally exhibit features, density, and pattern of innervation comparable to the adult at the end of the third postnatal week. In the dorsal portion of the lateral septum, serotonergic fibres form characteristic pericellular basket-like arrangements around cell somata and their primary dendrites. These baskets are first observed at P7, and subsequently increase both in number and in terms of the number of serotonergic terminals which they comprise. The present findings suggest that the development of serotonergic innervation of the lateral septum parallels the neuronal differentiation in this area. Ultrastructural analysis has shown that the vast majority (congruent to 95%) of serotonin varicosities make symmetrical synapses with somata, dendritic shafts and spines. These varicosities in new-born animals are in close association with neuronal elements, without any intervening neuroglial processes, but towards the end of the first postnatal week they exhibit well-defined synaptic specializations. The mean diameter of serotonergic varicosities making synapses does not change substantially with age. Serotonin-receptive neurons have several morphological features in common with the type I cells described in a previous Golgi study of the lateral septum [Alonso and Frotscher (1989) J. comp. Neurol. 286, 472-487]. Some speculations on the chemical identity of the serotonin-receptive cells have been put forward in the present study but double-labelling studies will certainly shed more light on the organization of the serotonergic innervation of the lateral septum.
The brain metabolite kynurenic acid is an established broad-spectrum antagonist at ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptors. In the human brain, two distinct enzymes are capable of synthesizing kynurenic acid from its bioprecursor L-kynurenine. Using [3H]kynurenine as the substrate, the two kynurenine aminotransferases (kynurenine aminotransferase I and kynurenine aminotransferase II) are now characterized using partially purified enzyme preparations. When assayed at its pH optimum of 10.0, kynurenine aminotransferase I showed pronounced oxo acid specificity (pyruvate &gt; 2-oxoglutarate). This co-substrate selectivity was lost when assays were performed at pH 7.4. Kynurenine aminotransferase I activity was potently inhibited by 2 mM glutamine, tryptophan or phenylalanine, but not by 2 mM alpha-aminoadipate or glutamate. In contrast to kynurenine aminotransferase I, kynurenine aminotransferase II showed a shallow pH curve with an optimum of about 7.4, displayed virtually equal activity with all of the nine 2-oxo acids tested and was not susceptible to inhibition by any of 10 amino acids (2 mM) which are known to serve as substrates for enzymatic transamination. Kinetic analyses, performed at pH 7.4 (kynurenine aminotransferases I and II) and 10.0 (kynurenine aminotransferase I), and using various concentrations of kynurenine, pyruvate or 2-oxoglutarate, respectively, substantiated the differences between the two enzymes and further elucidated the pH dependence of kynurenine aminotransferase I activity [apparent Km values for kynurenine with 1 mM 2-oxoglutarate: 515 microM (pH 7.4) and 22 microM (pH 10.0)]. Taken together, these data suggest that under physiological conditions, human brain kynurenic acid may derive preferentially from kynurenine aminotransferase II.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase messenger RNA expression was studied at cellular level by in situ hybridization, using a 35S-labelled complementary DNA probe homologous to human copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase messenger RNA, in the dopaminergic neuron-containing areas of the human mesencephalon (the substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area, central gray substance and peri- and retrorubral region corresponding to catecholaminergic cell group A8). The autoradiographic labelling signal was localized in neurons. No detectable hybridization signal could be found in the glial cells. Copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase messenger RNA was detected in melanin-containing neurons as well as in non-melanized neurons. Quantification at cellular level, taking the autoradiographic silver grain density as an index of the abundance of copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase messenger RNA, indicated that hybridization level was higher in the melanized than in the non-melanized neurons within a region. Among melanized neurons, cellular copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase messenger RNA content was lowest in the neurons of the substantia nigra. No significant difference in levels of transcripts was evidenced between the groups of non-melanized neurons. The data suggest that the abundance of copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase messenger RNA is higher in the mesencephalic neurons containing neuromelanin compared to other neurons. Thus, the melanized neurons have a particular defence system against oxygen toxicity, which may represent a basis for their preferential vulnerability to Parkinson's disease.
Intracellular recordings and hybrid single-microelectrode voltage-clamp techniques were used to study the ionic mechanisms underlying the afterdepolarization and the subsequent slow afterhyperpolarization that followed a single action potential in layers V/VI neurons of the guinea-pig anterior cingulate cortex in in vitro slices. Both the afterdepolarization and afterhyperpolarization were markedly suppressed in size by addition of Co2+ or Cd2+, reduction in extracellular Ca2+, and intracellular EGTA injection. On the other hand, elevation of extracellular Ca2+ concentration augmented the amplitudes of the afterpotentials. The afterdepolarization amplitude was selectively depressed by the stilbene derivatives, 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonate, disodium 3H2O, and 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid, disodium salt. Reduction in external Cl- and intracellular Cl- injection enhanced the afterdepolarization amplitude without affecting the afterhyperpolarization. The null potentials for the afterdepolarizations recorded with K acetate- and Cs acetate-electrodes were -68 and -63 mV, respectively. The slope of the null potential obtained with K acetate electrodes or Cs acetate electrodes was 49 and 53 mV, respectively, per log unit of the external Cl- concentration. Reduction in external K+ markedly depressed the afterdepolarization and augmented the afterhyperpolarization in size, whereas rise in external K+ markedly augmented the afterdepolarization and depressed the afterhyperpolarization. The null potential for the afterhyperpolarization recorded with K acetate electrodes was -94 mV. The slope of the null potential was 57 mV per log unit of the external K+ concentration. Reduction in extracellular Na+ concentration slightly depressed both the amplitudes of the afterdepolarization and afterhyperpolarization. A hybrid voltage-clamp analysis revealed a slow decaying inward current and a subsequent outward current that followed an action potential. Both the amplitudes of the inward current corresponding to afterdepolarization and the outward current corresponding to afterhyperpolarization were suppressed by addition of Co2+. Reduction in extracellular Cl- concentration augmented the inward current amplitude without significantly affecting the outward current. These results indicate that the afterdepolarization is mainly due to an increase in a Ca(2+)-activated Cl- conductance, while the afterhyperpolarization is mainly generated by an activation of Ca(2+)-mediated K+ conductance.
Tissue distribution and intracellular localization of dynamin by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry is investigated in this study. Dynamin was widely expressed in all the neurons we examined, and was especially abundant in the central nervous system after maturation, although its expression presented regional heterogeneity. Dynamin was present most abundantly in cerebellar Purkinje cells and hippocampal pyramidal cells, and to a lesser extent in motor neurons and peripheral nerves. However, dynamin was nearly absent in cells such as anterior pituitary cells and adrenal medullary cells which secrete mainly dense cored vesicles. Dynamin was localized not only in cell bodies, axons, and synapses but also in dendrites. Subcellular fractionation indicated that dynamin existed in the membrane fraction as well as in the soluble fraction. In ligated peripheral nerves, dynamin colocalized with tubulovesicular membranous organelles transported mainly anterogradely. By transfection of dynamin cDNA into mouse fibroblast L-cells, we showed it colocalized with some membranous organelles but not with microtubules. Our results show that dynamin is associated with membranous organelles in vivo, although a certain amount of dynamin also exists in the soluble fraction and is distributed diffusely throughout mature neurons. The data suggest that dynamin's fundamental role involves membrane trafficking in neurons in the central nervous system rather than in sliding microtubules as a motor protein.
The distribution of binding sites for an antibody against ecto-5'-nucleotidase was investigated in the mouse hippocampus by light microscopical immunocytochemistry. The antibody selectively labels a band corresponding to the innervation area of mossy fibre terminals within area CA3. Area CA1 as well as the dendate gyrus are negative. In area CA3 only the proximal but not the distal parts of the apical dendrites of pyramidal cells are labelled. Labelling is in the form of large dots around dendrites of pyramidal cells suggesting that mossy fibre terminals are immunopositive. In contrast, an antibody against the ubiquitous synaptic vesicle protein SV2 labels the large mossy fibre terminals as well as fine and punctate structures in the dendritic and somatic regions throughout the hippocampus. Labelled astrocytes can be found in the entire hippocampus and are frequent in the stratum radiatum and stratum oriens of the CA1 region. Immunopositive astrocytic processes can be found in association with capillary walls. Our results suggest that ecto-5'-nucleotidase may play a crucial role in the hydrolysis of AMP to adenosine at the mossy fibre synapses. Thus, at these synapses, 5'-nucleotidases could function both in completing the extracellular hydrolysis of synaptically released ATP as well as in the extracellular formation of adenosine.
Solid cerebellar grafts, taken from normal mouse embryos (gestational day 12-14), were transplanted into the cerebellum of adult Lurcher mice. The degree of Purkinje cell replacement was analysed one to three months after transplantation by means of immunocytochemistry (antibodies against calbindin, cGMP-dependent protein kinase and neurofilament proteins) and electron microscopy. Grafted Purkinje cells succeed in moving out of the graft and migrate into the host cerebellar cortex. They are present next to the graft in the granule cell and molecular layers, and far from the graft remnant, only in the molecular layer, indicating that, although both layers subserve Purkinje cell migration, the molecular layer is the ultimate target. In the host molecular layer, axons of transplanted Purkinje cells form thick bundles running in the frontal plane over long distances. Most of them terminate in the upper granule cell layer by enlarged bulbs resembling collapsed growth cones. Axons reaching their normal targets (the neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei) are observed only in cases where the granule cell layer is disrupted and/or grafted Purkinje cells remain in the white matter. The projection is massive only from grafts lying in the close vicinity of the target neurons. Electron-microscopic analysis of grafted Purkinje cells populating the host cerebellar cortex reveals that their synaptic investment is abnormal. In the molecular layer, where the normal inputs are reduced, the compartmentation in proximal and distal dendritic segments is severely affected, climbing fibre synapses only form on a minority of grafted cells and &quot;pinceau&quot; formations are absent. In the granule cell layer, the synaptic investment is similar to that of Purkinje cells in agranular cerebellum, and even heterelogous synapses with mossy fibres have been observed. These results, compared to those previously obtained with grafting experiments in Purkinje cell degeneration mutant mouse, allow us to conclude that: (i) the Purkinje cell-deficient molecular layer of the host, despite its severe atrophy and reactive gliosis, still exerts a positive neurotropism specific for grafted Purkinje cells; (ii) the unlesioned host granule cell layer underlying the molecular layer containing grafted Purkinje cells, even if almost depleted of granule cells, remains an obstacle for the re-establishment of a corticonuclear projection; and (iii) the degree of synaptic integration of grafted Purkinje cells is directly related to the nearby presence of available host axon terminals. Hence, owing to the atrophy of the Lurcher cerebellum, the postgrafting restoration of the cerebellar cortical circuit is much less complete in this mutant.
The effects of steroid hormones on glutamate neurotoxicity were examined in cultured spinal cord neurons. The extent of neuronal damage, produced by glutamate exposure for 15 min, was estimated based on the activity of lactate dehydrogenase released from degenerated neurons to the media during 24 h of post-exposure incubation. This damage was dependent on the glutamate concentrations used. The addition of dexamethasone, a synthetic steroid, in post-exposure media remarkably reduced the extent of damage in a dose-dependent manner. The half effective concentration for the steroid was approximately 0.7 microM, which was in the range of pharmacological concentration. Dexamethasone was effective even when it was added 2 h after glutamate exposure. Some endogenous steroid hormones--aldosterone, progesterone and testosterone--also showed similar neuroprotective effects. However, cholesterol, a precursor of these steroid hormones, had no effect on glutamate neurotoxicity. This direct protective effect on neurons against glutamate neurotoxicity may explain, at least partly, the mechanisms of beneficial effects of steroid hormones on in vivo spinal cord injury.
The effects of inhibition of locus coeruleus neuronal discharge activity on cortical and hippocampal electroencephalographic activity were examined in halothane-anesthetized rats. A combined recording/infusion probe was used to place 35-150-nl infusions of the alpha 2-noradrenergic agonist, clonidine (1 ng/nl) which inhibits locus coeruleus neuronal discharge activity, immediately adjacent to the locus coeruleus. The recording electrode allowed verification and quantification of the electrophysiological effects of these infusions. Simultaneously, electroencephalographic activity was recorded from sites in frontal neocortex and dorsal hippocampus and subjected to power spectrum analyses. Neither cortical nor hippocampal electroencephalographic activity was substantially affected following unilateral locus coeruleus inactivation. In contrast, bilateral clonidine infusions that completely suppressed locus coeruleus neuronal discharge activity in both hemispheres altered cortical and hippocampal electroencephalographic status. The cortical response to bilateral LC inhibition was characterized by a shift from low-amplitude, high-frequency to large-amplitude, slow-wave activity. Additionally, theta-dominated activity in the hippocampus was replaced with mixed frequency activity. The onset of these changes in forebrain electroencephalographic activity was coincident with the complete bilateral inhibition of locus coeruleus neuronal discharge activity. The resumption of pre-infusion electroencephalographic patterns closely followed recovery of locus coeruleus neuronal activity or could be induced with systemic administration of the alpha 2-noradrenergic antagonist, idazoxan. Clonidine infusions placed 800-1200 microns from the locus coeruleus were less effective at inducing a complete suppression of locus coeruleus activity. These infusions either did not completely inhibit locus coeruleus discharge (35 nl infusions), or did so with a longer latency to complete locus coeruleus inhibition and a shorter duration of inhibition (150 nl infusions). Changes in forebrain electroencephalographic activity occurred only following the complete bilateral suppression of locus coeruleus neuronal discharge activity. These electroencephalographic responses closely followed or coincided with the onset of complete bilateral locus coeruleus inhibition and persisted throughout the period during which bilateral LC neuronal discharge activity was completely absent (60-240 min). Recovery of electroencephalographic patterns was coincident with the reappearance of locus coeruleus discharge activity. These results suggest that the clonidine-induced changes in forebrain electroencephalographic activity were dependent on the complete bilateral suppression of locus coeruleus discharge activity, and that under the present experimental conditions the locus coeruleus/noradrenergic system exerts a potent and tonic activating influence on forebrain electroencephalographic state. These results support the hypothesis that this system may be an important modulator of behavioral state and/or state-dependent processes.
Spontaneous spreading depression episodes were studied in CA1 and CA3 areas of immature hippocampal slices (two to 30 days postnatally) during 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) perfusion. Spreading depression occurred in the CA3 area of 34% of all slices tested (two to 30 days postnatally). The duration and frequency of the spreading depression field potentials changed with development. In the CA3 area, their duration decreased from 169 +/- 22 s (n = 17, postnatal days to to 10) to 55 +/- 7 s (n = 10, postnatal days 21-30), their rate of occurrence increased from four episodes per hour (0.0011 +/- 0.0001 Hz, n = 11, postnatal days two to 10) to 6.5 episodes per hour (0.0018 +/- 0.0003 Hz, n = 8, postnatal days 21-30), while their amplitude remained stable (10-30 mV). Spreading depression d.c. potential shift originated closer to CA1 than CA3. Furthermore, spreading depression field potentials had greater magnitude (amplitude and duration) in CA1. Spreading depressions were reversibly blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 3,3-(2-carboxy-piperazine-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonate (CPP, 1-5 microM, n = 15), but were not affected by 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 2-5 microns, n = 11), which is a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. The GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (3-10 microM) initially favored and then blocked spreading depression in 79% of the slices tested (n = 16). In addition, bicuculline impaired spreading depression propagation from CA1 to CA3. 4-Aminopyridine also induced the appearance of other types of spontaneous activity, such as ictal and interictal-like epileptiform discharges. The effects of 3,3-(2-carboxy-piperazine-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonate, 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione and bicuculline on epileptiform activity were opposite to those on spreading depression. Our findings demonstrate that spreading depression can occur as early as two days postnatally and that the characteristics of this phenomenon change with maturation. These results also indicate that 4-aminopyridine-induced spreading depression episodes and epileptiform activity are mediated by the activation of different types of excitatory amino acid receptors. Finally, spreading depression is influenced by blockade of the GABAA receptor.
Injecting 0.5-1.0 microgram of cholera toxin into rat hippocampus induces a chronic epileptic focus which generates interictal discharges and brief epileptic seizures intermittently over the following seven to 10 days. Here we examined the electrophysiological properties of hippocampal slices prepared from these rats three to four days after injection, at the height of the epileptic syndrome. These slices generated epileptic discharges in response to electrical stimulation of afferent pathways. In many cases epileptic discharges occurred spontaneously in the CA3 subregion; these usually lasted &lt; 200 ms, but they could last &lt; 0.6 s. Intracellular recordings from pyramidal layer cells revealed depolarization shifts synchronous with the epileptic field potentials. These depolarization shifts had slow onsets compared with those induced by blocking inhibition with bicuculline (depolarizations started a mean of 57 ms before, and reached 5.2 mV by, the onset of the cholera toxin epileptic field potential, compared with 12 ms and 3.6 mV respectively for 70 microM bicuculline methiodide). Extracellular unit recordings showed that the slow predepolarization seen in the cholera toxin focus was associated with an acceleration of the firing of other pyramidal layer neurons. The epileptic activity in this model cannot be attributed to the loss of synaptic inhibition, because inhibitory postsynaptic potentials could be evoked when the synchronous bursts were blocked by increasing [Ca2+]o from 2 to 8 mM. Observations of monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic currents isolated by application of 20 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, 50 microM DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and 100-200 microM 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-hydroxy-propylsulphonic acid showed a small effect of the toxin only on the time course of the inhibitory postsynaptic current. On the other hand, there were significant changes in the intrinsic properties of individual neurons. The membrane potentials of cells in the cholera toxin focus did not differ from those in slices from rats injected with vehicle solution, but their input resistances were significantly increased. Unlike the other cellular changes in this model, the increase in input resistance was not seen in slices exposed acutely to 1 micrograms/ml cholera toxin for 30 min, suggesting there may be morphological changes in the chronic focus. Action potential accommodation and the slow afterhyperpolarization were depressed in both acute and chronic epileptic tissue, indicating impairments of Ca(2+)- and/or voltage-dependent K+ currents, and we conclude that these provide the most likely basis for cholera toxin epileptogenesis.
We have characterized a high-affinity kainate binding site in in vitro living rat neocortical slices using [3H]kainate. [3H]Kainate labelled at least two binding sites, the higher affinity site with a Kd of 7.1 nM and a Bmax of 71.2 fmol/mg protein. This high-affinity binding site showed a pharmacology consistent with a kainate receptor with competition by kainate and domoic acid, as well as the (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate antagonist 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitroquinoxaline. Increases in cellular depolarization induced by 2-h preincubations in veratridine and glutamate led to a significant 55% average decrease in [3H]kainate binding in adult cortex. Similarly, preincubation in kainate led to a significant average 26% decrease in binding. In both instances, Eadie-Hofstee analysis of saturation binding data revealed that the decreased binding reflected changes in receptor number. At different postnatal ages, increases in cellular depolarization significantly decreased binding (&lt; 20 days postnatal age, -86%; &gt; 60 days, -48%). Kainate treatment also significantly decreased binding at all ages (-64% at &lt; 20 days; &gt; 60 days, -18%), with significant differences noted between ages. These age-dependent effects are unlike those previously described for either N-methyl-D-aspartate [Lanius and Shaw (1992) Anat. Rec. 232, 54(A)] or (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate high affinity receptors [Shaw and Lanius (1992) Devl Brain Res. 68, 225-233].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A focal, unilateral thrombotic stroke was produced in the rat sensorimotor cortex. The time course of expression and localization of the immediate early inducible genes: c-fos, c-jun, zif268; nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the related tyrosine kinase high-affinity receptor (trkB) messenger RNAs were studied by in situ hybridization. The levels of messenger RNAs for c-fos, zif268, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (but not nerve growth factor) and trkB were consistently increased in cortex ipsilaterally to the lesion, while c-jun messenger RNA content was only slightly increased. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was increased from 2 to 18 h following the stroke, mainly in cells having a normal morphological appearance. The trkB messenger RNA displayed temporal and spatial increases similar to brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. The time course and pattern of expression of immediate early inducible gene and trophic factor messenger RNAs did not clearly support a causal relationship between these two families of factors. The observed messenger RNA increases were greatly attenuated by the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive glutamate receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine , but substantially unaffected by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitrosulphanoylbenzoquinoxaline. The results suggest a major contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive glutamate receptor activation to the transcriptionally directed events subsequent to stroke. Future studies should clarify the contribution of these processes to either the progression of neuronal degeneration or the establishment of protective compensatory responses.
The immunohistochemical localization of cyclic GMP was used to determine potential physiological sites of action of nitric oxide in the guinea-pig small intestine and colon. In control tissue, cyclic GMP-immunoreactivity was observed only in macrophages, whose identity was confirmed by double-label experiments using either F4/80, a macrophage-specific antibody, or fluorescein isothiocyanate-labelled dextran injected intravenously. Following exposure to the nitric oxide donor, sodium nitroprusside, cyclic GMP-immunoreactivity was induced in subpopulations of neurons in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of the ileum and colon. In the colon, cyclic GMP-immunoreactivity was induced in 5-10% of myenteric neurons. The cyclic GMP-immunoreactive neurons did not contain nitric oxide synthase. In the ileum, cyclic GMP-immunoreactive neurons comprised about 2% of myenteric neurons and 40% of submucosal neurons; these cyclic GMP-immunoreactive neurons were also immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide, but they did not contain nitric oxide synthase. Interstitial cells between the mesothelium and the longitudinal muscle layer, vascular smooth muscle and vascular pericytes also showed sodium nitroprusside-induced cyclic GMP-immunoreactivity. The interstitial cells of Cajal at the inner surface of the circular muscle layer and the smooth muscle cells of the circular and longitudinal muscle layers showed increases in cyclic GMP-immunoreactivity that varied in extent from animal to animal. The results suggest that nitric oxide could act at several sites in the intestine through the stimulation of guanylyl cyclase.
The distributions of peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres and cell bodies in lumbosacral paravertebral sympathetic ganglia of young cats were analysed with antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide, enkephalin, neurotensin, somatostatin, substance P, galanin, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Fairly dense networks of nerve fibres showing enkephalin-, neurotensin-, somatostatin- or substance P-like immunoreactivity were observed in the ganglia. Double-staining experiments revealed that enkephalin- and somatostatin-immunoreactive nerve fibres preferentially surrounded calcitonin gene-related peptide- and/or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive cell bodies. Neurotensin- and substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres were mainly associated with neurons showing neuropeptide Y and/or galanin-like immunoreactivity. Occasional nerves containing calcitonin gene-related peptide-, galanin-, neuropeptide Y- or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity were observed. These fibres did not seem to have any direct regional distribution within the ganglia. In kittens surviving for three months after early postnatal sciatic nerve resection, no calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive cell bodies could be detected in ganglia ipsilateral to the operation. In contrast, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity, which partly co-exists with calcitonin gene-related peptide, was observed to the same extent as in control ganglia. Furthermore, almost all of the somatostatin-immunoreactive varicose nerve fibres had disappeared, whereas a fairly dense network of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres could be observed. This change was paralleled by an increased content of nerve fibres that were immunoreactive to antibodies against the growth-associated protein GAP-43 (also known as B-50). The present findings suggest that experimental perturbations where postganglionic neurons are separated from their target areas by axotomy, not only induce differential changes in neurotransmitter expression in the principal ganglion cells, but also in preganglionic sympathetic neurons projecting to the ganglia. One possible explanation for the occurrence of an axotomy-induced network of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres, is that extrinsic sensory nerve fibres grow into the ganglia after the sciatic nerve lesion. Thus, these findings seem to suggest one additional possibility with regard to the question of a possible interaction between sympathetic and sensory neurons after peripheral nerve injury.
As excitatory amino acid receptors have been implicated in nociceptive sensory transmission, the principal objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of various excitatory amino acid antagonists on naturally evoked responses in spinal dorsal horn neurons. Extracellular single unit activity was recorded from functionally identified, spinal dorsal horn neurons in unanesthetized, decerebrated cats and in alpha-chloralose-anesthetized cats. The tests included iontophoretic application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and kynurenate, and also the intravenous administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, ketamine. In addition, attempts were made to determine the effects on these neurons of iontophoretic application of the excitatory amino acid agonists, L-glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate, (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) and domoate. Marked differences were noted in the actions of agonists and antagonists between the responses observed in the unanesthetized, decerebrated and the anesthetized animals. In decerebrated cats, responses to hair afferent stimulation were blocked by kynurenate, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Responses to noxious thermal stimulation were attenuated by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and in one unit also by ketamine. Neither 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione nor kynurenate affected the responses to noxious thermal stimulation. The proportion of cells responding to the agonists were: N-methyl-D-aspartate 24/27 (89%), quisqualate 12/13 (92%) and domoate 6/7 (86%). In chloralose-anesthetized cats, responses to hair afferent stimulation were blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and kynurenate but not by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Responses to noxious thermal stimulation were not affected by any of these antagonists, while the response to non-noxious thermal stimulation was blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, ketamine and kynurenate in the one neuron studied. The proportion of cells excited by the agonists differed from those observed in decerebrated cats: N-methyl-D-aspartate 9/32 (28%), quisqualate 50/54 (93%), (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate 19/23 (83%) and domoate 17/38 (45%). Application of the putative endogenous excitatory amino acid precursor N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG) did not elicit a response in any of the neurons studied.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Applications of histamine to neurons in slices of trigeminal root ganglia (guinea-pig) produced slow changes in the steady-state membrane potentials and input resistances. Several types of response to histamine could be distinguished: (i) depolarizations accompanied by an increase, a decrease or no change in input resistance; (ii) small hyperpolarizations associated with a decreased or unchanged input resistance; and (iii) combined hyper- and depolarizations. The amplitudes of all response types waned during prolonged applications of histamine. The depolarizing responses to histamine appeared to depend on the presence of outward rectification in the region of the initial resting potential; neurons which possessed linear current-voltage relationships near the initial resting potential were depolarized by &gt; 10 mV, whereas neurons with outward rectification near rest showed smaller depolarizing responses. Histamine also reduced the magnitude of the long-duration spike afterhyperpolarizations which had been attributed in the ganglionic neuron to a Ca(2+)-activated K+ conductance mechanism. Application of substance P, another possible neuromodulator in the trigeminal system, had depolarizing, desensitizing actions similar to those of histamine. Substance P and histamine did not cross-desensitize during prolonged applications. Histamine-induced depolarizations were unchanged under zero Mg2+ extracellular conditions, in contrast to a dependency of the substance P-induced effects on external Mg2+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A major input to the substantia nigra is from the 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. In order to examine the morphology and distribution of this projection, rats were given injections of the anterograde tracers, Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin or biocytin, in the dorsal raphe nucleus and the substantia nigra was examined at both the light and electron microscopic levels. In addition, sections of the substantia nigra were immunostained for 5-hydroxytryptamine and examined in both the light and electron microscopes. Since dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra are known to be responsive to stimulation of the raphe and to applied 5-hydroxytryptamine, sections that contained anterogradely labelled terminals were further processed to reveal tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity to determine whether the raphe input makes direct synaptic contact with dopaminergic neurons. Light microscopic analysis revealed that all divisions of the substantia nigra received input from the dorsal raphe which, in agreement with previous observations, showed a topographical organization. In that formed asymmetrical synaptic contact with dendritic shafts and spines. The synaptic boutons were often associated with subjunctional dense bodies. Terminals that displayed immunoreactivity for 5-hydroxytryptamine had a similar morphology, synaptic specialisations and postsynaptic targets to the anterogradely labelled terminals. In those sections that were stained for both anterogradely labelled terminals and tyrosine hydroxylase, the raphe-nigral terminals were seen to form asymmetrical synaptic contact with the dendrites of the dopaminergic neurons. It is concluded that dendrites of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata represent at least one of the synaptic targets of the raphe-nigral projection and that these contacts provide an anatomical substrate for the effects of the dorsal raphe, and presumably 5-hydroxytryptamine, on dopaminergic systems in the substantia nigra.
Neurons in the medial septal nucleus were recorded extracellularly in response to auditory stimuli in chloral-hydrate-anesthetized rats. Two populations of neurons were identified, both of which were localized to the nucleus by horseradish peroxidase labeling. The auditory-responsive population was characterized by slow axonal conduction velocity, as measured after antidromic activation from the fornix. This population probably represents cholinergic neurons with unmyelinated or thinly myelinated axonal projections to the hippocampus. The other population was not auditory-responsive and had relatively fast conduction times. This population was most likely GABAergic neurons, which have heavily myelinated axons. The timing of discharge within the medial septal nucleus suggests that its cholinergic neurons may regulate the response of the hippocampus to auditory stimuli by influencing the activity of both pyramidal cells and interneurons. The medial septal nucleus may thus play a critical role in the gating of the response to repeated auditory response in the hippocampus.
Transneuronal tracing techniques were used in order to identify putative spinal interneurons and brainstem sites involved in the control of penile function. Pseudorabies virus was injected into the corpus cavernosus tissue of the penis in rats. After a four day survival period, rats were perfused with fixative and virus-labelled neurons were identified by immunohistochemistry. Postganglionic neurons were retrogradely labelled in the major pelvic ganglia. In the spinal cord, sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons were labelled transneuronally. Presumptive interneurons were also labelled in the lower thoracic and lumbosacral spinal cord in locations consistent with what is currently known about such interneurons. In the brainstem, transneuronally labelled neurons were found in the medulla, pons and hypothalamus. Regions consistently labelled included the nucleus paragigantocellularis, parapyramidal reticular formation of the medulla, raphe pallidus, raphe magnus, A5 noradrenergic cell group, Barrington's nucleus and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. This study confirmed previous studies from our lab and others concerning the preganglionic and postganglionic neurons innervating the penis. The number, morphology and location of these neurons were consistent with labelling seen following injection of conventional tracers into the penis. The brainstem nuclei labelled in this study were also consistent with what is currently known about the brainstem control of penile function. The labelling appeared to be highly specific, in that descending systems involved in other functions were not labelled. These results provide further evidence that the pseudorabies virus transneuronal tracing technique is a valuable method for identifying neural circuits mediating specific functions.
Galanin is a 29-amino acid neuropeptide found in rat spinal cord, autonomic ganglia and gastrointestinal tract, as well as in other areas of the nervous system in rats and other species. As part of an overall objective to determine if peptides contribute to target-specific control of visceral function, this study was designed to determine the percentages of populations of renal and splenic postganglionic neurons that contain galanin, and to determine if these neurons were likely to be adrenergic. Retrogradely transported fluorescent dyes were placed on renal and splenic nerves in male Wistar rats anaesthetized with sodium pento-barbital. Four days post-operatively, rats were perfused transcardially with fixative, and T12-L1 thoracolumbar chain ganglia, splanchnic ganglia and the solar plexus were removed. Immunocytochemical methods were then used to determine the proportions of the retrogradely labelled renal and splenic neurons containing galanin-like immunoreactivity and dopamine beta hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity. In seven rats, 24 +/- 3% of 2838 renal neurons were found to contain galanin-like immunoreactivity; in six rats, 32 +/- 5% of 5102 splenic neurons were found to contain galanin-like immunoreactivity. These proportions of the two populations were not significantly different from one another. In three rats, 94 +/- 2% of 684 renal neurons were found to contain dopamine beta hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity, and 95 +/- 2% of 2597 splenic neurons in three rats also showed dopamine beta hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity. These experiments indicate that subpopulations of both renal and splenic postganglionic sympathetic neurons contain the neuropeptide galanin and that these neurons are likely to be adrenergic in function. These findings suggest a role for galanin in control of the kidney and the spleen by the sympathetic nervous system.
The spinal cord is innervated by brainstem serotonergic neurons, some of which contain substance P and/or thyrotropin-releasing hormone in addition to serotonin. These neurons project at least three types of axons to the spinal cord: those containing both substance P and thyrotropin-releasing hormone, those containing thyrotropin-releasing hormone but not substance P, and those containing neither substance P nor thyrotropin-releasing hormone. However, the organization of the different types of serotonergic processes is unclear. In the present studies, the types of serotonergic axons projecting to two kinds of spinal neurons were examined. Somatic and parasympathetic preganglionic motoneurons were labeled retrogradely from the pelvic or sciatic nerve, respectively. Sections containing these neurons were stained either for serotonin and substance P, or for serotonin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Of a total of 428 profiles examined that were retrogradely labeled from the sciatic nerve, 425 (99%) were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities; similarly, of a total of 382 profiles examined that were retrogradely labeled from pelvic nerve, 353 (92%) were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities. However, differences appeared to exist between the types of serotonergic varicosities innervating these two groups of neurons. Among the profiles labeled from the sciatic nerve, it was estimated that over 97% were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities in which serotonin co-existed with substance P and thyrotropin-releasing hormone. In contrast, among the profiles labeled from pelvic nerve that were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities, it was estimated that less than 1% were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities containing both thyrotropin-releasing hormone and substance P. We estimate that most of the remainder (about 80%) were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities containing thyrotropin-releasing hormone but not substance P. We conclude that both the cell bodies of neurons retrogradely labeled from the pelvic nerve and those labeled from the sciatic nerve were apposed by serotonin varicosities. However, these two systems of neurons appear to be innervated largely by two different populations of serotonergic cells. This suggests that the raphe-spinal serotonergic system may independently modulate the activities of somatic motoneurons and parasympathetic preganglionic motoneurons.
The effect of inflammation, induced by unilateral intraplantar injection of Freund's adjuvant, on opioid receptors transported in the sciatic nerve and on opioid receptors present in the paw of the rat was studied by means of in vitro receptor autoradiography using [125I]beta-endorphin (human) as ligand. In the absence of inflammation, human beta-endorphin binding sites accumulated proximally and distally to a ligature placed on the sciatic nerve in a time-dependent manner, indicating bidirectional axonal transport. Some human beta-endorphin binding was also visible in non-inflamed paw tissue. Inflammation of the paw tissue massively increased human beta-endorphin binding on both sides of the sciatic nerve ligature and in the ipsilateral paw tissue. In inflamed paw tissue, beta-endorphin binding accumulated in the cutaneous nerve fibers as well as in the immune cells infiltrating the surrounding tissue. In the sciatic nerve and paw tissue, beta-endorphin binding was displaced by (D-Ala2, N-methyl-Phe4, Gly-ol5)enkephalin and (D-Pen2, D-Pen5)enkephalin, selective mu- and delta-opioid receptor agonists, respectively, and by the universal opioid antagonist naloxone, but not by U-50,488H, a k-selective receptor agonist. Taken together, these data provide neuroanatomical evidence for local inflammation-induced enhanced axonal transport of opioid receptors in rat sciatic nerve and accumulation in paw tissue.
This work set out to test the hypothesis that thalamotomy in the area of the thalamus which receives the input from the medial segment of the globus pallidus would decrease or prevent levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Peak dose dyskinesia is a major problem in the treatment of parkinsonian patients with levodopa therapy but this remains the best pharmacological agent for treating the condition. The hypothesis was derived from previous work which has suggested that reduced pallidal inhibition of the thalamus results in dyskinesia [Crossman (1990) Movement Dis. 5, 100-108]. A neuroanatomical tracing study was carried out prior to the thalamotomy work, using the anterograde tracer wheatgerm-agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. This delineated the anterior part of the ventrolateral thalamus in the primate in terms of its afferent inputs. Wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase was injected into the medial segment of the globus pallidus bilaterally in three Macaca fascicularis and traced to terminals in the ventral thalamus and other brain areas. The appropriate thalamic area involved was plotted on atlas sections in preparation for stereotactic thalamotomy. Previous studies of neuronal input to the ventral thalamus are confusing due to the different nomenclatures used by different workers. Early workers used cytoarchitectonic boundaries which do not correspond with function. There are also differences in nomenclature between man, monkey and other animals. The current study maps the pallidal terminal territory within the thalamus in terms of stereotactic co-ordinates related to a published macaque atlas [Shantha et al. (1968) A Stereotaxic Atlas of the Java Monkey Brain. S. Karger, Basel] and can thus be used by other workers in the field. A well-established primate model of Parkinsonism was used for the thalamotomy study. Eight monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were rendered parkinsonian with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Regular dosing with levodopa or apomorphine reliably resulted in peak-dose dyskinesia which was scored in terms of its choreic and dystonic components. A radiofrequency electrode was used to create the ablative lesions. Chorea was always reduced and frequently abolished by a thalamotomy located in the pallidal terminal territory. This result was obtained after 10 thalamotomies in a total of six animals. Four animals received bilateral lesions, with an interval between operations and two animals underwent unilateral surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Approximately 12 million Americans undergo spinal manipulation therapy (SMT) every year. Renewed interest in this method requires an analysis of its reported risks and possible benefits. This review describes two patients with spinal cord injuries associated with SMT and establishes the risk/benefit ratios for patients with lumbar or cervical pain. The first case is a man who underwent SMT for recurrent sciatica 4 years after chemonucleolysis. During therapy, he developed bilateral sciatica with urinary hesitancy. After self-referral, myelography demonstrated a total block; he underwent urgent discectomy with an excellent result 3 months after surgery. The second patient with an indwelling Broviac catheter and a history of lumbar osteomyelitis underwent SMT for neck pain. Therapy continued for 3 weeks despite the development of severe quadriparesis. After self-referral, he underwent an urgent anterior cervical decompression and removal of necrotic bone and an epidural abscess with partial neurological recovery. An analysis of these cases and 138 cases reported in the literature demonstrates six risk factors associated with complications of SMT. These include misdiagnosis, failure to recognize the onset or progression of neurological signs or symptoms, improper technique, SMT performed in the presence of a coagulation disorder or herniated nucleus pulposus, and manipulation of the cervical spine. Clinical trials of SMT have been summarized in several recent articles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The management of chronic subdural hematoma in the adult patient is approached with a variety of different surgical techniques. The trend in recent years has been toward treatment with burr holes or twist-drill holes rather than craniotomy. The rationale for this has been based on the assumption that burr holes and twist-drill holes offer equivalent efficacy and lower morbidity and mortality. This viewpoint is not, however, universally accepted, and many surgeons feel that craniotomy is superior to a burr hole for the management of this condition. In a review of 92 patients presenting over a 3-year period with 112 chronic subdural hematomas, 49 underwent craniotomy and 43 underwent burr-hole treatment. The recurrence of hematomas, requiring another operation, occurred in 8.6%; operative mortality was 2.2% at hospital discharge and 4.4% at follow-up. No patient died as a consequence of the operative procedure. There was no significant difference in the incidence of postoperative complications, hematoma recurrence, or operative mortality among the different surgical groups. Previous reports concerning the superiority of burr holes over craniotomy are not substantiated by this review. Although the issue concerning optimal therapy has not been resolved by this review, at this time, craniotomy remains a valid and safe technique for the management of patients with chronic subdural hematoma.
The effects of (-)-lobeline were assessed in two learning and memory tasks in which nicotine-induced enhancement of performance has previously been demonstrated. Lobeline (19 mumol/kg, IP) administered immediately after inhibitory (passive) avoidance training improved retention performance assessed 24 h later, as rats that received this dose of lobeline took significantly longer to enter the shock compartment on the test day than rats that had been treated with vehicle. Pretraining lobeline treatment (1.9 mumol/kg, IP) significantly improved performance of rats with septal lesions in a spatial discrimination water maze, a finding confirmed when rats were retrained using new spatial locations and vehicle and lobeline treatments were reversed in a crossover design. The effective dose of lobeline in the inhibitory avoidance task was about 10-fold higher than that generally reported for nicotine, and direct comparison of the suppression of locomotor activity shortly after administration of nicotine or lobeline also revealed a 10-fold greater potency for nicotine. In contrast, no difference was found between the effective dose of lobeline in the current study and that we previously found with nicotine in the water maze. These findings suggest that lobeline's effects on the performance of learning and memory tasks may be similar to those of nicotine. Coupled with previous reports that lobeline does not produce the nicotine cue in drug discrimination experiments, this study also suggests that nicotinic receptors involved in the modulation of memory processes may be distinct from those involved in producing the nicotine cue.

When monozygotic twins are discordant for the diagnosis of schizophrenia, this discordance has been traditionally attributed to environmental factors acting upon a genome susceptible for the schizophrenia phenotype. The study presented here was designed to examine the occurrence of a genetic event, such as a postzygotic mitotic crossover, that could account for the discordance. Such a postzygotic event could affect cis-acting sequences and result in a phenotype of variable severity. We used molecular genetic methods to evaluate such an event with 94 microsatellite repeat polymorphic markers distributed on all autosomes and the X chromosome in five pairs of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia. In this search, no genetic marker discordances were identified between the co-twins. The lack of a genetic difference may implicate nongenetic factors that are responsible in eliciting or suppressing the phenotype. However, the experiments performed in this study cannot eliminate the possibility that a tissue-specific mitotic crossover might have occurred in one of the discordant twins, which could not have been detected in our current study.

The influence of gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) receptor stimulation on the excitatory and inhibitory synaptic potentials and membrane properties of identified striatal spiny neurons was examined in a corticostriatal slice preparation. Stimulation of the subcortical white matter evoked a monosynaptic, excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) and a polysynaptic, inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) in spiny neurons. The EPSP had two components: a large amplitude response which could be blocked by the kainate/quisqualate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM), and a small amplitude, long-duration depolarization which could be blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, d-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV, 100 microM). The IPSP was observed as a membrane depolarization when recorded from neurons at resting membrane potential. However, when neurons were injected with the Na(+)-channel blocker, QX-314, allowing cells to be depolarized above their spike thresholds, a prominent hyperpolarizing IPSP was readily observed which could be blocked by the GABAA antagonist, bicuculline (10-50 microM). This bicuculline-sensitive IPSP was responsible for the inhibition of EPSP amplitude and probability of spike discharge revealed using paired stimulation of the subcortical white matter. The amplitude of both the EPSP and the IPSP were depressed by the GABAB receptor agonist, p-chlophenyl-GABA (baclofen, 0.5-100 microM) in a concentration-dependent manner. Baclofen also blocked paired stimulus inhibition of spike discharge. These effects of baclofen persisted in slices in which the cortex was removed and were reversed by the GABAB receptor antagonist, 3-amino-3-hydroxy-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-propanesulphonic acid (saclofen, 100-500 microM). In contrast to its profound influence on synaptic input, baclofen did not alter resting membrane potential, input resistance, membrane current-voltage relationship, or spike threshold of the cells recorded, and therefore did not appear to exert direct postsynaptic effects on the striatal spiny neurons. Taken together, these data indicate that the depressant effects of baclofen on EPSPs are mediated through GABAB receptors located on the terminals of glutamatergic afferents within the striatum. Moreover, the results suggest that the actions of baclofen on IPSPs and paired stimulus inhibition are produced by activation of GABAB receptors within the striatum at a site presynaptic to spiny neurons, either on the terminals of GABAergic afferents or on an interposed non-spiny GABAergic cell. Thus, GABAB hetero- and auto-receptors have the capacity to provide a negative feedback mechanism through which the major excitatory and inhibitory inputs to striatal spiny neurons are regulated.
The local bending reflex of the leech computes a well-defined sensorimotor input-output function in which each of several unique patterns of sensory input elicits a unique pattern of motoneuron activity. Interneurons in the reflex respond to most input patterns and contribute to most motor patterns, suggesting a distributed processing mechanism for the reflex. This suggestion is supported by models in which connection strengths are adjusted by a neural network optimization algorithm to reproduce the local bending input-output function. In addition, computational parallels between the local bending network and the perceptron, a major class of artificial neural networks, brings the functional role of local bending interneurons into question and suggests new physiological experiments.
Neuroendocrinology is regarded as an area of knowledge which has emerged at the interface of two disciplines: neurobiology and endocrinology in the course of accumulation of new endence within each. The evidence is strong to evidence that the neurons involve endocrine properties, including the ability to secrete hormones. Strong evidence is given that only the neuroendocrinological approach can explain many mysterious phenomena known in the physiology of the central and autonomic nervous system, which could not have been interpreted by neurobiologists for many years. Neuroendocrinology has provided insight into brain functions and lifted the veil over its mysteries. The latters include the sexual brain differentiation phenomenon which is analysed at the end of the present communication.
The paper presents the report made at the Second (LXV). Session of the General Meeting of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences. It considers the major causes of lesions of the great artery of the head, intracerebral arteries in arterial hypertension and atherosclerosis, as well as cardiogenic embolisms, hemorheological and other disorders of hemostasis to be important risk factors for stroke. The conceptional problems of heterogeneity of ischemic brain lesions are discussed.


Lately, the trends analysing the traits of likeness between the evolutionary process, immune reactions and brain activity was called as &quot;neurodarwinism&quot; (G. Edelman). It has been established that pre-existed diversity of the material to be selected is the main condition of successful adaptation of the living organism to unknown future. The review of the data obtained in the course of studying the dominant by V. S. Rusinov's school shows that namely the dominant mechanism does ensure the variety of neuronal and behavioural assortment from which new adaptive behavioural acts are formed. This statement allows to consider further theoretical and experimental study of the dominant phenomenon as one of the priority and promising trends of the modern neurobiology.


Binding of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) with calmodulin was directly determined by the poly(ethylene glycol) precipitation method. Calmodulin bound to CaM kinase II alpha and beta polypeptides in a molar ratio of about 1:1 in the presence of ATP, but the binding was reduced in the absence of ATP. Affinity of CaM kinase II for calmodulin increased in the presence of ATP and the autophosphorylation was observed under the conditions. ADP and adenosine beta, gamma-imidoadenosine 5'-triphosphate, hydrolysis resistant analogues, also increased the binding of CaM kinase II with calmodulin. CaM kinase II substrate syntide 2 did not increase the binding of the kinase with calmodulin. These findings indicate that the affinity of CaM kinase II for calmodulin and the amount of calmodulin bound to the kinase increase by the binding of ATP.
Previous studies of the ligand regulation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase have demonstrated the cAMP-mediated dissociation of the holoenzyme by using nonequilibrium techniques; i.e., gel filtration, ion-exchange chromatography, and differential centrifugation. While physically mild, these could have caused weakly associated species to dissociate, thereby providing a potentially flawed interpretation of the mechanism of activation of the protein kinase. To assess this, the activation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase has been monitored under equilibrium conditions using dipolar fluorescence energy transfer to measure changes in the proximity relations between the catalytic (C) and regulatory (R) subunits that compose the holoenzyme. Specifically, we prepared a heterochromatically labeled protein kinase type II holoenzyme, with the regulatory and catalytic subunits labeled with sulforhodamine and carboxyfluorescein, respectively, and monitored the exchange of electronic excitation energy between the C and R subunits by both donor lifetime and steady-state fluorescence. Biochemically, the heterochromatic holoenzyme was closely identical to the native protein with regard to cAMP-induced increase in catalytic activity, reassociation of C and R subunits, inhibition of catalytic activity by the specific protein kinase inhibitor (PKI), and observed dissociation examined by gel filtration upon cAMP addition. However, under equilibrium conditions, the energy-transfer measurements revealed that the addition of cAMP to this heterochromatic reporter complex promoted an estimated 10-A increase in the distance between the derivatization sites on C and R but not a dissociation of these subunits. Addition of PKI plus cAMP promoted full dissociation of the two subunits.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rapid excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS) is mediated predominantly by synaptically released L-glutamate which activates cation selective channels with different kinetic and ion conductance properties. Studies with cloned glutamate receptor channels helped delineate the functional properties of channels defined in subunit composition. Moreover, molecular studies have revealed novel genetic mechanisms controlling the expression of important structural channel determinants.
The inhalation anesthetic isoflurane stereoselectively modulates ligand binding to the GABAA receptor complex. The (+)-isomer of isoflurane was more potent and efficacious than the (-)-isomer in enhancing [3H]flunitrazepam binding to benzodiazepine receptors. For example, concentration effect curves for Cl- enhancement of [3H]flunitrazepam binding were significantly different (P &lt; 0.001) in the presence of (+)- and (-)-isoflurane (0.44 and 0.88 mM). At the higher anesthetic concentration, they potency of Cl- to increase [3H]flunitrazepam binding was increased 3.2- and 1.45-fold by (+)- and (-)-isoflurane, respectively (P &lt; 0.05). Likewise, concentration-effect curves for (+) isoflurane-enhanced [3H]flunitrazepam binding were significantly different (P &lt; 0.05-P &lt; 0.001) from the (-)-isomer in the presence of 0-200 mM Cl-. Stereoselectivity was not observed with respect to the potencies of these enantiomers as inhibitors of [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) binding to sites within the Cl- ionophore. In this measure, the isomers had similar potencies (P &gt; 0.05), although at higher concentrations (&gt; 0.1 mM) (+)-isoflurane produced significantly more inhibition than (-)-isoflurane. While the absolute potency differences between isomers were modest (&lt; or = 2-fold) and measure dependent, these effects were manifested at clinically relevant concentrations of isoflurane and are consistent with in vivo studies demonstrating (+)-isoflurane is a more effective anesthetic than the (-)-isomer. This is the first demonstration of an inhalation anesthetic producing a stereoselective perturbation of the GABAA receptor complex.
Unilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) ablation, which causes partial cholinergic denervation of the ipsilateral anterior neocortex, results in an acute but transient depression of regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) in deafferented areas; rCMRglc normalizes within 2 weeks. To seek possible compensatory changes in cholinergic mechanisms following NBM ablation that could lead to rapid metabolic normalization, we studied rCMRglc responses to the receptor agonists nicotine and arecoline and the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine in rats at 2 weeks after unilateral NBM destruction. Physostigmine increased rCMRglc in 10 of 30 cortical areas contralateral to the NBM lesion. Compared to the unlesioned side, rCMRglc after physostigmine in the lesioned cortex was significantly lower in 2, significantly higher in 1 and not different (P &lt; 0.05) in 27 areas. Neither arecoline nor nicotine treatment produced rCMRglc asymmetry in lesioned rats. These results demonstrate that responsivity to physostigmine is maintained in most regions of the rat neocortex after extrinsic cholinergic denervation by NBM ablation. This adaptive response appears not to result from cholinergic receptor upregulation and may reflect instead reorganization of cholinergic synapses.
Ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons grown in culture in the absence of muscle cells rapidly lose sensitivity to acetylcholine (ACh), while neurons grown in the presence of muscle or muscle cell membranes maintain sensitivity to ACh for extended periods of time. The present study examined whether exposure to muscle membrane preparation or stimulation of cAMP-dependent processes could restore sensitivity to ACh in cultured neurons which had lost responsiveness to ACh. CG neurons from 11- to 14-day-old chick embryos were grown on collagen substrate in the absence of muscle cells. Sensitivity to ACh was assessed by measuring peak current responses following application of ACh (IACh) to neurons under whole-cell voltage clamp. In control cultures IACh decreased from an average of 837 pA the day of plating to 145 pA following 4 days in culture. Stimulation of cAMP-dependent processes with forskolin and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) or 8'Br-cAMP and IBMX had variable effects on IACh. These treatments increased peak IACh in some neurons maintained in culture for less than 48 h. Treatment with these agents decreased peak IACh in cultures which were more than 48 h old. Exposure of neurons, which had lost sensitivity to ACh in culture, to muscle membranes increased IACh 2- to 3-fold over 24 to 48 h. This membrane-induced restoration of sensitivity to ACh was blocked by exposure to the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. Stimulation of cAMP-dependent processes in neurons exposed to muscle membrane decreased IACh. In conclusion, these results indicate that some element associated with the membranes of muscle cells has the ability to restore ACh responsiveness to CG neurons which have become insensitive to ACh in culture.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Calmodulin-dependent protein kinase III (CaM kinase III) phosphorylates and thereby inactivates eukaryotic elongation factor-2 (EF-2). This enzyme, purified to homogeneity from either rabbit reticulocytes or rat pancreas, had similar properties: it migrated with an apparent M(r) of 140,000 by gel filtration, was comprised of a major polypeptide of M(r) 95,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and had a high affinity for CaM (half-maximal activation &lt; 1 nM). The M(r) 95,000 polypeptide was autophosphorylated by an intramolecular mechanism on seryl residues in the presence of Ca2+, CaM, and ATP, and phosphopeptide mapping indicated that several sites were phosphorylated. Autophosphorylation of CaM kinase III resulted in the generation of a partially Ca2+/calmodulin-independent activity. The enzyme could also be phosphorylated by the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Amino acid sequencing of CaM kinase III indicated that it is distinct from other known proteins including the heat-shock protein hsp90, which was recently suggested to be identical to CaM kinase III (Nygrd, O., Nilsson, A., Carlberg, U., Nilsson, L., and Amons, R. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 16425-16430). Furthermore, hsp90 did not copurify with CaM kinase III, and the M(r) 95,000 protein did not cross-react with antibodies to hsp90. CaM kinase III exhibited Michaelis-Menten kinetics toward its substrates ATP and EF-2, with Km values of 15 and 2 microM, respectively. CaM kinase III was able to phosphorylate yeast EF-2 with an Km of 2 microM, but the enzyme did not significantly phosphorylate a variety of other substrates, confirming its identification as a novel protein kinase.
Several 1,4-diazepines were recently reported to bind with high affinities to the &quot;diazepam-insensitive&quot; (DI) isoform of the benzodiazepine receptor (BzR) (Korpi, E.R.; Uusi-Oukari, M.; Wegelius, K. Eur. J. Pharm. 1992, 213, 323-329. Wong, G.; Skolnick, P. Eur. J. Pharmacol. Mol. Pharm. Sec. 1992, 225, 63-68). However, only the putative ethanol antagonist 1 (Ro 15-4513) displayed modest selectivity for the DI site compared to other &quot;diazepam-sensitive&quot; (DS) BzR isoforms. In order to probe the requirements for selective, high-affinity binding to the DI site, the affinities of 47 benzodiazepines have been determined at both DI and DS BzR sites. In addition, single X-ray crystallographic analyses for three of these derivatives, 5 (Ro 17-1812), 6 (Ro 16-6028), and 42 (Ro 14-5974), are reported. The radioligand binding studies reveal that modifications to the 3-, 7-, and 8-positions of 6-oxoimidazo[1,5-alpha] [1,4]benzodiazepines have a marked influence on the Ki(DI)/Ki(DS) ratios. In order to more precisely determine the structural requirements for both high affinity and selectivity at DI BzR relative to DS, 3D-QSAR analyses were carried out on ligand affinities at both of these BzR isoforms. This analysis was based, in part, on the new X-ray crystallographic data. Satisfactory cross-validated regression equations were obtained individually for the logarithms of ligand affinities at DI and DS as well as for the differences of the logarithms of their affinities at these two isoforms (cross-validated R2 &gt; 0.70 for all three regression equations). The steric and electrostatic 3D-QSAR DI and DS maps are in qualitative accord with the structure-activity relationship (SAR) data. Furthermore, the DI and DI/DS maps may be useful in the design of ligands with enhanced DI affinity and DI/DS selectivity, respectively.
The influence of adrenalectomy on cannabinoid receptor gene expression in the adult rat dorsal striatum was investigated by in situ hybridization with specific oligonucleotide probes. The caudate-putamen of adrenalectomized rats contains approximately 50% significantly higher mRNA levels than the controls. This increase could be counteracted by dexamethasone treatment. Together, these results suggest glucocorticoid down-regulation of cannabinoid receptor gene expression in the striatum.
The release of intracellular Ca, which is involved in many neuronal functions, is regulated by the second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) interacting with specific receptor. The distribution of the mRNA coding for the recently cloned InsP3 receptor was studied in the developing rat brain using oligonucleotides derived from the rat cDNA sequence and in situ hybridization. The localizations of the mRNA in the postnatal brain were exactly superimposable to that previously reported in the adult [Mailleux et al., Neuroscience, 49 (1992)577-590]. Higher mRNA levels were consistently found in the adult neurons over their postnatal counterpart. Hybridization signal was first visible in the cerebellar Purkinje cells which express dramatically higher mRNA levels of the receptor than any other neurons in the brain. In conclusion, the levels of InsP3 receptor mRNA per neuron increased with synaptogenesis. This finding suggests the occurrence during this critical developmental period of a more complex regulation of Ca fluxes, perhaps requiring higher intraneuronal levels of InsP3 receptor.
The non-dihydropyridine FPL 64176 (methyl-2,5-dimethyl-4-(2-phenylmethyl)benzoyl-[1-H]pyrrole-3-carboxy la te) was tested for an interaction with neuronal L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (L-VSCCs) by using a [3H]isradipine ([3H]ISR) binding assay, and for its ability to enhance K(+)-evoked [3H]norepinephrine ([3H]NE) release from rat neocortical slices. The classical L-VSCC activator, the dihydropyridine (DHP) BAY K 8644, was also used for comparative purposes. FPL 64176 and BAY K 8644 both produced a similar concentration-dependent enhancement of 15 mM K(+)-evoked [3H]NE release which could be completely blocked by the L-VSCC blocker ISR (0.1 microM). FPL 64176, in contrast to BAY K 8644, was a very weak inhibitor of [3H]ISR binding to L-VSCCs. These findings indicate that FPL 64176 is a novel non-dihydropyridine L-VSCC activator, most probably by acting on a site different from the DHP binding site.

There are two types of motor nerve innervation patterns and AChR distributions in human EOM: single and multiple. The latter is further divided into two subgroups that are restricted to EOM and are not found in limb muscles. Epitopes that are unique to EOM end-plates exist. Some OMG patients have antibodies that are specifically targeted to those epitopes. These antibodies are functionally active and can cause AChR loss in EOM end-plates. In addition to AChRs, specific components constructing the microenvironment surrounding them may also be involved in the susceptibility of EOM in myasthenia gravis.

If vision in one eye is blurred or occluded during a critical period in postnatal development, neurons in the visual cortex lose their responses to stimulation through that eye within a few days. Anatomical changes in the nerve terminals that provide input to the visual cortex have previously been observed only after weeks of deprivation, suggesting that synapses become physiologically ineffective before the branches on which they sit are withdrawn. Reconstruction of single geniculocortical axonal arbors in the cat after either brief or prolonged monocular occlusion revealed striking axonal rearrangements in both instances. Rapid withdrawal of the branches of deprived-eye arbors suggests that axonal branches bearing synapses respond quickly to changing patterns of neuronal activity.



In conclusion these three results taken together--the single-unit data, the Gerstein and Mandelbrot model, and the modeled collection of neurons--suggest that the analysis of the temporal dynamics of neural systems can be furthered by the application of nonlinear dynamical theory. Furthermore, it appears that the range of temporal dynamics possible in visual cortex is quite broad, encompassing simple oscillations and more complex, perhaps chaotic, dynamics. Lastly, it appears that there are powerful principles at work that are leading to the organized behavior of a population of neurons. We suggest that these principles are constrained not only by the biological properties of the nervous system, but by profound mathematical principles that have already been described in many physical nonlinear systems under the aegis of chaos theory. If such constraints exist, we may have available to us mathematical and physical constructs that will allow us to study, model, and predict the behaviors of large collections of neurons that ultimately underlie the neural functioning of the brain.



The aim of the present study was to identify the site of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in the brain in response to a pyrogenic dose of endotoxin. The presence of PGE2 was detected using immunocytochemistry on Bouin's fixed vibratome sections of control and endotoxin-treated rats. Peripheral administration of endotoxin caused a time-related stimulation of PGE2 immunoreactivity (irPGE2) in the choroid plexus and in the microvasculature of the brain. In addition to these sites, hypophysiotrophic neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraopticus nucleus (SON) responded with induction of irPGE2 to endotoxin administration. Our data demonstrate that alterations in brain function in response to endotoxin may involve arachidonic metabolites such as PGE2 that are induced at the blood-brain barrier (microvasculature) and blood-liquor barrier (choroid plexus) and in hypophysiotrophic neurons of the rat brain.
Inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) has been identified and characterized in human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The CSF enzyme has a Km for inositol 1-phosphate (Ins(1)P; 0.12 mM), a magnesium dependence (optimum concentration 10 mM) and a sensitivity to inhibition by either the bisphosphonate inhibitor 1-(4-hydroxyphenyloxy)ethane-1,1-bisphosphonic acid (L-690,330) or LiCl (IC50's: 1.3 microM and 1.6 mM, respectively) similar to native human brain and human recombinant enzymes. In CSF, antiserum raised against purified bovine brain IMPase recognised a protein of 30 kDa, identical to that seen in human brain homogenate. It remains to be determined whether CSF IMPase activity may be a useful in vivo marker of CNS phosphatidyl inositol cycle activity in disorders where this signalling pathway may be altered (e.g. manic depression).
Although coadministration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists has been reported to prevent behavioral sensitization to psychomotor stimulants, it has been suggested that this effect is transitory and that sensitization is unmasked after longer periods of drug abstinence. To test this, rats were coadministered either amphetamine, cocaine, or morphine with the NMDA antagonist MK-801 and tested for sensitization after 7-10 days of abstinence. No sensitization was observed, suggesting that NMDA antagonists do not transiently mask sensitization but instead interfere with long-term processes responsible for its development.
Repeated treatment with imipramine (10 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.), once daily for 14 days) caused a decrease in the Bmax, without affecting the Kd, of [3H]DTG (1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine) binding to the haloperidol-sensitive sigma sites in the striatum, hippocampus and cerebral cortex of the rat. A similar reduction was observed after chronic administration of a selective serotonin uptake inhibitor, fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p., twice daily for 14 days), but not of a selective norepinephrine uptake inhibitor, desipramine (10 mg/kg i.p., once daily for 14 days). Neither a single injection of imipramine (10 mg/kg i.p.) nor addition of imipramine or fluoxetine into the binding assay medium mimicked the changes in the maximal binding of brain sigma sites induced by chronic treatment with these drugs. Finally, depletion of brain serotonin by means of repeated administration of p-chlorophenylalanine, which produces inhibition of the amine synthesis, blocked the ability of repeated imipramine treatment to reduce the maximal number of [3H]DTG binding sites in the striatum and hippocampus. The present results suggest that cerebral serotonergic transmission may play a role in the regulation of cerebral sigma binding sites in the rat.
The effect of the 10-day dexamethasone administration on serotonin-2 (5-HT2) and beta-adrenergic receptor binding sites was evaluated in rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The dexamethasone treatment (1, 2 and 5 mg/kg) significantly increased the density of the 5-HT2 receptor binding sites in a dose-dependent manner, whereas a decreased density of beta-adrenergic receptor binding sites was observed in rat cortex. In contrast, there were no significant differences in the densities of the 5-HT2 or beta-adrenergic receptor binding sites in rat hippocampus using dexamethasone. The results suggest that dexamethasone differentially modulates the 5-HT2 and beta-adrenergic receptor binding sites in rat brain.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a monogenic dominantly inherited disease predisposing carriers to develop nervous system tumours. To identify the genetic defect, the region between two flanking polymorphic markers on chromosome 22 was cloned and several genes identified. One is the site of germ-line mutations in NF2 patients and of somatic mutations in NF2-related tumours. Its deduced product has homology with proteins at the plasma membrane and cytoskeleton interface, a previously unknown site of action of tumour suppressor genes in humans.
Following an early retinal lesion, aberrant uncrossed projections from the opposite, undamaged, retina form in the target visual nuclei. The present study has examined the development of such aberrant projections by making retinal lesions in newborn rat pups, and then examining the nature of the uncrossed retinocollicular projection at different ages following the lesion. Intravitreal injections of horseradish peroxidase were made into the intact eye, and the uncrossed projection was subsequently revealed histochemically. A mature aberrant projection forms as early as postnatal day 9. On postnatal days 5 and 2, aberrant projections are discernable amongst the exuberant uncrossed terminals of normal developing rats, although the former have not matured to form the dense terminal fields characteristic of older projections. Aberrant projections were also detectable as early as 12 h following the lesion, revealed as a relative increase in the density of uncrossed label. These results indicate that lesion-induced plastic responses by intact retinal arbors are initiated shortly after the insult, and they caution the use of retinal lesions in studies of normal retinotopic connectivity during development.
In the adult spinal cord, immunocytochemical staining for NT75 is concentrated in nerve terminals in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. Deeper laminae of the dorsal horn contain moderate immunocytochemical labeling, but the ventral horn is only sparsely stained. The origin of spinal nerve terminals containing NT75 was investigated with lesion techniques, colchicine treatment, and retrograde tracing in combination with immunocytochemical staining. Primary afferent neurons express NT75 immunoreactivity and account for most of the dense staining in the superficial dorsal horn and part of the labeling in the deeper laminae. It was found that corticospinal and virtually all brainstem neurons with descending projections to the spinal cord also express NT75 immunoreactivity, including those terminating in the ventral horn. Colchicine treatment of the spinal cord also resulted in NT75 staining in most, if not all, spinal neurons. It appears that neurons in all three major sources of spinal afferents (primary sensory, descending, and intrinsic systems) can express NT75 immunoreactivity, but that some neurons normally contain higher levels of the protein in their nerve terminals. Previous analysis of developing spinal cord has shown widespread, dense NT75 labeling throughout the spinal gray in the early postnatal period, which later becomes restricted to the adult pattern. These studies support the hypothesis that many spinal pathways express high levels of NT75 immunoreactivity during development, but that only certain pathways maintain high levels in the adult.
The D2 dopamine receptor is known to be functionally coupled when expressed in CHO cells, whereas the effector systems for the D3 dopamine receptor remain unclear. A chimeric, human D3/D2 receptor (hD3/D2) was constructed containing the third intracellular loop region of the D2 receptor. CHO cells stably expressing the D2, D3, or hD3/D2 receptors were created and the pharmacology of the receptors was examined. The chimeric hD3/D2 receptor retained D3-like affinities for dopaminergic ligands. However, in contrast to the D2 receptor neither the D3 receptor nor the hD3/D2 receptor could functionally couple to the adenylate cyclase or arachidonic acid release mechanisms.
A convergence of evidence suggests that stimulation of lateral hypothalamic (LH) neurons can elicit eating, but the neurotransmitters that mediate this effect are unknown. To determine whether glutamate might be involved, it was injected through chronic guide cannulas directly into the LH of satiated adult male rats and consequent food intake was measured. Glutamate produced a dose-dependent eating response (mean intakes of 3.7 g at 300 nmol and 5.2 g at 900 nmol) only within the first hour after injection. As a first step in determining the receptor types mediating this response, agonists for specific excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors were similarly tested. Kainic acid (KA), D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) injected into the LH each elicited eating in a dose-dependent fashion beginning at 0.33 to 1.0 nmol. At maximally effective doses (1.0-33 nmol), each agonist elicited food intakes of approximately nine grams within 1 h. Finally, analysis of meal and behavioral patterns produced by LH injection of glutamate (600 nmol) and KA (1.0 nmol) revealed that the elicited eating usually began 2-3 min postinjection and consisted of a single normal to large size meal. There were no other behavioral effects during this initial postinjection period and no effects on other oral behaviors, like drinking or gnawing, at any time. Collectively, these findings suggest that glutamate may act through several subtypes of its receptors on some LH neurons to elicit eating.
Activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the superficial layers of juvenile cat and adult rat visual neocortex was compared with that in adult rat hippocampal field CA1. Stimulation of neocortical layer IV reliably induced synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in layer III with precisely the same types of stimulation protocols that were effective in CA1. Neocortical LTP and LTD were specific to the conditioned pathway and, as in the hippocampus, were dependent on activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. These results provide strong support for the view that common principles may govern experience-dependent synaptic plasticity in CA1 and throughout the superficial layers of the mammalian neocortex.
Recent advances on the biological markers in Psychiatry are reviewed in this paper. For systematization's sake, the available information has been divided into five major areas: Neuroimage, neurophysiology, psychoendocrinology, neurochemistry and genetics, and molecular biology. Data generated by research in this field have extended our knowledge on mind functioning although their clinical applications are still limited for the time being.

The diurnal rhythm of corticosteroid secretion is controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). In rats, plasma corticosteroid levels rise just before the onset of the activity period during the dark phase. Our previous results indicated that vasopressin as a neurotransmitter from the SCN inhibited corticosteroid secretion in the area of the paraventricular/dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. We hypothesized that during the day the SCN may serve as an inhibitory system for corticosteroid secretion. To investigate this possibility, intact and SCN-lesioned animals were exposed to mild stress in the morning and evening and their plasma corticosteroid levels were monitored. The results indicate that SCN-lesioned animals have higher morning corticosteroid levels and respond both in the morning and evening with higher corticosteroid levels after stress than do intact control animals. We conclude, therefore, that these results indicate an inhibitory role of the SCN on corticosteroid secretion. The apparent discrepancy with the reported stimulatory role of the SCN on adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion is discussed.

Saposin B is involved in the hydrolysis of sulfatides, GM1 ganglioside, globotriaosylceramide, and several other sphingolipids and glycerolipids by lysosomal hydrolases. Saposin B is one of four small glycoproteins (saposins) derived from prosaposin. The carbohydrate chain of saposin B was removed and deglycosylated saposin B was characterized and compared with native saposin B. Deglycosylated saposin B stimulated the enzymatic hydrolysis of ganglioside GM1 by acid beta-galactosidase and sulfatide by arylsulfatase A to the same extent as native saposin B. In addition deglycosylated saposin B bound sulfatide and GM1 ganglioside identical to native saposin B. The stability of native saposin B to proteolytic digestion was unchanged by deglycosylation. Neither native saposin B nor deglycosylated saposin B were hydrolyzed by trypsin, endoproteinase Glu-C (V-8), chymotrypsin, or a mixture of acid proteases isolated from human testis. Unlike its effect on metabolic stability, the carbohydrate chain appears to affect folding of saposin B. When native and deglycosylated saposin B were reduced under denaturing conditions and refolded under identical conditions examination of the refolded products indicated that each protein was refolded in a qualitatively different way. A human mutation in saposin B-deficient metachromatic leukodystrophy, in which its glycosylation site is eliminated, has been reported. Our observations suggest that instability of the mutated saposin B is not due to the absence of a protective effect of the carbohydrate chain on proteolysis, but is likely due to aberrant folding resulting from the absence of a carbohydrate chain.
Classical conditioning of the rabbit eyeblink response was used to study the effects of cerebellar lesions on performance in animals trained with low-intensity unconditioned stimuli (US). Animals were trained with 1 of 2 low-intensity corneal-airpuff USs paired with a tone-conditioned stimulus. This study confirms earlier findings demonstrating the differential effects of lesions of deep cerebellar nuclei on the conditioned (CR) and unconditioned responses (UR). Lesions of the anterior interpositus nucleus of the cerebellum in animals that were successfully conditioned abolished CRs without affecting UR performance.
The surface preparation technique for hair cell counting is frequently used for the analysis of cochlear pathology in relation to hearing impairment. To overcome problems encountered with standard surface preparation methods, a new combination of resin embedding and microslicing has been applied to the mammalian cochlea, to permit hair cell counting to be followed by electron microscopic analysis. Partial removal of the cochlear shell is followed by resin infiltration under vacuum prior to polymerization. The cochlea is then subdivided into hemicoils using a mounted annular diamond blade. Embedding before microslicing ensures that both apical and basal regions of the cochlea are preserved equally well with an evenly distributed and therefore predictable 10% hair cell loss. By comparison, the standard surface preparation method often produces distortion of remaining organ of Corti and unpredictable losses of hair cells, for example, up to 17%. The damage tends to be greatest towards the base of the cochlea, an area which shows particular susceptibility to ototoxic agents such as the aminoglycoside antibiotics. Thus, for assessment of pathology caused by ototoxic agents, this method has considerable advantages over the surface preparation technique.
1. In the present study we provide evidence for a saturable, Mg2+/ATP- and temperature-dependent, tetrabenazine-, dopamine-, and amphetamine-sensitive uptake of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in synaptic vesicles from mouse striatum. 2. Similarity in the properties of the vesicular uptake suggests that in the striatum dopamine and MPP+ share the vesicular carrier. 3. The presence of MPP+ vesicular uptake in dopamine-rich regions such as striatum, olfactory, tubercles and hypothalamus, as well as its absence in cerebellum, cortex and pons-medulla, suggest that monoamine vesicular carriers differ between highly and poorly dopamine-innervated regions. 4. The restriction of active MPP+ uptake to the dopaminergic regions, which reflects the previously shown distribution of [3H]-MPP+ binding sites in mouse brain membranes, indicates MPP+ as a marker of the vesicular carrier for dopamine in dopaminergic neurones. 5. A role in MPP+ neurotoxicity is suggested for this region-specific, vesicular storage of the toxin.
Natural killer (NK) cell activity and mitogen-stimulated spleenocyte proliferation were measured in rats exposed to stress in the form of avoidable and unavoidable shock. Rats that could avoid shock exhibited higher NK activity than either unshocked controls or rats that could not avoid shock. The latter were yoked to the avoidance rats and thus received the same number and frequency of shocks as did the avoidance group. The increased NK activity in the avoidance group appears due to a higher number of NK cells in this group as compared with those in the control or unavoidable shock groups. Additionally, NK activity was found to be proportional to avoidance response rate, with a majority of animals exceeding the minimal temporal avoidance requirement. Mitogen-stimulated proliferation of spleenocytes was also increased several fold in the group that could avoid shock as compared with that which could not and controls. The difference in NK activity and mitogen-stimulated proliferation could not be ascribed to differences in cortisol levels. The results indicate that behavior which results in the avoidance of aversive stimuli can lead to significant enhancement of immune system competence.
The MRL-lpr/lpr mouse, a genetic model of the human autoimmune disease systemic lupus erythematosus, has been studied extensively to determine the etiology and the pathological course of the disease in lymphoid organs. At approximately 8 weeks of age, splenomegaly develops due to a massive increase in an abnormal population of T cells, resulting in a disruption of the normal splenic architecture. Part of the normal splenic architecture includes postganglionic noradrenergic sympathetic nerve fibers, which can exert influence on a variety of immunological functions. Noradrenergic innervation and norepinephrine content of spleens from both male and female MRL-lpr/lpr mice and MRL(-)+/+ congenic controls were examined at 6, 12, 18, and 24 weeks of age. Norepinephrine content is reduced in MRL-lpr/lpr male and female mice prior to the onset of observed splenomegaly and remains reduced at all ages examined. Remaining noradrenergic fibers are found in their usual compartments, but are greatly diminished compared with controls.
1. Gap junction channels interconnect cells of the pacemaking, conduction and contraction elements of the heart and also endothelial and smooth muscle cells of vasculature, thereby providing pathways for electrotonic current spread and for second messenger diffusion. The major gap junction protein in the cardiovascular system is connexin43. 2. When human connexin43 is stably expressed in pairs of a communication-deficient cell line (SKHep1) channels are produced with unitary conductance (gamma j), lipophile sensitivity and voltage-dependent gating similar to those of mammalian systems in which connexin43 is endogenously expressed. 3. At moderate transjunctional voltages (Vj), two gamma j values dominated the recordings, about 60 and 90 pS with CsCl patch solution. The smaller channel size is favored by phosphorylating treatments and the larger channel, by dephosphorylating treatments. 4. Human connexin43 mutants truncated at the carboxy termini display a change in gamma j while a point mutation in the third transmembrane spanning domain appears to change channel selectivity. 5. Voltage dependence of the human connexin43 channel is marked at Vjs, above +/- 50 mV, but large residual conductance remains (due probably to a voltage-insensitive substate) even at the largest Vj values; kinetic but not steady-state behavior is affected by phosphorylation state.

A polypeptide, called Kin, has been identified in cells of the central nervous system (CNS) by using antibodies raised against RecA protein of E. coli and by in situ hybridization with identified cDNA. RecA protein is a recombination enzyme associated with DNA repair. The RecA cross-reacting polypeptide was immunocytochemically demonstrated in the nuclei of various cells of adult rats. Following Western blot analysis using anti-RecA antibodies, the Kin protein showed a band with an apparent molecular weight of 41 kDa. Double labelling experiments, using in situ hybridization of Kin-17 mRNA with serotonin immunocytochemistry, demonstrated a cytoplasmic distribution of radiolabelling indicating the translation of this messenger RNA in serotonergic neurons. These data indicate the presence of a Kin nuclear protein in the CNS and suggest that neurons may possess some DNA-repair pathways analogous to those described in bacteria.
Free calcium concentration in isolated single neurons was clamped using a new technical approach based on a feed-back connection between the Fura-2 fluorescence signal measuring the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and iontophoretic current injecting Ca2+ into the cell. Beginning of [Ca2+]i clamping at a level above the basal one triggered fast (few seconds) current transients equal to injection of 36 +/- 20 microM Ca2+ (for a 0.1 microM change of [Ca2+]i), representing the filling of a fast cytosolic buffer. Continuation of clamping required very small clamping currents (corresponding to injection of 0.39 +/- 0.20 microM.s-1 Ca2+). This value increased proportionally to the magnitude of the change of [Ca2+]i above basal level, indicating the activation of calcium-dependent mechanisms for Ca2+ removal from the cytosol. The described approach allowed measurement, under physiological conditions, of the capacitative and kinetic properties of different Ca-regulating systems functioning in a single nerve cell as well as other types of cells.
Many aspects of nerve cell function are controlled by cytosolic Ca2+. Intracellular organelles can sequester the cation and release it in a regulated fashion through specific ion channels including ryanodine-sensitive and inositol trisphosphate (InsP3)-activated intraneuronal Ca2+ channels. We have now used the planar bilayer technique to characterize a distinct high-conductance Ca2+ channel from brain microsomal membranes, which was not found in synaptic plasma membranes. Channel conductance in 50 mM CaCl2 is approximately 100 pS. The channel is permeable to Ca2+, Ba2+, K+ and Cs+, but it is not ideally cation-selective (PCs+:PCl- = 4:1). It opens in bursts in a steeply voltage-dependent manner, with maximal activation around zero mV. Channel activity is unaffected by caffeine or ryanodine (both of which modify the gating of ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ channels), or by InsP3 or heparin (which act on InsP3-sensitive Ca2+ channels). omega-conotoxin GVIA, ruthenium red, amiloride and procaine all block the channel, the latter two by interacting with one or more negatively-charged binding sites in the voltage gradient within the channel pore. We suggest the channel may have a role in intracellular Ca(2+)-signalling, possibly linked to the operation of intracellular Ca2+ stores.
1. The central nervous system (CNS) of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis contains several clusters of neuroendocrine cells, which synthesize neuropeptides that act as neurotransmitters, neurohormones, and/or neuromodulators, controlling a broad range of physiological processes. Using a protein chemical approach, we have previously characterized a peptide [named LYCP-A (Hoek et al., 1992], which is produced by the neuroendocrine light yellow cells (LYC), which are present as two clusters of endogenously bursting neurons in the visceral and right parietal ganglion, respectively. 2. A differential screening technique was used to isolate the cDNA that encodes the prohormone of LYCP-A. The prohormone appeared to contain three or four putative neuropeptides, one of which is LYCP-A. The organization of the identified prohormone resembles that of the histidine-rich basic peptide precursor previously identified in the R3-14 neurons of the marine snail Aplysia californica (Campanelli and Scheller, 1987). 3. In situ hybridization analysis indicates that the gene encoding the LYC prohormone is expressed in a subset of the LYC. The LYC release their peptides into the hemolymph from a neurohemal area, which is located around the CNS. In addition, the peptides are released from axonal branches in the aorta of the heart, suggesting a role in the regulation of cardiovascular functions.

Structural information can be defined as data and knowledge about biological objects ranging in size from molecules to the whole body. A framework is described for organizing structural information around a well-defined set of terminology and semantic relationships, and for disseminating multimedia structural information by means of a wide-area information server that is accessible over the internet. A Macintosh-based client of this server, called the Digital Anatomist Browser, has been used to teach neuroanatomy for the last 2 years. The client-server approach provides each student unlimited access to a rapidly growing knowledge base of structural biology that, while immediately useful for anatomy teaching, has the potential to be an organizing framework for other kinds of medical knowledge as well.

Several different types of mitochondrial DNA mutations have now been identified in a wide spectrum of human disorders. There is some correlation between certain of these mutations and the patient's clinical phenotype, although this relationship is not absolute. The mechanisms by which these mutations produce respiratory chain deficiency and the dysfunction of different tissues are unknown. It is becoming increasingly likely that the nuclear genome plays an important role in the expression of the mitochondrial DNA mutation and the pathogenesis of these diseases.

Cerebellar long-term depression is a persistent, input-specific attenuation of the parallel fiber-Purkinje neuron synapse induced by co-activation of parallel fibers and climbing fibers. This phenomenon endows the Purkinje neuron with a powerful associative computational ability. Recent investigations have provided strong evidence that two mechanisms, Ca2+ influx via voltage-gated channels, and stimulation of protein kinase C via metabotropic receptor activation, are required for induction of long-term depression. In addition, two other mechanisms, Na+ influx via AMPA receptors, and stimulation of a nitric oxide/cGMP cascade may also be involved in this process.
Sympathetic neurons, chromaffin cells, and small, intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells are thought to derive from a common sympathoadrenal precursor cell. Sympathoadrenal precursor cells and adrenal chromaffin cells have been shown to react with an antibody, SA-1; we now report that, like sympathoadrenal precursors, SIF cells during their proliferative phase transiently possess this epitope. Precursors and SIF cells were identified in double-label studies of the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) using SA-1 and an antibody that identifies a noradrenergic trait, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). At E16 when the earliest SIF precursors were detected and at birth, while postmitotic principal neurons had lost SA-1 reactivity, many SIF cells expressed both TH and SA-1. As development proceeded, the proportion of SIF cells expressing only TH increased. In addition, some small SIF-like cells possessed only SA-1 reactivity at birth. Some SIF cells at P7 possessed SA-1, but it was absent at P10 and in the adult. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to identify proliferating SIF cells, and SA-1+ expression was correlated with the period of SIF cell proliferation. At late embryogenesis, the proportion of SA-1+ SIF cells that possessed BrdU was relatively large (17% at E20), and decreased as SIF cell division ceased (6% at P1). Our results indicate that SA-1 is present on SIF cells when these cells are capable of cell division. In addition, mature SIF cells lack SA-1 and are therefore antigenically distinct from the sympathoadrenal precursor. These data suggest that the expression of SA-1 is correlated with the ability of sympathoadrenal cells to proliferate, in the SCG early during embryogenesis, chromaffin cells both during embryogenesis and in the adult, and SIF cells during their transient period of division in the SCG.
The precursors for oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the vertebrate CNS, appear to be initially restricted to ventral regions of the embryonic rat spinal cord. These cells subsequently populate dorsal spinal cord regions where they acquire the mature characteristics of oligodendrocytes. To determine the location and timing of proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors in the ventral spinal cord, and to map their pathways of migration in vivo, an assay that identifies mitotic cells was used in conjunction with antibodies that distinguish astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and their precursors. Between E16.5 and E18.5, two hours after a maternal injection of BrdU, the majority of proliferating cells were located in a discrete cluster at the ventral ventricular zone dorsal to the ventral midline region of the developing spinal cord. By contrast, 12-24 hours following a BrdU injection at E16.5, increasing numbers of labeled cells were seen in the dorsal and more lateral locations of the spinal cord. These observations suggest that BrdU-labeled ventral ventricular cells, or their progeny migrate dorsally and laterally during subsequent spinal cord development. To determine the nature of these proliferating cells, cultures of dorsal and ventral spinal cord from BrdU-labeled animals were double-labeled with antibodies that identify oligodendrocytes or astrocytes and anti-BrdU. In dorsal spinal cord cultures derived from animals that had received a single injection of BrdU at E16.5, the majority of proliferating cells differentiated into astrocytes while, in ventrally derived cultures from the same animals, the majority of proliferating cells differentiated into oligodendrocytes. In dorsal cultures prepared from animals that received multiple injections of BrdU between E16.5 and E18.5, many more cells were labeled with BrdU and approximately half of these differentiated into oligodendrocytes. These observations suggest that during embryonic development proliferating oligodendrocyte precursors are initially located at the ventral ventricular zone dorsal to the ventral midline region of the spinal cord and during subsequent maturation these cells or their progeny migrated dorsally in the ventricular region of the spinal cord, and laterally to reside in the developing white matter.
As major signal transduction cascades, the protein kinase-A and -C (PKA and PKC) pathways have been implicated in the regulation of GnRH synthesis and secretion in the hypothalamus. We have investigated the roles of these pathways in the regulation of GnRH transcription, mRNA levels, propeptide processing, and secretion in GT1-7 cells, a mouse hypothalamic GnRH neuronal cell line. Forskolin, which activates adenylate cyclase to raise cAMP levels, had no effect on GnRH mRNA levels at 10 microM, but induced c-fos mRNA at 30 min. An activator of PKC, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA; 100 nM), also induced c-fos at 30 min, but produced a progressive decline in GnRH mRNA, resulting in a 70% decrease by 16 h. Coadministration of 10 nM TPA and 20 microM of a PKC inhibitor, NPC 15437 [2,6-diamino-N-([1-(1-oxotridecyl)2-piperidinyl]methyl)hexanami de], prevented c-fos induction, but did not antagonize GnRH repression. Instead, the inhibitor itself reduced GnRH mRNA levels by 56% at 16 h (with no effect on c-fos mRNA). Thus, since extended exposure to TPA can down-regulate PKC, suppression of GnRH mRNA by TPA may be due to decreased PKC activity, indicating a role for PKC in the maintenance of the GnRH gene expression (a role that is unlikely to involve c-fos). In transient transfections, the transcriptional activity from 3 kilobases of GnRH 5'-flanking sequence was repressed 2-fold by either 100 nM TPA or 20 microM NPC 15437 at 24 h, demonstrating that suppression of GnRH mRNA is at least, in part, at the level of transcription. In contrast, both TPA (100 nM) and forskolin (10 microM) stimulated secretion. Enhancement of GnRH secretion by TPA was robust and rapid (2.5 min), while the response to forskolin was relatively delayed (2 h). Over a 24-h period, unstimulated cells released primarily unprocessed prohormone, whereas forskolin and TPA stimulated the secretion of processed products. These data indicate that PKC and PKA may influence propeptide processing and/or the route of GnRH secretion. These data demonstrate that the PKA and PKC pathways regulate GnRH at the multiple levels of transcription, pro-GnRH processing, and GnRH secretion.
One day of fasting suppresses pulsatile LH secretion in adult male rhesus monkeys. In the present study, we determined whether the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is activated by 1 day of fasting, and if there is any evidence that an increase in the activity of the HPA axis causes the fasting-induced suppression of LH secretion. In the first experiment, blood samples were collected at 15-min intervals from nine monkeys for 24 h (0800-0800 h) on a day of normal feeding (animals fed a single daily meal at 1100 h) and again on a day of fasting (animals not fed their daily meal) to assess changes in LH and cortisol secretion caused by fasting. LH secretion on the day of fasting (4.44 +/- 0.85 LH pulses/24 h) was significantly suppressed compared to that on a day of normal feeding (7.67 +/- 0.74 LH pulses/24 h; P &lt; or = 0.01), and there was a slight, but significant, rise in plasma cortisol levels from 17.86 +/- 2.29 to 25.14 +/- 2.74 micrograms/dl (measured at 1400 h) that was evident soon after the meal was missed on the day of fasting. However, within individual animals, there was no correlation between the rise in plasma cortisol levels and the decrease in LH secretion observed on a day of fasting (r = 0.37). A second experiment was performed to determine whether the small rise in plasma cortisol levels that occurred on a day of fasting was capable of suppressing LH secretion. Hydrocortisone acetate (HCA) was administered to six normally fed monkeys, creating a rise in plasma cortisol levels somewhat greater than the levels occurring during fasting (HCA treatment, 44.51 +/- 1.48 micrograms/dl; fasting, 18.42 +/- 1.62 micrograms/dl; measured between 1100-2400 h). However, HCA treatment had no effect on LH secretion, suggesting that the rise in cortisol that occurs during fasting does not cause LH suppression. To determine whether increased secretion of the neuropeptides that provide the central drive to the adrenal axis causes the suppression of LH secretion during fasting, six animals were treated with dexamethasone (0.25 mg/kg, im) on a day of fasting to inhibit the activity of the glucocorticoid-sensitive CRH neurons of the adrenal axis via increased glucocorticoid negative feedback. Dexamethasone treatment caused a marked suppression of circulating cortisol levels (to approximately 1.0 micrograms/dl), but it did not prevent the fasting-induced suppression of pulsatile LH secretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPG) are extracellular matrix proteins inhibitory to neurite outgrowth in vitro and correlated with decreased neurite outgrowth after CNS injury. Previously, heparan sulfate proteoglycan and dermatan sulfate proteoglycan have been shown to be associated with senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) but CSPG was not. In an immunocytochemical study, three monoclonal antibodies to different sulfation states of the chondroitin glycosaminoglycan were used to localize CSPG in cases of Alzheimer's disease. Chondroitin 4-sulfate was found in both SPs and NFTs. An antibody to unsulfated chondroitin strongly immunostained intracellular NFTs and the dystrophic neurites of SPs. Chondroitin 6-sulfate was found in NFTs and the area around SPs. These results suggest that CSPG, in addition or as an alternative to beta-amyloid protein, could be responsible for the regression of neurites around senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease.
A patient who came with compression of the chiasma and later on had involvement of the cavernous sinus is presented. Radiological examination showed a seller, suprasellar and parasellar tumor. Histopathological examination revealed a primary Non-Hodgkins lymphoma.
Albert Koelliker was the foremost histologist of the late 1800s. Koelliker personally worked on many of the same issues as Santiago Ramn y Cajal and was well placed to provide a contemporary commentary on the reception of Cajal's ideas. We have translated selected excerpts from Koelliker's autobiography, Erinnerungen aus meinem Leben, which discuss the ideas of Cajal which were treated no differently than most present day hypotheses; they were disputed on logical, technical, and personal grounds.

From social outcast to citizen of the year in less than a decade is the stuff of fiction. That is precisely what has happened, however, to a remarkably simple molecule, nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is still an environmental pollutant, suspected carcinogen, and precursor of acid rain, but biologists are looking past its dark side. They now see a molecule that is uniting neuroscience, physiology, and immunology. Its ubiquitous distribution in the body and its multifaceted roles are revising our understanding of how cells communicate and protect themselves. This report examines nitric oxide's role in physiology and pathophysiology and reviews novel therapeutic approaches which involve inhibition or induction of the activity of endogenous nitric oxide.
Mice carrying a mutation in the gene encoding the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) have recently been produced to provide an animal model for Lesch-Nyhan disease. The current studies were conducted to characterize the consequences of the mutation on the expression of HPRT and to characterize potential changes in brain purine content in these mutants. Our results indicate that the mutant animals have no detectable HPRT-immunoreactive material on western blots and no detectable HPRT enzyme activity in brain tissue homogenates, confirming that they are completely HPRT deficient (HPRT-). Despite the absence of HPRT-mediated purine salvage, the animals have apparently normal brain purine content. However, de novo purine synthesis, as measured by [14C]formate incorporation into brain purines, is accelerated four- to fivefold in the mutant animals. This increase in the synthesis of purines may protect the HPRT- mice from potential depletion of brain purines despite complete impairment of HPRT-mediated purine salvage.
Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AAAD) activity of mouse striatum and midbrain increased after an intracerebroventricular injection of either forskolin or 8-bromo-cyclic AMP. The increase was transient, peaking between 15 and 30 min and returning to baseline by approximately 90 min. The increase of AAAD activity after forskolin was not affected by pretreatment with cycloheximide. Kinetic studies indicated an apparent increase of Vmax with little change of the Km for L-DOPA or pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. We conclude that AAAD activity of striatum and midbrain can be modulated by a cyclic AMP-dependent process.
To determine whether the rat homolog of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) we examined the effect of anti-ICAM-1 mAb, 1A29, on both active and passive EAE. We also examined its effect on a model of cytokine-induced inflammation in the central nervous system. Treatment of recipients of EAE effector cells with anti-ICAM-1 had no inhibitory activity, and in fact at high doses, treatment enhanced disease as evidenced by an earlier onset of symptoms. Treatment of active EAE with anti-ICAM-1 beginning on the day of sensitization did protect a proportion of animals from development of disease as well as reduce the severity of clinical signs in those which developed symptoms. Lymphocytes from both the draining lymph nodes and spleens of myelin basic protein (MBP)-immunized rats treated with anti-ICAM-1 failed to proliferate in response to MBP in vitro, suggesting that the antibody had prevented the animals from becoming sensitized to the antigen. Microinjection of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha into the spinal cords of rats led to the expression of ICAM-1 on vascular endothelium, and to the accumulation of leukocytes at sites of injection. The peak expression of ICAM-1 by endothelium and the peak accumulation of leukocytes following TNF alpha injection were not positively correlated. Furthermore, treatment of TNF alpha injected rats with anti-ICAM-1 did not inhibit the accumulation of leukocytes at the site of cytokine injection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinical and neurophysiological examinations were performed on seven patients with hereditary spastic paraplegia and on eight patients with primary lateral sclerosis. The results were compared with those obtained from a group of 39 control subjects. Prolonged latency times and decreased amplitudes of the posterior tibial nerve (PTN) somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were found in the majority of the patients. The SEP changes occurred without sensory impairment or with loss of vibration sense only. There was no significant relation between the PTN SEP abnormalities and the severity of pyramidal signs for the whole patient group, nor longitudinally for the individual subjects. Analyses of PTN SEPs in patients suffering from slowly progressive spastic paraplegia (SP), therefore, seem to be a method to indicate a feature of spinal cord dysfunction that is not related to the severity of clinical signs. Considering the neuropathology of the spinal cord in SP patients, we furthermore argue that the ascending spinal pathway involved in conducting impulses for PTN SEPs probably uses other routes as well as the funiculus gracilis.
The Scottish Motor Neuron Disease Register (SMNDR) is a prospective, collaborative, population-based project which has been collecting data on incident patients since 1989. In this report we present the clinical features of 229 patients with motor neuron disease (218 sporadic and 11 familial) diagnosed in 1989 and 1990 and compare their prognosis with previous studies of survival. The overall 50% survival from symptom onset was 2.5 years (95% CI, 2.2-3.0) and 5-year survival 28% (95% CI, 20-36%). The presence of progressive bulbar palsy (PBP), either at presentation or developing during the course of the illness, significantly reduced survival and was the most important prognostic indicator. Patients who survived longer than 5 years from symptom onset did not have PBP as part of their presenting illness. The prognosis was worse for women, and this was in part related to the higher frequency of PBP in older women, but age was also an independent adverse risk factor. Differences in survival between this and previous series can probably be explained on the basis of variation in case definition and ascertainment methods.
Memory impairment dominates the cognitive complaints of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Twenty CFS patients were available for studies with a clinical and experimental battery composed of memory and cognitive tests. The results on objective testing indicated that the CFS patients had some mild memory impairment, but only on tasks requiring conceptually driven encoding and retrieval processes. There were no associations between the nature of the precipitating illness, self ratings of fatigue, physical findings, or laboratory determination and objective memory performance or self report of memory functioning. These generally negative results indicate that memory impairment in CFS patients is typically mild and involves memory processes that participate in conceptualising information.
We investigated the interaction of smooth ocular pursuit (SP) and the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during horizontal, combined eye-head tracking (CEHT) in patients with abnormalities of either the VOR or SP movements. Our strategy was to apply transient stimuli that capitalized on the different latencies to onset of SP and the VOR. During CEHT of a target moving at 15 deg/sec, normal subjects and patients with VOR deficits all tracked the target with a gain close to 1.0. When the heads of normal subjects were suddenly and unexpectedly braked to a halt during CEHT, the eye promptly began to move in the orbit to track the target, but eye-in-orbit velocity transiently fell to about 60-70% of target velocity. In patients with deficient labyrinthine function, following the onset of the head brake, eye movements to track the target were absent, and SP movements were not generated until about 100 msec later. In patients with deficient SP, CEHT was superior to SP tracking with the head stationary; after the onset of the head brake, tracking eye movements were initiated promptly, but eye velocity was less than 50% of target velocity and increased only slightly thereafter. These results indicate that at least two mechanisms operate to overcome the VOR and allow gaze to track the target during CEHT: (1) the SP system provides a signal to cancel a normally-operating VOR (this cancellation signal is not needed by labyrinthine-deficient patients who have no VOR to cancel), and (2) a reduction of the gain of the VOR is achieved, an ability that is preserved even in patients with cerebral lesions that impair SP.
1. Extracellular recordings were made in and around the medial vestibular nuclei in decerebrated rats. Neurons were functionally identified according to their semicircular canal input on the basis of their responses to angular head rotations around the yaw, pitch, and roll head axes. Those cells responding to angular acceleration were classified as either horizontal semicircular canal-related (HC) or vertical semicircular canal-related (VC) neurons. The HC neurons were further characterized as either type I or type II, depending on the direction of rotation producing excitation. Cells that lacked a response to angular head acceleration, but exhibited sensitivity to a change in head position, were classified as purely otolith organ-related (OTO) neurons. All vestibular neurons were then tested for their response to sinusoidal linear translation in the horizontal head plane. 2. Convergence of macular and canal inputs onto central vestibular nuclei neurons occurred in 73% of the type I HC, 79% of the type II HC, and 86% of the VC neurons. Out of the 223 neurons identified as receiving macular input, 94 neurons were further studied, and their spatiotemporal response properties to sinusoidal stimulation with pure linear acceleration were quantified. Data were obtained from 33 type I HC, 22 type II HC, 22 VC, and 17 OTO neurons. 3. For each neuron the angle of the translational stimulus vector was varied by 15, 30, or 45 degrees increments in the horizontal head plane. In all tested neurons, a direction of maximum sensitivity was identified. An interesting difference among neurons was their response to translation along the direction perpendicular to that that produced the maximum response (&quot;null&quot; direction). For the majority of neurons tested, it was possible to evoke a nonzero response during stimulation along the null direction always had response phases that varied as a function of stimulus direction. 4. These spatiotemporal response properties were quantified in two independent ways. First, the data were evaluated on the basis of the traditional one-dimensional principle governed by the &quot;cosine gain rule&quot; and constant response phase at different stimulus orientations. Second, the response gain and phase values that were empirically determined for each orientation of the applied linear stimulus vector were fitted on the basis of a newly developed formalism that treats neuronal responses as exhibiting two-dimensional spatial sensitivity. Thus two response vectors were determined for each neuron on the basis of its response gain and phase at different stimulus directions in the horizontal head plane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The FMRFamide gene of the snail Lymnaea encodes tetrapeptides (FMRFamide/FLRFamide) and heptapeptides (GDPFLRFamide/SDPFLRFamide) on separate exons. In situ hybridization probes specific to these exons were used to map the expression of the two exons in identified neuronal systems of the CNS. Analysis of more than 200 preparations showed that cytoplasmic expression of mRNA was exclusively of one type, with individual neurons expressing either the tetrapeptide or heptapeptide exon. Of the approximately 340 neurons expressing the two exons, the majority (80%) expressed the tetrapeptide exon. The tetrapeptide exon was more widespread, occurring in neurons from all 11 ganglia of the CNS. The heptapeptide was mainly confined to two ganglia (visceral and right parietal), with a small number of cells in three other ganglia. Mapping studies combined with dye marking of identified neurons showed the presence of the tetrapeptide exon in several behaviorally important networks: heart motoneurons, whole body withdrawal response motoneurons, and probably penis motoneurons as well as giant identified neurons (LP1, RPD1). The heptapeptides were prominent in two main clusters of cells (Bgp and Fgp) together with a smaller number of tetrapeptide-expressing cells.
The identification of neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-sensitive ion channels on astrocytes (reviewed by Barres, 1991) has renewed interest in how these cells respond to neuronal activity. To investigate the physiology of neuron astrocyte signaling, we have employed primary cortical cultures that contain both neuronal and glial cells. As the neurons in these cultures exhibit synchronous spontaneous synaptic activity, we have used both calcium imaging and whole-cell recording techniques to identify physiological activity in astrocytes related to neuronal activity. Whole-cell voltage-clamp records from astrocytes revealed rapid inward currents that coincide with bursts of electrical activity in neighboring neurons. Calcium imaging studies demonstrate that these currents in astrocytes are not always associated with slowly propagating calcium waves. Inclusion of the dye Lucifer yellow within patch pipettes confirmed that astrocytes are extensively coupled to each other but not to adjacent neurons, indicating that the currents observed are not due to gap junction connections between these cell types. These currents do not reflect widespread diffusion of glutamate or potassium released during neuronal activity since a population of small, round, multipolar presumed glial cells that are not dye coupled to adjacent cells did not display electrical currents coincident with neuronal firing, even though they respond to locally applied glutamate and potassium. These findings indicate that, in addition to the relatively slow signaling conveyed by calcium waves, astrocytes also display rapid electrical responses to neuronal activity.
Axons of adult mammalian retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) do not regenerate spontaneously after injury in the optic nerve and show a persistent decrease in the rate of transport of tubulin and neurofilament proteins. To investigate further the expression of cytoskeletal proteins in these axotomized CNS neurons, mRNA levels of beta-tubulin and the 150 kDa neurofilament subunit (NF-M) were measured after interrupting the optic nerve 9 mm from the eye. Northern blots of RNA extracted from whole retinas after optic nerve transection showed that the total level of both of these mRNAs fell after injury. To determine if this decrease was a result of the death of axotomized RGCs or reflected changes in individual neurons, RNA probes were hybridized to radial cryostat sections of normal and axotomized retinas from 1 d to 6 months after injury. Grain counts revealed two trends of tubulin expression in RGCs. An early increase in tubulin mRNAs in the axotomized RGCs was followed by a later decrease. Such an increase in tubulin mRNA levels has been correlated with regenerative growth in other neurons. By 1 week after injury, the beta-tubulin mRNA levels decreased to 70% of the control value. Moreover, the time of this fall coincided with the onset of a marked slowing of cytoskeletal transport that follows injury in the optic nerve. In contrast, NF-M mRNA levels dropped immediately after axotomy, and remained at 80% of the control level. It is suggested that the transient increase in tubulin mRNAs may reflect an early regenerative response whose persistence depends on further growth cone interactions with the substrate.
We examined the effects of long-term adrenalectomy (ADX) on hippocampal anatomy and behavioral learning in two spatial memory tasks. We assessed damage throughout the hippocampus by stereological analysis of the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn. Rats were ADX or sham operated, and then tested in the Morris water maze 12 weeks after surgery, followed by testing on an eight-arm, alternating-baited radial maze at 22 weeks postsurgery. Animals were killed 7 1/2 months after surgery. ADX rats had selective volume reduction in the dentate gyrus with no changes in pyramidal regions CA1, CA2, CA3, or CA4. Dentate gyrus damage in some cases occurred throughout the entire rostrocaudal extent of the hippocampus. Analysis of corticosterone serum levels, serum Na+/K+ ratios, and body weight gain suggested that individual differences in dentate gyrus damage appear to be due to incomplete adrenalectomies or remaining ectopic tissue. ADX rats were able to learn in both the Morris water maze and eight-arm radial maze, even when the dentate gyrus was severely damaged (80% volume reduction). However, in the Morris water maze, the ADX rats' learning rate was significantly slower compared to controls. There was no difference between ADX and controls during reversal in either task. These data indicate that damage to the dentate gyrus following long-term ADX is severe enough to cause learning impairment in selected learning tasks. Such damage is restricted to the dentate gyrus and can occur throughout the rostrocaudal regions of the hippocampus.
A vascular thrombotic lesion localized to the rat sensorimotor cortex was produced following intravenous injection of the photosensitive dye rose bengal, and its activation with a small beam of high-intensity white light focused to the skull overlaying the sensorimotor cortex. In the sensorimotor cortex at various times after the triggering event, two contiguous brain regions with different degree(s) of neuronal damage can be distinguished: (1) a primary thrombotic ischemic core where the majority of cells are dead and (2) a penumbra region surrounding the core lesion in which a slower progressive neuronal degeneration is occurring. Importantly, in both brain regions the neuronal degeneration is associated with the activation and persistent translocation of protein kinase C (PKC) as indicated by an increase in 4-beta-3H-phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (3H-PDBu) binding. Moreover, the demonstration that in the area penumbra the neuronal degeneration and the persistent translocation of PKC can be inhibited by a pretreatment with dizocilpine (i.e., MK-801) indicates that the dynamics of the progression of the neuronal degeneration are maintained by glutamate accumulating in the extraneuronal fluids. MK-801 additionally prevents the transcriptional activation of several immediate-early genes (IEGs) (e.g., c-fos) and their cognate third nuclear messenger (i.e., c-Fos) expression present in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the lesion. On the other hand, LIGA4 and LIGA20 derivatives of GM1 lysoganglioside reduce the membrane translocation of PKC and the neuronal damage in the penumbra area, but fail to change the increase of IEG expression in the cortex ipsilateral to the lesion.
Compared to normal animals, monkeys with bilateral lesions of the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices (PRPH lesion) were impaired on both a visual and a tactual version of the delayed nonmatching to sample task. In addition, the memory deficit was long-lasting, as indicated by the finding of a significant deficit when the visual version of the delayed nonmatching to sample task was readministered approximately 2 years after surgery. Animals with PRPH lesions performed normally on discrimination tasks in the visual and tactual modalities. Multimodal and long-lasting memory impairments are defining characteristics of human medial temporal lobe amnesia. Accordingly, these results demonstrate important parallels between the memory deficit associated with PRPH lesions and human medial temporal lobe amnesia. These data, taken together with previous findings, suggest that the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices play an important role in memory function and that these cortical areas are critical components of the medial temporal lobe memory system.
The mechanism of low-affinity NGF receptor (LNGFR) truncation was investigated in cultured Schwann cells. Affinity labeling of Schwann cells with 125I-NGF or metabolic labeling with 35S-cysteine showed that truncated NGF receptor (NGF-Rt) was derived from the cell surface form of the receptor. Addition of full-length, exogenous NGF receptor (M(r) = 80 kDa) to Schwann cell membranes resulted in cleavage of the exogenous substrate to NGF-Rt. Investigations into the mechanism of truncation revealed that metalloprotease inhibitors such as phenanthroline, bathophenanthroline, and 8-hydroxyquinoline (8-OHQ) blocked LNGFR truncation in a concentration-dependent fashion. Inhibitors of other protease classes had no effect on truncation. In addition, truncation did not occur at 4 degrees C. It was found that truncation could also occur in Schwann cell membrane preparations, indicating that the putative protease was membrane bound and closely associated with the LNGFR. Metal reconstitution experiments revealed a strong preference toward zinc for the truncating activity, with iron and manganese having slight reconstitution activity in phenanthroline-quenched membranes. To determine if apparent truncation could be inhibited in vivo, the metalloprotease inhibitor 8-OHQ was administered to neonatal rats. 8-OHQ resulted in decreased urine and blood NGF-Rt levels and increased the sciatic nerve LNGFR content; this effect was dose dependent. In adult rats with sciatic nerve crush lesions, 8-OHQ (30-300 mg/kg, t.i.d.) significantly enhanced the rate of sensory neuron regeneration as assessed by the nerve pinch assay. This was accompanied by increased levels of LNGFR in distal nerve segments. These results suggest that Schwann cells possess a metalloprotease-like activity that serves to cleave LNGFR from the surface of these cells. We propose that the putative metalloprotease represents a novel mechanism by which the Schwann cell regulates this particular cell surface protein. Furthermore, increasing the amount of Schwann cell surface LNGFR appears to be of functional significance in that sensory nerve regeneration can be enhanced by inhibition of truncation.
The effect of increasing [Ca2+]o on the positioning of synaptic vesicles relative to the active site in resting coxal neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila was investigated. In normal saline (1.8 mM Ca2+) only a very small percentage of sites possess a vesicle docked under the dense body plate close to the plasma membrane in a readily releasable position. However, after exposure to elevated Ca2+ salines (3.6, 9, 18 mM), an increase in the number of active sites possessing docked vesicles was observed. Also, an increase in the average number of docked vesicles/site was seen. Intracellular recordings from coxal muscle fibers in normal saline and elevated Ca2+ salines were made, and it was observed that exposure to elevated Ca2+ saline caused an increase in miniature excitatory junction potential (mejp) frequency and in multiquantal and clustered mejps. Thus, when the number of active sites possessing docked vesicles increases, the frequency of spontaneous release also increases. Furthermore, when the number of docked vesicles/site increases, the number of multiquantal mejps increases. The data suggest that Ca2+ may be involved in vesicle translocation to the active site, and that the concentration of Ca2+ in the terminal may regulate the number of active sites that possess readily releasable vesicles. The effects of increasing the number of docked vesicles on spontaneous release characteristics are discussed.
Previous studies have demonstrated that NMDA-dependent, long-term potentiation (LTP) can be induced in both afferent and intrinsic association fiber systems in the piriform (primary olfactory) cortex. In this report we demonstrate that an associative form of LTP can be induced by coactivation of these two systems, which terminate on adjacent apical dendritic segments of pyramidal cells. Potentiating stimulus trains were delivered to either afferent or association fibers, and weak shocks, which were nonpotentiating when delivered alone, were delivered to the other pathway. Under control recording conditions where homosynaptic (single pathway) LTP is consistently evoked, coincident application of these stimuli failed to induce LTP of the weak shock response. However, after local blockade of the fast, GABAA-mediated IPSP, associative LTP was consistently produced in both directions. Induction was blocked by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, indicating that it is dependent on activation of NMDA receptors. It is speculated that afferent and association fibers are segregated on different dendritic segments of pyramidal cells in piriform cortex to allow regulation of associative LTP by way of centrifugal inputs that modulate the activity of GABAergic interneurons.
The pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS) was first described over 150 years ago. An estimated 250,000 to 350,000 people are affected with MS in this country. Young adults between the ages of 20 and 50 years are most commonly affected, with the majority of patients experiencing a relapsing course and progressive functional disability. To date, researchers have been unable to discover a precipitating cause. However, many now believe MS develops due to exposure to some unknown virus in a genetically predisposed individual. The incidence of disease is limited in temperate climates and higher in northern latitudes. Neuroscience nurses frequently care for individuals with MS and must, therefore, maintain a familiarity with the current literature and research.
Invasive monitoring of intracranial pressure (ICP) plays an important role in managing many neurosurgical patients. While there are several techniques available to monitor ICP, the ventricular catheter is most commonly used and the most accurate. ICP monitoring poses potential risks to the patient. The most common and one of the most devastating complications is infection. This research study examined the rate of bacterial ventriculitis in relation to duration of ventricular catheter insertion as well as other factors which may contribute to ventriculitis. Data were collected prospectively on 78 patients with a ventriculostomy who were 14 years of age or older and admitted to the neuroscience intensive care unit. Patients were followed from the time of ventricular catheter placement to two weeks after the catheter was removed or until the patient was discharged from the hospital. A significantly higher ventriculitis rate was found in patients with a mean catheter duration of 11 days or longer (p = .004). In the group that developed ventriculitis there was a significant rise (means = 6.03592, p = .014) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lactate prior to the onset of ventriculitis. Neuroscience nurses should be aware of the factors which may increase the rate of ventriculitis, such as duration of catheter placement and factors which may indicate impending infection such as a rise in the CSF lactate. Future studies should compare various methods of ventriculostomy site care for efficacy of infection prevention, cost and caregiver time.
The historical development and correlation of neuroscience nursing literature and nursing practice were traced through a review of selected texts commonly used in nursing education. The primary focus was nursing care of the adult patient with coma secondary to traumatic brain injury, although this patient population was not always identified in early texts. Literature and practice were divided into three periods: early, transitional and modern. The neuroscience literature from 1887-1992 revealed changes in authorship and literary style as well as changes in nursing roles from an almost totally dependent practice to one with an extremely high degree of independence. A correlation between authorship, literary style and nursing practice was evident.
Pharmacologically relevant concentrations of inhalational anesthetics such as halothane, enflurane and isoflurane enhance [3H]flunitrazepam (FLU) binding to benzodiazepine receptors prepared from well-washed membranes of murine cerebral cortex and cerebellum. These effects were concentration dependent and markedly enhanced by addition of chloride to the incubation medium. Using halothane as a prototype inhalational agent, it was observed that like barbiturates, increases in [3H]FLU binding were effected through an increase apparent in the apparent affinity of this radioligand with no accompanying change in the maximum number of binding sites. Although previous reports have demonstrated barbiturates augment gamma-aminobutyric acid-enhanced [3H]benzodiazepine binding, halothane exerts an additive effect in the nominal absence of chloride. Isoflurane produces a significant reduction in the EC50 of pentobarbital-augmented [3H]FLU binding. Halothane modestly reduced the binding of a benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonist, [3H]Ro 15-4513. Significant differences were also observed in the potencies and efficacies of both isoflurane and enflurane to enhance [3H]FLU binding to benzodiazepine receptors in cerebellar and cortical membranes. These findings provide a possible molecular basis for the clinical observation that benzodiazepines and barbiturates augment the anesthetic properties of inhalational agents. Moreover, the regional differences in anesthetic potency and efficacy reported here suggest a differential interaction of these inhalational agents among gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor isoforms.
Chronic (14 daily injections) treatment of mice with the prototypic tricyclic antidepressant imipramine significantly alters ligand binding to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex. These effects were compared to a chronic regimen of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, a high-affinity partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors which mimics the effects of imipramine in preclinical models predictive of antidepressant action. Changes in the NMDA receptor complex after chronic, but not acute treatment with imipramine were manifested as: 1) a reduction in the potency of glycine to inhibit [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid binding to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors; 2) a decrease in the proportion of high-affinity glycine sites inhibiting [3H]CGP 39653 binding to NMDA receptors; and 3) a decrease in basal [3H]MK-801 binding (under nonequilibrium conditions) to sites within NMDA receptor-coupled cation channels which was reversible by the addition of glutamate. These effects were observed in cerebral cortex, but not in hippocampus, striatum or basal forebrain. Chronic treatment with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid resulted in changes which paralleled those of imipramine on ligand binding to the NMDA receptor complex, but the reduction in basal [3H]MK-801 binding did not achieve statistical significance. These findings indicate that adaptive changes in the NMDA receptor complex could be a feature common to chronic treatment with structurally unrelated antidepressants.

It is commonly known that psychosocial stress influences the immune system. Recent progress in neuroscience and immunology has elucidated the mechanism of stress induced immune changes, as well as brain-immune interactions. Numerous studies suggest that psychosocial stress increases the susceptibility to bacterial and viral infections. Stressful life events, inappropriate coping behavior and disturbed emotional states are associated with decreased phagocytosis, reduced lymphocyte response to mitogen, diminished natural killer cell activity, and with the risk of developing neoplasm. There is increasing evidence for a bidirectional communication system between the immune system and the brain through common receptors and biologically active substances such as cytokines and neuropeptides. Research has demonstrated the direct regulatory effect of the autonomic nervous system on the immune system, as well as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. It has also been shown that immune and allergic reactions can be classically conditioned, cytokines have an effect on the central nervous system, and that lymphocytes can produce neuropeptides. In this article, stress induced immune changes and brain-immune interactions are reviewed and discussed using pertinent literature, including studies by the authors.
Despite sparse autonomic innervation, the smooth muscle cells of the corpus cavernosum relax and contract synchronously to achieve penile erection and flaccidity. As with other smooth muscle cell types, the excitation process in the corpora is presumably propagated through gap junctions to allow the diffusion of current-carrying ions and second messenger molecules from cell to cell. Using both molecular and immunocytochemical techniques, we have identified gap junctions between human corporal smooth muscle cells in situ and in culture. Northern analyses demonstrated that corporal smooth muscle cells express the gap junction protein connexin43, but not connexin26 mRNA. Immunoblots showed the presence of connexin43 isoforms, whereas connexin32 was not detected. Immunocytochemical studies in cultured cells identified prominent connexin43 immunoreactive puncta between cells, as well as within the cytoplasm. In addition, gap junction membranes both in situ and in culture were labelled in thin section by anti-connexin43 antibodies using the immunogold technique. We conclude that the presence and distribution of gap junctions in this sparsely innervated tissue may provide an important mechanism of intercellular communication among the smooth muscle cells, and thus play a major role in coordinating tissue contraction and relaxation.





Agonists for GTP-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors are thought to bind with high affinity to the complex of receptor and G protein. Nonhydrolyzable GTP analogs have been shown to disrupt this complex and reduce the binding affinity for many agonists. Antagonists are thought to bind to the receptor whether or not it is coupled to the G protein, and therefore binding remains unchanged in the presence of GTP analogs. The binding of the serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2 receptor agonists serotonin (5-HT) and 4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenylisopropylamine is not affected by the presence of GTP analogs when the cloned 5-HT2 receptor is expressed in the 293 human embryonic kidney cell line. The same receptor expressed in mouse NIH3T3 cells is partially sensitive to GTP analogs. Both cell lines have similar proportions of agonist and antagonist binding sites, and agonist stimulation of both cell lines leads to a robust increase in phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Differences in GTP metabolism in 293 cells is not likely to be the cause of the observed difference in inhibition of agonist binding, because the cloned 5-HT1A serotonin receptor expressed in these cells is sensitive to GTP analogs. The GTP-insensitive agonist binding is best explained by the existence of a G protein-receptor complex in 293 cells that is not sensitive to GTP analogs. Such a G protein-receptor complex may explain the fraction of agonist binding in the brain that is not sensitive to GTP analogs.

A sensitive method for the determination of p-tyramine was developed using gas chromatography-chemical ionization mass spectrometry. This method was combined with a stable isotope tracer technique to study p-tyramine metabolism in humans. [2H]5-Phenylalanine was administered orally to men (5 mg/kg) as a tracer and the amounts of [2H]4-p-tyramine excreted into urine were determined at each hour. Excretion of [2H]4-p-tyramine was maximal between 1 and 2 hours following administration, at about 15 ng/kg.h in healthy adult men. Possible application in the study of metabolic disorders in human was demonstrated.
This study describes, using electron spin resonance spectrometry/spin trapping technique, the increase superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the mitochondrial and cytosolic fraction of the cortex, midbrain, pons-medulla oblongata and cerebellum, and in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in the cortex, cerebellum and hippocampus of the aged rats. The results show that corresponding to the increased life span and improved physical conditions observed after peroral long-term treatment with Bio-catalyzer, a commercial natural fermented health food supplement marketed in Japan and in the Philippines and earlier reported to be a hydroxyl radical scavenger with weaker scavenging activity on superoxide radical (O-2), SOD which is involved in the metabolic degradation of O-2 was further increased, whereas TBARS decreased. These findings suggest that the increased SOD activity in the brain as a defense mechanism against age-related accumulation of reactive oxygen species, in particular superoxide radicals, was enhanced with Bio-catalyzer treatment while age-related peroxidation of neuronal membrane, as measured by TBARS, was decreased.

A Purkinje cell-specific transgene, L7-lacZ, is expressed in a series of parasagitally oriented stripes in the mouse cerebellum. This banding pattern can be perturbed by promoter mutation, showing that a combination of positive and negative control elements contributes to the temporal and spatial map of L7 gene expression. In addition to the parasagittal stripes, certain mutations reveal Purkinje cells organized into compartments oriented in the transverse plane of the cerebellum. Transcription factors of the POU or homeobox families appear to be involved in controlling L7 expression in the transverse orientation. Strikingly, some of the domains of gene expression revealed by the mutations appear to correspond to functional compartments of Purkinje cells, thereby suggesting an underlying genetic principle used to orchestrate functional organization in the nervous system.
The distribution of several glutamate receptor subunits was investigated in cultured rat hippocampal neurons by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. The AMPA/kainate-selective receptors GluR1-6 exhibited two patterns of mRNA expression: most neurons expressed GluR1, R2, and R6, whereas only about 20% expressed significant levels of GluR3, R4, and R5. By immunocytochemistry, the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR1 alpha was detectable only in a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons. GluR1 and GluR2/3 segregated to the somatodendritic domain within the first week in culture, even in the absence of synaptogenesis. Glutamate receptor-enriched spines developed later and were present only on presumptive pyramidal cells, not on GABAergic interneurons. Clusters of GluR1 and GluR2/3 completely colocalized and were restricted to a subset of postsynaptic sites. Thus, glutamate receptor subunits exhibit both a cell type-specific expression and a selective subcellular localization.
The effect of injection of inhibitors of GABA-transaminase into the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) on arterial pressure was examined in anesthetized rats. Two typical GABA-transaminase inhibitors, gamma-vinylGABA (GVG) and aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), increased arterial pressure when injected into the NTS, a response similar to that elicited by direct stimulation of GABA receptors in the NTS. However, with neither drug was the response consistent with the action of inhibiting GABA-T. The response elicited by GVG, despite GVG acting as an irreversible inhibitor of GABA-T, could be reproduced with subsequent injections. Still, the pressor response to GVG could be reversed by blockade of GABAB-receptors with CGP-35348, suggesting that GVG injection did increase GABA-mediated neural transmission. In contrast, the pressor response to AOAA could not be antagonized by blockade of either GABAA or GABAB receptors. These results suggest that acute inhibition of GABA-T does not necessarily result in an increase in GABA-mediated neural transmission.
Twenty-two right-handed aphasics with written and/or oral naming difficulties were treated with a traditional language therapy: copying and repetition of words. The efficacy and maintainability of the treatment were evaluated using a variation of the single-case design, which was termed the material-control single-case design. Effectiveness of the treatment for written naming difficulty was demonstrated for 9 of 21 subjects in a first treatment and 3 of 14 subjects in a second treatment. Three of the 14 subjects benefitted overall from both treatments in written naming. In oral naming, 2 of 18 subjects responded well to the first treatment while 2 of 16 responded well to the second treatment. One of the 16 subjects showed benefits from both the first and second treatments in oral naming. Although written and oral naming disturbances were difficult to improve using ordinary language treatment, a small proportion of subjects clearly showed effectiveness of the therapy. Maintenance of the effects of treatment was observed in all of the improvers.
Conventional gradient-echo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 4 Tesla was used successfully to study the activity of Broca's area during internal speech word generation in healthy right-handed volunteers. Activity was demonstrated in the internal gray matter surrounding the ascending ramus of the lateral sulcus, deep to the cortical surface representation of Broca's area, in all the subjects. These studies demonstrate the capability of functional MRI to non-invasively map language related cognitive functions. Such functional mapping has value for both the study of basic neuroscience and neurosurgical planning.
We have studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry the mRNA expression of preprocholecystokinin (CCK) in grafts of foetal striatal tissue neurones implanted into the ibotenic acid lesioned adult rat neostriatum. Animals were studied at 30 and 90 days after implantation. Using a 35S-labelled 'antisense' oligonucleotide (45-mer) probe complementary to the rat CCK cDNA we observed a dense hybridization signal for CCK mRNA in the striatal eminence in developing embryos and in all the striatal grafts examined; no CCK mRNA expressing cells were found in the normal neonatal or adult rat neostriatum. However, CCK mRNA was heavily expressed in other areas of the host brain including the somatosensory cortex, the claustrum, primary olfactory cortex and endopiriform cortex. The germinal cell layer of the striatal eminence is the source of origin for these non-striatal cell groups as well as for cells destined to form the neostriatum. The present results suggest that CCK mRNA expression provides an unambiguous marker for many of the non-striatal cells in 'striatal' grafts.
Exposure of humans or animals to chronic hypoxia results in enlargement of the carotid body, a respiratory organ that controls ventilation. The underlying mechanisms are unclear but involve hypertrophy of the chemoreceptor glomus cells. To test whether the latter response can occur independent of the circulation or neural inputs, we exposed cultures of dissociated rat carotid body to chronic hypoxia (2-3 weeks in 6% O2), and compared the 3-D cell volume of immunofluorescent, tyrosine hydroxylase positive (TH+) glomus cells, from data sets obtained by serial confocal microscopy. We found a dramatic increase in volume (3-4 x control) of hypoxia-treated TH + cells, suggesting that glomus cell hypertrophy during chronic hypoxia in vivo is likely due to a local effect of low PO2, rather than the production of ectopic growth factors.
We have postulated elsewhere (Shaw CA and Lanius RA. Dev Brain Res 70, 153-161 (1992)) that the kinase/phosphatase regulation of AMPA receptors is mediated by specific ions. Using an in vitro cortical slice preparation we have now examined the roles of calcium (Ca2+), chloride (Cl-), potassium (K+), and sodium (Na+) in the regulation of AMPA receptors. Ca2+ led to a concentration-dependent decrease in [3H]-CNQX binding which could be blocked by a general protein kinase inhibitor (H-7) and a protein kinase A inhibiting peptide. Tamoxifen, a relatively specific protein kinase C inhibitor, had no effect. In contrast, Cl- led to concentration-dependent increases in [3H]-CNQX binding which could be blocked by both sodium-ortho-vanadate, a tyrosine residue selective phosphatase inhibitor, and sodium-beta-D-glycerol phosphate, a serine residue selective phosphatase blocker. K+ and Na+ had no effect on [3H]-CNQX binding. These results suggest that Ca2+ and Cl- may be acting as signals which trigger kinase(s) and phosphatase(s) involved in the regulation of AMPA receptors.
The role played by the beta-amyloid protein in the neuropathology which accompanies Alzheimer's disease remains unclear. In an effort to unravel some of the cellular actions of beta-amyloid, we investigated its effects on nitric oxide (NO) release in cultured neuron. The putative neurotoxic fragment 25-35 of beta-amyloid stimulated release of NO in a neuronal cell line, as measured by an increase in cyclic GMP formation which is attenuated by NO synthase inhibitors and NO scavengers. These results suggest that NO might mediate intercellular communication effected by beta-amyloid. Our results provide the first piece of evidence that beta-amyloid directly activates a putative neurotoxic second messenger transduction mechanism. These findings might be of potential value in understanding the molecular basis of Alzheimer's disease pathology and in targeting new effective therapeutic approaches.
GABAA-receptors in the brain display a striking structural heterogeneity, which is based on a multiplicity of diverse subunits. The allocation of GABAA-receptor subtypes to identified neurons is essential for an analysis of the functional significance of receptor heterogeneity. Among GABA-receptive neurons, well-characterized examples include the serotonergic and GABAergic neurons in the raphe nuclei. The GABAA-receptor subtypes expressed in these two types of neurons were analysed using antisera which recognize selectively the alpha 1- and alpha 3-subunits, and their co-localization with serotonin and glutamate decarboxylase was assessed by confocal laser microscopy in double and triple immunofluorescence staining in the rat. The vast majority of serotonergic neurons express strong alpha 3-subunit-immunoreactivity, but are devoid of alpha 1-subunit staining. In contrast, both the alpha 1- and alpha 3-subunit-immunoreactivities are present in glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons. Thus, serotonergic and GABAergic neurons selectively express distinct patterns of alpha subunits, suggesting that they possess distinct subtypes of GABAA-receptors. The occurrence of neuron-specific GABAA-receptor subtypes may open new possibilities for the targeting of drugs with selective therapeutic actions.
We have studied the effect of brief (50-150 s) applications of N-methyl-D-aspartate (10-100 microM) on the phosphorylated state of the microtubule-associated protein 2 in slices of rat hippocampus. Following a similar experimental protocol we also studied the pattern of excitatory postsynaptic potentials intracellularly recorded in CA1 pyramidal cells elicited by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway. N-Methyl-D-aspartate treatment produced a marked and specific dephosphorylation of the cytoskeletal microtubule-associated protein 2, which was not due to enhanced proteolytic activity. Dephosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein 2 affects mainly the tubulin-binding domain of the molecule and seems to be a consequence of the activation of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin, as it is partially inhibited by calmidazolium but not by okadaic acid. A few minutes after N-methyl-D-aspartate treatment we observed a 23 +/- 17% increase in the amplitude of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential recorded in the cells and the appearance of a large polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential. Both effects lasted for several tens of minutes. The late polysynaptic potential was not observed when the CA3 and CA1 subfields were surgically separated. Our results indicate that the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation leads to the dephosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein 2 via a Ca2+/calmodulin phosphatase, probably calcineurine. This may, in turn, participate in the potentiation of synaptic efficacy.
Hess and Rockland [Hess and Rockland (1983) Brain Res. 289, 322-325] proposed that the distribution of acetylcholinesterase within the lateral geniculate nucleus might correlate with the daily activity patterns shown by primates. In diurnal primates, the magnocellular laminae show a greater acetylcholinesterase reaction product. In nocturnal primates, the parvocellular laminae are more heavily stained. We have examined the laminar distribution of acetylcholinesterase and cytochrome oxidase in the lateral geniculate nucleus of a series of rare prosimian primates. In all prosimians examined, the most dense acetylcholinesterase reaction product is seen in the parvocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus. Heavy cytochrome oxidase activity is seen in both the magnocellular and parvocellular layers, but not the koniocellular layers of the prosimian lateral geniculate nucleus. We have also employed a polyclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase to examine the laminar organization or cholinergic activity in the Galago (Bushbaby) lateral geniculate nucleus. We report that choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity does not correlate with acetylcholinesterase activity in the prosimian lateral geniculate nucleus. Although the lateral geniculate nucleus is more immunoreactive than most other thalamic structures and although the intercalated koniocellular laminae demonstrate somewhat lighter choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, no great difference in staining intensity is seen between the parvocellular and magnocellular laminae. In addition, we examined the phenotype of known inputs to assess the laminar specificity of cholinergic projections to the bushbaby lateral geniculate nucleus. Layer VI of primary visual cortex, which is known to be a source of acetylcholinesterase in the parvocellular layers, does not contain cholinergic cells, nor does the pretectal nucleus, which projects mainly to the parvocellular layers. The parabigeminal nucleus is cholinergic; however, this nucleus is known to project to the koniocellular layers, along with the non-cholinergic superior colliculus. Finally, the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, which provides a strong input to many regions of the thalamus, including the lateral geniculate nucleus, is cholinergic. The laminar organization of its input to the lateral geniculate nucleus is not known. Increased acetylcholinesterase reaction product within the parvocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus is common to all strepsirhine primates. The pattern is also seen in the only two nocturnal haplorhine primates, Tarsius and Aotus (owl monkey). The relation of this increased acetylcholinesterase activity to cholinergic function remains unclear.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Actions of omega-conotoxin GVIA on synaptosomes isolated from a Japanese electric ray, Narke japonica, were investigated. omega-Conotoxin inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, both increases in free calcium concentration in, and acetylcholine release from synaptosomes depolarized with a high concentration of potassium ions. The concentrations of omega-conotoxin required for half-maximal inhibition (IC50) of increase in intrasynaptosomal Ca and acetylcholine release were 8 and 7 microM, respectively. Assay using radioiodinated toxin derivative revealed a specific binding site with a dissociation constant (KD) of 2.8 microM and a density (Bmax) of 45 pmol/mg protein of synaptosome. Binding assay with synaptosomal plasma membrane showed a KD = 7 microM and a Bmax = 200 pmol/mg protein. Autoradiography with sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis after covalent cross-linking of the toxin, using disuccinimidyl suberate, revealed the 170,000 mol. wt peptide to be an omega-conotoxin receptor. The present study has directly and clearly shown that omega-conotoxin inhibits acetylcholine release by blocking Ca influx into nerve terminals. The 170,000 mol. wt peptide identified as a receptor of the toxin exists in high density in the plasma membrane of the presynaptic nerve terminal and is likely to be a component of a voltage-dependent Ca channel responsible for the neurotransmitter release.
The presence of P-type calcium channels in synaptosomes prepared from electric organ of Torpedo marmorata was investigated by using the venom of Agelenopsis aperta, a toxin purified from it, FTX, and its synthetic analog. We analysed the action of these agents on acetylcholine release which was continuously followed using a chemiluminescent assay. Agelenopsis aperta venom, FTX and synthetic FTX inhibit acetylcholine release from synaptosomes induced by a presynaptic membrane depolarization with 60 mM KCl. A stronger inhibition of acetylcholine release was observed with the venom than with FTX (70 and 50%, respectively). Another way of triggering acetylcholine release from Torpedo synaptosomes is to insert in the presynaptic membrane a calcium ionophore A23187 which allows the bypass of the natural calcium channels. The venom of Agelenopsis aperta inhibits A23187-evoked acetylcholine release. Purified and synthetic FTX does not possess this property, suggesting that this inhibition of acetylcholine release was due to other toxins of the venom. Another type of pharmacological sensitivity of Torpedo calcium channels was also demonstrated using omega-conotoxin GVIA. At a concentration of 20 microM, this toxin was able to inhibit about 35% of KCl-evoked acetylcholine release. When FTX + omega-conotoxin GVIA were applied together, the inhibitory effect on KCl-evoked acetylcholine release was not significantly increased in comparison with the one observed with FTX alone. In conclusion, we examined the effect of different agents on acetylcholine release from Torpedo marmorata electric organ synaptosomes; acetylcholine release was elicited with KCl depolarization and followed continuously with a chemiluminescent assay.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Voltage-sensitive calcium channels play a key role in evoked neurotransmitter release and their distribution in presynaptic membranes can be critical for fast signalling at chemical synapses. Using a biotinylated derivative of the neuronal calcium channel antagonist, omega-conotoxin, and a combination of colloidal gold labeling and freeze-fracture techniques, we have labeled calcium channels present at the membrane of nerve terminals isolated from the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata. The biotinylated blocker exerts an inhibitory action on the high potassium-evoked release of adenosine triphosphate as the native toxin does and its interaction with biological membranes is specific as shown in displacement experiments. This study shows that an antagonist specific for voltage-activated calcium channels binds to intramembrane particles in presynaptic membranes, reinforcing the idea that these particles, concentrated at neurotransmitter release sites, effectively represent calcium channels.
Choline acetyltransferase, the enzyme which catalyses the formation of acetylcholine within cholinergic nerve terminals, exists in both cytosolic and membrane-associated subcellular pools. In the present study, alteration in nerve terminal Cl- homeostasis was used as an experimental tool to elucidate the role of membrane-bound choline acetyltransferase in regulation of the biosynthesis of acetylcholine in rat hippocampal synaptosomes under basal or resting conditions. Reduction of extracellular Cl- concentration from 131 to 48 mM through iso-osmotic replacement with isethionate ions produced a selective decrease, to approximately 50% of control, of nerve terminal membrane-associated choline acetyltransferase activity. Under these experimental conditions, there were no changes in the activity of cytosolic enzyme or high-affinity choline uptake, or in acetylcholine synthesis. Replacement of medium Cl- with Br- supported maintenance of synaptosomal membrane-bound choline acetyltransferase activity better than did I- or isethionate ions; high-affinity choline uptake activity and acetylcholine synthesis were affected similarly. Incubation of synaptosomes with low concentrations of the Cl- channel blockers 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid (50 microM) and niflumic acid (100 microM) selectively decreased activity of the membrane-bound enzyme, with no effect on cytosolic choline acetyltransferase or high-affinity choline uptake activities. Acetylcholine synthesis was unchanged, even though membrane-bound choline acetyltransferase activity was decreased in some samples (250 microM 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid) to about 10% of control. Experimental manipulations designed to alter neuronal Cl- homeostasis resulted in selective changes in membrane-bound choline acetyltransferase activity, thereby allowing the first direct examination of its physiological role in regulation of acetylcholine synthesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dose-related blocking effects of R56865, flunarizine and nimodipine on voltage-activated Na+ currents recorded in the whole-cell voltage clamp mode were studied in acutely isolated Purkinje neurons of rat cerebellum. The dose-dependences of blocking action were obtained for all drugs at a holding potential of -110 mV and rare stimulation. At stimulation frequencies 5 and 15 Hz the block produced by R56865 was increased showing a shift of dose-dependence to lower concentrations of antagonist. This shift was less pronounced for flunarizine, practically absent for nimodipine, and increased for all drugs with an increase in the amplitude of stimulating voltage pulse. With the change in holding potential to -80 mV the block produced by R56865 and flunarizine increased showing a dose-dependence shift to lower concentrations of antagonists. All the drugs tested induced parallel shifts of the steady-state voltage-dependence of inactivation of Na+ channels to more negative membrane potentials. R56865, and to a lesser extent flunarizine, slowed down the recovery of Na+ channels from steady-state inactivation increasing the relative number of channels which showed slow recovery. In the absence of Na+ current inactivation (treatment by intracellular pronase) R56865 at a concentration of 1 microM blocked modified channels preferentially in the open state, while the block produced by flunarizine showed no dependence on voltage pulse protocol. R56865 was shown to decrease the cell leakage while other drugs produced little or no effect. It is concluded that R56865 and flunarizine block Na+ currents predominantly by interacting with inactivated Na+ channels. The higher ability of R56865 to block open channels and to increase slow inactivation underlies its higher frequency-dependence. These characteristics suggest the use of R56865 and flunarizine in the treatment of cerebral ischemia.
Neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the medial preoptic nucleus exhibit the largest neurochemically defined sex difference in the rat preoptic area with a 20-fold difference in cell numbers. The gonadal steroid hormones responsible for this sexual dimorphism have been investigated by examining calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the preoptic area of adult rats receiving a variety of perinatal and adult gonadal steroid manipulations. Cells immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide were examined in two populations within the preoptic area, one in its ventrolateral aspect and the other located in the lateral division of the medial preoptic nucleus. Cell profile counts estimate numbers of calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing cells in the medial preoptic nucleus of the female to be 22.2 +/- 3.0 cells/section compared with 1.0 +/- 0.2 in the male (P &lt; 0.01). No sex differences existed in the preoptic ventrolateral population of calcitonin gene-related peptide cells (males 4.3 +/- 0.2, females 4.4 +/- 0.6 cells/section). Gonadectomy of male rats on postnatal day 2 resulted in the appearance of a calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing cell population in the medial preoptic nucleus which was indistinguishable from intact female rats (19.3 +/- 2.2 cells/section). Gonadectomy of adult male rats resulted in a modest increase in calcitonin gene-related peptide cell numbers within the medial preoptic nucleus (8.8 +/- 0.4 cells/section) and this was fully reversed by replacement of testosterone (0.7 +/- 0.2 cells/section).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The nervous system may be actively involved in bone repair and in remodelling of callous tissue in bone fractures, as well as in the regulation of nociceptive impulses from the site of the trauma. The aim of this study was to assess the distribution and nature of the periosteal innervation of normal control bone and during bone healing subsequent to fracture of rat tibiae at seven, 14 and 21 days after experimental fracture using immunocytochemistry and image analysis quantification of the neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5 and sensory neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide. At seven days, periosteal protein gene product 9.5- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibres showed dense ramifications and terminal sprouting. In addition to periosteum, the nerve fibres were found in the middle of the callus interspersed with inflammatory cells and penetrating into secondary minor fractures. At days 14 and 21 many tortuous nerves were found in the periosteum but not in mid callus. Image analysis quantification revealed a uniform increased proliferation of nerves after seven days. At 21 days, the intercept countings showed in excess of a three-fold increase of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres compared with the normal control group (P &gt; or = 0.0001) and were almost as numerous as protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive fibres (P &lt; 0.005). It is postulated that calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing sensory innervation may have a potential importance in the fracture vascular control, angiogenesis and osteogenesis in addition to a protective role against excessive fracture movement. The results are consistent with the neural involvement in bone growth and remodelling.
Monosynaptic connections from sensory receptors to the dorsal spinocerebellar tract are believed to have a significant role in the transmission of sensory information to the cerebellum. However, predominant polysynaptic connections with highly convergent afferent input suggest a functional organization based on integrated sensory representations. We explored this possibility by examining the responses of dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons to inputs from muscle receptors. We compared results from two sets of experiments designed to activate receptors in the gastrocnemius-soleus muscles. In one set (135 cells) we stimulated muscle receptors by stretching the isolated muscles and in the other set (194 cells) the muscle receptors were activated by passive foot flexion, which concurrently activated cutaneous and joint receptors as well. Population responses of the spinocerebellar neurons were quite different for the two types of stimuli. Foot flexion elicited long-latency excitatory responses in a majority (53%) of the cells, while muscle stretch elicited a large fraction of early peaking excitatory responses (28%) and inhibitory responses (38%). The long-latency responses to flexion could not be accounted for by specific cutaneous inputs or by possible delayed reflex contractions. We concluded that both types of population response resulted from the muscle stretch and therefore the responses of dorsal spinocerebellar tract cells to these stimuli do not simply reflect the activity in specific classes of sensory receptors.
The distribution of secretoneurin, a peptide derived from its precursor secretogranin II by proteolytic processing, was studied in the central nervous system of the rat by immunocytochemistry and radioimmunoassay and compared to the distribution of secretogranin II messenger RNA by using in situ hybridization. With a specific antiserum a distinct staining of fibers and to a lesser extent also of perikarya was observed throughout the central nervous system. A high density of immunoreactive fibers and terminals was found in several brain areas, i.e. the lateral septum, the medial parts of the amygdala, some medial thalamic nuclei, the hypothalamus, habenula, nucleus interpeduncularis, locus coeruleus, nucleus tractus solitarii, the substantiae gelatinosae of the caudal trigeminal nucleus and of the spinal cord. The quantitative distribution as measured by a radioimmunoassay agreed well with the varying densities of immunoreactivity found by immunocytochemistry. The highest concentrations of this peptide were present in the hypothalamus, in particular, in the median eminence and are comparable to those of the most highly concentrated neuropeptides. The distribution of immunopositive perikarya corresponded well with that of secretogranin II messenger RNA obtained by in situ hybridization. The pattern of secretoneurin expression in rat brain was widespread and unique, partially overlapping with established chemical transmitters and neuropeptides. The functional significance of this new brain peptide remains to be established.
Treatment with excitotoxin kainic acid is known to increase the level of messenger RNAs for nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the brain. In this study we have used quantitative in situ hybridization to analyse the effect of glucocorticoids on kainic acid-induced increase of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the rat brain. In adrenalectomized animals, the kainic acid-mediated increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex was reduced by 50% compared to sham-operated animals. The increase of nerve growth factor messenger RNA elicited by kainic acid in the dentate gyrus was almost completely abolished in adrenalectomized animals. No significant change was seen in c-fos messenger RNA in the hippocampus of adrenalectomized rat after kainic acid injection compared to sham-operated kainic acid-treated rats, while a three-fold reduction was seen in the cerebral cortex. Dexamethasone injection prior to kainic acid administration potentiated the kainic acid-induced increase of nerve growth factor messenger RNA in the dentate gyrus and the piriform cortex. In contrast, dexamethasone pretreatment did not potentiate the kainic acid-mediated increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. We also examined the effect of adrenalectomy and kainic acid injection on tropomyosin receptor kinase B and C messenger RNA, encoding essential components of high-affinity receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor/neurotrophin-4 and neurotrophin-3, respectively. Following adrenalectomy no change of tropomyosin receptor kinase B or C messenger RNA was detected in any of the brain regions studied compared to sham-operated animals. The injection of kainic acid caused four-fold and two-fold increases of tropomyosin receptor kinase B messenger RNA in the dentate gyrus and cerebral cortex, respectively, but no change in tropomyosin receptor kinase C messenger RNA in any of these regions. In adrenalectomized animals receiving kainic acid, the level of tropomyosin receptor kinase B messenger RNA was decreased both in the dentate gyrus and cerebral cortex as compared to sham animals treated with kainic acid. Taken together, the data suggest that excitotoxins and glucocorticoids both influence expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor messenger RNA in the brain, but by two different mechanisms, where the effect of excitotoxin-evoked seizures is modulated by glucocorticoids.
Transforming growth factor-beta 1 rapidly increases in adult rat brain in response to experimental lesions. This study characterized the schedule of changes, regional distribution, and cellular localization of striatal transforming growth factor-beta 1 messenger RNA and fibronectin messenger RNA following partial striatal deafferentation by frontal cortex ablation. Frontal cortex ablation induced striatal transforming growth factor-beta 1 messenger RNA elevations that coincided temporally and overlapped anatomically with the course of degeneration of cortico-striatal afferent fibers. Within three days post-lesioning, transforming growth factor-beta 1 messenger RNA was localized at the cortical wound. By 10 days, the anatomical site of transforming growth factor-beta 1 messenger RNA expression shifted to the dorsal half of the deafferented striatum and co-localized with OX-42+ immunostained microglia-macrophage at the site of degenerating afferent terminals. Similarly, fibronectin messenger RNA also shifted from the cortical wound to the deafferented striatum by 10 days post-lesioning. Fibronectin messenger RNA was localized to glial fibrillary acidic protein+ immunostained astrocytes surrounding degenerating corticostriatal afferents. Infusion of transforming growth factor-beta 1 peptide elevated striatal and cortical fibronectin messenger RNA. These findings suggest that microglia-macrophage associated with degenerating afferent fibres can upregulate transforming growth factor-beta 1 messenger RNA and may influence fibronectin messenger RNA synthesis in reactive astrocytes. This study suggests that transforming growth factor-beta 1 has a role in controlling extracellular matrix synthesis following brain injury, which is analogous to that in peripheral wound healing.
In the developing brain microtubule-associated protein MAP2 occurs as both a high molecular weight form, MAP2b, which is present only in dendrites, and a low molecular weight form, MAP2c, which is also present in axons. Because the MAP2c amino acid sequence is entirely contained within that of MAP2b it is not possible to raise a MAP2c-specific antibody, so that it has been impossible to determine whether MAP2c is present in dendrites along with MAP2b. To answer this question we have generated a MAP2c cDNA clone tagged with a 10 amino acid epitope from human c-myc. This additional sequence does not alter either the binding of MAP2c to microtubules or its effects on microtubules in non-neuronal cells. When expressed in cultured primary neurons by transfection, the myc tag allowed the distribution of MAP2c to be determined independently of endogenous MAP2 protein by immunostaining with an anti-myc antibody. This showed that MAP2c is present in all processes, indicating that it can enter all kinds of processes and is stable in their cytoplasm. The results further suggest that the selective association of high molecular weight MAP2 with dendrites depends on a mechanism that prevents either its entrance or survival in the axonal compartment.
The synapses of serotonin-like immunoreactive retinal neurons were studied in Bufo marinus and Xenopus laevis and those of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-labelled cells in Xenopus. Immunoreactivity to serotonin was mostly confined to amacrine cells. Synapses formed by profiles of labelled cells were almost uniformly distributed in the inner plexiform layer in both species. Interamacrine synapses were the most frequent, and in some cases two labelled amacrine cell profiles made a gap junction. Some of the labelled amacrine cells synapsed on to presumed ganglion cell dendrites and onto bipolar cell terminals. Labelled bipolar cell terminals synapsed on to non-labelled amacrine cell dendrites and received inputs both from labelled and non-labelled amacrine cells. Labelled bipolar cell profiles were not observed in the outer plexiform layer. After preloading and photoconversion of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine in the Xenopus retina, labelled bipolar cell dendrites in the outer plexiform layer were observed to be postsynaptic to cone pedicles and less frequently to rods and horizontal cells. In the inner plexiform layer, synapse types formed by labelled bipolar cells were similar to those with serotonin immunoreactivity. The frequency of synapses formed by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-labelled amacrine cells increased, compared with serotonin immunocytochemistry. Labelled amacrine cells synapsed mostly with non-labelled amacrine cells, although the ratio of contacts formed by two labelled profiles increased. Synapses from labelled amacrine cell dendrites to non-labelled bipolar cell terminals and from non-labelled bipolar cell terminals to labelled amacrine cell profiles increased in number, while those from labelled amacrine cells to presumed ganglion cell dendrites decreased. The quantitative data obtained by the two approaches enabled us to propose different neuronal circuits for serotonin-synthesizing and -accumulating neurons of the Xenopus retina.
An antibody recognizing all ankyrin isoforms was employed to localize ankyrin in the cerebellum by light and electron microscopy. White matter (myelinated fiber tracts) did not contain ankyrin. Granule cell bodies and axons contained ankyrin which extended into the parallel fibers and their synapses. Purkinje cells contained a nearly uniform plasma membrane undercoating of ankyrin in the cell body. However, in both of these cell types ankyrin was not detected in dendrites. Basket and stellate cells did not contain detectable ankyrin. Golgi neuroepithelial cell bodies and processes contained ankyrin while myelin and myelinated axons did not. These results indicate that the membrane skeletal protein ankyrin occurs in some, but not all, neuronal and glial cell types in the cerebellum. For the neurons in which it does occur its distribution is polarized, being limited to cell bodies and axons while not occurring in dendrites.
Single- and double-immunohistochemical staining methods were used to assay the effect of estrogen on the expression of co-existing peptides in the magnocellular neurosecretory system of the female rat. It was confirmed in colchicine-treated, ovariectomized animals that immunoreactive corticotropin-releasing factor and cholecystokinin co-exist in subsets of oxytocinergic neurons; in addition, dynorphin immunoreactivity was detected in a substantial majority of oxytocin containing magnocellular neurons. Consistent with previous studies, magnocellular vasopressinergic cells were found to display angiotensin II-, dynorphin- and galanin-immunoreactivities. Comparable results occurred in colchicine-treated ovariectomized rats independent of whether or not the animals received replacement injections of estradiol benzoate or vehicle. Ovariectomized rats that were not pretreated with colchicine showed enhanced staining (increased cell number and staining intensity of both cell bodies and terminals in the posterior pituitary) for each of the peptides that was found to co-exist in vasopressinergic neurons after treatment with estradiol; staining for vasopressin was similar in steroid- and oil-treated animals. Perikaryal staining for peptides co-localized with oxytocin was not discernibly different in estradiol- vs vehicle-treated animals, while in the posterior lobe, differential effects of hormone replacement on oxytocin, cholecystokinin, and corticotropin-releasing factor immunostaining of terminals were apparent. Perikaryal staining for co-existing peptides in gonadally intact animals killed at the estrus or the diestrus II phases of the estrous cycle provided a pattern of results compatible with those seen in ovariectomized animals treated with estradiol or oil, respectively. These observations suggest that circulating gonadal steroids affect co-existing peptide expression differentially in oxytocinergic vs vasopressinergic neurons. All peptides examined that could be co-localized in vasopressinergic cells showed evidence of enhanced expression in the presence of estrogen, while at least two of these co-localized with oxytocin appeared driven in the opposite direction. The results in normally cycling rats indicate that this kind of influence may be manifest under normal physiological conditions.
Helical strips of bovine basilar arteries denuded of the endothelium responded to transmural electrical stimulation with frequency-dependent relaxations that were abolished or markedly attenuated by treatment with tetrodotoxin, oxyhemoglobin and Methylene Blue. Relaxations induced by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and calcitonin gene-related peptide were not affected by oxyhemoglobin and Methylene Blue. The neurally induced relaxation was not attenuated in the artery made unresponsive to these peptides by successive application. The relaxation caused by nerve stimulation was markedly inhibited by treatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, which did not inhibit the relaxation caused by exogenously applied nitric oxide. The inhibition was reversed by L-arginine but not by the D-enantiomer. Exogenously applied acetylcholine did not alter the tone of endothelium-denuded arteries. Neurally induced relaxations were attenuated by treatment with acetylcholine and physostigmine and were significantly potentiated by atropine. It may be concluded that the relaxation induced by nerve stimulation is mediated by nitric oxide, but not by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or calcitonin gene-related peptide, derived from vasodilator nerves innervating the bovine basilar artery, and the nerve function is inhibited prejunctionally via muscarinic receptor activation by acetylcholine released from cholinergic nerves but is not influenced by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide.
Immunocytochemistry was used to assess the distribution of neurons within the spinal trigeminal nucleus that expressed the protein product of the proto-oncogene c-fos after thermal stimulation of the cornea in barbiturate-anesthetized rats. The influence of adrenal steroids on Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by corneal stimulation also was examined by comparison of the results obtained in adrenal intact rats to those in adrenalectomized rats and to those in adrenalectomized rats given corticosterone replacement therapy. Stimuli (42 or 52 degrees C, 20 s per min, 15 min) were applied unilaterally to the cornea by a contact thermode. At 2 h after stimulation animals were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde and tissue sections were incubated with primary antiserum against the Fos protein and processed with the avidin-biotin method. The pattern of Fos-like immunoreactivity after 52 degrees C stimulation revealed a dominant group of cells ipsilaterally within the superficial laminae of the caudalmost portion of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis that was greatly enhanced in adrenalectomized rats. Low-intensity stimulation did not induce Fos-like immunoreactivity among cells in this caudal region. A second significant group of cells was seen more rostrally at periobex levels within the ventrolateral pole of the nucleus. The number of cells in the periobex grouping was increased after 52 or 42 degrees C corneal stimulation when compared to unstimulated controls and was not affected by levels of corticosterone. The results indicated a discontinuous pattern of Fos-like immunoreactivity within the spinal trigeminal nucleus after thermal stimulation of the cornea and a differential effect of adrenal steroids. The appearance of Fos-like immunoreactivity within caudal portions of the nucleus was increased only by noxious intensities of stimulation and was further enhanced in animals with low levels of corticosterone. In contrast, the Fos-like immunoreactivity at periobex levels was increased after noxious and innocuous thermal stimuli and was independent of the level of corticosterone. The results were consistent with the hypothesis that glucocorticoids modify the expression of immediate early genes among a select group of central trigeminal neurons. Such steroid modulation may contribute to the mechanisms that underlie long-term adaptation to noxious sensory input.
A slow rate of nerve regeneration conspires together with atrophy and degeneration of denervated organs to increase the risk of permanent disability following injury to the mammalian peripheral nervous system. Therefore, it is of both practical and theoretical interest to identify those endogenous factors that determine the spontaneous velocity of nerve regeneration, and to discover exogenous factors which hold promise for augmenting the rate. We report that locally infused insulin-like growth factor II significantly increases the speed of sensory axon regeneration in rat sciatic nerves. It appeared that 1 microgram/ml insulin-like growth factor II acted through insulin-like growth factor receptors, because a comparable concentration of insulin had little effect. Furthermore, there was a sustained reduction in regeneration rate when an anti-insulin-like growth factor II antiserum was continuously infused near a window in the epineurium located just below a site of nerve crush, indicating that the spontaneous regeneration rate was continuously dependent on endogenous insulin-like growth factor activity. These results show that exogenously administered insulin-like growth factor II can increase the rate of peripheral nerve regeneration, and that the endogenous insulin-like growth factors in nerves are required to maintain the normal rate of regeneration. These in vivo data complement previous observations showing that insulin-like growth factors can increase neurite outgrowth in cultured neurons, and that insulin-like growth factor II gene expression is correlated with synapse development. They further support the hypothesis that insulin-like growth factors play a role in nerve regeneration.
We have used a monoclonal antibody (5F4) and Griffonia lectin to study the recruitment of macrophages after crushing axolotl central and peripheral axons. In both cases axonal regeneration begins within one to two days and, in the CNS, proceeds at a rate of about 0.05 mm per day. However, in the spinal cord, macrophage entry is restricted to the lesion site whilst in peripheral nerves macrophages rapidly enter the distal nerve stump after injury. These results suggest that the role (if any) played by macrophages during axonal regeneration may differ in these two situations.
Extracellular single-unit recording methods were used to study the activity of neurons within a restricted portion of the dorsolateral mesopontine reticular formation, an area which includes the parabrachial, pedunculopontine tegmental and cuneiform nuclei. Recordings were obtained during presentations of unfamiliar and familiar sensory stimuli, during Pavlovian differential conditioning procedures that elicited conditioned bradycardia, and while stimulating the amygdaloid central nucleus to identify neurons that projected to, or received projections from, the amygdaloid central nucleus. Activity in most dorsolateral mesopontine reticular neurons was altered during sensory stimulation, and the convergence of auditory and somatic inputs onto single neurons was common. Moreover, neural responses were often of a different magnitude and/or direction to auditory stimuli that were unfamiliar vs familiar vs reinforced (paired with pinna stimulation), and many of these differentially responsive neurons were activated orthodromically by stimulation of the amygdaloid central nucleus. In contrast, neurons activated antidromically by stimulation of the amygdaloid central nucleus were relatively quiescent during all phases of the experiment. Results are discussed in relation to current hypotheses concerning the functional significance of various neuronal subpopulations within the dorsolateral mesopontine reticular formation during Pavlovian conditioning.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata plays an important role in the control of arterial blood pressure and it has strong descending projections into the intermediolateral nucleus of the thoracic spinal cord, where the majority of sympathetic preganglionic neurons are located. The purpose of this study was to see whether these projections form synaptic contacts with sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the rat. Projections from both the lateral part of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus) and from the more medial region (lateral paragigantocellular nucleus) were investigated separately in view of their different functional roles in sympatho-regulation and their different chemical composition. Using anterograde tract-tracing of descending medullary pathways with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and retrograde labelling of sympatho-adrenal preganglionic neurons with cholera B chain conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, the existence of monosynaptic connections was sought by electron microscopy. Synaptic inputs from both the lateral and medial aspects of the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata were found on identified sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Synaptic specializations were of both the symmetrical and asymmetrical type. The targets of boutons forming asymmetrical synaptic contacts differed according to their origin: boutons originating from neurons in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus were mainly in contact with dendrites of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, while those originating from the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus mainly innervated the cell bodies. Our observations provide anatomical support for the view that there are two distinct classes of sympatho-regulatory cells in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, each of which can directly influence the activity of sympathetic preganglionic neurons; they also emphasize the importance of detailed investigation of the subregions of the ventrolateral medulla with respect to their sympatho-regulatory functions.
Chemical microstimulation (1 mM L-glutamate or 25 mM KCl) of the medial prefrontal cortex of anaesthetized rats produced falls in systolic and diastolic blood pressure of similar magnitude, without a change in heart rate. Application of the lectin Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin by iontophoresis from an adjacent barrel of the same micropipette revealed a direct projection to the central autonomic area of the thoracic spinal cord from this vasomotor area, which is equivalent to the region called prelimbic cortex by Krettek and Price [J. comp. Neurol. (1977) 171, 157-192] or Cg3 by Paxinos and Watson [The Rat Brain in Stereotaxic Coordinates (1986)]. Labelled axons descended in the dorsal corticospinal tract in the cervical spinal cord, where they displayed a few varicosities. In the thoracic spinal cord, labelled fibres occurred bilaterally in the gray matter, predominantly in the central autonomic area, where they displayed many varicosities. Electron microscope studies revealed that the anterogradely labelled varicosities in the central autonomic area were vesicle-filled boutons that formed asymmetric synaptic contacts. The synaptic targets were small dendrites or dendritic protrusions that were characterized by a high incidence of multivesicular bodies and coated vesicles. We conclude that a monosynaptic pathway that originates from a physiologically-defined vasomotor area in the medial prefrontal cortex terminates on a characteristic type of neuron in the central autonomic area of the thoracic spinal cord.
Serotonin2 receptors have been implicated in a variety of behavioral and physiological processes, as well as a number of neuropsychiatric disorders. To specify the brain regions and specific cell types possessing serotonin2 receptors, we conducted an immunocytochemical study of the rat brain using a polyclonal serotonin2 receptor antibody. Perfusion-fixed rat brain sections were processed for immunocytochemistry and reactivity was visualized using an immunoperoxidase reaction. Numerous small, round neurons were heavily labeled in the granular and periglomerular regions of the olfactory bulb. Heavy labeling of medium-sized multipolar and bipolar neurons was also seen in olfactory regions of the ventral forebrain, including the anterior olfactory nucleus and olfactory tubercle. Other regions of the basal forebrain exhibiting high levels of immunoreactivity were the nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum, Islands of Calleja, fundus striatum and endopyriform nucleus. Immunoreactive neurons were also seen in the lateral amygdala. A dense band of small, round cells was stained in layer 2 of pyriform cortex. In neocortex, a very sparse and even distribution of bipolar and multipolar neurons was seen throughout layers II-VI. A much more faintly labeled population of oval cells was observed in the deep layer of retrosplenial and posterior cingulate cortex, and in the granular layer of somatosensory frontoparietal cortex. A moderate number of medium bipolar and multipolar cells were scattered throughout the neostriatum, and a moderate number of pyramidal and pyramidal-like cells were seen in the CA fields of the hippocampus. Diencephalic areas showing immunolabeling included the medial habenula and anterior pretectal nucleus, with less labeling in the ventral lateral geniculate. In the hindbrain, two dense populations of large multipolar cells were heavily labeled in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei, with lesser labeling in the periaqueductal gray, superior colliculus, spinal trigeminal nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract. Based on the distribution, localization and morphology of immunoreactive neurons in these regions, we hypothesize that subpopulations of serotonin2 containing cells may be GABAergic interneurons or cholinergic neurons. Further, the observed distribution suggests that the physiological effects of serotonin acting through serotonin2 receptors are mediated by a relatively small number of cells in the brain. These observations may have strong functional implications for the pharmacological treatment of certain neuropsychiatric disorders.
Receptor autoradiography with [3H]citalopram as ligand was used to study the distribution of serotonin uptake binding sites in post mortem brain tissues from patients with Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and from age-matched controls. Significant decreases in [3H]citalopram binding sites were found in the cerebral cortex of patients with Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. Densities of [3H]citalopram binding sites were significantly reduced in all components of the basal ganglia of Parkinson's disease but only in the head of caudate nucleus of progressive supranuclear palsy patients. The density of [3H]citalopram binding sites in the raphe nuclei of Parkinson's disease was comparable to control values. Our results suggest that serotoninergic terminals are differentially affected in Parkinson's disease and in progressive supranuclear palsy.
Interactions between dopamine and neurotensin or dopamine and cholecystokinin have been demonstrated in the basal ganglia. Disruption of nigrostriatal dopaminergic transmission results in a dramatic increase in neurotensin messenger RNA and in an induction of cholecystokinin messenger RNA in the striatum. Interaction between striatal dopaminergic and adenosinergic systems have also been reported. Adenosine and the adenosine receptor antagonist, caffeine, regulate gene expression in the striatum. In the present study, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to investigate the putative regulation of neurotensin and cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression by caffeine in the rat striatum. Using this method, cholecystokinin messenger RNA was undetectable and neurotensin messenger RNA very sparse in the normal striatum. Chronic caffeine administration induced a dramatic increase in neurotensin messenger RNA in the subcallosal region of the caudate-putamen and a moderate increase in the shell sector of the accumbens nucleus. Similarly, caffeine induced a significant striatal expression of cholecystokinin messenger RNA in the dorsolateral and ventrolateral quadrants but was not restricted to the subcallosal area. At the cellular level, this corresponded to a significant labeling of a moderate to high density of medium-sized striatal neurons. These distributions were identical to those of neurotensin and cholecystokinin messenger RNAs observed in the case of disruption of dopaminergic transmission. We therefore concluded that in the intact striatum normally innervated by dopaminergic fibers, caffeine, probably acting through a presynaptic A2 receptor, induced a relative dopamine depletion which in turn led to the induction of neurotensin and cholecystokinin expression in subsets of striatal neurons.
We have examined whether dopaminergic mesencephalic grafts implanted into neonates can provide more extensive protection against deficits induced by a subsequent unilateral lesion of the mesotelencephalic dopaminergic pathway than when the grafts are implanted in adulthood. A dopamine-rich neuronal cell suspension obtained from embryonic day 14 mesencephali was injected unilaterally into the neostriatum of otherwise intact neonatal or adult rats at one day or two months of age, respectively. Two months later, the ipsilateral mesotelencephalic dopaminergic pathway was destroyed by unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. The behavioural effects of the grafts were evaluated in tests of drug-induced rotation and skilled paw reaching. After completion of the behavioural testing, animals were killed and brains were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. In rats receiving transplants as adults, grafts were compact and located in the neostriatum. In contrast, in rats receiving transplants neonatally, fewer dopaminergic neurons survived and they were dispersed over a large area of the host neostriatum and nucleus accumbens. After lesioning, all animals manifested strong rotation in response to amphetamine: this was not initially prevented by the grafts, made at either age, up to three months following the lesion, but was reduced in both groups of grafted rats by seven months after lesioning. This prolonged period for the development of recovery contrasts markedly with the rapid recovery obtained when similar grafts are implanted into the denervated neostriatum of adult rats that had received a prior 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. The development of apomorphine rotation, thought to reflect the development of receptor supersensitivity following lesions, was partially blocked to a similar extent by the grafts in both age groups. In contrast to their effects in the rotation tests, the dopaminergic grafts had no detectable effect on the profound contralateral deficit induced by the lesions in the paw-reaching test, whether implanted into neonatal or adult brains. Thus, whereas the age of the host at the time of implantation can markedly influence the gross morphological organization of dopaminergic grafts implanted into the neostriatum, the functional effects were similar, whether the grafts were implanted into neonatal or adult hosts.
We examined spatial-temporal patterns of neural activity, as inferred from 700 nm light reflectance, from the dorsal hippocampus and surrounding neocortex in seven freely behaving cats following 1.5, 2.5, 3.5 and 5.0 mg/kg intravenous cocaine administration. Images were acquired using a new technique which gathered reflected light from cortical and subcortical structures. Cardiac and respiratory patterning, collected simultaneously with optical images, revealed increased rates and diminished variation after intravenous cocaine administration. Cocaine increased reflectance correlates of hippocampal neural activity in a dose-dependent fashion over a 120 min period, with a lengthening time-to-peak effect (22-76 min). The largest dose resulted in an initial decrease, followed by the greatest enhancement in neuronal activity. Correlates of neural activation in the neocortex displayed an inverse dose-response curve to that found in the hippocampus; the time-to-peak effect was shorter (6-43 min) and the maximal change was reduced. Regional patches and bands of activation occurred during the period of the cocaine response, and were more pronounced in the hippocampus than the neocortex. Procaine, administered in a similar dose, slightly increased neural activity for 10 min in both the hippocampus and neocortex, and elicited a small increase in respiration. Cocaine induces a pronounced enhancement of neural activation in the neocortex and dorsal hippocampus; the time course of activation in the hippocampus parallels an increased respiratory pattern and outlasts the neocortical response. We speculate that hippocampal activation may be related to the profound respiratory acceleration found in response to cocaine.
Rat cerebellar Purkinje cells show a high level of taurine-like immunoreactivity. Light-microscopic immunocytochemistry indicated that the level of taurine in these cells was substantially decreased in animals that had survived for 4 h after an intraperitoneal injection of distilled water. This treatment resulted in a 15-20% reduction in plasma osmolality. The changes in the Purkinje cells were accompanied by an increased immunolabeling of neighboring glial cells (Golgi epithelial cells). The changes in both cell types were reversed in animals whose plasma osmolality had been normalized by injections of hypertonic saline 4 h after the water loading. Adjacent sections incubated with a GABA antiserum did not exhibit any overt changes in response to the hypo-osmotic stress. Quantitative electron-microscopic analysis of ultrathin sections subjected to postembedding immunogold cytochemistry indicated that the Purkinje cells had lost 50-60% of their taurine contents after water loading and that the loss affected all intracellular compartments, including mitochondria and cytoplasmic matrix. The loss of taurine immunoreactivity from Purkinje cells was accompanied by an estimated 70-80% increase in the contents of immunoreactive taurine in adjacent glial cells. Biochemical recordings of tissue amino acids in a parallel series of animals revealed a 12% reduction in cerebellar taurine contents 4 h after water loading (value corrected for changes in specific gravity). This reduction had progressed to 32% after 8 h and was only partly prevented by normalization of plasma osmolality. The tissue levels of GABA and several other amino acids showed a decrease similar to that of taurine, while glutamine displayed a considerable increase after water loading. Our findings indicate that acute reductions in plasma osmolality cause a flux of taurine from Purkinje cells to glia, and that this flux is reversed upon normalization of plasma osmolality. These changes are superimposed on a decrease in the biochemically recorded tissue level of taurine. Unlike the cellular redistribution, this decrease was not reversible within the time frame of the present study, and it was not specific for taurine. Cellular redistribution of taurine may represent a rapid adjustment to osmotic perturbations in vivo. In addition, it may reflect a higher priority for neuronal compared with glial volume regulation.
By using the Ca(2+)-sensitive indictor Fura-2/AM, the cytosolic Ca2+ levels [Ca2+]i were measured in type 1 astrocytes in rat cortical astroglial primary cultures, after stimulation with GABA, muscimol (GABAA agonist), or baclofen (GABAB agonist). We report the first evidence that stimulation of both GABAA and GABAB receptors evokes Ca2+ transients in type I astrocytes. Two types of Ca2+ responses were seen: the single-phase curve, which was the most common, and the biphasic, which consisted of an initial rise that persisted at the maximal or submaximal level. Both types of Ca2+ responses appeared with some latency. The responses were obtained in astrocytes grown for 12-16 days in culture and the response frequencies for all three agonists were 18% of the total number of examined cells. However, when the astrocytes were grown in a mixed astroglial/neuronal culture the response frequencies for all three agonists increased to 35% of the total number of examined cells. In some cells, the responses after GABA stimulation were blocked to baseline levels after exposure to bicuculline (GABAA antagonist). In other cells, bicuculline only slightly reduced the GABA-evoked responses, and the addition of phaclofen (GABAB antagonist) did not potentiate this partial inhibition. However, the muscimol-evoked rises in [Ca2+]i were completely inhibited after exposure to bicuculline, while the responses after baclofen could only be partly blocked by phaclofen. GABA evoked rises in [Ca2+]i which alternatively were inhibited (mostly) or persisted in Ca(2+)-free buffer. The rises in [Ca2+]i persisted, but were reduced, in Ca(2+)-free buffer after stimulation with muscimol, but were inhibited after baclofen stimulation. The GABA uptake blockers guvacine, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo(4,5-c)pyridin-3-ol and nipecotic acid were also able to reduce the GABA-evoked rises in [Ca2+]i. However, the L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist nifedipine failed to influence on the GABA-evoked Ca2+ transients. The results suggest that type 1 astrocytes in primary culture express GABA receptors which can elevate [Ca2+]i directly or indirectly via Ca2+ channels and/or via release from internal Ca2+ stores. The results also suggest that GABA can have intracellular Ca(2+)-mobilizing sites since the GABA-evoked responses were reduced after incubation with GABA uptake blockers.
The blocking action of recently synthesized benzothiazolamine derivative R56865 was compared with that of dihydropyridine (nimodipine) and diphenylalkylamine (flunarizine) on low-voltage-activated and non-inactivating high-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents. The experiments were carried out on freshly isolated Purkinje neurons of rat cerebellum using patch-clamp technique in the whole-cell configuration. Among the substances tested R56865 was found to be the most effective blocker of the Ca2+ current. In the sequence R56865, flunarizine and nimodipine, apparent Kd values for low-voltage-activated current are 0.1, 0.9 and 3.5 microM, and for high-voltage-activated current 3.1, 9.5 and 38 microM, respectively. The current-voltage relationships for both types of currents displayed little or no shift under either flunarizine or R56865 but showed a 10-mV shift in the positive direction under the action of nimodipine. The steady-state inactivation curves for low-voltage-activated calcium currents were shifted under the action of R56865, flunarizine and nimodipine (in concentrations which blocked 50-60% of the current) to more negative membrane potentials for 20, 10 and 6 mV, respectively. In contrast to R56865, flunarizine blocked both types of Ca2+ channel in a use-dependent manner. It is concluded that the order of potency of Ca2+ antagonist for both types of channels studied is R56865 &gt; flunarizine &gt; nimodipine. Strong shift of steady-state inactivation relationship by R56865 can further facilitate its blocking action in in vivo conditions.
Withdrawal from opiates in dependent subjects produces strongly aversive psychological and autonomic responses which contribute to the chronic ingestion of opiates and the high incidence of relapse after withdrawal. A variety of evidence indicates that hyperactivity of noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons is an important brain substrate of opiate withdrawal. In particular, only a few agents have been found to be clinically useful in alleviating these symptoms and treating opiate dependence, all of which potently attenuate the activation of noradrenergic neurons in the LC evoked by opiate withdrawal. However, current pharmacotherapies, especially methadone and clonidine, have serious side effects, including hypotension, sedation and their own withdrawal reactions. Our goal was to find an alternative pharmacological treatment to reduce the magnitude of LC hyperactivity during opiate withdrawal. Previous studies indicated that brain serotonin (5-HT) systems may be involved in opiate withdrawal. Two results from our laboratory led us to study the effect of enhanced serotonergic neurotransmission on withdrawal-induced LC hyperactivity: (i) a substantial part of such LC hyperactivity is mediated by an excitatory amino acid input to the locus coeruleus, and (ii) 5-HT selectively attenuates excitation of LC neurons mediated by excitatory amino acids. Here, we report that agents which increase serotonergic neurotransmission attenuate the hyperactivity of LC neurons induced by naloxone-precipitated withdrawal from chronic morphine exposure in rats. The 5-HT releaser/uptake blocker, d-fenfluramine, as well as the 5-HT reuptake blockers fluoxetine or sertraline, significantly attenuated the withdrawal-induced hyperactivity of LC neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the rat, systemic administration of murine monoclonal antibodies against acetylcholinesterase caused rapid piloerection and ptosis (within 30-60 min after the injection). Using indirect immunohistochemistry the effect of these antibodies on peptides and enzyme expression was studied in the rat adrenal gland. Four days after antibody administration a total disappearance of acetylcholinesterase-immunoreactive fibers was observed. However, groups of acetylcholinesterase-immunoreactive chromaffin cells and intramedullary ganglion cells, both cell types showing acetylcholinesterase immunoreactivity also in the control adrenal medulla, expressed increased immunoreactivity. Analysis revealed that the acetylcholinesterase-immunoreactive chromaffin cell groups lacked phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase staining both in controls and treated rats. Antibody administration also affected levels of several peptides present in nerve fibers and chromaffin cells. Thus, the number of cells expressing enkephalin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and galanin was dramatically increased compared to the very few cells observed containing these three peptides in the normal gland. The majority of cells expressing enkephalin after antibody treatment also showed phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase immunoreactivity. In contrast, the few chromaffin cells expressing strong enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in controls were phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase negative. The sparse networks of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and galanin-positive fibers found in control adrenals were unchanged after the antibody treatment. However, the dense network of enkephalin varicose fibers totally disappeared after the antibody injection. A few substance P- and somatostatin-immunoreactive cells, not present in the normal gland, appeared after administration of the antibodies, whereas no changes were encountered with regard to immunoreactive nerve fibers. No clear differences between normal and treated animals could be observed in chromaffin cells with regard to immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y or any of the four catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase, aromatic 1-amino acid decarboxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase. The present findings demonstrating a disappearance of acetylcholinesterase- and enkephalin-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the adrenal gland after intravenous injection of acetylcholinesterase antibodies support earlier reports showing that these antibodies cause degeneration of preganglionic fibers, and that neuronal decentralization of the adrenal gland induces marked increases in the levels of several peptides in chromaffin cells.
Dopamine and the excitatory amino acids play important roles in the control of motor behavior by the basal ganglia; elucidating the manner in which these transmitter systems interact may provide new therapeutic approaches to the treatment of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease. The 2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique was used to examine the effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade on regional cerebral metabolic responses to D1 and D2 dopamine receptor stimulation in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway. The D1 agonist SKF 38393 (5 mg/kg, i.v.) increased glucose utilization markedly in entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata ipsilateral to the lesion, while the D2 agonist quinpirole (1 mg/kg, i.v.) had no effect in these striatal output regions. SKF 38393 and quinpirole reduced 2-deoxyglucose uptake to a similar extent in the lateral habenula, a region which receives afferent input from entopeduncular nucleus; quinpirole also decreased glucose utilization bilaterally in nucleus accumbens. Pretreatment with the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.), which had little effect on cerebral metabolism by itself, reduced the effect of SKF 38393 in entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata and prevented the effect of quinpirole in nucleus accumbens. MK-801 did not alter the SKF 38393-induced reduction in glucose utilization in lateral habenula, but did reduce the effect of quinpirole in this structure. When these drugs were administered in the same manner to a separate group of lesioned animals, MK-801 did not affect rotational behavior elicited by SKF 38393, but completely eliminated contralateral rotation and actually caused some ipsilateral rotation in response to quinpirole. These findings indicate that D1 and D2 receptor-associated brain mechanisms are differentially influenced by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor stimulation. D2-mediated behavioral and cerebral metabolic responses appear to require concurrent N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor stimulation. On the other hand, the preservation of D1-mediated rotational behavior and reduced lateral habenula glucose metabolism in the presence of MK-801 despite attenuation of the effects of the D1 agonist in entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata suggests that D1 receptor-regulated neuronal pathways exhibit varying degrees of sensitivity to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade.
Neurotransmitter release and changes in the concentration of intracellular free calcium ([Ca++]i) were studied in cultured GABAergic cerebral cortical neurons, from mice, upon depolarization with either an unphysiologically high potassium concentration (55 mM) or the physiological excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate (100 microM). Both depolarizing stimuli exerted prompt increases in the release of preloaded [3H]GABA as well as in [Ca++]i. However, the basic properties of transmitter release and the increase in [Ca++]i under a variety of conditions were different during stimulation with K+ or glutamate. Potassium-evoked release of [3H]GABA consisted of two phases, a rapid, large and transient phase followed by a smaller, more persistent second phase. The rapid phase was inhibited (60%) by nocodazole which reduced the number of vesicles in the neurites by 80%. This rapid phase of the GABA release was also reduced by organic (verapamil) and inorganic (Co++) Ca++ channel blockers but was insensitive to the GABA transport inhibitor SKF 89976A. In contrast, the second phase was less sensitive to nocodazole and Ca++ channel antagonists but could be inhibited by SKF 89976A. The glutamate-induced [3H]GABA release, which was mainly mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, consisted of a single, sustained phase. This was insensitive to nocodazole, partly inhibited by verapamil and could be blocked by Co++ as well as SKF 89976A. The action of Co++ could be attributed to a block of N-methyl-D-aspartate-associated ion channels. These findings strongly suggest that the majority of the K(+)-stimulated GABA release is dependent upon vesicles whereas the glutamate induced release is non-vesicular and mediated by a depolarization-dependent reversal of the direction of high-affinity GABA transport. The basic differences in the mode of action of the two depolarizing stimuli were reflected in the properties of the increase in [Ca++]i elicited by 55 mM K+ and 100 microM glutamate, respectively. The K(+)-induced increase in [Ca++]i was reduced by both verapamil and Ca(++)-free media whereas the corresponding glutamate response was only sensitive to Ca(++)-free conditions. Exposure of the cells to nocodazole or SKF 89976A had no effect on the ability of K+ or glutamate to increase [Ca++]i. Altogether, the results clearly demonstrate that K(+)-induced transmitter release from these GABAergic neurons is vesicular in nature whereas that induced by the neurotransmitter glutamate is not.
The possible involvement of tachykinin neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-2 receptors in the activation of various micturition-related reflexes was assessed by the intrathecal administration of selective neurokinin-1 or neurokinin-2 receptor antagonists at lumbosacral spinal cord level in urethane-anaesthetized rats. The effect of the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, was also investigated for comparison. The effect of antagonists was investigated on: (i) the chemonociceptive vesicovesical reflex activated by topical application of capsaicin onto the urinary bladder; (ii) the distension-induced micturition reflex produced by transvesical filling with saline; (iii) distension-induced rhythmic bladder contractions in isovolumetric conditions (urethra-ligated rats); and (iv) the somatovesical excitatory reflex caused by noxious perineal pinching. The neurokinin-2 receptor selective antagonists MEN 10,376 and SR 48,968 were ineffective in the three models in all doses tested. Selective neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists blocked the chemonociceptive reflex produced by topical application of capsaicin with the rank order of potency (lowest effective dose in brackets): GR 82,334 (1 nmol/rat) &gt; RP 67,580 (10 nmol/rat) &gt; (+/-)CP 96,345 (100 nmol/rat). Unlike GR 82,334, RP 67,580 (10 nmol/rat) and (+/-)CP 96,345 (100 nmol/rat) were also effective on the distension-induced micturition reflex elicited by transvesical filling. Similarly, distension-induced rhythmic contractions were inhibited by RP 67,580 (10 nmol/rat) and (+/-)CP 96,345 (100 nmol/rat) whereas the effect of GR 82,334 was not significant. RP 68,651, the enantiomer of RP 67,580 devoid of neurokinin-1 receptor blocking activity, was inactive in both models. 2-Amino-5-phosphonovateric acid (250 nmol/rat) blocked the three types of vesicoexcitatory reflexes. Intravenous administration of (+/-)CP 96,345, RP 67,580 or 2-amino-5-phosphonovateric acid at the same doses proven effective after the intrathecal route, had no effect on distension-induced rhythmic contractions. To ascertain whether the effect of neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists or 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid may be related to a blockade of tachykinins released from capsaicin-sensitive primary afferent neurons, the effect of RP 67,580 was investigated on the distension-evoked micturition reflex in capsaicin-pretreated rats. Capsaicin pretreatment (50 mg/kg, subcutaneously, four days before) increased bladder capacity. RP 67,580 was no longer effective in capsaicin-pretreated rats. In contrast, 2-amino-5-phosphonovateric acid produced a further increase in bladder capacity in capsaicin-pretreated rats. We conclude that tachykinin neurokinin-1 but not neurokinin-2 receptors are involved in the activation of vesicoexcitatory micturition-related reflexes in the rat spinal cord.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Sensitization to the behavioral effects of intrathecal kainate in mice depends on an accumulation of the N-terminus of substance P in the spinal cord and may reflect similar synaptic activity as that underlying pain transmission. The purpose of this study was to determine whether kainate sensitization, like pain, is sensitive to inhibition by phencyclidine ligands. Doses that selectively inhibit the behavioral response to a single injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not kainate, were established for two non-competitive antagonists, dizocilpine (MK-801) and phencyclidine, as well as two competitive antagonists, D-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid, of N-methyl-D-aspartate. Using these doses, we found that 1 nmol of MK-801 or 3 nmol of phencyclidine blocked sensitization to four injections of 25 pmol of kainate administered at 2 min intervals. In contrast, 1.48 nmol of D-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and 0.5 nmol of (+/-)-3)2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid failed to alter sensitization to kainate, indicating that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is not necessary for kainate sensitization. Haloperidol (1 nmol), a sigma receptor ligand, also failed to inhibit sensitization to kainate, suggesting that the actions of MK-801 and phencyclidine were not produced by a non-selective effect at sigma sites. Together, these data suggest that MK-801 and phencyclidine inhibit behavioral sensitization to kainate via phencyclidine receptors that are not linked to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dopamine-mediated behaviors and certain biochemical and molecular events associated with these behaviors were examined following continuous infusion of the D1 dopamine agonist SKF38393 or the D2 dopamine agonist quinpirole into mice for six days. SKF38393 produced a transient grooming behavior while quinpirole initially induced stereotypy, which was followed by an increased locomotor behavior. Continuous infusion of quinpirole caused a significant down-regulation of striatal D2 dopamine receptors without significantly changing the density of D1 receptors. This was accompanied by a decrease in the level of D2 receptor messenger RNA in striatum as measured by Northern analysis. The down-regulation of dopamine receptors was selective for D2 dopamine receptors, since treatment with SKF38393 had no significant effects on either D1 or D2 dopamine receptors, nor did it alter the messenger RNAs for the D1 and D2 receptors. Continuous treatment with quinpirole resulted in a significant increase in striatal mu opioid receptor levels without significant changing delta opioid receptors. This treatment also induced a significant decrease in proenkephalin messenger RNA in striatum. Taken together, these results suggest that the down-regulation of D2 dopamine receptor and D2 receptor messenger RNA is the result of the persistent stimulation of D2 receptors and that the up-regulation of mu opioid receptors may be a compensatory response to a decreased biosynthesis of enkephalin. They suggest further that the biochemical and molecular changes that take place in dopaminergic and enkephalinergic systems following continuous treatment with dopamine agonists may underlie the mechanisms by which certain dopamine-mediated behaviors occur.
The regulation of the basal forebrain cholinergic system by D1 and D2 dopamine receptors was assessed in the rat using in vivo microdialysis of cortical acetylcholine. The D1 agonist CY 208-243 significantly increased cortical acetylcholine release; in contrast, the D2 agonists quinpirole and (+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine were without significant effects. Moreover, when administered in combination with CY 208-243, quinpirole failed to potentiate the D1 agonist-induced increases in cortical acetylcholine release. The non-selective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine also increased cortical acetylcholine release, and this was completely blocked by the selective D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 and slightly, but not significantly attenuated by the D2 antagonist raclopride. The present results indicate that stimulation of D1 receptors activates cortically-projecting cholinergic neurons; however, a minor contribution of D2 receptors cannot be excluded.
Using amino acid transmitter release, inositol phosphate production and 45Ca2+ accumulation as cellular responses to alpha-latrotoxin treatment, we studied the susceptibility of rat primary cerebellar granule cultures to toxin. Binding studies as well as immunofluorescence of toxin-treated cells, allow an evaluation of the expression, properties and distribution of toxin-binding sites. After binding, the toxin develops its releasing action on amino acid transmitters, in a manner reminiscent of the events described for cholinergic and catecholaminergic cell systems. Although few peculiarities emerge, toxin-dependent release of amino acid transmitters from granule cells in culture appears to be a fully exocytotic process.
In our previous studies substantial amounts of substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like-immunoreactive nerve fibers have been identified in the anterior pituitary of the monkey and the dog. They were found to be in close proximity to the gland cells, even making synaptic contacts with some types of the gland cells. The present study investigated in detail the calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-like immunoreactivities of the anterior pituitary in the rat. Though the immunoreactive fibers were not as abundant as in the anterior pituitary of the monkey and the dog, they still appeared in notable amounts. The calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-like-immunoreactive nerve fibers occurred mostly as thin, tortuous, and densely varicose fibers, weaving among the gland cells. They are widely distributed, more in the central part of the gland. Double-immunostaining proved nearly complete co-localization of these two peptides in the nerve fibers. It is hypothesized that the anterior pituitary can be regulated by direct neural factors as well as humoral factors.
The segmental and laminar origin of propriospinal antinociceptive systems in the cat spinal cord and the modes to activate them are characterized. The experiments were performed on pentobarbital-anesthetized cats with a high cervical spinalization. Recordings were made from single lumbar spinal dorsal horn neurons responding to noxious radiant skin heating and to innocuous mechanical skin stimuli. The segmental and laminar origin of heterosegmental, propriospinal neurons modulating background activity and nociceptive responses were identified and the conditions to activate them were characterized. Conditioning noxious front paw stimulation and superfusion of the cervical enlargement with L-glutamate, but not with substance P, reduced noxious heat-evoked responses of about 50% of all lumbar neurons tested. Glutamate superfusions of the lower thoracic or upper sacral spinal cord enhanced background activity and reduced nociceptive responses of most lumbar spinal dorsal horn neurons. Superfusions with substance P or somatostatin were ineffective. Glutamate microinjections into the superficial layers of the thoracic, upper lumbar or sacral dorsal horn ipsi- or contralateral to the recording sites or into lamina VIII of the ipsilateral thoracic or upper lumbar cord reduced noxious heat-evoked responses with or without changes in the level of background activity. It is concluded that propriospinal neurons originating from circumscribed areas of the cervical, thoracic, lumbar or sacral spinal cord independently modulate background activity and noxious heat-evoked responses of multireceptive lumbar spinal dorsal horn neurons. The incidence and efficacy of propriospinal antinociceptive stimulation sites was found to be as high as for the classical region of endogenous antinociception, the midbrain periaqueductal gray.
The distribution of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons was examined in the spinal cord of rats, mice, cats and squirrel monkeys at the light microscopic level. Some sections were processed for choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. Double-labeling techniques were used to assess possible co-localization of nitric oxide synthase and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in the same spinal neurons. Nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons were concentrated in three fairly well-defined regions of the spinal cord of all species studied: (i) the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic and sacral segments, (ii) lamina X of all segments, and (iii) the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of all segments. A few nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons were scattered in the deeper laminae and the ventral horn. There were fewer nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons in monkey spinal lamina X and dorsal horn than in similar locations of rodents and felines. Double-staining showed that not all choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the intermediate cell column and lamina X were nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive. In the ventral horn, choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons (presumed motoneurons) were nitric oxide synthase-negative. In addition to cell bodies, nitric oxide synthase-positive fibers were scattered in the dorsal, lateral and ventral horns of all species. Finally, punctate nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive fibers were seen traversing the dorsal, lateral and ventral white matter, and reaching the respective gray matter. The present study shows that, in spite of quantitative differences, the pattern of distribution of nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons in the spinal cord was similar across the four species. The concentration of nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons in the autonomic nuclei and laminae I, II and X of all four species underscores a prominent role of these neurons in visceral and sensory functions.
Neurally-mediated relaxation of smooth muscle in human, guinea-pig, cat, and pig airways is largely attributed to a nonadrenergic, noncholinergic mechanism. While the specific transmitter(s) of this relaxant system have not been conclusively identified, vasoactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide have emerged as likely mediators in airway smooth muscle. Both vasoactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide relax guinea-pig, pig and human smooth muscle. Vasoactive intestinal peptide is present in nerve fibers associated with airway smooth muscle in humans and several animal species. In guinea-pigs, vasoactive intestinal peptide is released during electrical field stimulation of airway strips and the release correlates with the nonadrenergic relaxation. This relaxation is markedly reduced after incubation of tracheal tissue with a specific VIP antibody and by immunization to vasoactive intestinal peptide. Similarly, nonadrenergic relaxations induced by electrical field stimulation are reduced in human, pig, guinea-pig and bovine airways by nitric oxide synthesis inhibitors. Vasoactive intestinal peptide is present in nerve cell bodies of airway ganglia, suggesting that these nerves in airway smooth muscle originate from intrinsic neurons. It is stored in dense-core vesicles of nerve terminals near airway smooth muscle, suggesting that preformed vasoactive intestinal peptide is released by fusion of the vesicles with the cell membrane of the nerve terminal. Nitric oxide is probably generated by a novel mechanism involving de novo synthesis at the nerve terminal during neural activation by the action of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of continuous intrathecal infusion with morphine (5 mu/h) or naloxone (2 micrograms/h) was investigated with regard to analgesia and the apparent density of mu- and delta-opioid and neurokinin-I/substance P receptors in the rat spinal cord. Morphine infusion increased tail-flick and paw-pressure responses until day 4 after the mini-osmotic pump implant. A decline in antinociception, reflecting tolerance to morphine, was then apparent in both tests. Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography of [125I]FK-33824, [125I][D.Ala2]deltorphin-I and [125I] Bolton-Hunter substance P binding sites, as ligands of mu, delta and neurokinin-I/substance P receptors, respectively, was performed on lumbosacral spinal cord sections of seven-days tolerant animals. Treatments with morphine and naloxone induced a similar increase (37%) in the number of delta binding sites in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. In contrast, the density of mu-opioid receptors was only affected by naloxone (50% increase). Neurokinin-I/substance P binding parameters were not altered by these treatments. Thus, it appears that delta-opioid binding sites may be of special relevance with regard to the development of tolerance to opiates in the spinal cord.
Beta-N-Methylamino-L-alanine, a component of the neurotoxic Cycas circinalis plant, activates an ionic current which is antagonized by extracellular Ca2+ but not by the excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (10-100 microM) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (1-10 microM). This current was reduced by 50% in 0.5 mM extracellular Ca2+ and 92% in 3.0 mM Ca2+ when compared to those recorded in 0.1 mM Ca2+. Addition of 10 or 20 mM NaHCO3 to beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine (500 microM) potentiated the currents 224% and 578%, respectively. Addition of NaHCO3 to the extracellular Ringers (pH 7.2) shifted the pH to 7.7 (10 mM) or 8.3 (20 mM). beta-N-Methylamino-L-alanine was potentiated by NaHCO3 at pH 7.2, 7.7 and 8.3, but the potentiation with NaHCO3 (20 mM) was larger at pH 8.3 (5.7-fold) compared to pH 7.2 (3-fold). NaHCO3 (20 mM) had no effect on quisqualate-, N-methyl-D-aspartate- or kainate-activated ionic currents. The beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine-NaHCO3-activated currents were reduced 49% by 1 microM and 80% by 10 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione suggesting an agonist action at non-N-methyl-D-aspartate-type receptors. Activity at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is unlikely since the beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine-NaHCO3 currents are not antagonized by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (10-100 microM), potentiated by addition of glycine (10 microM) or blocked by extracellular Mg2+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term potentiation is currently a leading candidate for a physiological memory mechanism in CNS. The interpretation of this phenomenon is contradictory in many respects. However, there is clear evidence that long-term potentiation is critically dependent on activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Recently it has been shown that extracellularly applied glutamate also induces long-lasting changes in the properties of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus that can be attributed to long-term potentiation. The involvement of presynaptic mechanisms has been reported. Here we demonstrate a definite increase in both the open time and open-state probability of N-methyl-D-aspartate-operated channels, induced by prolonged application of glutamate to hippocampal slices.
Immortalization is the consequence of the inactivation or bypass of two mortality stage mechanisms, M1 and M2, which are controlled by several genes including Rb and p53 in human fibroblasts. Abrogation of the M1 controls can be obtained through the activity of DNA tumor virus genes such as E6 and E7 of human papillomavirus 16 (HPV16). Fibroblasts expressing both E6 (which binds p53) and E7 (which binds Rb) bypass M1 and continue replicating (exhibit an extended lifespan) until an independent mechanism, M2, is activated. The inactivation of the M2 mechanism finally results in cell immortalization. The present study establishes a difference in the tissue-specific mechanisms for the control of the M1 stage of cellular senescence. The expression of HPV16 E6 was sufficient to bypass the M1 stage of cellular senescence and confer an extended lifespan in human mammary epithelial cells but not in fibroblasts. This implies that the M1 mechanism in human mammary epithelial cells does not involve the constitutive activation of Rb function as it does in fibroblasts. In addition, the results confirmed that the expression of HPV16 E6 (or both E6 and E7) did not directly immortalize the human mammary epithelial cells, since the inactivation of a second event, M2, was required to achieve immortalization. These observations are considered in the context of the telomere shortening model of cellular senescence.
Multiple variants of the sensed presence often precede mystical and religious experiences that are frequently followed by sudden, permanent changes in self-concept. The model of vectorial hemisphericity assumes that the relative metabolic activity of synaptic patterns between the cerebral hemispheres at the time of transient interhemispheric intercalation determines the affect, content, and type of experience. Depending upon the relative activity of the two hemispheres, intrusions of the right hemispheric equivalent of the left hemispheric (and linguistic) sense of self generate experimental phenomena that include &quot;evil entities,&quot; gods, out-of-body experiences, and alterations in space-time. Conditions that facilitate interhemispheric intercalation and the generation of these experiences are discussed.
Caffeine and diphenhydramine are known to affect cognitive functioning in vigilance tasks. In this study, long-latency auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) obtained during concomitant performance of a visual vigilance task were examined for changes in response to administration of caffeine (200 mg) and diphenhydramine (25 mg). The AEPs were also analyzed for changes over time for up to two hours postdrug administration. Significant increases in N1 and P2 latencies and decreases in amplitude voltage were exhibited over time. The P2-N2 amplitude was significantly lower throughout testing after taking caffeine. A significant increase was seen in the P2-N2 amplitude 40 min. after diphenhydramine ingestion. These changes in amplitude may be the result of the auditory stimulus acting as a diversion to the participants while performing the visual vigilance task. Diphenhydramine was more likely to impair participants' vigilance, resulting in greater attention paid toward the auditory stimulus, whereas caffeine seemed to help participants maintain their focus of attention on the visual vigilance task.
The amino acid composition, molecular weight, and isoelectric point of a protein can all be easily and economically determined by current electrophoretic techniques. A method which uses such easily obtained data to identify proteins is described. A computer program first corrects for systematic errors in amino acid quantitation and then searches the current sequence database for proteins with amino acid compositions similar to the corrected values, taking into account the reliability of determination of each amino acid. The program also provides the calculated molecular weight, isoelectric point, and name of each candidate, providing three further independent criteria for protein identification. The program is surprisingly sensitive, and the composition data alone, if of good quality, usually suggest the correct protein as a strong candidate if it or a close homologue is present in the database. Further studies show that proteins in the current database have amino acid compositions distinct enough to allow this method to be generally applicable. The method is a quick and cost-effective first step in protein characterization and should become increasingly useful as the number of fully sequenced proteins continues to rise.
The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (NO2Arg) blocks morphine tolerance in mice. After implantation of morphine pellets the analgesic response decreases from 100% on the first day to 0% on the third. Coadministration of NO2Arg along with the pellets markedly retards the development of tolerance; 60% of mice are analgesic after 3 days, and 50% of mice are analgesic after 5 days. In a daily injection paradigm the analgesic response to morphine is reduced from 60% to 0% by 5 days. Concomitant administration of morphine along with NO2Arg at doses of 2 mg/kg per day prevents tolerance for 4 weeks. A single NO2Arg dose retards morphine tolerance for several days, and dosing every 4 days is almost as effective as daily NO2Arg. NO2Arg slowly reverses preexisting tolerance over 5 days despite the continued administration of morphine along with NO2Arg. NO2Arg also reduces dependence and reverses previously established dependence. NO2Arg does not prevent tolerance to analgesia mediated by the kappa 1 agonist trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolindinyl)cyclohexyl]- benzene-acetamide (U50,488H) or the kappa 3 agent naloxone benzoylhydrazone, indicating a selective action of NO in the mechanisms of mu tolerance and dependence.

The case records of 97 patients with proven bacterial meningitis who were referred to a regional neurosurgical unit between 1964 and 1991 were reviewed. Mortality declined from 34% in the first cohort referred between the years 1964-82 to 5% for 1983-91 (X2 = 11.78; p &lt; 0.001). Fewer patients were admitted in coma, (X2 = 4.43; p &lt; 0.05), or with focal neurological signs (X2 = 7.57; p &lt; 0.01) in the second cohort. The rate of referral increased in the later period but the incidence of unsuspected brain abscess (16% and 15%) did not change. There was a strong correlation between coma on admission and death, (X2 = 17.3; p &lt; 0.001) and with brain abscess and death (X2 = 6.73; p &lt; 0.01). In conclusion patients with known or suspected bacterial meningitis coupled with a decreasing level of consciousness or focal neurological signs should be referred to a neurosurgical centre.

We report our experience with brain tumors in pediatric patients, patients who came to our attention when they were aged 14 years or less. In general, the pattern of brain tumors at this Institution is similar to that reported in the neurosurgical literature. Fortunately we have modern diagnostic technology and modern operating instrumentation available to use for dealing with such lesions, which are often in their late stages.
Nucleus basalis (NB) neurons are a primary source of neocortical acetylcholine (ACh) and likely contribute to mechanisms of neocortical activation. However, the functions of neocortical activation and its cholinergic component remain unclear. To identify functional consequences of NB activity, we have studied the effects of NB stimulation on thalamocortical transmission. Here we report that tetanic NB stimulation facilitated field potentials, single neuron discharges, and monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited in middle to deep cortical layers of the rat auditory cortex following stimulation of the auditory thalamus (medial geniculate, MG). NB stimulation produced a twofold increase in the slope and amplitude of the evoked short-latency (onset 3.0 +/- 0.13 ms, peak 6.3 +/- 0.21 ms), negative-polarity cortical field potential and increased the probability and synchrony of MG-evoked unit discharge, without altering the preceding fiber volley. Intracortical application of atropine blocked the NB-mediated facilitation of field potentials, indicating action of ACh at cortical muscarinic receptors. Intracellular recordings revealed that the short-latency cortical field potential coincided with a short-latency EPSP (onset 3.3 +/- 0.20 ms, peak 5.6 +/- 0.47 ms). NB stimulation decreased the onset and peak latencies of the EPSP by about 20% and increased its amplitude by 26%. NB stimulation also produced slow membrane depolarization and sometimes reduced a long-lasting IPSP that followed the EPSP. The combined effects of NB stimulation served to increase cortical excitability and facilitate the ability of the EPSP to elicit action potentials. Taken together, these data indicate that NB cholinergic neurons can modify neocortical functions by facilitating thalamocortical synaptic transmission.
The ultrastructure and cellular associations of septal efferent terminals identified by anterograde degeneration with neurons containing neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the rat dentate gyrus were examined quantitatively. For this, the septal complex (i.e., medial septal and diagonal band nuclei) of adult male rats was injected with the neurotoxin ibotenic acid (1%; 150 nl) and following a 2-4-day survival period, the hippocampal formation was processed for the electron microscopic immunocytochemical demonstration of NPY using the avidin-biotin complex method. Terminals with the morphological characteristics of anterograde degeneration, in particular an increase in osmiophilia, and neurons containing NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) were most abundant in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. In this region, degenerating terminals (n = 109) were usually small (0.2-0.4 microns in diameter) and formed both asymmetric and symmetric synapses with small (distal) dendrites. The degenerating terminals contacted either single NPY-containing (19%) perikarya or dendrites or unlabeled (48%) perikarya or dendrites. Some degenerating terminals contacted the same perikarya or dendrites as an NPY-containing terminal (11%); these neurons were either immunoreactive for NPY or unlabeled. The remaining degenerating terminals were either directly apposed without glial intervention to unlabeled and NPY-labeled terminals (11%) or lacked associations with any neuronal processes in the plane of section analyzed (11%). The findings demonstrate that ibotenic acid injections in the septal complex can identify septal efferent terminals by degeneration and provide cellular substrates for the direct synaptic regulation as well as presynaptic modulation of hippocampal NPY-containing neurons by septal efferent terminals.
Physics says that it cannot deal with the mind-brain problem, because it does not deal in subjectivities, and mind is subjective. However, biologists (among others) still claim to seek a material basis for subjective mental processes, which would thereby render them objective. Something is clearly wrong here. I claim that what is wrong is the adoption of too narrow a view of what constitutes 'objectivity', especially in identifying it with what a 'machine' can do. I approach the problem in the light of two cognate circumstances: (a) the 'measurement problem' in quantum physics, and (b) the objectivity of standard mathematics, even though most of it is beyond the reach of 'machines'. I argue that the only resolution to such problems is in the recognition that closed loops of causation are 'objective'; i.e. legitimate objects of scientific scrutiny. These are explicitly forbidden in any machine or mechanism. A material system which contains such loops is called 'complex'. Such complex systems thus must possess non-simulable models; i.e. models which contain impredicativities or 'self-references' which cannot be removed, or faithfully mapped into a single coherent syntactic time-frame. I consider a few of the consequences of the above, in the context of thus redrawing the boundary between subject and object.

To see whether the mental and the neural have common attributes that could resolve some of the traditional dichotomies, we review neuroscientific data on the visual system. The results show that neuronal and perceptual function share a parallel and hierarchical architecture which is manifest not only in the anatomy and physiology of the visual system, but also in normal perception and in the deficits caused by lesions in different parts of the system. Based on the description of parallel hierarchical levels of active information processing in the visual brain, we suggest a concept of dissociable levels of perception, advocating that the phenomenal perception and recognition is realized in the functional integrity of a network of reciprocal cortico-cortical connections. The properties shared by neuronal and perceptional functions provide a basis for a neuromental monism in which both functions are attributed a causal role.
Recent neurophysiological observations are giving rise to the expectation that in the near future genuine biological experiments may contribute more than will premature speculations to the understanding of global and cognitive functions. The classical reflex principle--as the basis of neural functions--has to yield to new ideas, like autopoiesis and/or self-organization, as the basic paradigm in the framework of which the essence of the neural can be better understood. Neural activity starts in the very earliest stages of development well before receptors and afferent input become functional. Under suitable conditions, both in nervous tissue cultures and in embryonic tissue recombination experiments, the conditions of such initial autopoietic activity can be studied. This paper tries to generalize this elementary concept for various neural centers, notably for the spinal segmental apparatus and the cerebral cortex.
In vitro cell biology has become an effective way to identify molecules responsible for membrane traffic. We have used this approach to study the assembly and budding of coated pits. So far our system has allowed us to identify a high-affinity binding site for the AP2 subunit on the inside surface of plasma membranes, determine the AP2 domain that links clathrin lattices to the plasma membrane, and purify a molecule that appears to participate in coated-pit budding. These discoveries now need to be verified in vivo.

Studies on the mRNAs encoding PAM and on the various PAM proteins have begun to reveal some of the intricate mechanisms used to optimize the ability of this enzyme to carry out the alpha-amidation of peptides. Comparison of the regulatory elements governing expression of the various enzymes involved in peptide processing should reveal common elements. Knowledge of the processing enzymes themselves should help us to understand how these enzymes function in the secretory granule environment. In addition to their catalytic domains, other processing enzymes, like PAM, may well have processing domains and routing domains designed to optimize their ability to function in secretory granules.
The lysosomal system has often been considered a prominent morphologic marker of distressed or dying neurons. Lysosomes or their constituent hydrolases have been viewed in different neuropathologic states as either initiators and direct agents of cell death, agents of cellular repair and recompensation, effectors of end-stage cellular dissolution, or autolytic scavengers of cellular debris. Limited data and limitations of methodology often do not allow these potential roles to be discriminated. In all forms of neurodegeneration, it may be presumed that lysosomes ultimately rupture and release various hydrolases that promote cell autolysis during the final stages of cellular disintegration. Beyond this perhaps universal contribution to cell death, the degree to which the lysosomal system may be involved in neurodegenerative states varies considerably. In many conditions, morphologic evidence for activation of the lysosomal system is minimal or undetectable. In other cases, lysosomal activation is evident only when other morphologic signs of cell injury are also present. This level of participation may be viewed as either an attempt by the neuron to compensate for or repair the injury or a late-stage event leading to cell dissolution. The early involvement of the lysosomal system in neurodegeneration occurs most commonly in the form of intraneuronal accumulations of abnormal storage profiles or residual bodies (tertiary lysosomes). Very often the lysosomal involvement can be traced to a primary defect or dysfunction of lysosomal components or to accelerated or abnormal membrane breakdown that leads to the buildup of modified digestion-resistant substrates within lysosomes. Because they are often striking, changes in the lysosomal system are a sensitive morphologic indicator of certain types of metabolic distress; however, whether they reflect a salutary response of a compromised neuron or a mechanism to promote cell death and removal of debris from the brain remains to be established for most conditions. Factors that may influence the lysosomal response during lethal neuronal injury include species differences, stage of neuronal development, duration of injury and pace of cell death. The lysosomal system may be more closely coupled to certain forms of neuronal cell death in lower vertebrate or invertebrate systems than in mammalian systems.


Treatment of Neuro2a cells with drugs known to affect the integrity of microfilaments and microtubules, as well as with a calcium ionophore produced damage to the cellular membrane that was quantifiable by measuring the release of LDH into the culture medium. Concurrent exposure of the cells to ORG 2766 was found to modulate the release of LDH in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. ORG 2766 treatment was also able to reduce the basal release of LDH into the culture medium. [table: see text] The ORG 2766-induced reduction in LDH release was not due to down-regulation of protein synthesis. The peptide produced significant increases in protein synthesis relative to control conditions at concentrations of 10(-11) to 10(-6) M with 10(-8) M being an optimal dose. SDS-PAGE and 2-D PAGE analysis showed that de novo synthesis of most polypeptides was increased by about 40%. Additionally, a family of polypeptides tentatively identified as actins appear to undergo ORG 2766-dependent post translational charge modifications. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that regulation of transcription and/or translation are mechanisms important to the neurotrophic actions of ORG 2766.

Existing cytochrome oxidase (CO)-staining techniques were modified to enhance sensitivity and contrast in order to examine patterns of CO-activity in the dorsal column nuclei (DCN) of adult Long-Evans rats. Within a rostrocaudally limited region in the middle of the cuneate nucleus (CN) distinctive blotches of intense CO-activity were observed. The CO-staining was maximally differentiated approximately 0.3-0.7 mm caudal to the obex. No CO-blotches were observed anywhere else in the DCN. Transganglionic labelling (WGA-HRP) demonstrated that some of the CO-blotches in the rat CN are related to the terminal projection fields of primary afferents from the skin of the forepaws. The corresponding location of primary afferent termination fields and CO-staining patterns supports a tripartite rostrocaudal division in the rat CN, similar to that described by other investigators in cats, monkeys and raccoons. Comparing the patterns of CO-staining to (1) the cytoarchitecture (Nissl-stained sections), or to (2) the dendritoarchitecture (distribution of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) or to (3) the organization of retrogradely labelled (WGA-HRP/HRP) cuneothalamic cells, revealed no topographical organization corresponding to the CO-blotches. Postnatal (at least up to 11 days postpartum) forepaw deafferentation or removal disrupted the CO-staining pattern in the CN.
The distribution of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding the 67 kDa isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67), a rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of gamma-aminobutyric acid, and preproenkephalin (PPE), the precursor of enkephalin, was analysed in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAS) taking in account its compartmentation in 'core' (NAS(core)) and 'shell' (NASshell). While GAD67 mRNA levels were more abundant (+48%) in NASshell than in NAS(core), hybridization signals for PPE mRNA were mainly found in NAScore. At a cellular level, hybridization signals for GAD67 mRNA were present in 75% and 80% of neurons NASshell and NAS(core), respectively. The level of GAD67 mRNA found higher in the NASshell corresponds in fact to a greater density of neurons in NASshell than in the NAS(core). The hybridization signals for PPE mRNA were observed in very few neurons of NASshell and in around half of the neurons in NAS(core). Besides this medio to lateral difference, GAD67 and PPE mRNAs were distributed in NAS(core) according to a rostro-caudal gradient, the content of both mRNAs being higher in the rostral part than the caudal part of this area.
Transient forebrain ischemia in normoglycemic, normotensive rodents reproducibly causes selectively vulnerable neurons in the striatum to degenerate within 24 h. Neurons in the substantia nigra reticulata (SNR) are resistant to this acute process. Histologic evidence demonstrates that the combination of acute ischemic injury to the caudate nucleus and globus pallidus is associated with delayed neuron degeneration in the SNR that matures at 3 weeks after reperfusion. Ischemia, like certain ablative neurotoxin lesions, may provoke degenerative, perhaps transneuronal events that continue to evolve long after the initial insult.
Transmitter receptors are localized to discrete cellular sites such that only those responses appropriate for a particular pattern of inputs are activated. How neurons select between synaptic and extrasynaptic responses during development is not understood. We have investigated how contact during synapse formation between identified leech neurons selectively suppresses the modulation of extrasynaptic channels by protein kinase C. A microelectrode with an isolated membrane patch containing channels from an uninnervated target neuron was 'crammed' into a similar cell contacted by a presynaptic partner. We report here that within a few minutes, the crammed channels were rendered insensitive to activation of protein kinase C, demonstrating the action of a cytoplasmic signal. Treatment of the neurons with selective inhibitors of tyrosine kinases, which are signalling molecules during normal and oncogenic cellular differentiation, prevented the loss of channel modulation. Thus, tyrosine kinases mediate early functional changes during specific synapse formation that are induced by neuronal contact.
D1 and D2 dopamine receptors are G-protein coupled receptors and have seven transmembrane spanning regions (TM) typical of this receptor superfamily. Although dopamine binds equally to D1 and D2 receptors, many compounds are highly selective. To probe the receptors for regions that determine subtype specificity, plasmid constructs coding for the D1 or a D1/D2 chimeric receptor were made and transfected into cells to study the binding and agonist properties of non-selective or subtype-selective compounds. The results suggest that the D2-selective agonist, quinpirole, gains much of its selectivity by binding to within TM VI and VII of the D2 receptor.
By means of a suitable transformation, any passive dendritic tree may be reduced to an equivalent, possibly non-uniform cable. Under certain conditions the equivalent cable has disjoint sections of which only one communicates with the soma. Inputs that map on to the disconnected sections cannot be seen by the soma. Ralls's equivalent cylinder and its generalizations emerge naturally as the simplest cases of this behaviour. Even where, as is more usual, decomposition does not occur exactly the equivalent cable together with the input mapping from the tree to the cable provides a readily visualisable and intuitively appealing description of quite subtle relationships on the tree. The structure of the equivalent cable is dominated by approximate geometric symmetries of the tree. These symmetries cause well-defined subspaces of the total space of synaptic inputs to arrive at the soma at different times, thus allowing them, in principle, to be reflected, for example in the temporal statistics of the neurons' spike output.
Heterosynaptic short-term depression (STD) of the stratum radiatum and stratum oriens inputs to the CA1 region was studied in rat hippocampal slices. STD was evoked by trains of 1050 impulses with interstimulus interval (ISI) variable from 10 to 700 ms. The STD was found to be very pronounced for tetanizations with ISI around 200 ms, and almost absent for ISI less than 50 ms or more than 500 ms. These data show that theta-like tetanization is an effective pattern not only for induction of the long-term potentiation (LTP), as has been shown previously, but for production of the heterosynaptic STD as well. This implies that heterosynaptic STD can effectively modulate induction of LTP by theta-like tetanization, and plays an important role in differentiation of potentiated pathways. It is discussed that the theta-like tetanization-induced release of ACh is a possible mechanism of the STD.
The excitatory amino acid, L-glutamate, acting through its N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, may contribute to neuronal death following cerebral vascular occlusion. In support of this hypothesis, NMDA receptor antagonists reduce the volume of infarction produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in vivo and attenuate Ca2+ influx and neuronal death elicited by L-glutamate or NMDA in vitro. A complementary DNA coding for a major component of the NMDA receptor channel complex, a single protein of M(r) 105.5K (NMDA-R1), has been isolated from rat brain. Here we demonstrate that inhibition of the synthesis of NMDA-R1 by treatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides selectively reduces the expression of NMDA receptors, prevents the neurotoxicity elicited by NMDA in vitro and reduces the volume of the focal ischaemic infarction produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in the rat.
Responses of reticulospinal vasomotor neurons, recorded in the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata, to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and cyanide microiontophoreses were examined during H+ iontophoresis in anesthetized rats. Extracellular H+ iontophoresis attenuated GABA-evoked decreases and enhanced cyanide-induced increases in the neuronal activity, but had no effect on the neuronal activity when applied alone. Opposite responses were produced during OH- iontophoresis. Similar effects were also observed on the glycine-evoked inhibition of these neurons during H+ and OH- iontophoreses, suggesting that H+ modulation of the GABA-evoked inhibition may not result from a specific action at the GABA receptor-channel complex. It is concluded that extracellular H+ ions exert a modulatory action on responses of the reticulospinal vasomotor neurons to other neuro-active substances and may significantly contribute to hypoxic-ischemic cardiovascular regulation.
Mongolian gerbils were subjected to transient forebrain ischaemia by occluding both common carotid arteries for 7 min. Subcutaneous administration of either the kappa-opioid receptor agonist enadoline (CI-977; 1 mg kg-1), or the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801; 3 mg kg-1), at induction of ischaemia prevented neurodegeneration of CA1-CA2 pyramidal neurones in the dorsal hippocampus. It was shown by continuously monitoring intrahippocampal temperature that brain temperature drops by approximately 4 degrees C during ischaemia, when rectal temperature is maintained normothermic. Enadoline at no time point tested affected brain temperature, whereas dizocilpine statistically lowered brain temperature following ischaemia. These findings suggest that enadoline affords neuroprotection in the absence of any hypothermic episode, whilst in the case of dizocilpine, the small transient hypothermia observed following ischaemia may act synergistically or additively with the drug to yield neuroprotection.
A method is described for analyzing calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity in crude or purified samples separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and electrophoretically transferred to PVDF membrane. The blotted protein is denatured in situ with guanidine HCl and renatured in buffer containing NP-40. The membrane with bound protein is incubated with [gamma-32P]ATP and buffer containing the activators Ca2+ and calmodulin resulting in autophosphorylation of a subset of bound kinases. Two of the three major kinase activities detected in as little as 5 micrograms of crude brain or spinal cord homogenates are the alpha (M(r) = 50-52,000) and beta (M(r) = 58-62,000) isoforms of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. A third unidentified kinase of M(r) = 90-95,000 is not dependent on Ca2+ and calmodulin for activity. The membrane can be used for immunoblotting, phosphoamino acid analysis, or peptide mapping after the in situ renaturation and phosphorylation procedure. Detection of kinase activity in this assay is dependent on autophosphorylation of the enzyme. Therefore another procedure is described in which the blotted proteins are denatured and renatured in situ and assayed by measuring incorporation of phosphate into an exogenous peptide substrate specific for calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II.
Activation of muscarinic receptors with carbachol has no effect on intracellular Ca2+ concentration in cerebellar granule cell cultures. Only after elevating intracellular Ca2+ concentrations using either 40 mM KCl or activating glutamatergic receptors was carbachol able to increase intracellular Ca2+. The response lasted about 10 s, and the median increase in intracellular Ca2+ with either 100 microM or 300 microM carbachol was about 85 nM. Carbachol at 30 microM elicited an increase in intracellular calcium that was half maximal. After a 16 min or 32 min delay following cell depolarization, responses to carbachol were only found in about 20% of the cells studied and the median increase in intracellular Ca2+ was about 14 nM. (-)-Quinuclidinylxanthene-9-carboxylate hemioxalate (QNX) at 10 nM (a muscarinic m3 antagonist), but not methoctramine at 5 microM (a muscarinic m2 antagonist), attenuated the action of 100 microM carbachol. This carbachol-mediated response was elicited in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and in the presence of 10 microM dantrolene, but was blocked by 1 microM thapsigargin. Lastly, treatments of cerebellar granule cell cultures with carbachol (100 microM) for up to 12 h results in a desensitization of the carbachol-mediated release of stored Ca2+. Thus, carbachol acts on muscarinic m3 receptors to induce the release of Ca2+ from IP3-sensitive Ca2+ stores that must be filled by a prior period of high intracellular Ca2+.
Regulation of the liver isopeptides of bovine cytochrome c oxidase is reported to be post-transcriptional. Extensive interspecies sequence homologies exist in the 3'-untranslated regions for transcripts encoding these liver isoforms, suggesting that these regions may be involved in mediating regulation of mRNA expression. To explore this possibility, several bovine tissue homogenates were assayed for any trans-acting factors that recognized the transcript encoding the liver isoform of subunit VIII (BCOL8). Such a protein factor (COLBP: cytochrome c oxidase L-form transcript-binding protein) was identified in liver, kidney, and lung tissue and was shown to require free sulfhydryl groups for activity. No binding activity, however, was found in muscle-type homogenates. Furthermore, this binding protein also recognized the subunit VIIa-liver transcript but was unable to associate with the mRNA encoding the heart isoform of subunit VIII. Intriguingly, the tissue-specific distribution of COLBP activity parallels the presence of the liver isopeptides in the mature oxidase complex. It is therefore suggested that COLBP may mediate the tissue-specific regulation of cytochrome c oxidase liver isoform mRNA expression.
We investigated the occurrence and distribution of oscillatory activity in local field potentials (LFPs) recorded from the frontal motor cortex of behaving monkeys performing skilled voluntary movements. LFPs were recorded simultaneously from up to 12 sites distributed throughout motor cortex while monkeys performed a visually guided, instructed delay task using the wrist or digits. Oscillatory activity between 15 and 50 Hz was evident in the LFP recorded from both primary motor cortex and premotor areas. Oscillations occurred preferentially before the visual cue to initiate movement but were infrequent during movement. Oscillations typically stopped before movement initiation during the wrist task, although they often continued into the initial phases of movement during the digit task. The relationship of oscillations to task performance was consistent across trials over periods of many months, although the amplitude and duration of oscillations varied across trials and days. Interactions between pairs of LFP recordings, evaluated with cross-correlation analysis, revealed synchronous oscillations over long distances (&gt; 7 mm) and across primary motor cortex and premotor recording sites. These studies demonstrate that oscillations recorded in the LFP in motor cortex during trained motor tasks are not related to the details of movement execution but may be related to aspects of movement preparation.
In the hippocampus, ten minutes of transient global ischemia results in the death of CA1 pyramidal cells after a period of one to three days. The neurons in the CA1 region constitutively express NADPH-D (NADPH diaphorase activity). In contrast, astrocytes in the hippocampus do not normally express NADPH-D; but a population of reactive astrocytes (GFAP+ cells) begin to express of NADPH-D one day after transient global ischemia. NADPH-D is thought to be a histological marker for Nitric Oxide Synthase (NOS), the enzyme that is responsible for the synthesis of NO, a potent neurotoxin. We suggest that this increase in NADPH-D/NOS expression is an important element in the sequence of changes that occurs after ischemia, and that NO derived from reactive astrocytes or from neurons may play a causal role in neural cell death after ischemia in the hippocampus.
The localization of sites of memory formation within the brain has proven to be a formidable task even for simple forms of learning and memory. In order to localize a particular site of memory formation within the brain, the rabbit eyeblink response was classically conditioned while regions of the cerebellum or red nucleus were temporarily inactivated by microinfusions of the gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist muscimol. Cerebellar inactivation completely blocked learning but had no effect on subsequent learning after inactivation, whereas red nucleus inactivation did not prevent learning but did block the expression of conditioned responses. The site of memory formation for this learned response thus appears to be localized within the cerebellum.

The development of a multicellular organism involves a delicate balance among the processes of proliferation, differentiation and death. Naturally occurring cell death aids tissue remodelling, eliminates supernumerary cell populations and provides structural elements such as hair and skin. In the nervous system, selective cell death contributes to the formation and organization of the spinal cord and sympathetic ganglia, retina and corpus callosum. But cell death also occurs in several neuropathological conditions, such as amyelotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Therefore an elucidation of the mechanisms responsible for cell death is critical for an appreciation of both normal development and neuropathological disorders. Using a fos-lacZ transgenic mouse, we provide evidence showing that the continuous expression of Fos, beginning hours or days before the morphological demise of the cell, appears to be a hallmark of terminal differentiation and a harbinger of death.
5-CT (5-carboxamidotryptamine)-insensitive (5-HT1E/5-HT1F) 5-HT1-like recognition sites have been mapped autoradiographically in rat and guinea pig brain using [3H]5-HT in the presence of 5-CT and mesulergine to mask 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D and 5-HT2C binding sites. Binding was more dense in the guinea pig but in both species 5-CT-insensitive 5-HT1-like sites were located in the olfactory tubercle, interpeduncular nucleus, caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, frontal cortex and hippocampus. These receptors were particularly marked in the claustrum of the guinea pig but not the rat.
A cosmid containing eight exons of the gene coding for the microtubule-associated tau protein was subjected to the exon trapping assay. All the constitutive exons contained in the cosmid (4, 5, 7 and 9) were efficiently captured regardless of size. Of the four alternatively spliced exons, three (3, 4A and 8) were not isolated by the assay, but the behavior of exon 6 depended on the identity of its flanking exons.
An antiserum was developed in a rabbit against rat-brain A1 adenosine receptor. This antiserum recognized the denatured form of the purified rat-brain A1 adenosine receptor in immunoblot analysis and the native form of the receptor in the immunoprecipitation analysis. Immunoblot analysis of unpurified or purified adenosine receptor preparations from rat-brain membranes revealed a major immunoreactive band at a position of molecular mass of approx. 35 kDa, which corresponds to the position of purified rat-brain A1 adenosine receptor. Although A1 adenosine receptors from other rat tissues such as testis and adipocyte were also found to be immunoreactive with this antiserum by immunoblot analysis, purified human-brain A1 adenosine receptors showed a poor reactivity with this antibody. The order of the relative immunoreactivity of these A1 adenosine receptors with the antiserum was found to be brain &gt; adipocyte &gt; or = testis. Moreover, the immunoreactivity of these receptors significantly increased after these receptor preparations were deglycosylated by endoglycosidase F. After the deglycosylation, no significant differences in both the immunoreactivity and molecular mass among these receptor preparations were found on the immunoblot. These results suggest that the differences in the molecular mass or immunoreactivity among the A1 adenosine receptor preparations from three rat tissues were mainly due to the difference of sugar moiety present in each receptor molecule. These data are the first to provide analyses of immunological characteristics of A1 adenosine receptors from different tissues and species.
Odorant-stimulated formation of cAMP in olfactory receptor neurons may mediate olfactory signal transduction. The response is short and desensitization occurs rapidly, possibly by induction of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity. Previously, we showed that two low Km PDEs regulate hydrolysis of cAMP in olfactory cilia. One PDE is Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent and non-selective for both cAMP-PDE and cGMP; the other is Ca2+/calmodulin-independent, sensitive to rolipram and selective for cAMP. We have localized cAMP-selective PDE in olfactory, gustatory and retinal sensory systems by autoradiography with the selective inhibitor [3H]rolipram. We observe dense binding over olfactory neurons, particularly over olfactory nerve bundles and olfactory cilia. In the tongue apical regions of taste buds of the circumvallate papillae are strongly labeled as well as portions of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Retinal binding is most dense over the inner plexiform layer, ganglion cells and the optic nerve but is also substantial over the inner nuclear layer. The pattern of [3H]rolipram-binding in retina is reminiscent of adenosine localization. Accordingly, adenosine was immunohistochemically localized in olfactory, gustatory and retinal tissues. Adenosine immunoreactivity is observed in olfactory neurons, in the basal regions of taste buds and in retinal ganglion cells.
This study examined the effect of selective midline sagittal section of the brainstem prior to kindling of the amygdala (AM) in rats. The brainstem section did not affect the AM kindling development at the primary site. However, some of the animals with brainstem section showed an absence of positive transfer effect (PTE) at the secondary site. These findings suggest that the brainstem has a probable role in PTE of rat AM kindling.
Hippocampal tissue from embryonic day 15-17 fetal mice, euploid or trisomic for chromosome 16, was transplanted into the striatum or the lateral ventricle of 6-8 week old female C57B1/6 mice. After 6-14 months of survival, host brains were sectioned and the grafts were examined by histochemical techniques and by immunocytochemistry for antigens present in pathological brain structures of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Nissl-stained grafts contained aggregations of neurons similar to the pyramidal or the granule cell layers of the normal adult mouse hippocampus. No obvious morphological difference was detected between trisomic and control transplants. The monoclonal antibody Alz-50, which recognizes the paired helical filaments characteristic of AD, or an antibody raised to beta-amyloid peptide, did not reveal neurodegeneration in these grafts. Antibodies against ubiquitin, 200 kDa subunit of neurofilament, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin and tau also did not demonstrate AD-type immunoreactivity in the trisomic or control grafts. Thioflavin S- or silver stained-sections were also negative. We conclude that transplanted hippocampal tissue from the trisomy 16 mouse does not represent an animal model for AD-type neurodegeneration. These results differ from those of Richards et al., EMBO J. (10) (1991) 297-303, who reported AD-type degeneration in trisomy 16 hippocampal transplants.
The potential importance of intracellular calcium-binding proteins in rapid and highly localized Ca2+ signalling is poorly understood. During fast synaptic transmission, which occurs at specialized active zones where Ca2+ diffuses only a few tens of nanometers from channels to neurotransmitter release sites, a cytoplasmic Ca2+ buffer would have to be extremely fast or present in millimolar concentrations to intercept a significant fraction of the calcium ions en route to their targets. Therefore, Ca2+ buffers have been presumed to be unimportant in fast exocytosis and another fast calcium-mediated process, electrical resonance in hair cells. Here I present evidence to the contrary by showing that hair cells in the frog sacculus contain millimolar concentrations of a mobile cytoplasmic calcium buffer that captures Ca2+ within a few microseconds after it enters through presynaptic Ca2+ channels and carries it away from the point of entry. This spatial buffering reduces the presynaptic free Ca2+ by up to 60 per cent and probably restricts the region in which the internal calcium ion concentration exceeds 1 microM to within &lt; 250 nm of each synaptic site. The buffer can thus influence both electrical resonance and synaptic transmission. Calbindin-D28K or a related protein may serve as the mobile calcium buffer, an action similar to its function in transporting Ca2+ across intestinal epithelial cells.
Protein phosphorylation is important in synaptic transmission and plasticity. At the neuromuscular junction, phosphorylation of acetylcholine (ACh) receptor-channels increases the rate of agonist-induced channel desensitization. In contrast, potentiation of ACh channel activity through protein phosphorylation has not been described. We report here that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a neuropeptide present at presynaptic motor nerve terminals, enhances the postsynaptic response at developing neuromuscular junctions by increasing the burst duration of embryonic ACh channels. The effect of CGRP on these ACh channels is mimicked by dibutyryl-cyclic AMP and by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and prevented by a specific peptide inhibitor of PKA. Moreover, postsynaptic inhibition of PKA reduced the amplitude and decay time of spontaneous synaptic currents, suggesting that endogenous CGRP may act as a potentiating factor during the early phase of synaptogenesis.
The production of alpha-amidated peptides is accomplished through the sequential action of two enzymes, peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) and peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL), that are contained within the bifunctional peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) protein. Tissue-specific alternative splicing and endoproteolysis are known to generate both soluble and integral membrane mono- and bifunctional PAM proteins. In order to investigate the functional consequences of these differences we purified PAM-3, a soluble 95-kDa bifunctional form of the enzyme, from the spent medium of stably transfected hEK-293 cells. Using NH2-terminal sequence analysis of products of limited endoproteolysis and antibody cross-reactivity we identified protease-sensitive regions at the NH2 terminus, between the 35-kDa PHM and 42-kDa PAL domains and at the COOH terminus of the protein. Endoproteolytic removal of the COOH-terminal region from the bifunctional PAM-3 protein shifted the pH optimum of PHM to a more alkaline pH, increased the turnover number (kappa(cat)) of PHM and decreased its KM for alpha-N-acetyl-Tyr-Val-Gly; the catalytic properties of PAL were not altered. Since peptide amidation can be a rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of neuropeptides, similar increases in PHM activity in vivo may play an important role in regulating the extent of peptide alpha-amidation.
Polyamine synthesis increases in response to injurious stimuli including axotomy and denervation. Reduced eye nystagmus and head-deviation have been observed in unilateral labyrinthectomized (UL) guinea pigs treated with an inhibitor of polyamine synthesis, alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO). We quantified polyamines in the lateral vestibular nuclei (LVN) of control and UL squirrel monkeys during the phase of vestibular compensation (VC) and performed an experiment to determine if DFMO reduces nystagmus previously observed in the guinea pig. Polyamines were detected in the LVN of control and UL squirrel monkeys. Putrescine and spermidine increased in the ipsilateral LVN 3 days after UL with no change in the contralateral LVN. No left-right differences were noted in the 5-day post-UL monkey. DFMO reduced nystagmus in a UL squirrel monkey. These findings suggest that polyamines are important in vestibular function and may contribute to nystagmus observed in VC.

The effects of a new acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, ENA-713, on ischemia-induced changes in acetylcholine, monoamines, and their metabolites, were studied in the gerbil. ENA-713 (0.2 mg/kg) or saline was administered intraperitoneally to gerbils 30 min before induction of cerebral ischemia by bilateral carotid occlusion. Pretreatment with ENA-713 mitigated the ischemia-induced abnormalities of the cholinergic, dopaminergic and serotoninergic systems in the gerbil brain, although it had virtually no effect on acetylcholine, monoamines, or their metabolites in any region of the normal gerbil brain. These findings suggest that ENA-713 has beneficial effects against ischemia-induced cerebral disorders. Thus, ENA-713 seems to be promising as a preventive or therapeutic agent for cerebrovascular dementia due to cerebral ischemia and might be useful for the treatment of Alzheimer-type dementia which is associated with multiple neurotransmitter abnormalities in the brain.

The severe proximal cerebellar postural tremor (also called action or intention or hyperkinetic tremor) is barely influenced by thalamotomy or stimulation of the thalamus at the classic target in the lower part of the nucleus ventrointermedius thalami (VIM). In four patients with a severe postural distal and proximal tremor, an electrode fitted with four points of contact was introduced within the entire height of the VIM. In each patient, stimulation of the lower part of the VIM was most effective in the distal component of the tremor, whereas its proximal component was specifically reduced by stimulation of its upper part. These results indicate that (1) proximal postural tremors can be as much affected by stimulation of the VIM as distal tremors, (2) there is a somatotopy in the VIM that is similar to that in the nucleus ventralis posterolateralis thalami, and (3) it is possible with this technique to adjust the VIM stimulation site so as to obtain the maximum efficacy according to the locale of the tremor.

Bilateral vestibular dysfunction was induced in Long-Evans male rats (n = 7) by intratympanic injections of sodium arsanilate (30 mg/side). Control rats (n = 6) received isotonic saline. Animals were tested for labyrinthine integrity by measuring air-righting and contact-righting reflexes. Rats were reduced to 85% of free-feeding body weight and tested in an enclosed 8-arm radial maze (1 trial/day over 10 days). Labyrinthectomized animals made significantly more errors (p &lt; .001) and, unlike the controls, showed no significant improvement on this measure over acquisition training. These rats also made significantly more (p = 0.018) sequential same arm reentries and fewer sequential adjacent arm entries (p &lt; .01). These findings demonstrate that information obtained from the vestibular system is very important in spatial learning in the rat.
Bobwhite quail embryos were exposed to ethanol (5 mg every other day) from E5 to E21. Control embryos received comparable saline injections or were untreated. At 24 h posthatch, the neonates were tested in a single call approach test, using a Bobwhite maternal exodus call which had previously been shown to be a potent attractant to these animals. Almost all animals in all three groups approached the call, and latency of approach did not differ among the groups. The ethanol-treated animals, however, spent significantly less time within the approach area and exited the area significantly more often than did either the saline or untreated controls. Overall hyperactivity or loss of auditory acuity did not appear to account for the response deficits. These results suggest that species-specific behaviors might be a useful paradigm for the study of fetal alcohol effects.
The precise relationship of the complex I deficiency in PD to the dopaminergic cell death and aetiology of this disorder is as yet unknown. However, evidence is accruing that this mitochondrial defect may play a central role in the cascade of events that terminates in nigral neuronal loss. Further work needs to be carried out to determine the molecular mechanisms that underlie the complex I deficiency as these may provide important indicators to the ultimate cause of PD. This may involve a genetic abnormality of complex I that may convey a susceptibility to developing PD. Alternatively, exogenous or endogenous toxic agents may target nigral complex I along pathways similar to those recognized for MPTP. A combination of a genetic predisposition in addition to an environmental precipitant has gained substantial support as an explanation for the cause of PD.
The therapeutic application of neuroactive molecules in neuroscience is limited, due to the problems posed by the administration of these drugs (peripheral metabolism, systemic effect and passage of the blood-brain barrier). One solution is the implantation in the brain of biodegradable polymer devices with controlled release of a neuroactive drug. The biodegradation and tissue reaction of the copolymer poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) microspheres prepared by the solvent evaporation method, radiosterilized and stereotactically implanted in the rat brain were studied by routine staining, immunohistochemistry and transmission electronic microscopy. The brain tissue reaction observed was a non-specific astrocytic proliferation and a macrophagous-microglial cell reaction, typically found following damage to the central nervous system. Some foreign-body giant cells were observed and the inflammatory and macrophagous reaction decreased dramatically after 1 month and almost ended after 2 months when the microspheres were totally biodegraded. The copolymer poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) microspheres may be considered biocompatible to the brain tissue.


Sensitization of dorsal horn neurons following injury may underlie the generation of secondary hyperalgesia and so the chemical basis of sensitization is now receiving considerable attention. The present study used microiontophoretic applications of excitatory amino acids (EAA's) and substance P (SP) to test their roles in the sensitization of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons. Of 70 STT cells examined in laminae I-VI of the dorsal horn, 40 showed an increase in responses to one or more EAA's following their co-application with SP. The increased responses were usually specific to either N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or to the non-NMDA agonists, quisqualate (QUIS) or D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid (AMPA). The enhancement of EAA responses was long-lasting (&gt; 15 min) in 18 cases, was accompanied by similarly long-lasting increases in responses to mechanical stimulation of the receptive field in 14 cases and was accompanied by an increase in responses to either glutamate (Glu) or aspartate (Asp) in eleven cases. A global decrease in all EAA responses tested was produced in 26 other STT neurons. The inhibition, unlike the increases, was generalized to both NMDA and non-NMDA ligands, was long-lasting in only six cases and was never accompanied by a change in the responses to mechanical stimuli. The excitatory and inhibitory effects of SP on the responses to NMDA were uniformly reversed by the NK-1 receptor selective antagonist, CP96345. In contrast, only the inhibitory effects of SP on the responses to QUIS or AMPA were reversed by CP96345. The long-lasting enhancement of EAA responses by SP may follow the combined synaptic release of the natural ligands in vivo, resulting in the sensitization of dorsal horn neurons and secondary hyperalgesia. However, the reductions in EAA responses produced by SP are problematic for this hypothesis and need further elucidation.
Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) pathway causes a significant increase of preproenkephalin (PPE) messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in the DA-depleted striatum in rat brain. Using an in situ hybridization (ISH) technique and computer-assisted microdensitometry, we quantified the changes in PPE mRNA levels in the striatum. Seven months after lesion, levels of PPE mRNA were 75% higher in the DA-depleted striatum than in the contralateral control striatum of the same animal or in the striatum of sham control animals. The implantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons into the denervated striatum led to a complete reversal of this increase and, in grafted animals, levels of PPE mRNA were at control values. Moreover, this reversal extended beyond the areas reinnervated by the grafted dopaminergic neurons.
Many properties of skeletal muscle cells are closely regulated by motor nerves. Neuromuscular synaptic transmission (including the 'activity' it triggers) mediates many of these effects, while denervation results in a different spectrum of muscle cell changes. However, little is known about the early regulatory events that occur in mature muscle cells in response to muscle activity or denervation. We have examined the effects of motor nerve stimulation and denervation on the expression of 4 immediate early genes (IEGs)--c-jun, junB, zif268, and nur77--in mature mouse gastrocnemius muscle. Electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve in a pattern of brisk intermittent exercise induced a marked rise in zif268 and c-jun mRNA levels within 45 min, a minimal rise in junB, and no change in nur77 mRNA levels. By contrast, surgical denervation resulted in a marked increase of c-jun, a slight rise in junB, and no change in nur77 or zif268 mRNA levels. These findings show that neural stimulation and denervation lead to differential patterns of IEG expression. The selectivity of these patterns suggests that differential IEG expression may play an important role in regulating the specific phenotypic changes in skeletal muscles that result from denervation, innervation, and various patterns of stimulation.

Cerebellar ataxia is a common presenting sign in the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS). Recovery from ataxia following thiamine treatment is rarely complete, suggesting the existence of both a reversible (&quot;biochemical&quot;) lesion as well as irreversible, neuropathological damage. Cerebellar pathology in WKS includes severe loss of Purkinje cells in superior cerebellar vermis as well as neuronal loss from the granular layer. In addition, damage to inferior olivary nucleus could result in loss of climbing fibre input to cerebellum in this condition. Experiments using an animal model of WKS, the pyrithiamine-treated rat, reveal selective reversible decreases of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alpha KGDH) in cerebellum. Decreased enzyme activities are associated with decreased cerebellar content of GABA and aspartate. Thiamine reversal of neurological symptoms results in normalization of cerebellar enzyme activities and GABA content suggesting that reduced activities of alpha KGDH constitute &quot;the biochemical lesion&quot; in these animals. Possible mechanisms implicated in neuronal cell death in cerebellum include impaired cellular energy metabolism, focal lactic acidosis and excitotoxic damage resulting from excess glutamate release mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Similar mechanisms could be involved in the reversible and irreversible neurological symptoms of WKS in humans.
Immunocytochemical methods were used to gain information about the embryonic development of chicken somatotrophs before and after hatching. To localize growth hormone, anterior pituitary sections were incubated with growth-hormone antibody, and then an indirect peroxidase method was used for light microscopy and an immunogold method for electron microscopy. The earliest evidence of embryonic somatotrophs was seen at 12 days. At this stage somatotrophs were sparse (0.2% of parenchymal cells) and their granules were pleomorphic with elongated ovoid and lozenge shapes predominating. Few of the immunogold-labeled somatotroph granules of the embryo were spherical until 15 days after fertilization. At 18 days, most of the granules were spherical (their shape in the adult chicken). During the six days between the 15-day-old embryo and the 1-day-old chick, the number of gold particles per granule section approximately doubled suggesting an increase in growth hormone content of the granules. This rise was the result of increases in the size of the granule sections and in the concentration of gold particles in the sections. During the embryonic period of 12-20 days, somatotrophs were not more than 3.6% of the anterior pituitary cell population. During the following two days, between the 20-day-old embryo and the 1-day-old chick, the percentage of somatotrophs in the pituitary parenchymal cell population rose rapidly from 3.6% to 20.7% and then increased slowly to 24.6% during the period of 1-5 days after hatching.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Dihydroxyphenylalanine is the precursor of all endogenous catecholamines. In laboratory animals, renal uptake and decarboxylation of circulating dihydroxyphenylalanine accounts for most of dopamine in urine. Dopamine is natriuretic, and in rats, dietary salt loading increases renal dihydroxyphenylalanine uptake by increasing the rate of entry (spill-over) of dihydroxyphenylalanine into arterial plasma. In experimental animals and in humans, dietary salt loading increases urinary excretion of dihydroxyphenylalanine and dopamine. The present study examined in humans the extent to which circulating dihydroxyphenylalanine is the source of urinary dopamine and of the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and whether, as in animals, dietary salt loading affects dihydroxyphenylalanine spillover. 2. L-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (0.33 micrograms min-1 kg-1) was infused intravenously for 300 min after 7 days of a low-salt (mean 41 mmol/day) or a high-salt (mean 341 mmol/day) diet in 12 healthy subjects. Concentrations of dihydroxyphenylalanine, dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were measured in urine and in antecubital venous plasma. Infusion of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine produced a steady-state mean dihydroxyphenylalanine level about 10 times the endogenous level. About 30% of infused dihydroxyphenylalanine estimated to be delivered to the kidneys via the arterial plasma was excreted as dopamine, and about 30% was excreted as dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid. 3. Dietary salt loading increased urinary excretion rates of dihydroxyphenylalanine [from 0.08 +/- (SEM) 0.01 to 0.14 +/- 0.03 nmol/min, t = 2.80, P &lt; 0.02] and dopamine (from 1.03 +/- 0.19 to 1.30 +/- 0.28 nmol/min, t = 2.35, P &lt; 0.05), whereas dihydroxyphenylalanine spillover appeared to be unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In most neurons orientation can be recognized because their arbors are more or less polarized and/or flattened. These are morphological characteristics of great functional importance. This paper deals with three-dimensional display and mathematical definition of orientation planes and vectors in whole arbors. An orientation plane can be derived from the flattest rectangular prism with which it is possible to enclose the arbor, or may be found by best-fit least square determination (based on all digitized points of the arbor). Both approaches allow description and comparison, in quantitative terms, of the orientation of neurons under various normal, pathological or experimental conditions.
Morphometric analysis of brain cells growing in dissociated cell culture is a promising approach in neuroscience research. Here we present new software written in Turbo PASCAL which has the advantage of requiring only a minimum in equipment accessible in most neuroscience labs, i.e., a microscope with a camera lucida attachment and a personal computer. The camera lucida is used to superimpose the pictures from the microscope and the computer screen. With the aid of a mouse, cells are drawn to the computer screen. The program counts pixels and calculates morphometric data including the area occupied by the cell soma as well as number, length and arborization of the processes. The program may be obtained from the authors upon request.
The complex topological association of Sertoli cells and spermatogenic cells in the testis suggests the existence of cell surface adhesion molecules that regulate cellular interactions within the seminiferous epithelium. The recent report of N-cadherin mRNA expression in the mouse testis implies the involvement of this known adhesion molecule in testicular cell binding. Accordingly, here we report that (1) N-cadherin is found on the surface membranes of rat spermatogenic cells and on Sertoli cells, and (2) that N-cadherin is a partial mediator of Sertoli cell-germ cell adhesion as tested in an vitro cell-cell binding assay. Antiserum directed against the N-cadherin cell adhesion recognition sequence was used for Western blot anlaysis of purified plasma membranes from Sertoli cells and from spermatogenic cells. Both membrane preparations exhibited reactivity at an appropriate M(r) of about 130 kDa. In addition, immunofluorescence assays demonstrated that both germ cells and Sertoli cells were labeled by anti-N-cadherin. Finally, the antiserum was included in a cytometer-assisted cell-cell binding test to determine its inhibitory ability. The antiserum consistently reduced specific testicular cell-cell adhesion by 30%-50%. This is the first demonstration that antibodies directed against the cadherin cell adhesion recognition sequence are capable of inhibiting cell-cell interactions. Pre-incubation of either rat Sertoli cells or spermatogenic cells alone was sufficient to achieve statistically significant inhibition of intercellular adhesion. We conclude, therefore, that N-cadherin is expressed by both Sertoli cells and spermatogenic cells and that N-cadherin is one of a number of regulatory molecules mediating local cellular associations in the mammalian seminiferous tubule.
Although some sensory ganglion cells in mature animals are catecholaminergic, most mammalian sensory neurons that express the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) do so only transiently during early gangliogenesis in vivo. The lack of TH expression at later stages appears to be due to modulation of this catecholaminergic potential. A previous study showed that the phenotype reappears, for example, when E16.5 and older sensory ganglia are dissociated in culture into single cells, suggesting that extracellular influences can modulate TH expression. Moreover, TH expression in dissociate cultures is cell-density dependent, as a four-fold increase in plating density led to a 30% decrease in the percentage of TH neurons. The present study demonstrates that inhibition of TH expression in high density cultures is mediated by ganglionic non-neuronal cells (NNC), as removal of NNC abolished density-dependent inhibition. Moreover, plating E16.5 trigeminal neurons at low density on top of NNC monolayers resulted in an 85% decrease in the percentage of TH neurons. Treatment of cultures with non-neuronal cell conditioned medium (NNC-CM) reproduced the effect of coculture with NNC, suggesting that diffusible factors from NNC were involved in the inhibition of TH. The inhibitory effect of NNC-CM was mimicked by treatment of dissociate cultures with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF). However, immunoprecipitation of NNC-CM with antibodies against LIF or CNTF showed that only anti-LIF antibodies were able partially to remove the TH inhibitory activity of NNC-CM. Therefore, LIF is one, but not the only, factor mediating NNC inhibition of TH expression in cultured sensory neurons. In summary, these data indicate that ganglionic NNC can regulate sensory transmitter phenotype in culture by inhibiting expression of specific molecular traits. The finding that LIF can partially account for the inhibitory effect of ganglionic NNC on TH expression suggests a novel role for this cytokine in regulating differentiation of catecholaminergic properties in sensory neurons.

Short periods of fasting (1-2 days) significantly suppress the frequency of pulsatile LH secretion in adult male rhesus monkeys. Resumption of food intake (i.e. refeeding) after fasting rapidly restores pulsatile LH secretion. We hypothesized that the resumption of LH secretion after refeeding results from the metabolic consequences of food intake rather than from relief of the psychological stress associated with fasting. To differentiate between these two possible types of signals, we attempted to provide fasting monkeys with the nutritional signals of a refeed meal without relieving the psychological stress associated with fasting. To do this, we provided monkeys with a refeed meal via indwelling gastric cannulae while continuing to deny them access to monkey chow. Nine adult male rhesus monkeys with indwelling gastric and venous catheters were fasted for 1 day, and on the following day they received a liquid nutrient infusion (equal in caloric content and macronutrient composition to a normal meal) at the normal feeding time (1100 h) via the gastric cannulae. Blood samples were collected from 0600-2400 h at 20-min intervals. Nutrient infusions caused a restoration of pulsatile LH secretion that was not different from the restoration caused by refeeding a normal meal of Purina monkey chow. In contrast, LH secretion remained suppressed on a second day of fasting. Additionally, monkeys receiving nutrient infusions displayed behavioral agitation similar to fasting monkeys, while monkeys refed monkey chow showed very little agitation. These findings support the hypothesis that nutritional/metabolic signals, rather than the relief of psychological stress, lead to the resumption of pulsatile LH secretion after refeeding.
One day of fasting leads to a significant suppression of pulsatile LH secretion in adult male rhesus monkeys that is evident within the first 4-6 h after a missed meal. Restricting food intake may suppress the central drive to the reproductive axis via metabolic signals occurring during the transition from a fed, energy storing state to a fasted, energy mobilizing state or via signals associated with the &quot;psychological stress&quot; imposed by withholding food. To distinguish between these two general types of signals, we chose the experimental strategy of providing monkeys with a great excess of calories on the day before fasting (i.e. overfeeding on the day before fasting) in order to maintain them in a metabolically fed state on the following day when they were fasted, without preventing the psychological stress associated with fasting. We reasoned that if metabolic signals are responsible for causing the fasting-induced suppression of LH secretion, overfeeding on the day before fasting would prevent the fasting-induced suppression of LH secretion. Eight adult male rhesus monkeys with indwelling venous catheters were studied on three occasions: on a day of normal feeding (receiving approximately 30 pellets of monkey chow at 1100 h on the day of the study), on a day of fasting after a day of normal feeding, and on a day of fasting after a day of overfeeding (receiving one meal of 100 pellets on the day before the study). Pulsatile LH secretion on a day of fasting after a day of normal feeding (0.4 +/- 0.2 pulses/6 h, measured from 1200-1800 h) was significantly suppressed, P &lt; 0.05, compared to a day of normal feeding (1.8 +/- 0.3 pulses/6 h). In contrast, on a day of fasting after a day of overfeeding there was no significant difference in LH secretion measured from 1200-1800 h (1.5 +/- 0.3 pulses/6 h) compared to a day of normal feeding. Overfeeding the day before fasting prevented the normal fasting-induced suppression of plasma T3 concentrations and delayed the normal fasting-induced decline in plasma insulin concentrations. Overfeeding did not prevent the display of agitated behavior that we have previously documented in monkeys when they are fasted. These results support the hypothesis that the signal(s) which suppresses normal LH secretion after brief periods of fasting is related to the metabolic status of the body during the transition from a fed to a fasted state, rather than a function of the psychological state imposed by withholding food.
[3H]AMPA binding, a measure of the non-NMDA excitatory amino acid receptors, was measured in the frontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and nucleus accumbens of postmortem human brain tissue samples. In normal human frontal cortex, the binding data were best fit by a two-site model, with Kd values of 137 nM and 11.3 microM, and Bmax values of 2780 fmol/mg protein and 67.6 pmol/mg protein, respectively. Binding was linearly related to protein concentration and was strongly inhibited by glutamic acid and quisqualic acid. Binding was partially inhibited by kainic acid and glutamic acid diethyl ester and only slightly inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid. AMPA binding was not inhibited by neuroleptic drugs, in vitro. Freezing and storage did not result in a loss of AMPA binding, and there tended to be an increase in AMPA binding with extended freezer storage. When tissue frozen intact was compared to tissue frozen as a homogenate, the high-affinity binding parameters were unchanged, but there was an increase in the affinity and Bmax of the low-affinity site for the tissue frozen intact. Thus it appears that only the high-affinity site can be measured accurately in tissue frozen intact. AMPA binding was not significantly altered by premortem neuroleptic administration, age, postmortem delay, or by moderate durations of freezer storage. No differences in AMPA binding were found in psychotic subjects compared to normal controls. There was, however, a pronounced increase in total AMPA binding in the caudate nucleus in subjects that had committed suicide.


Increasing evidence suggests that astrocytes of the mammalian CNS are a heterogeneous population of cells that express a number of common characteristics. In most cases, astrocytes or their precursors contain a class of intermediate filaments, composed in large part of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). While the expression of GFAP immunoreactivity is a specific characteristic of astrocytes in the vertebrate CNS, not all astrocytes contain detectable levels of glial filaments, particularly during early development. We have isolated a monoclonal antibody termed 7B11 which binds to the surface of astrocytes and glial precursors, but not to other major types of neural cells. The 7B11 antigen is expressed by astrocytes in the adult CNS in vivo and in cultures of developing CNS tissue, but not on cells of the peripheral nervous system. During early development, 7B11 immunoreactivity appears prior to the expression of GFAP and is retained as punctate staining on the surface of most classes of astrocytes. During CNS maturation, however, 7B11 immunoreactivity is lost from the surface of Bergmann glia in the cerebellum, suggesting that differentiative events lead to functionally and antigenically distinct classes of CNS glial cells. In the adult spinal cord, biochemical analysis suggests that the epitope recognized by 7B11 is associated with a group of polypeptides of apparent molecular weights 200-160, 140, and 92 kD. The cellular distribution of 7B11 expression suggests that astrocytes and their precursors share a distinct cell surface antigenic property and that the expression of 7B11 immunoreactivity may be a useful operational marker for astrocytes in the absence of detectable GFAP expression.

Bleuler and Kraepelin are described as icons of the aggressively psychological and aggressively biologic approaches to schizophrenia. We suggest that methodologic advances in studying the function and structure of the brain now allow a reconciliation of these seemingly dissimilar approaches, particularly in the temporal lobe. We begin with a brief historic overview of these different approaches to schizophrenia and then describe structural (magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), functional (event-related potential [ERP]), and neuropsychological studies in this disorder, including a summary of work conducted in our own laboratory. Recent MRI investigations agree on the presence of volume reductions in schizophrenia in the medial temporal lobe structures of the hippocampus-amygdala complex and of the para-hippocampal gyrus. Furthermore, two recent studies also indicate volume reductions in the superior temporal gyrus (STG). These volume reductions are most prominent in male patients and in the left hemisphere of right-handed patients with schizophrenia. Along with structural studies, there has been a burgeoning interest in MRI-clinical correlations, with volume reductions in the anterior STG being associated with hallucinations and those in the posterior STG being associated with thought disorder. Functional ERP studies also implicate the importance of the temporal lobe in schizophrenia; in addition, ERP abnormalities have been directly associated with a left greater than right MRI volume reduction of the posterior STG. Neuropsychological studies in nonpsychiatric patients are also consistent with a pattern of functional deficits shown to arise from temporal lobe abnormalities, whereas direct MRI-neuropsychological correlations in schizophrenic patients show that decreased performance on tests of verbal memory, abstraction, and categorization correlates with reduced MRI volume of left and right temporal lobe structures. Integration of these findings with those from basic neuroscience suggests a possible role of excitatory amino acid neurotransmission dysregulation and excitotoxicity in the pathology of schizophrenia. A data-based pathophysiologic characterization of schizophrenia is now becoming a reality, and the next few years should see a further unification of the Kraepelinian and Bleulerian approaches to this disorder.
This report concerns the morphological features of otoconia removed from the inner ear of four amphibian species. Results from scanning electron microscopic examination are compared based on the site of origin. These results show that utricular otoconia have a mineral structure that mimics calcite, rather than the widely accepted idea that they are mineralized by calcium carbonate of the aragonite polymorph.

Thymic myoid cells produced macrophage lineage cell stimulatory factors. Activities were separated into two factors on DEAE-Sepharose CL-6B chromatography: one eluted at lower concentrations of NaCl and the other at higher concentrations of NaCl. The latter fraction was purified to homogeneity with an apparent molecular weight of 100,000. This factor stimulated the growth of macrophage-lineage cells from the bone marrow, but not that of granulocytes, megakaryocytes or erythroblasts. The 100,000 MW factor was able to induce Ia antigens on proliferating bone marrow cells. These results suggest that myoid cell-derived 100,000 MW factor plays significant roles in the generation of Ia-positive macrophage lineage cells which are important for T-cell development in the thymus.
Alzheimer disease (AD) patients demonstrate reduced &quot;resting state&quot; regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) and reduced regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in cortical association areas, early and throughout the course of disease. In this paper, we hypothesize that parametric cognitive or passive stimulation, during in vivo brain imaging, can be used to elucidate the pathological basis of these flow and metabolic abnormalities in individual AD patients. Experimental data suggest that sigmoidal relations (nonliner monotonically increasing relations reaching a horizontal asymptote) exist in the normal brain between rCBF or rCMRglc, and a function F(D,P) of task difficulty D (intensity, duration, pattern complexity) and subject performance P (reaction time, accuracy, effort, attention). Pathological mechanism I, under some conditions reversible and involving neural (including synaptic) element dropout or modification with retained capacity for full activation at high values of F(D,P), is expected early in AD and should shift the rising phase of the normal sigmoidal curve to the right. Observed rCBF responses in a face-matching task in mildly-moderately demented AD patients are consistent with mechanism I. Pathological mechanisms II and III, both irreversible and involving neural element dropout with loss of capacity for maximum activation, should alter the sigmoidal brain response at all values of F(D,P), and are expected late in disease. Our hypothesis predicts that activation paradigms with a wide range of F(D,P) values could help to distinguish among the reversible and irreversible pathological mechanisms in AD, and to evaluate drug action on these mechanisms.
This review outlines the knowledge gained in the last 50 years concerning the neuroanatomy and neuro-psychophysiology of memory processes in humans. The first part traces the history of the most important findings from ablations of specific cerebral structures and/or stimulations performed on numerous patients using different surgical and neurophysiological methodologies. The interpretation of these findings is discussed. The most recent hypotheses on the neuronal substrates likely to be involved in memory and recall processes are then presented. In particular the concept of parallel distributed non-linear multicolumnar cortical networks is described as well as the recent hypothesis concerning the chaotic oscillatory properties of these complex non-linear neuronal systems which are said to behave as chaotic deterministic attractors.
P300 event related potential (ERP) was recorded using the auditory 'oddball' paradigm in 17 melancholic, drug-free depressive patients and 22 normal controls. Repeat ERP recordings were obtained from 13 patients after recovery with ECT. Pretreatment P300 latencies were not different between patients and controls, nor did they change in the depressives following recovery. Pretreatment P300 amplitudes in depressives were smaller (P &lt; 0.02) than in controls and negatively correlated with severity (P &lt; 0.05). P300 amplitudes significantly increased in patients following recovery (P &lt; 0.05) and normalized. P300 may be a state marker for melancholic depression.

The growth of A-1 fibroblasts depends on exogenous amyloid beta/A4 protein precursor (APP), providing a simple bioassay to study the function of APP. Our preliminary study, testing the activity of a series of fragments derived from the secreted form of APP-695 (sAPP-695) on this bioassay, has shown that at least one of the active sites of sAPP-695 was localized within a 40-mer sequence (APP296-335, Kang sequence; Roch, J.-M., I. P. Shapiro, M. P. Sundsmo, D. A. C. Otero, L. M. Refolo, N. K. Robakis, and T. Saitoh. 1992. J. Biol. Chem. 267:2214-2221). In the present study, to further characterize the growth-promoting activity of sAPP-695 on fibroblasts, we applied a battery of synthetic peptides on this bioassay and found that: (a) the sequence of five amino acids, RERMS (APP328-332), was uniquely required for the growth-promoting activity of sAPP-695; (b) the activity was sequence-specific because the reverse-sequence peptide of the active domain had no activity; and (c) the four-amino-acid peptide RMSQ (APP330-333), which partially overlaps the COOH-terminal side of the active sequence RERMS, could antagonize the activity of sAPP-695. Furthermore, a recombinant protein which lacks this active domain (APP20-591 without 306-335) did not promote fibroblast cell growth, suggesting that this domain is the only site of sAPP-695 involved in the growth stimulation. The availability of these biologically active, short peptides and their antagonists should prove to be an essential step for the elucidation of APP involvement in regulation of cellular homeostasis.
In previous work we characterized a brain derived collapsing factor that induces the collapse of dorsal root ganglion growth cones in culture (Raper and Kapfhammer, 1990). To determine how the growth cone cytoskeleton is rearranged during collapse, we have compared the distributions of F-actin and microtubules in normal and partially collapsed growth cones. The relative concentration of F-actin as compared to all proteins can be measured in growth cones by rationing the intensity of rhodamine-phalloidin staining of F-actin to the intensity of a general protein stain. The relative concentration of F-actin is decreased by about one half in growth cones exposed to collapsing factor for five minutes, a time at which they are just beginning to collapse. During this period the relative concentration of F-actin in the leading edges of growth cones decreases dramatically while the concentration of F-actin in the centers decreases little. These results suggest that collapse is associated with a net loss of F-actin at the leading edge. The distributions of microtubules in normal and collapsing factor treated growth cones were examined with antibodies to tyrosinated and detyrosinated isoforms of alpha-tubulin. The tyrosinated form is found in newly polymerized microtubules while the detyrosinated form is not. The relative proximal-distal distributions of these isoforms are not altered during collapse, suggesting that rates of microtubule polymerization and depolymerization are not greatly affected by the presence of collapsing factor. An analysis of the distributions of microtubules before and after collapse suggests that microtubules are rearranged, but their polymerization state is unaffected during collapse. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the brain derived collapsing factor has little effect on microtubule polymerization or depolymerization. Instead it appears to induce a net loss of F-actin at the leading edge of the growth cone.
To learn about the effects of tension on fibroblast function, we have been studying initial cellular responses to stress-relaxation. Human foreskin fibroblasts were cultured in anchored collagen matrices for 2 days, during which time mechanical stress developed. Subsequently, the matrices were dislodged; thereby allowing stress to dissipate. Within 5 min after initiating stress-relaxation, fibroblasts retracted their pseudopodia. At this time, we observed the disappearance of cellular stress fibers and the formation of actin clusters along the cell margins. The actin was found to be located inside 200 nm diameter vesicles that were budding from the cell surface. Vesicles isolated from the matrix after stress-relaxation contained prominent 24 kDa, 36 kDa (doublet), 45 kDa, and 135 kDa polypeptides. The 45 kDa polypeptide was the major component in the Triton-insoluble vesicle fraction and appeared to be actin. The 36 kDa (doublet) polypeptide, which was found predominantly in the Triton-soluble vesicle fraction, was identified as annexin II. Vesicles also contained annexin VI and beta 1 integrin receptors but not tubulin, vimentin, vinculin or annexin I. The results suggest that stress-relaxation of fibroblasts induces a novel ectocytotic process involving transient budding of intact, plasma membrane vesicles from the cell cortex. On the basis of their morphological and biochemical features, these vesicles may be analogous to the 'matrix vesicles' released by chondrocytes and could play a role in extracellular matrix remodeling after wound contraction.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was used to monitor human visual cortical function during and after photic stimulation (PS) in five adult volunteers. Cerebral blood volume (CBV) increased on the occipital surface during PS, but NIRS parameters did not change on the frontal surface. The increase in CBV was caused by a rapid increase in oxyhemoglobin with but a small increase in deoxyhemoglobin, suggesting cerebral vascular dilatation with decreased oxygen consumption. After PS stopped, CBV promptly decreased and then slightly increased again. Cytochrome aa3 did not show any change during and after PS. These phenomena reappeared following repeated PS in all five subjects. These results may represent the first step in the development of NIRS imaging.
Correlational analysis of regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) obtained by high-resolution positron emission tomography (PET) has demonstrated reduced neocortical rCMRglc interactions in mildly/moderately demented patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, identification of individual differences in patterns of rCMRglc interactions may be important for the early detection of AD, particularly among individuals at greater risk for developing AD (e.g., those with a family history of AD). Recently, a statistical procedure, using multiple regression and discriminant analysis, was developed to assess individual differences in patterns of rCMRglc interdependencies. We applied this new statistical procedure to resting rCMRglc PET data from mildly/moderately demented patients with probable AD and age/sex-matched controls. The aims of the study were to identify a discriminant function that would (a) distinguish patients from controls and (b) identify an AD pattern in an individual at risk for AD with isolated memory impairment whose initial PET scan showed minor abnormalities, but whose second scan showed parietal hypometabolism, coincident with further cognitive decline. Two discriminant functions, reflecting interactions involving regions most involved in reduced correlations in probable AD, correctly classified 87% of the patients and controls, and successfully identified the first scan of the at-risk individual as AD (probability &gt; 0.70). The results suggest that this statistical approach may be useful for the early detection of AD.
Measurement of melatonin secretion throughout the night provides an index of net noradrenergic activity mediated by postsynaptic beta-adrenergic receptors in the pineal gland. Reduced melatonin secretion in some patients with depression might be related to reduced net noradrenergic function. However, a dysregulation in serotonin function has also been implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. The essential amino acid tryptophan is the precursor for both serotonin and melatonin production. To determine the effects of serotonin function on nocturnal melatonin secretion, eight healthy volunteers underwent active and sham tryptophan depletion in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Blood samples for melatonin and free and total tryptophan were obtained before and after the depletion. Acute tryptophan depletion decreased free and total plasma tryptophan levels to less than 20% of baseline levels. Melatonin secretion, expressed as area under the curve, was decreased in all eight subjects after tryptophan depletion when compared to sham depletion. These results suggest that reduced plasma tryptophan levels, and presumably brain serotonin concentrations, decrease nocturnal melatonin secretion in humans. Additional studies investigating the relationship between serotonin metabolism and pineal function in humans appear warranted.
The influence of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) on reproductive neuroendocrine function was investigated in adult male Syrian hamsters of the LSH/Ss Lak strain. Before the study, the animals were maintained in a sexually regressed condition, under short days (SD) and subsequently were either transferred to long days (LD) or kept under SD, for a further 4 weeks. In the former group, photostimulation produced a predictable elevation in the hypophysial contents and serum concentrations of FSH and LH. This was accompanied by an increase in testicular size, an elevation in serum testosterone levels and an increase in spermatogenic activity; the SD hamsters remained sexually quiescent throughout the study. In contrast, SD hamsters that were given daily injections of the EAA agonist, N-methyl-D,L-aspartate (NMA; 50 mg/kg body weight, s.c.), showed stimulatory responses that were generally even more pronounced than those shown by the LD group. Surprisingly, an identical NMA treatment paradigm failed to cause a similar activation of the reproductive axis in LD hamsters that were given daily afternoon injections of melatonin (25 micrograms, s.c.), even though the inhibitory effect of this melatonin treatment is generally regarded as being comparable with that produced by exposure to SD. Although EAAs can acutely stimulate the neurocircuitry that controls LH-releasing hormone secretion, the present findings suggest that EAAs might also exert a long-term stimulatory action by acting further upstream in the photoneuroendocrine pathway.
S. M. Sokol et al. (1991) claim that &quot;The Cognitive Neuropsychology Approach&quot; (p. 355) is limited to the single-case study design. The present article takes issue with this claim. Contrary to the beliefs of Sokol et al., we argue (a) that cognitive modularity is best studied by group design, (b) that the possibility of neural reorganization in patients should be tested through converging evidence from different populations using various methods, and (c) that cognitive neuropsychology can benefit from being a part of cognitive neuroscience where both neural and cognitive mechanisms underlying normal cognition are relevant.
The regulation of the expression of substance P (SP) in the rat superior cervical ganglion was compared to that of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in vivo after axotomy and in vitro after explantation. Previous studies have demonstrated that both neuropeptides increase after explantation, depolarization, and decentralization; however, whereas VIP expression increases after postganglionic axotomy, SP expression reportedly does not. To compare the effect of axotomy on these two peptides directly, the content of both was determined in individual ganglia at various times after surgery. The level of VIP-like immunoreactivity (IR) is increased at 2 days, reaches a peak at 6 days, and then declines by 14 days to approximately half its peak value. The level of SP-IR also increases 2 days after axotomy, but returns to control values by day 6. The increase in SP-IR is accompanied by an increase in beta-preprotachykinin mRNA, suggesting that the elevation in SP content is due, at least in part, to enhanced peptide synthesis. Immunocytochemical localization of SP-IR revealed the presence of immunoreactive principal neurons in axotomized, but not in sham-operated ganglia. Similarities in the regulation of these two neuropeptides were also investigated in organ culture by examining the effects of dexamethasone and interleukin-1 beta on VIP content, since the former has been shown to prevent the increase in SP in culture, while the latter has been found to enhance this increase (Kessler, Adler, Bell, et al., 1983, Neuroscience 9:309-321; Freidin and Kessler, 1991, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88:3200-3203; Hart, Shadiack, and Jonakait, 1991, J. Neurosci. Res. 29:282-291). As with SP expression, dexamethasone reduces the increase in VIP expression, while interleukin-1 beta increases it. Thus, both in vivo and in vitro, similar changes in VIP and SP expression are observed following a number of experimental manipulations, suggesting that expression of the two peptides is regulated by qualitatively similar mechanisms in sympathetic neurons.
Cationic amino acids are transported from blood into brain by a saturable carrier at the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The transport properties of this carrier were examined in the rat using an in situ brain perfusion technique. Influx into brain via this system was found to be sodium independent and followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics with half-saturation constants (Km) of 50-100 microM and maximal transport rates of 22-26 nmol/min/g for L-lysine, L-arginine, and L-ornithine. The kinetic properties matched that of System y+, the sodium-independent cationic amino acid transporter, the cDNA for which has been cloned from the mouse. To determine if the cloned receptor is expressed at the BBB, we assayed RNA from rat cerebral microvessels and choroid plexus for the presence of the cloned transporter mRNA by RNase protection. The mRNA was present in both cerebral microvessels and choroid plexus and was enriched in microvessels 38-fold as compared with whole brain. The results indicate that System y+ is present at the BBB and that its mRNA is more densely expressed at cerebral microvessels than in whole brain.
Environmental regulation of sensory function has provided an important model of plastic mechanisms mediating neural information processing. To define potential commonalities in information processing in different systems, we investigated molecular changes elicited by sensory deprivation in the developing rat olfactory and visual systems. Protein kinase C (PKC), an intracellular messenger implicated in synaptic plasticity and memory, was analyzed. Initial, developmental studies indicated that PKC activity in the soluble and particulate fractions of the olfactory bulb increased three- to fourfold from birth to 3 months of age. Unilateral olfactory deprivation prevented the developmental increase in both soluble and particulate PKC activities in the ipsilateral olfactory bulb and piriform cortex, the second-order relay. Phorbol ester binding localized PKC to intrinsic neuronal populations and their dendrites in the control and deprived bulbs. Moreover, PKC was similarly lower in the visual cortex of dark-reared rats than in light-reared controls. The changes in PKC were region specific, as activity was unchanged by either treatment in the parietal cortex, a control area that does not process primary olfactory or visual information. Our results suggest that the important intracellular messenger, PKC, is similarly regulated in entirely different sensory systems by different environmental stimuli. Consequently, different sensory systems may use common molecular mechanisms to process information.

Using a radioligand binding assay, we examined ionic modulation and G protein coupling of neuropeptide FF (NPFF) receptors in membranes of rat brain and spinal cord. We found that NaCl (but not KCl or LiCl) and MgCl2 increased specific 125I-YLFQPQRFamide (125I-Y8Fa) binding to NPFF receptors in both tissues in a dose-dependent manner, with optimal conditions being 60 mM NaCl and 1 mM MgCl2. Guanine nucleotides dose-dependently inhibited specific 125I-Y8Fa binding to rat brain and spinal cord membranes with maximal effects of 64 +/- 6 and 71 +/- 2%, respectively. The order of potency was nonhydrolyzable GTP analogues &gt; GTP &gt; or = GDP &gt; GMP, ATP. The guanine nucleotide inhibition was observed in the absence and presence of NaCl and MgCl2. The mechanism of inhibition in spinal cord membranes appeared to be a reduction in the number of NPFF receptors; in one experiment, control KD and Bmax values were 0.068 nM and 7.2 fmol/mg of protein, respectively, and with 0.1 microM guanylylimidodiphosphate the respective values were 0.081 nM and 4.9 fmol/mg, a 32% reduction in receptor number. Similar results were obtained with guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). Our data suggest that 125I-Y8Fa binding sites in rat CNS are G protein-coupled NPFF receptors regulated by GTP and cations.
To examine the possibility that NaF enhances phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PIC) activity in neural tissues by a mechanism independent of a guanine nucleotide binding protein (Gp), we have evaluated the contribution of Gp activation to NaF-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis in human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. Addition of NaF to intact cells resulted in an increase in the release of inositol phosphates (450% of control values; EC50 of approximately 8 mM). Inclusion of U-73122, an aminosteroid inhibitor of guanine nucleotide-regulated PIC activity in these cells, resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of NaF-stimulated inositol lipid hydrolysis (IC50 of approximately 3.5 microM). When added to digitonin-permeabilized cells, NaF or guanosine-5'-O-thiotriphosphate (GTP gamma S) resulted in a three- and sevenfold enhancement, respectively, of inositol phosphate release. In the combined presence of optimal concentrations of NaF and GTP gamma S, inositol phosphate release was less than additive, indicative of a common site of action. Inclusion of 2-5 mM concentrations of guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP beta S) fully blocked phosphoinositide hydrolysis elicited by GTP gamma S, whereas that induced by NaF was partially inhibited (65%). However, preincubation of the cells with GDP beta S resulted in a greater reduction in the ability of NaF to stimulate inositol phosphate release (87% inhibition). Both GTP gamma S and NaF-stimulated inositol phosphate release were inhibited by inclusion of 10 microM U-73122 (54-71%). The presence of either NaF or GTP gamma S also resulted in a marked lowering of the Ca2+ requirement for activation of PIC in permeabilized cells. These results indicate that in SK-N-SH cells, little evidence exists for direct stimulation of PIC by NaF and that the majority of inositol phosphate release that occurs in the presence of NaF can be attributed to activation of Gp.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor possesses two distinct amino acid recognition sites, one for glutamate and one for glycine, which appear to be allosterically linked. Using rat cortex/hippocampus P2 membranes we have investigated the effect of glutamate recognition site ligands on [3H]glycine (agonist) and (+-)-4-trans-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4- [3H]phenylaminocarbonylamino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline ([3H]L-689,560; antagonist) binding to the glycine site and the effect of glycine recognition site ligands on L-[3H]glutamate (agonist), DL-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-[3H]propyl-1-phosphonate ([3H]CPP; &quot;C-7&quot; antagonist), and cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-[3H]piperidine carboxylate ([3H]CGS-19755; &quot;C-5&quot; antagonist) binding to the glutamate site. &quot;C-7&quot; glutamate site antagonists partially inhibited [3H]L-689,560 binding but had no effect on [3H]glycine binding, whereas &quot;C-5&quot; antagonists partially inhibited the binding of both radioligands. Glycine, D-serine, and D-cycloserine partially inhibited [3H]CGS-19755 binding but had little effect on L-[3H]glutamate or [3H]CPP binding, whereas the partial agonists (+)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one [(+)-HA-966], 3R-(+)cis-4-methyl-HA-966 (L-687,414), and 1-amino-1-carboxycyclobutane all enhanced [3H]CPP binding but had no effect on [3H]CGS-19755 binding, and (+)-HA-966 and L-687,414 inhibited L-[3H]glutamate binding. The association and dissociation rates of [3H]L-689,560 binding were decreased by CPP and D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (&quot;C-5&quot;). Saturation analysis of [3H]L-689,560 binding sites. These results indicate that complex interactions occur between the glutamate and glycine recognition sites on the NMDA receptor. In addition, mechanisms other than allosterism may underlie some effects, and the possibility of a steric interaction between CPP and [3H]L-689,560 is discussed.
Exposure of primary rat astrocyte cultures to bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) causes expression of a Ca(2+)-independent form of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). In these cells, the presence of norepinephrine (NE) caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the LPS induction of NOS activity, with an IC50 value of 100 nM and significant suppression at 100 pM. Short incubations (5-40 min) with NE were as effective as 24-h continuous exposure, and inhibition was observed up to the longest incubation period measured (56 h). In contrast, previously induced NOS activity was not affected by exposure to NE. The effects of NE were mediated primarily by binding to beta-adrenergic receptors (beta-ARs) because (a) the beta-AR antagonist propranolol, but not the alpha-AR antagonist phentolamine, could reverse the effects of NE; (b) the beta-AR agonist isoproterenol, but not the alpha-AR agonist phenylephrine, was as effective as NE in blocking the effects of LPS; and (c) incubation with the cyclic AMP analogue dibutyryl cyclic AMP replicated the effects of NE. In contrast to astroglial cultures, LPS induction of NOS activity in RAW 264.7 macrophage cells was not affected by NE or dibutyryl cyclic AMP. These results indicate that in brain, inducible NOS in astrocytes can be regulated by neurotransmitter binding to glial receptors.
Although visual neglect is a predictor of poor outcome after stroke, some patients regain independence, whilst others take up considerable rehabilitation resources. Intensive treatment of visual neglect is available and a knowledge of the predictive features in the recovery of these patients would be helpful in the early selection of patients for treatment. A study was therefore carried out to determine the prognosis of patients presenting with visual neglect at two to three days after stroke. Linear logistic regression showed that the initial degree of paralysis (measured by the Motricity Index), the severity of neglect (measured by the Visual Neglect Recovery Index) and the patient's age were the significant predictors of independence (Barthel score 20), mild dependence (Barthel 15-19), and moderate/severe dependence (Barthel 0-14) in surviving patients at three months and at six months. Regression equations correctly predicted 78% of outcomes, and had a sensitivity and specificity for &quot;independence&quot; of 84% and 90% respectively, and a sensitivity and specificity for &quot;moderate/severe dependence&quot; of 89% and 80%. It is suggested that these equations may be useful in selecting comparable groups of patients for randomised controlled trials of treatment of visual neglect.

1. Neural correlates of the permanent deficits in depth perception that occur when extraocular muscle proprioceptive (EMP) afferents are interrupted unilaterally in kittens were investigated by performing extracellular recordings in the primary visual cortex (area 17) in adulthood. Unilateral section of the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (V1 nerve) were performed in 11 cats when they were between 5 and 12 weeks of age (uni-V1 group). Electrophysiological results were compared with those obtained in 17 normal adult cats (control group). 2. Binocular interactions were assessed by testing the sensitivity of cortical neurons to dichoptic presentations of moving sine-wave gratings whose interocular positional phase relationship was randomly varied. The amplitude modulation between the minimum and the maximum binocular responses defined the dynamic range. The degree of binocular suppression or facilitation was assessed by comparing these binocular response limits with the optimal monocular responses evoked through either eye at the best spatial frequency. The variability of both monocular and binocular responses was estimated by using the variation coefficient. 3. In uni-V1 cats, both the dynamic range and the degree of binocular suppression were significantly less pronounced than in controls, whereas binocular facilitation was not affected. The variability of the binocular responses was significantly increased, unlike monocular responses, whose variability was similar to control values. 4. From Fourier analysis of the poststimulus time histograms, two clear-cut categories of cells emerged that were differentially affected in the uni-V1 group. The &quot;modulated&quot; cells showed significantly less binocular suppression than in controls, and the &quot;unmodulated&quot; cells had binocular responses that were significantly more variable than in controls. Results from &quot;simple&quot; cells were similar to those of modulated cells, and results from &quot;complex&quot; cells were similar to those of unmodulated cells. However, in the unmodulated population, which was composed of both simple and complex cells, it was shown that the increase of variability was due to that of complex cells. 5. A nonparametric statistical test was applied on the interocular phase shift tuning curves to determine the minimum stimulus change necessary to elicit a significant change in the neural response. Two categories of cells were determined: the &quot;discriminative&quot; cells (80% in controls but 45% in uni-V1 cats) combined pronounced binocular suppression and dynamic range with relatively low variability. The reverse was true in the case of &quot;nondiscriminative&quot; cells (20% in controls and 55% in uni-V1 cats). 6. In uni-V1 cats, about half of the cells were monocularly activated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Seven distinct cDNAs encoding functional subunits of the AMPA/kainate-type glutamate receptors have been recently cloned. This in situ hybridization study was done to determine which subunits are expressed in the retina and, where possible, which neurons express them. Hybridization of 35S-UTP-labeled cRNA probes with transverse sections revealed that mRNAs for all seven receptor subunits (GluR1-GluR7) are expressed in both cat and rat retinas. GluR1 and GluR2 produced labeling over the entire inner nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL). GluR3-GluR7 have more limited distributions, indicative of expression by only a subset of neurons. All of the subunits are expressed by the cells at the inner edge of the INL, where amacrine cells reside, yet the layers with the horizontal, bipolar, and ganglion cells contain different subsets of subunits. These findings suggest that these glutamate receptor subunits are employed at many of the retinal synapses, including the photoreceptor input to the outer plexiform layer and the bipolar cell's contacts with the processes at the INL. It is also possible that some glial cells in the INL express some of the subunits. Since different combinations of GluR1-GluR3 have been shown to play an important role in the calcium permeability in response to glutamate, we investigated whether single cells coexpressed those subunits. By hybridizing adjacent semithin (1 micron) sections of the cat retina with probes for GluR1-GluR3, it was possible to observe coexpression of all three subunits, or of pairs of these subunits, in cells within the INL and GCL.
The type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1) is through to act via the phosphoinositide (PI) system with the associated formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and Ca2+ release. Utilizing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we have localized protein and mRNA, respectively, for the mGluR1 and the IP3 receptor (IP3R). We have also localized glutamate-linked PI turnover by autoradiography with 3H-cytidine. We observe a striking contrast in localizations of mGluR1 and IP3R both for protein and mRNA. For instance, mGluR1 occurs in the apparent absence of IP3R in neurons of the stratum oriens of the CA1 hippocampus, islands of Calleja, anterodorsal nucleus of thalamus, lateral nucleus of hypothalamus, and the granular cell layer and the deep nuclei of cerebellum. mGluR1 actions in these brain regions may primarily be mediated through the protein kinase C limb of the PI system, as they contain moderate amounts of 3H-phorbol ester binding. The subthalamic nucleus, red nucleus, and Darkshevich's nucleus, which possess high levels of mGluR1, are devoid of both IP3R immunoreactivity and 3H-phorbol ester binding. These reciprocal localizations suggest that mGluR1 actions in many brain areas may not primarily involve IP3, reflecting instead influences on protein kinase C or other second messengers.
To examine the role of Ca2+ in early neuronal death, we studied the impact of free intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) on survivability in populations of cultured mouse spinal neurons. We asked whether early neurotoxicity was triggered by Ca2+ influx, whether elevated [Ca2+]i was a predictive indicator of impending neuronal death, and whether factors other than [Ca2+]i increases influenced Ca2+ neurotoxicity. We found that when neurons were lethally challenged with excitatory amino acids or high K+, they experienced a biphasic [Ca2+]i increase characterized by a primary [Ca2+]i transient that decayed within minutes, followed by a secondary, sustained, and irreversible [Ca2+]i rise that indicated imminent cell death. We showed that in the case of glutamate-triggered neurotoxicity, processes triggering eventual cell death required Ca2+ influx, and that neurotoxicity was a function of the transmembrane Ca2+ gradient. Fura-2 Ca2+ imaging revealed a &quot;ceiling&quot; on measurable changes in [Ca2+]i that contributed to the difficulty in relating [Ca2+]i to neurotoxicity. We found, by evoking Ca2+ influx into neurons through different pathways, that the chief determinants of Ca2+ neurotoxicity were the Ca2+ source and the duration of the Ca2+ challenge. When Ca2+ source and challenge duration were taken into account, a statistically significant relationship between measured [Ca2+]i and cell death was uncovered, although the likelihood of neuronal death depended much more on Ca2+ source than on the magnitude of the measured [Ca2+]i increase. Thus, neurotoxicity evoked by glutamate far exceeded that evoked by membrane depolarization with high K+ when [Ca2+]i was made to increase equally in both groups. The neurotoxicity of glutamate was triggered primarily by Ca2+ influx through NMDA receptor channels, and exceeded that triggered by non-NMDA receptors and Ca2+ channels when [Ca2+]i was made to rise equally through these separate pathways. The greater neurotoxicity triggered by NMDA receptors was related to some attribute other than an ability to trigger greater [Ca2+]i increases as compared with other Ca2+ sources. We hypothesize that this represents a physical colocalization of NMDA receptors with Ca(2+)-dependent rate-limiting processes that trigger early neuronal degeneration.
Brain injury induces trophic effects within adjacent tissue through an unknown molecular mechanism. One model of this lesion effect involves the enhanced outgrowth of neuronal processes from transplanted substantia nigra in animals with cerebral cortex lesions. Since cell recognition molecules are involved in the molecular mechanisms of contact between cells and surrounding extracellular matrix components, and are important in plasticity of the nervous system, we investigated changes in L1, N-CAM, and tenascin, as well as synapse-associated proteins and gliosis, in the striatum of mice with cortical lesions. The removal of somato-sensory and motor cortex would be expected to produce changes predominantly in the dorsal striatum. Lesioned mice, however, showed a significant enhancement of both L1 and N-CAM immunostaining intensity only within the most medial-periventricular and dorsomedial parts of the striatum, as compared to the nonlesioned side. Tenascin expression was significantly decreased, but only in the most medial part of the striatum. The changes in intensity of immunostaining with L1, N-CAM, and tenascin did not diminish with time after lesioning. These changes in cell recognition molecule expression indicate a possible molecular basis of lesion-induced plasticity in neuronal circuits within the dorsomedial striatum. These changes were accompanied by decreased synapsin and synaptophysin expression, but without any significant change in neurofilament expression. In contrast, glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin immunoreactivities were increased in almost the entire striatum on the lesioned side. Therefore, the areas of changes in cell recognition molecule expression did not simply correlate to the increased astrogliosis or neuronal fiber damage. We postulate that the periventricular dorsomedial striatum is relatively sensitive to disturbances of corticostriatonigral circuits and, simultaneously, this striatal area has a unique ability to support and promote neurite growth.
We have developed a mechanical stimulator that can be used for studies of sensory physiology, psychophysics and tissue mechanics. The stimulator operates in either displacement or force-servo modes. It surpasses other available stimulators in respect to displacement range, measurement sensitivity and cost, and it can be easily assembled from parts that are commercially available.
The application of randomization tests for statistical determination of the significance of experimental manipulations on single cells and other types of single units in neuroscience is described. Applications of standard parametric tests like analysis of variance (ANOVA) and t tests to data from single-subject experiments have been severely criticized for lack of validity and those criticisms are relevant to parametric statistical tests for data from other types of single-unit experiments. A broad class of statistical tests known as randomization tests, on the other hand, has been free of such criticism. Randomization tests have been applied to data from various types of single units in neuroscience, where their validity in the absence of random sampling makes them especially valuable. Until the advent of computers, the computational requirements of randomization tests rendered them impractical. Randomization test computer programs are now readily available. Procedures for access to a public domain program are given in the text.
Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated the need for cranioplasty in experimental neurobehavioral studies with non-human primates. Postoperatively temporal lobes showed substantial deformation of the neocortex due to pressure from the overlying muscle. A new method of cranioplasty using teflon to cover a cranial defect has been developed. Teflon is easily shaped and fitted into place. This method is safe, allows for the natural shape of the brain, provides protection, and is compatible with imaging techniques. Cranioplasty with teflon should be considered whenever craniotomy is necessary for accessing the brain.
We determined the role of AT1 and AT2 angiotensin receptors as mediators of prostaglandin (PG) release and mobilization of intracellular Ca++ in cultures of porcine vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) with subtype-selective angiotensin (Ang) II receptor antagonists. The binding of [125I]Ang II to porcine VSMC showed an equilibrium constant (KD) of 0.52 nM and a binding capacity (Bmax) of 14.8 fmol/mg protein. Using the AT1 antagonists DuP 753, its metabolite EXP 3174, and L-158,809, [125I]Ang II binding was displaced in a clearly biphasic manner, indicating the presence of two binding sites. Consistent with this, the AT2 antagonist CGP 42112A also displayed a biphasic curve, whereas another AT2 antagonist, PD 123177, showed a 20% reduction in binding. Ang I, Ang II and Ang-(1-7) stimulated PGE2 as well as PGI2 synthesis in a dose-dependent pattern. Ang II but not Ang I or Ang-(1-7) also caused an increase in the intracellular concentration of Ca++. Ca++ mobilization by Ang II was blocked by the AT1 antagonist DuP 753, but not by the AT2 antagonists. Ang II- and Ang I-stimulated (10 nM) PG production was attenuated by all three AT1 antagonists. However, both CGP 42112A (100 nM) and PD 123177 (100 nM) also attenuated PG release in response to Ang II. The enhancement in PG release by Ang I (10 nM) was significantly reduced by CGP 42112A (100 nM), but not by PD 123177 (1 microM). Of the AT1 antagonists, only high doses of DuP 753 or L-158,809 partially reduced the Ang-(1-7)-induced release of PG. CGP 42112A was ineffective for blocking Ang-(1-7)-stimulated PG release. Ang-(1-7)-stimulated PGE2 and PGI2 production was significantly reduced by PD 123177. Unlike DuP 753 or L-158,809, but similar to the sarcosine antagonists, EXP 3174 (10 nM) abolished the angiotensin peptide-induced PG production. These data show that Ang I and Ang II stimulate PGE2 and PGI2 release via activation of both AT1 and AT2 receptors in porcine VSMC. Ang II stimulates intracellular Ca++ mobilization via activation of AT1 receptors only. Because Ang-(1-7) enhanced PGE2 and PGI2 release via activation of angiotensin receptors having greater affinity for PD 123177 than CGP 42112A, although CGP 42112A showed a greater ability to block the Ang I response, these data further suggest differences in these two compounds at AT2 receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The dopamine (DA) hypothesis of schizophrenia proposes hyperactivity of the mesocorticolimbic DA system, originating within the A10 DA cells of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), as a pathophysiological mechanism. Thus, reduction of activity in this system, including that produced by putative &quot;autoreceptor-selective&quot; DA agonists, may be of clinical utility. The present studies compared the ability of eight D2 DA receptor agonists to inhibit the firing of rat A10 DA neurons after i.v. administration. Both N-n-propyl-N-phenylethyl-p(3-hydorxyphenyl)ethylamine hydrochloride (RU 24213) and 2-amino-6-allyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-thiazolo-[4,5-d]- azepine dihydrochloride (B-HT 920) were potent, high-efficacy agonists which completely inhibited the firing of A10 DA cells. The putative autoreceptor-selective DA agonists 3-(4-(4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridyl-(1)-butyl)-indole hydrochloride (EMD 23,448) and (+)-3-(3-hydroxy-phenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine [(+)-3-PPP] were considerably weaker than RU 24213 and B-HT 920, but also exhibited &quot;full&quot; efficacy (i.e., they completely suppressed cell firing). The putative autoreceptor agonist preclamol [(-)-3-PPP] and its trans-fused congener (-)-HW 165 were weak partial agonists that failed to completely inhibit A10 DA cells. The new putative autoreceptor agonist N-[(8-alpha)-2-chloro-6-methylergoline-8-yl]-2,3]dimethylopropa namide (SDZ 208-911) was also a weak partial agonist that exhibited partial antagonist effects (reversed inhibition produced by the D2 agonist quinpirole), whereas its structural analog N-[(8-alpha)-2-chloro-6-methylergoline-8-yl]-2,2-dimethylopropa namide (SDZ 208-912) was nearly inactive as an agonist, but was an effective antagonist.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The 2-hexyl-indoleacetamide derivative, FGIN-1-27 [N,N-di-n-hexyl-2- (4-fluorophenyl)indole-3-acetamide], and the imidazopyridine derivative, alpidem, both bind with high affinity to glial mitochondrial diazepam binding inhibitor receptors (MDR) and increase mitochondrial steroidogenesis. Although FGIN-1-27 is selective for the MDR, alpidem also binds to the allosteric modulatory site of the gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor where the benzodiazepines bind. FGIN-1-27 and alpidem, like the neurosteroid 3 alpha,21-dehydroxy-5 alpha-pregnane-20-one (THDOC), clonazepam and zolpidem (the direct allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptors) delay the onset of isoniazid and metrazol-induced convulsions. The anti-isoniazid convulsant action of FGIN-1-27 and alpidem, but not that of THDOC, is blocked by PK 11195. In contrast, flumazenil blocked completely the anticonvulsant action of clonazepam and zolpidem and partially blocked that of alpidem, but it did not affect the anticonvulsant action of THDOC and FGIN-1-27. Alpidem, like clonazepam, zolpidem and diazepam, but not THDOC or FGIN-1-27, delay the onset of bicuculline-induced convulsions. In two animal models of anxiety, the neophobic behavior in the elevated plus maze test and the conflict-punishment behavior in the Vogel conflict test, THDOC and FGIN-1-27 elicited anxiolytic-like effects in a manner that is flumazenil insensitive, whereas alpidem elicited a similar anxiolytic effect, but is partially blocked by flumazenil. Whereas PK 11195 blocked the effect of FGIN-1-27 and partially blocked alpidem, it did not affect THDOC in both animal models of anxiety.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The rat isolated spinal cord-tail preparation was used to examine the ability of peripherally applied excitatory amino acids to stimulate ventral root reflexes. Bolus applications (3 sec) of domoate (0.1-10 microM) or kainate (KA; 10-300 microM) to exposed skin of the rat tail stimulated ventral root responses comparably to those evoked by capsaicin (0.3-10 microM) or bradykinin (0.1-10 microM). The ventral root potential evoked by both capsaicin and KA is thought to be a nociceptive response because both compounds selectively activate peripheral C-fibers. L-Glutamate (0.01-10 mM), quisqualate (0.1-1 mM) and amino-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (0.1-1.0 mM) were of lower potency than KA, whereas N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 mM) and L-aspartate (10 mM) were inactive. Responses evoked by prolonged application of KA faded rapidly. Capsaicin-evoked responses partially faded during prolonged application, but residual spiking activity was recorded for at least 30 min. KA did not evoke any observable response during application of capsaicin. The effects of KA and capsaicin were blocked by spinal application of morphine (0.3-1.0 microM) in a naloxone-reversible manner, consistent with activation of peripheral nociceptive afferents. The action of KA, but not capsaicin, was competitively inhibited by the amino-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid/KA receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10-100 microM) applied to the rat tail (pA2 = 5.9). Conversely, ruthenium red (1 microM) selectively blocked capsaicin-evoked nociceptive reflexes. The existence of functional KA receptors on nociceptive afferents suggests that peripherally released glutamate or other excitatory amino acids could be involved in nociception or neurogenic inflammation.
A newly developed course unit for second-year medical students entitled 'Introduction to Pharmacology and Neuroscience' is described. Novel features of the course relate to its interdisciplinary approach to teaching of topics traditionally taught in separate departmental-based courses. An evaluation of this unit was conducted, in order to provide information to be used for decision-making and improvement and development of the ongoing programme. The evaluation involved a number of interviews with those involved in the course, including course convenors, teachers of the course, students, and members of the Medical Faculty Curriculum Review Committee. A questionnaire was also administered to students. As a result of this evaluation, a set of recommendations for future changes were made. A majority of the students interviewed were in favour of the integration of basic pharmacology and neuroscience, as in this course unit.
We report characterization of several domains within the 5' flanking region of the olfactory marker protein (OMP) gene that may participate in regulating transcription of this and other olfactory neuron-specific genes. Analysis by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and DNase I footprinting identifies two regions that contain a novel sequence motif. Interactions between this motif and nuclear proteins were detected only with nuclear protein extracts derived from olfactory neuroepithelium, and this activity is more abundant in olfactory epithelium enriched in immature neurons. We have designated a factor(s) involved in this binding as Olf-1. The Olf-1-binding motif consensus sequence was defined as TCCCC(A/T)NGGAG. Studies with transgenic mice indicate that a 0.3-kb fragment of the OMP gene containing one Olf-1 motif is sufficient for olfactory tissue-specific expression of the reporter gene. Some of the other identified sequence motifs also interact specifically with olfactory nuclear protein extracts. We propose that Olf-1 is a novel, olfactory neuron-specific trans-acting factor involved in the cell-specific expression of OMP.
A 25-year-old man with acute, bilateral facial palsies is presented. He had a lymphocytic meningitis, history of tick bites, and lived in an area endemic for Lyme disease, which was ultimately confirmed by serology. Electrodiagnostic investigation included facial motor nerve study, blink reflex and electromyography of facial muscles, which were indicative of a neurapraxic lesion on the right and an axonopathic lesion on the left. The clinical course was consistent with these findings as the right side fully recovered and the left remained plegic. The clinical features of Lyme associated facial neuritis are reviewed, as is the electrodiagnostic evaluation of facial palsy.
Concentrations of noradrenaline at peripheral neuronal uptake sites were examined during sustained changes in sympathetic nervous activity produced by intracisternal infusion of yohimbine or clonidine in conscious rabbits. The gradient between concentrations of noradrenaline in plasma and at neuronal uptake sites was estimated by comparing the formation of the intraneuronal metabolite of noradrenaline, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), from intravenously infused and endogenously released noradrenaline. At resting levels of sympathetic activity the noradrenaline concentration at neuronal uptake sites (4.2 +/- 0.5 nmol/l) was 3.4-fold greater than the concentration in arterial plasma (1.3 +/- 0.1 nmol/l). Noradrenaline at neuronal uptake sites increased to 9.4 +/- 1.3 nmol/l after yohimbine and decreased to 2.4 +/- 0.1 nmol/l after clonidine. The noradrenaline concentration gradient was not altered by intracisternal infusion of yohimbine or clonidine. Thus, a positive linear relationship (r = 0.97) was observed between concentrations of noradrenaline at neuronal uptake sites and in plasma. The gradient was positively related to the efficiency of noradrenaline reuptake (r = 0.81). The results show that arterial plasma concentrations of noradrenaline are considerably less than concentrations close to sites of release, but accurately reflect changes in amounts of noradrenaline at release sites during sustained changes in sympathetic activity. The gradient in noradrenaline concentrations between neuronal uptake sites and plasma is largely dependent on the efficiency of neuronal reuptake. Since the gradient is not altered by sympathetic nervous inhibition or activation, the proportion of noradrenaline removed by neuronal and extraneuronal uptake does not appear to be altered by moderate changes in transmitter release.
During the last two decades compelling evidence has been provided for the existence of a tight relation between brain activation of unbalanced autonomic function and arrhythmias ending in SCD. Insular and infralimbic cortex exert direct and indirect effects on hypothalamus and other brain stem nuclei in modulating cardiac sympathetic-parasympathetic interactions. Specifically, sympathetic hyperactivity favors the onset of life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias, whereas vagal activation usually exerts relatively protective and antifibrillatory effects. Epileptic activation of cortical brain sites can turn this system on and probably is responsible partially for the increased incidence of unexpected death in this patient population. The role of environmental stress in arrhythmogenesis and SCD is of great importance in the outcome of heart disease.

GABAA receptors were identified in IMR-32 cell membranes by the binding of [35S]t-butyl-bicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) to the chloride channel. GABA (IC50 2.2 microM), muscimol (IC50 0.8 microM), picrotoxin (IC50 1.7 microM), pentobarbitone (IC50 108 microM), etomidate (IC50 53 microM), chlormethiazole (IC50 98 microM) and Ro 5-3663 (IC50 280 microM) all inhibited [35S]TBPS binding. The potency of these drugs at the [35S]TBPS binding site in IMR-32 cell membranes did not correlate with their potency on [35S]TBPS binding to rat cortical membranes (linear correlation of pIC50 values, r = 0.75, NS). No specific binding of the benzodiazepine ligands [3H]flunitrazepam or [3H]Ro 15-4513 to IMR-32 cell membranes was observed. Chloride efflux from IMR-32 cells was studied using the fluorescent dye 6-methoxy-N-(3-sulphopropyl) quinolinium. Chloride efflux was stimulated by GABA and muscimol (0.1-100 microM) but not by the GABAB agonist baclofen (100 microM). In the absence of exogenous GABA chloride efflux was stimulated by chlormethiazole (1-100 microM) in a picrotoxin-sensitive manner. Flurazepam (1-100 microM) both alone and in the presence of GABA had no effect on chloride efflux. It is concluded that IMR-32 cells contain a functional GABAA receptor which differs from that in rat cortex both in its general pharmacology and specifically in the absence of the allosteric modulatory site sensitive to benzodiazepines.
Northern blot analysis of nerve growth factor (NGF) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA), together with a two-site enzyme immunoassay for NGF protein, showed that a convulsive dose of bicuculline (0.4 mg/kg, IV) induced a rapid (within 1 hour) three-fold increase in hippocampal NGF mRNA. This increase was followed by a significant increase in NGF protein 5 hours later. No changes were detected in the cerebral cortex. The increase of rat hippocampal NGF mRNA and protein content was associated with an increase in plasma corticosterone content. Both responses were completely prevented by a pretreatment with diazepam (5 mg/kg, IP), which suggested that adrenal steroids might be a stimulus underlying the rapid increase in NGF biosynthesis following bicuculline convulsions. Therefore, we tested to determine whether a convulsive dose of bicuculline could increase NGF mRNA in adrenalectomized and sham-operated rats. Bicuculline increases hippocampal NGF mRNA in sham-operated rats, but not in adrenalectomized rats despite the presence of convulsions in both experimental groups. Moreover, in adrenalectomized rats, dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg, SC) could partly restore the increase in hippocampal NGF mRNA content induced by bicuculline convulsions; thus, adrenal steroids might have an essential role in the induction of hippocampal NGF biosynthesis elicited by bicuculline convulsions.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation of short duration (0.3 or 0.6 s, 20 Hz) evoked paraesthesia similar to that caused by repetitive electrical stimulation. Since the points eliciting the paraesthesia were approximately 2 cm posterior from those eliciting motor responses, the paraesthesia stemmed from direct excitation of the post-central gyrus. The paraesthesia showed somatotopical representation: the point eliciting the paraesthesia in the leg was separated from the point eliciting the paraesthesia in the hand 2.9 cm medially in one subject, and 1 cm posteriorly and 1 cm medially in the other subject. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation provides a painless, noninvasive method for mapping cortical sensory representation in humans.
Mechanisms regulating long-lasting, activity-dependent decreases in synaptic strength are poorly understood. Theoretical studies have suggested that the critical level (threshold) of synaptic activity needed to induce long-term depression (LTD) versus potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission should vary as a function of previous synaptic activity. In order to determine whether such a 'sliding threshold' is indeed a physiological phenomenon, we stimulated Schaffer collateral afferents in area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices at frequencies from 1 to 5 Hz before or after inducing LTP.
True Blue, a retrograde fluorescent tracer, was used to investigate axonal outgrowth after grafting embryonic forebrain cholinergic tissue into the cholinergically-deafferented rat frontal cortex. Unilateral deafferentation was achieved by injecting alpha-amino-3-OH-4-isoxozole propionic acid (AMPA) into the ipsilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Grafting occurred 3 weeks after the lesion. Eight to 10 weeks later, True Blue was injected bilaterally into the cortex at a superficial site which, on the transplanted side, was located at least 2 mm away from the transplant. Forty-eight h later, retrogradely labelled fluorescent neurones could be seen in the deepest part of the transplants. Some of these neurones were shown to be ChAt-positive, providing evidence of axonal outgrowth from transplanted cholinergic neurones into cholinergically-deafferented frontal cortex.
The neurotransmitter GABA markedly depresses action potential conduction in neonatal rat spinal dorsal columns. However, GABA sensitivity of the dorsal columns declines with maturation and myelination. At seven to 14 days after birth, the corticospinal tract component of the dorsal columns is immature and unmyelinated compared to the cuneate-gracilis fasciculi. GABA and isoguvacine (a GABAA receptor agonist) were applied to isolated neonatal (seven to 14 days old) dorsal columns during recordings of conducted cuneate-gracilis fasciculi and corticospinal tract action potentials. GABA (10(-4) to 10(-3) M) significantly reduced amplitudes (-28.9% to -69.7%) and increased latencies (+4.8% to +23.9%) of cuneate-gracilis fasciculi responses but had less effect on corticospinal tract response amplitudes (-1.1% to -14.7%) and latencies (+0.9% to +6.2%). Likewise, isoguvacine (10(-5) to 10(-4) M) reduced amplitudes (-26.7% to -37.5%) and increased latencies (+11.2% and +24.0%) of cuneate-gracilis fasciculi responses but had little or no effect on corticospinal tract response amplitudes (-6.2% to -3.8%) or latencies (-0.8% to +1.5%). At 10(-4) and 10(-3) M, GABA rapidly increased extracellular K+([K+]e) from baseline levels of 3.0 mM to 3.7 +/- 0.4 and 6.6 +/- 1.4 mM in cuneate-gracilis fasciculi and increased corticospinal tract [K+]e to 3.9 +/- 0.4 and 4.4 +/- 0.4 mM (mean +/- S.D.). [K+]e declined during drug application and fell below baseline after drug washout. Cuneate-gracilis fasciculi responses, however, did not recover until several minutes after [K+]e returned to baseline. In separate experiments, increasing bath [K+]e concentrations to 3.7 and 6.6 mM reduced cuneate-gracilis fasciculi response amplitudes by only -7.6% and -29.6%. Latencies increased by +1.3% and +3.6% respectively. The results indicate that the cuneate-gracilis fasciculi are more sensitive to GABA than the corticospinal tract and that the GABA effect is not entirely due to [K+]e changes.
Transitory global cerebral ischaemia induced in rats by four vessel occlusion for 15 min produced substantial loss of CA1 cells in dorsal hippocampus, and minimal damage in other intra- and extrahippocampal forebrain regions examined. Ischaemic rats showed long-lasting deficits in spatial navigation in the water-maze, consisting of impaired learning to locate a hidden platform in a novel pool, a substantial increase in time spent searching close to the platform without finding it, and moderate deficits in matching to position in a working memory task. Groups of ischaemic rats were implanted with fetal tissue dissected from hippocampal CA1 field, containing glutamatergic CA1 pyramidal cells, from dentate gyrus, containing glutamatergic dentate granule cells, and from basal forebrain, containing cholinergic cells, with grafts sited in the alveus above the damaged CA1 region, for comparison with non-grafted ischaemic and non-ischaemic control groups, over a series of tests from four to 20 weeks after grafting. All ischaemic groups showed comparable acquisition deficits prior to transplantation, and similar loss of CA1 cells on post mortem examination. When tested in a familiar pool in retention and reversal learning of the original platform position, and a working memory task, all ischaemic rats performed better than in initial acquisition. However, rats receiving CA1 grafts showed the most consistent improvement relative to ischaemic controls. When tested in a second (i.e. novel) pool, ischaemic rats again showed marked impairment, whereas rats with CA1 grafts were significantly superior, and learned as rapidly as non-ischaemic controls. The performance of groups with dentate granule and basal forebrain grafts was similar to that of the non-grafted ischaemic control group throughout testing. These results suggest that ischaemic rats are impaired in the adaptive use of spatial information, as shown by acquisition and working memory deficits, but not in long- or short-term memory storage processes, and are also impaired in precise spatial localization. The effects of CA1 grafts in restoring spatial abilities, shown most clearly when rats were tested in a novel environment, suggest that these grafts may have assisted with repair to the damaged host circuit, rather than acted through the release of an appropriate neurotransmitter, since the glutamatergic dentate granule grafts were ineffective. However, CA1 grafts showed better survival and growth than the other types of transplant, so that functional recovery may have been related to graft viability rather than to the specific type of graft.
Classical conditioning both to rewarding and to aversive stimuli is sensitive to drugs which act on the dopaminergic system: amphetamine enhances conditioning and neuroleptics attenuate it. Many lines of evidence point to the nucleus accumbens as being part of an anatomical substrate for reward. We have examined the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens during classical aversive conditioning using microdialysis in the unrestrained rat. Two mild footshocks caused a release of dopamine, which was potentiated when each footshock was immediately preceded by a novel tone or light stimulus. Presentation of either of these stimuli after conditioning elicited an increase in dopamine, only to that stimulus which had been conditioned; presentation of either stimulus after footshock alone without conditioning produced no dopamine response. Latent inhibition is a process whereby pre-exposure to a stimulus without consequence impairs learning about that stimulus at subsequent conditioning. This process too is believed to be under the control of dopaminergic systems, particularly in nucleus accumbens. Pre-exposure to the tone stimulus both markedly attenuated the potentiation of dopamine release at conditioning and abolished the conditioned release of dopamine at subsequent tone presentation. This is the first report of direct measurement of potentiated dopamine release during conditioning, and may provide a neurochemical basis for the effects of dopaminergic drugs on conditioning and latent inhibition. The results also support the hypothesis that disrupted latent inhibition in schizophrenia reflects increased mesolimbic dopamine function.
Slices of hippocampal area CA1 in the rat were employed to test the hypothesis that the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors during tetanization is necessary for the late maintenance of long-term potentiation. If the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate was present during tetanization, post-tetanic and early long-term potentiation of the population spike as well as field excitatory postsynaptic potential developed almost normally. However, 100 min after tetanization, long-term potentiation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential decreased in an irreversible manner. The same concentration of D-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate was ineffective. If L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate was applied 120 min after tetanization, it did not influence long-term potentiation. The presence of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist trans-D,L-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid during tetanization weakly enhanced the slope of field excitatory postsynaptic potential long-term potentiation. The influence of L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate and D,L-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid on ionotropic glutamate receptors was studied using whole-cell voltage-clamp and pressure application techniques. No effect of L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate on either early or late components of excitatory postsynaptic currents could be detected at the concentration used to block long-term potentiation. It is therefore unlikely that the effect of L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate on long-term potentiation is due to an interaction with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptors. However, bath-applied 1S,3R-D,L-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid facilitated the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced depolarization in response to N-methyl-D-aspartate pressure application in a reversible manner. These data suggest that besides the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors the activation of a 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate-sensitive metabotropic glutamate receptors during or immediately after tetanization is necessary for subsequent mechanisms responsible for the maintenance of long-term potentiation. A link between metabotropic glutamate receptors and protein kinase C activation during long-term potentiation is discussed considering the similar time course of long-term potentiation blockade after application of L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate and protein kinase C inhibitors.
Electrophysiological responses of enzymatically isolated type I cells from the neonatal rat carotid body to cholinergic agonists were examined using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Inward currents were evoked in cells clamped at -70 mV in response to bath-applied carbachol and two selective nicotinic agonists, nicotine and dimethylphenylpiperazinium. Muscarine failed to produce any change in membrane current. Responses to nicotine were concentration-dependent and also voltage-dependent, showing strong rectification positive to -40 mV. Currents evoked by nicotine were reduced or abolished in the presence of mecamylamine and also by high concentrations of atropine (10 or 100 microM). Under &quot;current-clamp&quot;, nicotine was shown to depolarize type I cells, an effect which was only slowly reversible, but which could be rapidly attenuated by introduction of mecamylamine to the perfusate. In voltage-clamped cells, nicotine could evoke inward currents when extracellular Na+ was replaced by Ca2+. Our results demonstrate the presence of functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on type I cells of the neonatal rat carotid body. Activation of these receptors could lead to excitation of the intact carotid body by either of two possible mechanisms: depolarization of type I cells sufficient to open voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, or Ca2+ influx through the receptor pore itself. Either (or both) mechanisms could trigger catecholamine release from type I cells, which is a fundamental step in chemotransmission.
To determine if systemically administered antibodies could reach antigenic targets and cause immunologic lesions in brains of newborn rats, murine monoclonal antibodies against rat acetylcholinesterase were injected i.p. on the first postnatal day. As early as 24 h after injection, antibodies were detected immunocytochemically in brain parenchyma, along with punctate debris that showed intense cholinesterase activity. Total acetylcholinesterase activity in the brain dropped by 30%, and 10S activity was almost undetectable at day 3, implying true enzyme loss since the antibodies did not directly impair catalytic function. At day 7, 10S acetylcholinesterase began to recover but the activity remained only half that of controls. At day 12, total acetylcholinesterase activity was still reduced (30% in whole brain, 40% in cerebral cortex), consistent with lasting damage to cholinesterase-expressing cortical neurons. This conclusion was confirmed by histochemical experiments showing a nearly complete disappearance of acetylcholinesterase fiber-staining in cerebral cortex and basal ganglia at days 4 and 8, with residual deficits at day 12. Choline acetyltransferase activity decreased in the cerebral cortex, implying a loss of cholinergic terminals, but specifically immunoreactive perikarya remained abundant in the basal forebrain. Immunocytochemistry showed no obvious changes in three non-cholinergic markers: tyrosine hydroxylase, tryptophan hydroxylase, and glutamic acid decarboxylase. Overall, it appeared that acetylcholinesterase antibodies induced widespread but reversible damage of cholinergic fibers and terminals, while sparing cholinergic cell bodies and many other neural systems.
Systemically injected anti-acetylcholinesterase antibodies in rats cause selective lesions of preganglionic sympathetic neurons. Adult rats were examined up to four months after a single i.v. injection of murine monoclonal acetylcholinesterase antibodies or normal immunoglobulin G (1.5 mg). Within 4 h, antibody-treated rats developed ptosis, a sign of sympathetic dysfunction that was never reversed. Persistent pupillary constriction reflected preserved and unopposed parasympathetic function. Weight gain was depressed, but locomotor activity, excitability, and sensorimotor responses were normal, and gross neuromuscular performance was near normal. These findings were supported by biochemical evidence for selective sympathetic damage. Acetylcholinesterase activity was reduced for the whole period of observation in sympathetic ganglia and adrenal glands but fell only transiently in muscle and serum. At all times, choline acetyltransferase activity (a marker of presynaptic terminals) was unaffected in muscle but grossly depleted in ganglia. Light and electron microscopy showed that preganglionic sympathetic terminals of superior cervical ganglia were severely damaged while parasympathetic ganglia were less affected and motor endplates of skeletal muscle were apparently spared. Immunocytochemistry revealed punctate deposits of murine immunoglobulin G and complement component C3 in ganglionic neuropil 12 h after antibody injection. This finding was consistent with complement-mediated lysis of preganglionic terminals. Morphometric analysis of preganglionic neurons in the intermediolateral nucleus of the spinal cord showed progressive loss of cholinergic perikarya over several months. We conclude that antibody-induced destruction of ganglionic terminals leads to death of preganglionic sympathetic neurons and, hence, permanent dysautonomia.
A mild non-progressive cognitive defect is a feature of the fatal X-linked disease, Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Recent studies have identified the genetic defect and the resulting loss of the protein dystrophin, and shown that dystrophin messenger RNA and protein are present in normal brain tissue. We have performed western immunoblotting and fluorescence immunocytochemistry using a sensitive antibody made against a large fragment of the dystrophin molecule to study the regional, cellular and subcellular distribution of dystrophin in the mammalian brain. The brains of B10 (control) and mdx (dystrophin deficient null mutant) mouse brain were compared on a point-by-point basis to verify that only dystrophin and not autosomal dystrophin related protein or cross-reacting proteins were being identified. In addition three murine neurologic mutants, nervous, lurcher, and weaver, were studied to refine the localization of dystrophin. In western immunoblots, dystrophin is present in all regions of the brain and in greatest abundance in the cerebellum. Dystrophin, as demonstrated in immunofluorescence, is present in neurons, but not in glia or myelin, and forms punctate foci associated with the plasma membrane of perikarya and dendrites, but not axons. While dystrophin is abundant in cerebral cortical neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells, it is absent from most subcortical neurons, the granule cells of fascia dentata, and cerebellar neurons other than Purkinje cells. The absence of dystrophin in the cerebellum of the Purkinje cell deficient mutants nervous and lurcher, and its presence in the granule cell deficient mutant weaver indicate that dystrophin is a component of Purkinje cells rather than closely apposed afferents to those cells. The distribution and localization of dystrophin suggests a role in organizing the plasma membrane, possibly as an anchor of the postsynaptic apparatus, a possible basis for the cognitive defect in Duchenne dystrophy.
The central nervous system responds to diverse neurologic injuries with a vigorous activation of astrocytes. While this phenomenon is found in many different species, its function is obscure. Understanding the molecular profile characteristic of reactive astrocytes should help define their function. The purpose of this review is to provide a summary of molecules whose levels of expression differentiate activated from resting astrocytes and to use the molecular profile of reactive astrocytes as the basis for speculations on the functions of these cells. At present, reactive astrocytosis is defined primarily as an increase in the number and size of cells expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein. In vivo, this increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells reflects predominantly phenotypic changes of resident astroglia rather than migration or proliferation of such cells. Upon activation, astrocytes upmodulate the expression of a large number of molecules. From this molecular profile it becomes apparent that reactive astrocytes may benefit the injured nervous system by participating in diverse biological processes. For example, upregulation of proteases and protease inhibitors could help remodel the extracellular matrix, regulate the concentration of different proteins in the neuropil and clear up debris from degenerating cells. Cytokines are key mediators of immunity and inflammation and could play a critical role in the regulation of the blood-central nervous system interface. Neurotrophic factors, transporter molecules and enzymes involved in the metabolism of excitotoxic amino acids or in the antioxidant pathway may help protect neurons and other brain cells by controlling neurotoxin levels and contributing to homeostasis within the central nervous system. Therefore, an impairment of astroglial performance has the potential to exacerbate neuronal dysfunction. Based on the synopsis of studies presented, a number of issues become apparent that deserve a more extensive analysis. Among them are the relative contribution of microglia and astrocytes to early wound repair, the characterization of astroglial subpopulations, the specificity of the astroglial response in different diseases as well as the analysis of reactive astrocytes with techniques that can resolve fast physiologic processes. Differences between reactive astrocytes in vivo and primary astrocytes in culture are discussed and underline the need for the development and exploitation of models that will allow the analysis of reactive astrocytes in the intact organism.
The distribution and synaptic organization of GABAergic elements in the mammillary nuclei of rats have been examined by the immunocytochemical localization of GABA at the light and electron microscope levels. The distribution of GABA-immunoreactive fibres and terminals in the mammillary body is non-homogeneous. By light microscopy, small scattered immunoreactive terminals are observed in the pars medianus, pars posterior and ventral region of the pars medialis of the medial mammillary nucleus. Larger labelled terminals are found in the pars lateralis, the dorsal region of the pars medialis of the medial mammillary nucleus and the lateral mammillary nucleus. At the ultrastructural level, GABA-immunoreactive synaptic endings in the different subdivisions of the medial mammillary nucleus exhibit a widespread somadendritic distribution. By contrast, GABA-immunoreactive terminals within the lateral mammillary nucleus are located predominantly in the neuropil and less frequently on neuronal somata. GABA-immunoreactive synaptic endings contain pleiomorphic synaptic vesicles and have symmetrical synaptic contact zones with the somata and dendrites in the lateral and medial mammillary nuclei. After in vivo inhibition of GABA metabolism with amino-oxyacetic acid, light microscopic examination of the mammillary nuclei reveals numerous small GABA-immunoreactive cells in various subdivisions of the medial mammillary nucleus. No immunoreactive cells are observed, however, in the lateral mammillary nucleus. Electron microscopic examination demonstrates that the GABA-immunoreactive cells are astrocytes. In the labelled astrocytes, immunohistochemical reaction product is localized throughout the nucleus and cytoplasm of the cells, in thin sheet-like processes surrounding neuronal elements and in end-feet lining the basal lamina of capillaries. The results indicate that the mammillary nuclei in the rat receive a strong GABAergic innervation. Most if not all, of the GABA-immunoreactive synaptic endings in the mammillary nuclei probably arise from extrinsic inhibitory sources. The possible sources of the GABA-immunoreactive input to the mammillary complex are discussed.
Neuropeptide Y injected into the hypothalamus or third ventricle stimulates feeding and inhibits the sympathetic activation of brown adipose tissue. To clarify the involvement of hypothalamic neuropeptide Y in cold-induced thermogenesis, groups of rats exposed to 4 degrees for 2.5 or 18 h were compared with warm-adapted rats (22 degrees C). Neuropeptide Y was measured in eight selected hypothalamic regions, including those known to be involved in the regulation of energy expenditure. Activation of brown adipose tissue was confirmed by significant six- to nine-fold increases in brown adipose tissue uncoupling protein messenger RNA. Compared with warm-adapted controls, neuropeptide Y levels were significantly raised by 80-170% in several hypothalamic regions of rats exposed to cold for 2.5 h, namely the medial preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus, ventromedial nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area. Neuropeptide Y levels in 18-h cold-exposed rats were similarly elevated in these regions and were also significantly increased in the anterior hypothalamic area (75%). By contrast, neuropeptide Y levels in the arcuate nucleus, the main hypothalamic site of synthesis, were not increased by cold exposure, being significantly reduced by 21% after 2.5 h exposure and comparable with controls after 18 h. As neuropeptide Y injection inhibits brown adipose tissue activation, we suggest that the rapid and dramatic increases in neuropeptide Y levels in specific hypothalamic regions occur because cold exposure might inhibit the release of neuropeptide Y and so cause accumulation of neuropeptide Y in these sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Monoclonal antibodies against the low-affinity (p75) subunit of the human nerve growth factor receptor have been used to determine the temporal appearance of this receptor and to identify the associated cellular elements in the developing occipital cortex of rhesus monkeys. Adult and fetal brains from embryos at embryonic days 45-121 were used. This embryonic time span includes periods of active neurogenesis, cell migration and initial formation of axonal connections in the cerebral cortex. The first immunolabeling in the developing cerebral wall was seen between embryonic days 56 and 64. The labeling was present in the transient subplate neurons, a small number of axonal processes and pericytes associated with blood vessels. By birth, labeled neurons of the subplate zone disappeared, but immunolabeled axonal processes could now be seen in large numbers in the cortex. These findings are consistent with the role of nerve growth factor in the coordination of cortical differentiation, but not with the initiation of neuronal proliferation, since the emergence of nerve growth factor receptor-labeled elements in the cortex occurs two to three weeks after the onset of neurogenesis in this species. Further, the diverse cellular elements labeled in the fetal cerebrum with the antibodies to the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor suggests that a receptor or receptors associated with growth factor signaling for more than one growth factor family are recognized by these antibodies. Differential timing in the expression of families of growth factor receptors may be one mechanism by which developing neurons in the cerebral cortex could respond to the different signals which guide such processes as synaptogenesis and morphogenesis.
Proteolytic processing of secretogranin II (chromogranin C) in brain leads to the formation of a 33-amino acid peptide which we have named secretoneurin. All the properties of secretoneurin are consistent with the concept that this peptide represents a neuropeptide. However, a biological function has not yet been demonstrated. Therefore, we have now investigated whether secretoneurin could alter transmitter release in brain. Slices of rat caudate-putamen were superfused in an in vitro system and dopamine was measured in the superfusate. Secretoneurin dose-dependently increased the outflow of dopamine. This response was abolished in Ca(2+)-free medium. The secretoneurin-response could also be blocked by preincubation of the peptide with a specific antiserum and was subject to rapid specific and reversible desensitization. This effect on dopamine release constitutes the first discovered biological effect found for a peptide derived from secretogranin II. Thus, secretoneurin can be added to the ever-growing number of neuropeptides.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors are abundant in the brain, and the pattern of distribution of receptors is similar in the rat, pig, cow, sheep and in man. In comparison to the cerebellum (100%), only a small number of receptors were found in the ventral spinal cord (20%), cerebral white matter (20%), pituitary (27%) and hypothalamus (33%). In contrast, cerebral cortex (70%), thalamus (50%) and dorsal spinal cord (50%) contained a higher number of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors. Overall, the highest number of receptors was observed in the pig brain followed by the rat, human, sheep and cow. IC50 values of alpha- and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide for cerebellar membranes were 200 pM, while its antagonist calcitonin gene-related peptide(8-37) and (9-37) had an IC50 approximately 1 nM. The recently discovered 37-amino acid peptide amylin (46% homology with calcitonin gene-related peptide) displaces the membrane bound [125I]calcitonin gene-related peptide with 50-fold molar excess (IC50 = 10 nM). The only other peptide able to compete for calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor binding is salmon calcitonin, at a &gt; 1000-fold molar excess (IC50 = 250 nM). Dissociation of [125I]calcitonin gene-related peptide from cerebellar membranes was biphasic, suggesting that calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors in the brain were heterogeneous.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cultured astrocytes from the cerebral cortex of the rat respond to opioid kappa-receptor stimulation with a substantial elevation of the cytoplasmic free calcium, visualized through the use of the fluorescent calcium indicator Fura-2. The stimulation of kappa-receptors with U-50488H increases the level of calcium through a dose-related stimulatory effect on the transmembrane calcium influx. The kappa-receptor stimulation was completely blocked by the selective kappa-receptor blocker nor-binaltorphimine. Furthermore, the transmembrane calcium influx was completely blocked by nifedipine, indicating the involvement of L-type channels. The presence of L-type channels was verified by stimulation of L-type channels with Bay K8644. The effects of Bay K8644 were completely blocked by nifedipine. L-type channel-coupled kappa-receptors on astrocytes might represent a novel mechanism contributing to the depressant action of opioids on synaptic transmission via decreasing the availability of extracellular calcium necessary for presynaptic transmitter release.
Glucocorticoid receptor levels within a given cell determine the glucocorticoid effect in the target tissue. Glucocorticoid receptors are present in adrenal medullary cells in culture where they are involved in the regulation of catecholamine biosynthesis. Modulation of glucocorticoid receptor protein and/or messenger RNA levels in response to cyclic nucleotides has been found in various cell types. In this study, we have investigated the effects of cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP on glucocorticoid receptor binding and glucocorticoid receptor-mediated function in Percoll-isolated bovine adrenal medullary cells in culture. Four-day treatment of cells with 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (10(-3) M) an analogue of cAMP, or forskolin (10(-5) M), an activator of adenylate cyclase, decreased soluble [3H]dexamethasone binding by 55 and 54%, respectively. 8-Bromo-cyclic GMP treatment decreased [3H]dexamethasone binding by 31 and 34% at 10(-5) and 10(-4) M, respectively. Treatment with 8-bromo-cyclic AMP or forskolin, but not 8-bromo-cyclic GMP, elevated cortisol levels in the medium of treated cells, presumably by elevating steroidogenesis in contaminating cortical cells. Cultures further purified to produce chromaffin-enriched cell cultures, also showed a loss (41%) in soluble [3H]dexamethasone binding when treated with 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (10(-3) M). Four-day treatment of standard Percoll-isolated cells with low concentrations of cortisol (10(-9) to 2 x 10(-7) M) similar to that found in the medium of 8-bromo-cyclic AMP-treated cells, did not decrease soluble [3H]dexamethasone binding, whereas higher cortisol concentrations (10(-6) M) produced a 62% loss in soluble binding. Adsorption of cortisol with bovine serum albumin (5 mg/ml) prevented a cortisol (10(-6) M)-induced loss in soluble [3H]dexamethasone binding with no effect on the 8-bromo-cyclic AMP-induced loss in binding, suggesting that the decrease in binding observed following 8-bromo-cyclic AMP treatment is not due to the release of cortisol from contaminating cortical cells. Finally, we report a loss in the ability of 8-bromo-cyclic AMP- or 8-bromo-cyclic GMP-treated cells to fully induce the activity of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase in response to cortisol, indicating that decreases in soluble [3H]dexamethasone binding translate into a decrease in the functional consequence of glucocorticoid receptor binding in adrenal medullary cells. In conclusion, these results indicate that long-term increases in cyclic nucleotide second messengers are able to decrease glucocorticoid receptor binding in bovine adrenal medullary cells, via a mechanism independent of released cortisol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distributions of ryanodine receptor-like immunoreactivity and Ca-ATPase-like immunoreactivity were identified in the guinea-pig and rat central nervous system using antibodies raised against the rabbit skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor and Ca-ATPase. In both guinea-pig and rat cerebellum, the ryanodine receptor-like immunoreactivity was restricted to the soma and dendrites of Purkinje cells. In the medulla, neuron somata in the hypoglossal nucleus were stained in both species, but in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus somata were stained in guinea-pigs but not in rats. This species difference in ryanodine receptor-like immunoreactivity is consistent with the species difference in expression of a ryanodine sensitive, calcium activated potassium conductance in neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Immunoreactivity to Ca-ATPase was present in vagal motoneurons in both species with denser staining in the guinea-pig. The data further support the idea that, in neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, release of intracellular calcium stores via a ryanodine receptor activates a specific class of potassium channels, thereby modulating cell excitability.
Differences in sleep-wake patterns in response to light-dark stimulation have been observed between albino Lewis and pigmented Brown Norway strains of rats, which may be associated with albinism. Since several anatomical differences have been demonstrated in the visual pathways of albino and pigmented mammals, the present study was undertaken to determine whether additional differences in visual pathways of these rat strains exist that might account for their behavioral differences. Using anterograde tracing techniques and image analysis, we have investigated the retinal projections of Lewis and Brown Norway rats. Our results demonstrate that the distribution of retinal terminals in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus extends over a greater area in Lewis compared to Brown Norway rats. This zone of termination corresponds to a cytoarchitectonically definable ventrolateral subdivision of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which is also greater in Lewis than in Brown Norway rats. These results may have implications for behaviors related to the SCN.
Responses of articular mechanonociceptors to intra-arterial injections of either bradykinin alone or in combination with prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin I2 or the selective I-type prostaglandin receptor agonist cicaprost were investigated electrophysiologically in anaesthetized rats. Bradykinin excited 76% of the mechanonociceptors studied and increased their responsiveness to repeated mechanical stimuli in 70% of units. Tachyphylaxis of these responses was evident in all cases. Injections of minimally effective doses of prostaglandin I2 or cicaprost excited the mechanonociceptors and increased their responsiveness to mechanical stimuli. Injections of prostaglandin E2 evoked only small increases in spontaneous discharge. Potentiation of bradykinin-evoked excitation was seen for combined injections of bradykinin with minimally effective or subthreshold doses of cicaprost in 86% of units, prostaglandin I2 in 40% of units and prostaglandin E2 in 56% of units. Combined injections of bradykinin and minimally effective or subthreshold doses of prostanoid agonist caused an increase in the responsiveness of mechanonociceptors to mechanical stimuli greater than that caused by either drug alone in 80% of units for cicaprost, 80% for prostaglandin I2 and 100% for prostaglandin E2. The relative potencies of prostaglandin I2, cicaprost and prostaglandin E2, suggest that prostanoid-induced excitation and sensitization of articular mechanonociceptors is mediated primarily by receptors for the naturally occurring prostanoid prostaglandin I2 (I-type P-receptors). Prostaglandin E2 may be important in potentiation of the sensitizing effects of bradykinin on mechanonociceptor responsiveness.
The sensitization of peripheral nociceptors by different prostaglandins was studied in an in vitro preparation of the neonatal spinal cord with functionally attached tail. Nociceptors in the rat tail were activated by chemical (bradykinin, capsaicin) and thermal (heated saline) stimuli and responses were recorded as a depolarization of a ventral root in the lumbar region of the spinal cord (L3-L5). Responses evoked by bradykinin, capsaicin or submaximal thermal stimulation were enhanced in the presence of prostaglandin E1, prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin F2 alpha, prostaglandin I2 and the stable prostaglandin I2 analogue cicaprost, but not by prostaglandin D2. Cyclic AMP and threshold concentrations of bradykinin also induced an enhancement of responses to chemical and thermal stimuli. Responses evoked by small concentrations of bradykinin on unsensitized preparations were reduced by indomethacin or aspirin, whereas responses to maximal concentrations of bradykinin were not affected. Immunocytochemical localization of protein gene product 9.5 and growth associated protein 43 indicated that the neuronal innervation of subepidermal skin layers was preserved in the tail following removal of the most superficial skin layers which was performed in order to facilitate drug access to peripheral nerve endings. These results indicate that different prostaglandins and cyclic AMP sensitize peripheral nerve endings to noxious stimulation without directly activating nociceptors. The stimulation of nociceptors by bradykinin was only partially mediated via arachidonic acid metabolites whereas bradykinin-induced sensitization was independent of cyclo-oxygenase activity.
The functional capabilities of dopamine neuron-rich grafts implanted into the accumbens and striatal regions in neonatal rats were evaluated in a series of behavioural tests. The ascending mesotelencephalic dopaminergic system of three-day-old rat pups was bilaterally lesioned by injecting 6-hydroxydopamine at the level of the lateral hypothalamus. Five days later a suspension containing dopaminergic neurons obtained from embryonic day 14 mesencephali was injected bilaterally into the striatal complex. The functional effects of such grafts were evaluated using behavioural tests for which it was known that the performance of the animals is changed following the lesion of the mesotelencephalic pathway and for which the influence of dopaminergic grafts implanted into adult hosts have previously been described. The dopamine-rich grafts compensated for the modifications of the locomotor responsiveness to amphetamine and apomorphine induced by neonatal dopamine depletion. However, the grafts were unable to restore more complex behaviours such as hoarding for food pellets, schedule-induced polydipsia and learning behaviours. Moreover, the neonatal transplants induced additional deficits such as catalepsia, nocturnal hyperactivity and day-time hyperactivity during food deprivation. It was concluded that, at least in the present paradigm, the implantation into neonatal brain does not lead to any greater functional recovery than that observed after implantation during adulthood.
The localization of Calbindin-D28k and NADPH-diaphorase in the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain, striatum and brainstem was investigated in the rat, monkey, baboon and human using calbindin and choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry and NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. Considerable regional and species-specific variations were observed. Double-stained sections demonstrated that NADPH-diaphorase activity occurred in as much as 20-30% of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the rat but in virtually none of those neurons in the monkey, baboon or human. In all of the species studied, virtually every cholinergic neuron within the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei contained NADPH-diaphorase activity, while none of the cholinergic neurons of the striatum did so. In the rat brain, calbindin immunoreactivity was not present in any of the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain, while in the primate brain virtually all of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons were also calbindin-positive. None of the cholinergic neurons of the striatum, pedunculopontine nucleus or laterodorsal tegmental nucleus were found to be calbindin-positive in any of the species examined. These results demonstrate major species-specific differences in the cytochemical signatures of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, in contrast to the cholinergic neurons of the striatum and brainstem, which displayed little interspecies variation with respect to the markers that were used in this study. Our findings also suggest that caution must be exercised in using results from studies of rodent basal forebrain cholinergic systems to infer the role of this system in the primate brain.
The present study determined the topographical distribution of [125I] nerve growth factor in rat brain at various time points following an intraventricular injection. In addition, we quantified the tissue content of nerve growth factor in various brain tissues following the injection. Autoradiographic analysis of the distribution of [125] nerve growth factor indicated that the neurotrophin is rapidly distributed within the entire ventricular system. However, penetration of nerve growth factor into the brain parenchyma was very limited. At early time points following an injection of nerve growth factor, there was an accumulation of label in the immediate vicinity of the lateral ventricle and third ventricle with predominant labeling around the septum, hypothalamus and cerebellum. By 24 h following nerve growth factor administration, there was discreet labeling of the lateral septum, medial septum, diagonal band, hypothalamus, olfactory tubercle and nucleus of the olfactory tract, and some label was present in the hippocampus and subiculum. Quantitative ELISA of nerve growth factor in brain tissues 1 h following the injection indicated a 446% and 133% increase over basal levels of nerve growth factor in the basal forebrain and hippocampus, respectively. At 24 h nerve growth factor levels measured in brain were not significantly different from endogenous basal levels as determined by ELISA, whereas there were high quantities of 125I present in the thyroid gland, suggesting that the administered [125I] nerve growth factor was rapidly degraded following the intraventricular injection. We observed a similar labeling pattern of the medial septum/diagonal band cholinergic cell body group 24 h following either an intraventricular or intrahippocampal injection of [125I] nerve growth factor. There was a good correlation between the [125I] nerve growth factor labeling pattern and the presence of trkA messenger RNA. This suggested that, at least in the septohippocampal pathway, nerve growth factor accumulated in a region which contained trkA nerve growth factor receptors. Thus, this study shows that after a single unilateral intraventricular injection of nerve growth factor into rat brain there is effective uptake by diagonal band/septal cells on both sides of the brain, and by cells whose positions correlate with the locations of cholinergic and trk A messenger RNA-expressing cells. Significant uptake was also observed in the hypothalamus and cerebellum. The very limited penetration and rapid degradation of intraventricularly administered nerve growth factor suggests that tissue penetration may be a limiting factor when attempting to influence brain neurons by exogenous neurotropic factors.
Our previous results obtained by lesioning or stimulating the ventrolateral part of the lateral septum and the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis suggested that this area is involved in the control of milk ejection pattern in rats. The present study was undertaken with the aim of testing ventrolateral part of the lateral septum-bed nuclei of the stria terminalis neurons as a putative link of the neuronal network controlling the bursting activity of oxytocin neurons in suckled lactating rats (anaesthetized with urethane). Ventrolateral part of the lateral septum-bed nuclei of the stria terminalis neurons were recorded simultaneously with hypothalamic oxytocin neurons in either the paraventricular or supraoptic nucleus in rats with (n = 26) or without (n = 29) periodic milk ejections. Analysis of their firing pattern enabled differentiation of two subgroups: type I, characterized by numerous high frequency spikes, often grouped in clusters; and type II with very few or no high frequency clusters of spikes. The probability density function of the interspike intervals of both patterns could be modelled using a mixture of two log-normal distributions, the parameters of which differed significantly. The presence of absence of milk ejections did not influence the overall mean level of activity (2.0 +/- 0.5 and 1.9 +/- 0.4 spikes/s, respectively). However, the characteristics of the type I firing pattern were affected by the presence of the milk-ejection reflex. The average level of activity was not always constant and 16/55 ventrolateral part of the lateral septum-bed nuclei of the stria terminalis neurons displayed cyclical activity (from 0.6 +/- 0.2 to 4.0 +/- 0.5 spikes/s) both in the presence (n = 8) and absence (n = 8) of the milk-ejection reflex. In five of eight neurons recorded during milk-ejection reflex, the cycles in firing were clearly correlated with the bursting of oxytocin neurons. These five neurons exhibited the type I firing pattern. The three remaining neurons and the eight neurons recorded in the absence of milk-ejection reflex displayed the type II firing pattern. Oxytocin (1-2 ng = 0.45-0.9 mU) was injected into the third ventricle (i.c.v.) in order to examine the possible involvement of ventrolateral part of the lateral septum-bed nuclei of the stria terminalis neurons in the facilitatory effect of oxytocin on the reflex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In slices of adult rat somatosensory/motor cortex, paired recordings were made from pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons. Single axon excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked in the non-pyramidal neuron by action potentials in the pyramidal neuron were large and fast and demonstrated large fluctuations in amplitude, with coefficients of variation between 0.1 and 1.25. Excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude distributions included a large number of apparent failures of transmission as well as some extremely large events. This contrasted dramatically with the relatively narrow distribution of amplitudes for pyramid-pyramid connections in neocortex. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials increased in amplitude with postsynaptic membrane hyperpolarization. Very small changes in the coefficient of variation when mean amplitudes increased substantially were consistent with the increase being due to a change in quantal amplitude. These excitatory postsynaptic potentials displayed profound paired pulse facilitation. Moreover, third and fourth spikes in a presynaptic burst also evoked large responses. This facilitation was associated with a decrease in the proportion of apparent failures in transmission and a change in the shape of the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude distribution, both indicative of an increase in the probability of transmitter release. However a large change in the mean amplitude was not associated with a similar change in the inverse square of the coefficient of variation. The result of this third test, taken in isolation, might therefore suggest that quantal amplitude had increased with paired-pulse facilitation. However, of the three tests applied, this last is the most heavily model-dependent and produced a result inconsistent with the results of the other two tests. The possibility is therefore discussed that both the shape of the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude distribution and the failure of coefficient of variation analysis to detect an apparently presynaptic change might result from the release at these synapses being poorly fit by a simple model. Based on a more complex model of synaptic release proposed by Faber and Korn [Faber and Korn (1991) Biophys. J. 60, 1288-1294] and a hypothesis proposed by Scharfman et al. [Scharfman et al. (1990) Neuroscience 37, 693-707], two hypotheses arising from the present study are discussed: (i) that branch point failure contributes to the pattern of synaptic activation at these connections; and (ii) that both presynaptic pyramidal firing pattern and axonal geometry contribute to the selection of the type of postsynaptic neurone preferentially activated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Single axon excitatory connections between pairs of neocortical pyramidal neurons were studied using paired intracellular recordings in layers II/III and IV of coronal slices of adult rat somatosensory/motor cortex. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked with different presynaptic firing patterns and at different postsynaptic membrane potentials were compared. Two methods of statistical analysis were used in attempts to determine whether changes in mean excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude were due to presynaptic or postsynaptic modifications. Analysis of the decrease in mean excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude associated with increases in presynaptic firing rate were consistent with a change in probability of transmitter release. Paired pulse depression appeared to exhibit both presynaptic and postsynaptic components when the interspike interval was &lt; 10 ms, but could be explained simply by a decrease in probability of release with interspike intervals between 10 and 80 ms. Previous studies had demonstrated that these excitatory postsynaptic potentials are partially mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In contrast to the apparently presynaptic effects of firing pattern, postsynaptic membrane depolarization appeared to produce an increase in quantal amplitude. In addition to this increase at low frequencies, a form of frequency-dependent, self-potentiation involving the recruitment of an additional, longer-latency postsynaptic component occurred at higher presynaptic firing rates. The possibility is discussed that two different mechanisms are involved in the replacement of vesicles at release sites. Over a few tens of milliseconds (paired-pulse depression) availability of releasable transmitter may be determined by the rate of replacement of discharged vesicles from a readily releasable pool of vesicles. Over longer periods of firing at 0.33-2 Hz, the readily releasable pool may become exhausted and require replenishment. Postsynaptic depolarization increases the duration of these excitatory postsynaptic potentials, facilitating summation and enables two components of excitatory postsynaptic potential enhancement at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synapses; one that is present at all firing rates and relates simply to voltage dependent events and one that occurs at higher firing rates and involves a gradual, time dependent event. These data also indicate that the optimal pyramidal firing pattern if another pyramid is to be activated is a tonic, or brief burst pattern at relatively low repetition rates. Long bursts of many presynaptic spikes recruit little that is not activated by pairs of spikes. This situation is in stark contrast to the results obtained in the following paper in which excitatory inputs from pyramids to non-pyramids are described.


Motoneurons to soleus muscle die if their axons are injured at birth. We tested the possibility that their death may be caused by toxic effects of excitatory transmitters such as glutamate. Animals that had their sciatic nerves crushed at birth were treated either with a blocker of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, dizocilpine maleate (MK-801), or saline. The number of surviving soleus motoneurons and motor units was assessed 60-90 days later. Treatment of rats with MK-801 rescued a large proportion of injured motoneurons destined to die. Moreover, the weight loss of soleus muscles seen after nerve injury at birth was reduced in animals treated with MK-801. These results suggest that motoneurons axotomized at birth are unable to withstand the excitotoxic effects of glutamate and die. Blocking glutamate receptors in conditions where motoneuron loss occurs could be an effective way of rescuing them.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide release and L-[3H]citrulline production were examined in ganglia isolated from the myenteric plexus of guinea-pig intestine. The nicotinic agonist, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperizinium stimulated vasoactive intestinal peptide release and L-[3H]citrulline production; the latter was considered an index of nitric oxide production. Both vasoactive intestinal peptide release and L-[3H]citrulline production were abolished by tetrodotoxin, hexamethonium, and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine. Inhibition of vasoactive intestinal peptide release by NG-nitro-L-arginine was reversed by L-arginine but not by D-arginine. Exogenous nitric oxide stimulated vasoactive intestinal peptide release whereas exogenous vasoactive intestinal peptide had no effect on L-[3H]citrulline production. The pattern of stimulation by nitric oxide and inhibition by NG-nitro-L-arginine implied that vasoactive intestinal peptide release is facilitated by and may be dependent on nitric oxide production. Consistent with this notion, vasoactive intestinal peptide release in response to either 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperizinium or nitric oxide was abolished by KT 5823, an inhibitor of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase activity and by LY83583, an inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase activity. The study provides the first direct evidence of nitric oxide production from enteric ganglia.
Extracellular levels of somatostatin in the rat striatum were studied using in vivo microdialysis and radioimmunoassay. In vitro studies were performed using three different dialysis membranes at various flow rates and temperatures to assess the optimal recovery of somatostatin. The best results were obtained when a cellulose fibre membrane was utilized at 37 degrees C with a flow rate of 0.5 microliters/min. For the in vivo studies, transcerebral cellulose probes were implanted in the striatum of chloryl hydrate-anaesthetized rats. Basal levels of somatostatin were detected in the striatum of the freely moving animals and found to be 5-15 fmol. Stimulation with 100 mM KCl increased the recovered somatostatin by 138% (P &lt; 0.05). A second stimulation following a 3-h interval increased the somatostatin levels by approximately 60%. The addition of veratridine (100 microM) in the perfusion medium increased the somatostatin levels recovered from the striatum by 85% (P &lt; 0.01). Following a 3-h interval, a second stimulation by veratridine also increased somatostatin levels (43%). The increases observed after the second depolarizing stimulus (KCl and veratridine) were not found to be significantly different from basal levels. Both EGTA and the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin attenuated the effect of KCl and veratridine, respectively. However, neither EGTA nor tetrodotoxin had an effect on the basal levels of somatostatin recovered. These results indicate that (i) the somatostatin measured is neuronally released in the striatum and (ii) microdialysis is a useful tool for examining the regulation of somatostatin release in the brain.
In contrast to nonprimate species, the RNA for human tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, can undergo alternative splicing to produce four different types of mRNA. Although types 1 and 2 of these human tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs have been identified in human brain, whether types 3 and 4 human tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs are present in the central nervous system remains controversial. Furthermore, little is known about the expression of the protein products of these mRNAs in human brain. In this study we used antibodies raised against different octapeptide sequences from each of the predicted human tyrosine hydroxylase protein forms to determine the presence and distribution of each human tyrosine hydroxylase isoforms in several regions of human brain. Control immunocytochemical and blot immunolabeling experiments demonstrated that each antibody selectively recognized the human tyrosine hydroxylase isoform against which it was directed. In immunocytochemical studies, all four human tyrosine hydroxylase isoforms were clearly detectable in neurons of both the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus. The presence of all four isoforms in these nuclei was confirmed with blot immunolabeling studies. Single-label immunocytochemical studies of adjacent sections as well as dual-label comparisons of immunoreactivity for human tyrosine hydroxylase type 1 with type 2, type 3, or type 4 suggested that at least some neurons in these brain regions contain all four human tyrosine hydroxylase isoforms. In contrast, some neurons of the mesencephalon appeared to be selectively immunoreactive with the antibodies against type 1. In the caudate nucleus and putamen, the terminal zones of the dopaminergic projection from the substantia nigra, all four isoforms were detected, although in immunocytochemical studies type 1 appeared to be the predominant isoform present in axons and terminals. These findings demonstrate that human brain contains four distinct isoforms of human tyrosine hydroxylase and that the presence or relative amount of each isoform may differ among catecholaminergic cell populations and between catecholaminergic neurons and terminal fields. These patterns of expression may have important implications for understanding the regulation of catecholamine biosynthesis in human brain both in normal and pathological states.
Nucleus raphe magnus contains a large population of raphe-spinal serotonergic neurons that are thought to be involved in descending control of pain transmission and the modulation of opioid analgesia. Intracellular recordings were made from nucleus raphe magnus neurons in the slice preparation. Cells were divided into two groups, primary and secondary cells, based on the action potential waveform and response to opioids, as reported previously. In some experiments, cells were filled with biocytin and 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing cells were identified immunohistochemically. Of the primary cells that were filled with biocytin, 93% stained for 5-hydroxytryptamine; 90% of biocytin-filled secondary cells were unlabeled for 5-hydroxytryptamine. Previous studies have shown that primary cells are disinhibited by opioids; the finding that most primary cells are serotonergic suggests that at least some 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing neurons in the nucleus raphe magnus are excited by opioid analgesics. 5-Hydroxytryptamine hyperpolarized cells in both primary and secondary cell groups. The 5-hydroxytryptamine agonists (+/-)-2-dipropylamino-8-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene hydrobromide and 5-carboxamidotryptamine mimicked this action of 5-hydroxytryptamine, indicating that the 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A-subtype mediated this hyperpolarization. The hyperpolarization was mediated by an increase in potassium conductance that rectified inwardly. Local electrical stimulation of afferents evoked an inhibitory postsynaptic potential in primary cells. The inhibitory postsynaptic potential reversed polarity at the potassium equilibrium potential and was blocked by 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A receptor antagonists. It is proposed that the 5-hydroxytrypamine1A receptor on serotonergic primary cells may function as an autoreceptor to regulate the activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We examined the effects of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor agonist, (+-)1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane, on spontaneous and evoked discharge of locus coeruleus neurons in the rat. Extracellular recordings were obtained from single locus coeruleus neurons while (+-)1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane was injected systemically or locally into the locus coeruleus. Systemic, but not local, administration of (+-)1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane decreased spontaneous discharge of locus coeruleus neurons in a dose-dependent manner while simultaneously increasing responses evoked by somatosensory stimulation, consistent with previous studies using 5-hydroxytryptamine2 agonists. Increased responsiveness was observed after both low- and high-intensity stimulation and, in the latter, resulted from the addition of a second, longer latency response after (+-)1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane administration, when cells typically responded to each stimulation with two driven spikes instead of one. Both of these effects could be completely reversed by systemic administration of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor antagonist, ketanserin. Furthermore, we report that: (i) the (+/-)1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane-induced decrease in spontaneous firing was blocked by local infusion of the GABA antagonists bicuculline or picrotoxin into the locus coeruleus, but not by local infusion of the alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist, idazoxan; and (ii) the enhancement of locus coeruleus sensory responses after high-intensity stimulation was blocked by local application of the selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, but not by local infusion of the preferential antagonist of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Together, these results lead us to propose that systemic 5-hydroxytryptamine2 agonists influence locus coeruleus indirectly, causing tonic activation of a GABAergic input to the locus coeruleus, and facilitating sensory inputs that act via excitatory amino acid receptors within locus coeruleus.
Using guinea-pig hippocampal slices, we determined the amount of various amino acids released into the medium during deprivation of oxygen and glucose. Within 10 min of slices being deprived of O2 and glucose, the amounts of serine, aspartate, alanine, glycine, GABA, taurine and threonine released into the medium increased up to 1.7 (serine), 1.6 (aspartate), 1.6 (alanine), 1.9 (glycine), 2.0 (GABA), 1.4 (taurine) and 1.8 (threonine) times the control levels, respectively. The amount of serine released 10 min after O2 and glucose deprivation was four times as great as that of glutamate. The dose-response effects of glutamate and serine were studied on the population spikes evoked in the granular cell layer. Bath application of 100 microM serine elevated the amplitude of the population spike to 117% and at 10 mM depressed it completely. The dose-response curve for glutamate displayed a similar pattern but the effectiveness was 10 times higher than that of serine. The combined application of glutamate (300 microM) and serine (2 mM) produced a dramatic reduction in and depression of the amplitude of the population spike, although 300 microM glutamate and 2 mM serine individually failed to show a significant effect. The population spike was depressed by the addition of 1 mM glutamate but, after washing, it recovered completely. On the other hand treatment with 1 mM glutamate together with 5 mM serine caused no recovery of the population spike even after removal of the agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rat embryos exposed on gestational day 15 to methyl-azoxymethanol acetate develop a microencephaly characterized primarily by a hypoplasia of the neocortex and CA fields of the hippocampus that in adulthood is associated with disturbances in learning. In brain slices prepared from microencephalic rats, we have examined the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spike in the CA1 field of the hippocampus evoked by stimulation of the stratum radiatum. These parameters did not differ from those obtained in slices from control rats. High frequency stimulation of the stratum radiatum afferent fibres, which readily induced long-term potentiation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spike in the CA1 field of the hippocampus of control rats, failed to induce long-term potentiation in that of microencephalic rats. High frequency stimulation of the perforant path readily elicited long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of both control and microencephalic rats. Picrotoxin had no apparent effect on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spike in the CA1 field of the microencephalic rats, indicating that little GABAergic inhibition was present in slices from these rats. D-2-Amino-phosphonovalerate suppressed the field potentials in slices from microencephalic rats by more than 50%, suggesting that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors contributed markedly to the synaptic responses evoked by single stimuli. D-Serine, but not picrotoxin, restored long-term potentiation in the CA1 field of the microencephalic rats. The D-serine effect was prevented by pretreating the slices with either 7-chloro-kynurenate or D-2-amino-phosphonovalerate. The failure to induce long-term potentiation, if also found in vivo, may be among the factors related to the learning deficits displayed by these rats.
The major pelvic ganglion is an autonomic ganglion containing both sympathetic and parasympathetic postganglionic neuronal cell bodies. The existence of the proenkephalin A-derived peptide [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 immunoreactivity in the rat major pelvic ganglion has been described quite recently. The aim of this study was to compare the relations of [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-containing postganglionic neurons and nerve fibers to noradrenergic (tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive) and non-noradrenergic (putative cholinergic) neurons of the rat major pelvic ganglion. Immunohistochemical double staining and elution-restaining techniques were used to investigate the distribution of [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 in correlation with tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The major pelvic ganglion contained neurons immunoreactive either for tyrosine hydroxylase or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Many principal neurons, however, were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase nor vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. [Met5]Enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive principal neurons formed a minor subpopulation in the ganglion and were not immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase. The majority of [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive principal cells were non-immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, but a few of them also contained vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In contrast to the large [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive principal neurons, which formed a population of non-noradrenergic (putative cholinergic) cells, the small [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive cell exhibited intense tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence and represented a subpopulation of small, intensely fluorescent cells. [Met5]Enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive pericellular fiber plexuses were found around tyrosine hydroxylase- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive principal neurons and in association with small intensity fluorescent cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have used an immunocytochemical approach to gain further data supporting a possible neurotransmitter or neuromodulator function for dopamine at the level of efferent (olivocochlear) innervations of the guinea-pig cochlea. Immunofluorescence screening was first done on cochleas two or seven days after infusion with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. Two days after neurotoxin perfusion, the intensity of the tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity was decreased in the inner and tunnel spiral bundles of the organ of Corti (and in known noradrenergic sympathetic fibers outside this organ), with respect to the control contralateral cochleas. In cochleas screened seven days after 6-hydroxydopamine infusion, no tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity could be found in the organ of Corti. Only occasional faint fluorescence could be detected in sympathetic fibers. In another set of experiments, a pre-embedding immunoperoxidase technique was used to localize tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic amino acid decarboxylase, another catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, at the ultrastructural level. With both types of antibody, the same kind of results were observed. Immunoreactivities were only seen in vesiculated fibers within the inner and tunnel spiral bundles, thus are likely in lateral efferent varicosities. These immunostained fibers accounted for approximately half of the efferent profiles in the inner spiral bundle. Within this bundle, the immunoreactive fibers established axodendritic synapses with the radial afferent processes of type I neurons which contacted the inner hair cells. In no case was immunoreactivity to either enzyme observed in the outer hair cell region, at the level of medial efferent terminals. The synaptic localization of tyrosine hydroxylase- and aromatic amino acid decarboxylase-like immunoreactivities in the lateral efferent varicosities of the inner spiral bundle, as well as the effect of 6-hydroxydopamine on the tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity in this same bundle, further support the hypothesis that a catecholamine could act as a lateral efferent neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. Based on previous data reporting a lack of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity within the organ of Corti, and the effectiveness of a D2 agonist on the cochlear compound action potential of the auditory nerve, this catecholamine could well be dopamine.
The effect of medetomidine, a highly selective alpha-2-adrenoceptor agonist, on noxious stimulation-induced expression of immediate-early genes was studied in the central nervous system of the rat. The expressions of c-JUN, JUN B, c-FOS FOS B and KROX-24 proteins were investigated by immunocytochemistry following the application of formalin (5%, 50 microliters) into the plantar skin of one hindpaw. Medetomidine (100 or 300 micrograms/kg i.p.) was administered 12 min or 5 min before the application of formalin. Atipamezole (1.5 mg/kg i.p.), and alpha-2-adrenoceptor antagonist, administered simultaneously with medetomidine (300 micrograms/kg), was used to reverse the alpha-2-adrenergic effects. The rats were killed and perfused 90 min after formalin injection. Formalin induced expression of all studied proteins in the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn and the contralateral parabrachial nucleus, and in the medial thalamus bilaterally. Both medetomidine doses administered 12 min before formalin strongly suppressed the expression of c-FOS in the spinal dorsal horn; the suppression was stronger in the deep (III-VI) than in the superficial (I and II) laminae of the dorsal horn (76% and 86% for 100 micrograms/kg dose vs 97% and 99% for 300 micrograms/kg dose, respectively). However, application of medetomidine 5 min before formalin did not reduce the expression of immediate-early genes. In the parabrachial nucleus, both medetomidine doses also produced a significant suppression of c-FOS expression (68%). In contrast, medetomidine at the dose of 100 micrograms/kg was ineffective in the medical thalamus. Only the higher dose of medetomidine (300 micrograms/kg) produced a suppression by 29% and 46% in centromedian and paraventricular nuclei, respectively. Atipamezole produced a significant attenuation in spinal cord and a complete reversal in parabrachial nucleus of the medetomidine-induced suppression. However, in the medial thalamus, atipamezole produced a dramatic increase of formalin-induced c-FOS expression when compared with formalin injection alone. The expression of c-JUN, JUN B, FOS B and KROX-24 proteins paralleled that of c-FOS. It is concluded that the expression of immediate-early gene encoded proteins is more strongly suppressed by alpha-2-adrenoceptor agonists in spinal and parabrachial than in medial thalamic neurons. The increased expression of immediate-early genes in medical thalamus following atipamezole treatment may be explained by increased release of noradrenaline and the consequent activation of alpha-1- and beta-adrenoceptors. Compared with the previously reported effects of behaviorally equipotent doses of morphine, the suppression of c-FOS expression in the spinal cord was stronger following medetomidine than that following morphine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The I-B4 isolectin from Bandeiraea simplicifolia exhibits specific binding to a subpopulation of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons of small diameter which terminate in the substantia gelatinosa of the dorsal horn. Recent double-labelling experiments in the rat have demonstrated that only primary afferents which innervate the skin are recognized by the I-B4 lectin [Plenderleith and Snow (1993) Neurosci. Lett. (in press)]. As the I-B4 lectin appears to bind selectively to a subset of small-diameter primary afferents with cutaneous peripheral projections, we sought to determine whether it could be used as a transganglionic tracer which selectively labels the spinal terminations of cutaneous afferents in superficial dorsal horn. We now report that the I-B4-horseradish peroxidase conjugate labels synaptic terminals in lamina II of the dorsal horn following the injection of the conjugate into the sciatic and saphenous nerves in the rat. Electron-microscopic examination of the dorsal horn revealed many examples of labelled synaptic terminals and unmyelinated axons, but in no cases was label observed in myelinated axons. No label was observed outside of the substantia gelatinosa; thus the I-B4 isolectin is unique among lectins used for transganglionic tracing in that it does not retrogradely label motoneurons. These results, together with previous studies of lectin binding properties of primary sensory afferents, suggest that injection of I-B4 conjugates into peripheral nerves enables the visualization of the central terminations of cutaneous C-fibres. Transganglionic labelling with the I-B4 isolectin from Bandeiraea simplicifolia should facilitate further examination of synaptic relationships of nociceptive cutaneous afferents in the superficial dorsal horn.
It is well known that analgesia can be produced by stimulation of the midbrain periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus. This stimulation-produced analgesia may operate, at least partly, through direct projections to nociceptors in the primary sensory nuclei. In the present study, direct projections from the midbrain periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus to the trigeminal sensory complex were studied in the rat. After injection of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the periaqueductal gray or dorsal raphe nucleus, terminal labeling was found in the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus and the oral, interpolar and caudal subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, bilaterally with an ipsilateral predominance. The terminal labeling was prominent in the ventrolateral parts of the trigeminal sensory complex; it was particularly marked in the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus and laminae I and III of the caudal subnucleus of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. After injection of cholera toxin B subunit into the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus or one of the subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, retrogradely labeled cells were seen in the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus, bilaterally with an ipsilateral dominance. In the periaqueductal gray they were most often seen in the ventrolateral and dorsolateral subdivisions, but no particular topographic organization was detected in the distribution of retrogradely labeled neurons in the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus after tracer injection into each subdivision of the trigeminal sensory complex. After injections of Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow, respectively, into the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus and the caudal subnucleus of the spinal trigeminal nucleus on one side of the brain, a number of doubly labeled neurons were found in the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus, bilaterally with an ipsilateral dominance. The results indicate that a considerable number of neurons in the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus send projection fibers to the trigeminal sensory complex, and that some of them send their axons to both the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus and the caudal subdivision of the spinal trigeminal nucleus by way of axon collaterals. These projections may subserve suppression of the activity of nociceptive neurons in the trigeminal system.
Acetylcholine has been implicated as an important neurotransmitter in the mechanisms of thalamic activation. Cholinergic mechanisms are thought to directly underlie the high level of excitability observed in thalamic relay neurons during waking and rapid eye movement sleep. We sought to determine if the cholinergic responsiveness of neurons in the ventroposterior nuclei of the thalamus in rat is consistent with this view. Neurons in the chloral hydrate-anesthetized rat were studied with extracellular recording and microiontophoretic application of cholinergic agents. In most cases (63% of 63 cells), the ejection of the agonist, carbachol, had no observable effect on spontaneous activity. Facilitation (25%), inhibition (8%) and inhibition followed by facilitation (3%) were also observed. Carbachol ejections that by themselves were ineffective in altering spontaneous activity proved capable, in 93% of 28 cells, of antagonizing the uniformly facilitatory responses produced by glutamate ejection. The putative M1-selective, cholinergic agonist, McN-A-343, was also ineffective alone in altering spontaneous activity in the majority of cases (74% of 27 cells) and produced only inhibitory responses in the remaining seven neurons studied. Interacting applications of McN-A-343 and glutamate resulted, in all cases, in antagonism of glutamate facilitation (N = 12). The various responses to applied cholinergic agonists were all capable of being antagonized by muscarinic receptor-blocking agents. Both the high proportion of inhibitory responses and the antagonism of glutamate facilitatory responses suggest that ventroposterior neurons in the rat differ from other thalamocortical relay neurons in the rat and cat with regard to cholinergic responsiveness. Additionally, the lack of predominantly facilitatory responding renders it unlikely that cholinergic mechanisms directly underlie increases in excitability of ventroposterior neurons observed during waking and rapid eye movement sleep.
Bath application of the muscarinic receptor agonist, muscarine, produced a concentration-dependent depression of synaptic activity in the dentate gyrus of hippocampal slices. A concentration of 10 microM muscarine produced a reversible depression that could be competitively antagonized by the muscarinic receptor antagonist pirenzepine. However, other muscarinic receptor subtype (M1-M3) antagonists could also block the effects of muscarine. The rank order of antagonist potency was: 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl-piperidine methiodide (M3/M1 antagonist) &gt; pirenzepine (M1) &gt; AFDX-116 (M2). The depression produced by 10 microM muscarine was not affected by in vivo pretreatment with pertussis toxin, and therefore was not mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein. In addition, high concentrations of muscarine did not affect either basal or isoproterenol-stimulated accumulation of cyclic AMP from slices of dentate gyrus. Muscarine also produced a concentration-dependent blockade of the induction of norepinephrine-induced long-lasting potentiation in the dentate gyrus. Norepinephrine-induced long-lasting potentiation is a form of long-lasting plasticity induced in medial perforant path synapses by beta-adrenergic agonists such as isoproterenol. The muscarinic blockade of norepinephrine-induced long-lasting potentiation was also prevented by pretreatment with pirenzepine. Based on these pharmacological data, we conclude that muscarinic depression of evoked responses, as well as blockade of norepinephrine-induced long-lasting potentiation, involves activation of either M3 or M1, but not M2, muscarinic receptors. These data also demonstrate that in addition to modulating normal synaptic transmission, muscarinic receptors may also play an important role in modulating synaptic plasticity.
In this study we have described the ontogeny of immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P and glutamate in primary sensory neurons, and for serotonin in the sacral spin cord, of fetal sheep (n = 37) from 56 to 140 days of gestation (term = 146 days). A few fine, varicose fibres immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide were present in Lissauer's tract, the dorsolateral funiculus and in laminae I and V in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord at 56-61 days of gestation. At this age, two groups of intensely staining immunoreactive cells were present in the motoneuron pool in laminae VIII and IX in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. By 77 days, immunoreactive fibres were also present in laminae II and X. With advancing gestational age, an increase in the intensity of staining was observed throughout the cord to term, with the exception of laminae VIII and IX, where a decrease was seen. Intense staining of cells in the motoneuron pool was evident until c. 128 days, after which time staining became very faint. Fine fibers immunoreactive for substance P were present in Lissauer's tract and lamina I of the spinal cord at 56-61 days of gestation. They were also present throughout laminae IV-VI and X as well as throughout the entire ventral horn. Immunoreactive fibres in lamina II were evident by 77 days. The staining increased in density but remained similar in distribution with increasing gestational age to term in the dorsal horn, but decreased markedly in the ventral horn. Cells immunoreactive for substance P were evident from 56 days, particularly on the border of laminae II and III, until late in gestation. Ultrastructural studies showed that axon terminals immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide and for substance P were present in lamina I by 61 days. Immunoreactivity for glutamate was evident at 83 days in dorsal root fibers and also in lamina I and II, where it was more prominent in cells than in fibres. At all ages examined, the dorsal horn stained more intensely than the ventral horn. Immunoreactivity for glutamate and neuropeptides appeared in the cells and fibres of dorsal root ganglia at 97-100 days. In the skin, immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P was present at 85 days, some time after its appearance in the cord. Fibres immunoreactive for serotonin appeared in lamina I, at the neck of the dorsal horn and in the ventral horn at 83 days of gestation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Nitric oxide synthase is the biosynthetic enzyme for the free radical neurotransmitter nitric oxide. Using an affinity-purified antiserum, nitric oxide synthase was found to be localized to peripheral ocular nerve fibers, related cranial ganglia, and the retina of the rat. In the eye, nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactive peripheral nerve fibers were visualized mainly in the choroid and about limbal blood vessels. The anterior uvea was quite sparsely innervated, and the cornea was negative. Many principal neurons in the pterygopalatine ganglion were immunoreactive for nitric oxide synthase while very few cells stained in the superior cervical and trigeminal ganglia. Virtually all nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactive pterygopalatine cells were also immunostained for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide; nitric oxide synthase also partially co-localized with neuropeptide Y in some of the neurons of this ganglion. Pterygopalatine ganglionectomy significantly reduced the number of peripheral nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactive nerve fibers in the eye. A variety of immunoreactive retinal cells were seen. Most cells in the inner nuclear layer or ganglion cell layer corresponded morphologically to amacrine cells and displaced amacrine cells. Interplexiform cells and occasional faintly stained cells in the outer portion of the inner nuclear layer also were visualized. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase histochemistry generally stained cells of similar distribution but did reveal somewhat more extensive localizations in peripheral ocular tissues, the ciliary ganglion, and the retina, compared with nitric oxide synthase immunohistochemistry. Nitric oxide synthase thus localizes to peripheral ocular nerve fibers, chiefly parasympathetic in nature and derived from the pterygopalatine ganglion, and to several cell types in the retina. Nitric oxide probably acts as a choroidal vasodilator of parasympathetic origin in the eye; the neuropeptide co-localizations in the pterygopalatine ganglion suggest complex neuromodulatory interactions. The retinal localizations imply potential neurotransmitter functions for nitric oxide in this tissue.
To successfully match the treatment to the cause for raised intracranial pressure (ICP) after a severe head injury, it is important to know the underlying mechanism at a given moment for the raised pressure. In particular, it is important to distinguish between active cerebral vasodilation, indicating functional autoregulation, and a passive vascular dilation as the cause for raised ICP. An experimental study was performed in feline models of diffusely raised ICP (n = 6), of active arterial vasodilation caused by arterial hypercarbia (n = 6), and of passive arterial dilation caused by pharmacologically induced arterial hypertension (n = 6) to determine if wave form analysis of ICP can distinguish active from passive arteriolar vasodilation. Pulsatile pressure transmission from the blood pressure pulse to the ICP pulse (cerebrovascular pressure transmission [CVPT]), cerebrovascular resistance, and craniospinal compliance were measured simultaneously at each level of raised ICP, arterial hypercarbia, and arterial hypertension. Arterial hypercarbia, caused by both 5 and 10% inspired CO2 increased low-frequency CVPT, which was followed by an increasingly negative phase shift between the blood pressure and ICP wave form (P &lt; 0.05). Diffusely raised ICP caused by intraventricular infusion of mock cerebrospinal fluid caused increased low-frequency CVPT (P &lt; 0.01) but resulted in no overall change in phase shift, although the sign of the phase shift remained negative. After arterial hypertension, caused by the infusion of angiotensin II, where there was loss of myogenic tone, an increased low-frequency CVPT was accompanied by a positive phase shift (P &lt; 0.01). These data demonstrate it may be possible to distinguish active arteriolar vasodilation from a passive loss of autoregulatory vascular tone through simultaneous measurement of the low-frequency CVPT and phase shift. Analysis of the ICP wave form provides information relevant to the management of raised ICP.
The ability of diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDTC) to prolong electrical afterdischarge (AD) and lower the threshold for behavioral seizures elicited by stimulation of the perforant path (PPS) was examined. DEDTC was given in doses of 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg, IP. The effects of DEDTC on the threshold for wet dog shakes (WDS) and the number of WDS elicited by PPS were inconsistent. It had no effect on the duration of AD accompanied with WDS. However, DEDTC, at both 50 and 100 mg/kg, significantly lowered the threshold for rearing accompanied with forelimb clonus. At 100 mg/kg, it also prolonged the duration of AD occurring with these seizures. The effects of DEDTC were transitory and coincided with the time course for its ability to chelate the mossy fiber intravesicular pool of zinc (i.e., that which is released by activation of dentate granule cells). It is suggested that release of zinc from the mossy fibers may serve to protect the hippocampus from paroxysmal seizure activity.
From a clinically oriented point of view, efforts of otoneuroscience should be directed toward an improvement of the management of dizzy and vertiginous patients. At present, the main obstacles in this field are: (1) the lack of specific therapies for many of the clinical diagnoses. This reduces the necessity of clinical vestibular diagnosis to a pragmatic exclusion of the few diseases with therapeutic consequences; (2) the lack of feedback to confirm or disprove clinical diagnoses; (3) poor knowledge of the pathophysiology of many of the otoneurological diseases; experiments in animal models may be helpful in this respect; (4) most progress in medicine originates from the results of numerous, poorly controlled 'unscientific' trial and error experiments obtained during treatment of patients; training clinicians in more scientific, critical thinking would help to increase the profits that can be realized from this important source of information; and (5) to date, information obtained during zero-gravity experiments in space have not yet led to important consequences in treatment of patients under 1-g conditions, but are important for a possible evolutionary step of mammals adapting to a new environment.
In the new century there will probably be more long spaceflights and fewer short spaceflights. There will probably be several flights to Mars, flights that (if chemical rockets are used) will involve one year to get there, a second year on Mars, and a third year to return. The three-year Mars scenario will probably include rotation of the spacecraft to provide artificial gravity. If nuclear thermal rockets are used, a manned exploration of Mars could be accomplished in less than one year. Vestibular research will be directed towards ensuring that astronauts, upon landing on Mars, will be able to walk with confidence and without delay. Research will be required to investigate vestibular adaptation in spaceflight, motion sickness, and the vestibular effects of rotation in spaceflight.
With advancing technology, neuroscientists have explored vestibular transducer microstructure and molecular processes, neural pathways of interaction between vestibular visual and proprioceptor systems and neurochemical processes of adaptive change. Progress in space vestibulo-neuroscience will be fostered by focus on interactions among the systems involved in whole-body movement relative to the earth. Description of perceptual and sensorimotor reactions to complex accelerative stimuli during goal-directed and passive movement is crucial to conceptualizing the functional significance of various interactions and viable theory. The vestibulo-ocular reflex is now quantifiable in three dimensions, but description of the dynamics of spatial orientation perception has progressed very little in the 20th century. Much is known about perception of static body tilt, but the dynamics of tilt and movement perception (beyond rotation about an earth-vertical axis) remains relatively unexplored. Innovative procedures and departure from accepted psychophysics are needed. Models developed to predict the dynamics of spatial orientation under complex conditions must be consistent with information at all levels (neural, sensorimotor, and perceptual). To close our eyes to any one aspect of the spatial orientation reaction is to proceed in semi-darkness unnecessarily.
Hypothalamic injection of neuropeptide Y (NPY) can elicit eating in satiated rats, and the perifornical hypothalamus (PFH) is the site where this effect is most pronounced (48). Additionally, there is a well-documented circadian rhythm of spontaneous eating behavior. Our objective was to determine whether there are daily rhythms of sensitivity to NPY in the PFH that might contribute to this behavioral rhythm. To accomplish this, the effectiveness in eliciting eating of PFH injection of NPY was examined at six different time points in the light-dark cycle. Neuropeptide Y (78 pmol/10 nl) or vehicle (10 nl) were injected through chronically implanted guide cannulas into the PFH of satiated adult male rats and food intake was measured 1, 2, and 4 h later. In animals on 12-12 h light-dark cycles, these injections were given 1 h before and after the onset of the light and dark phases, and in the middle of these phases. Additionally, dose-response effects of NPY were examined at two points: the first hour of both the dark and the light phases. The results show that NPY was effective at every time tested, and that the magnitude of the peptide-elicited intakes was primarily additive to the underlying patterns of spontaneous intake, with only a modest daily cycle of sensitivity to NPY. Consistent with this, NPY dose-dependently increased intake in the early light and in the early dark, and the magnitude of these effects across doses was similar at these times. This suggests that the sensitivity of the PFH system mediating NPY eating exhibits only a modest daily cycle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Since previous studies in vivo have shown that oxytocin is metabolized by rat synaptic membrane-bound aminopeptidase- and endopeptidase-like enzymes, the proteolytic conversion of oxytocin was studied in vivo after microinjection in the rat hippocampus, a brain area that contains oxytocinergic nerve endings and receptors. Isolation of the formed peptide fragments from the injected brain area after homogenization and adsorption on a Sep-Pak cartridge by high performance liquid chromatography, and their characterization by amino acid analysis, revealed that, when oxytocin (50 nmol in 0.5 microliter) was microinjected in the CA1 field of the rat hippocampus, only the N-terminal fragment oxytocin(1-8) was formed in such amount that could be characterized. The microinjection of [3H-Tyr2]oxytocin (10 pmol) revealed that in addition to oxytocin(1-8), free [3H]tyrosine was formed. Taken together with previous findings showing that C-terminal oxytocin fragments as well oxytocin(1-8) are formed by membrane-bound aminopeptidases and endopeptidases in vitro, respectively, the results suggest that, in addition to aminopeptidases, endopeptidase-like enzymes are involved in the proteolysis of endogenous brain oxytocin.
The specific inhibitor of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) carrier, NNC-711, (1-[(2-diphenylmethylene)amino]oxyethyl)- 1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-3-pyridine-carboxylic acid hydrochloride, blocks the Ca(2+)-independent release of [3H]GABA from rat brain synaptosomes induced by 50 mM K+ depolarization. Thus, in the presence of this inhibitor, it was possible to study the Ca(2+)-dependent release of [3H]GABA in the total absence of carrier-mediated release. Reversal of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger was used to increase the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) to test whether an increase in [Ca2+]i alone is sufficient to induce exocytosis in the absence of depolarization. We found that the [Ca2+]i may rise to values above 400 nM, as a result of Na+/Ca2+ exchange, without inducing release of [3H]GABA, but subsequent K+ depolarization immediately induced [3H]GABA release. Thus, a rise of only a few nanomolar Ca2+ in the cytoplasm induced by 50 mM K+ depolarization, after loading the synaptosomes with Ca2+ by Na+/Ca2+ exchange, induced exocytotic [3H]GABA release, whereas the rise in cytoplasmic [Ca2+] caused by reversal of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger was insufficient to induce exocytosis, although the value for [Ca2+]i attained was higher than that required for exocytosis induced by K+ depolarization. The voltage-dependent Ca2+ entry due to K+ depolarization, after maximal Ca2+ loading of the synaptosomes by Na+/Ca2+ exchange, and the consequent [3H]GABA release could be blocked by 50 microM verapamil. Although preloading the synaptosomes with Ca2+ by Na+/Ca2+ exchange did not cause [3H]GABA release under any conditions studied, the rise in cytoplasmic [Ca2+] due to Na+/Ca2+ exchange increased the sensitivity to external Ca2+ of the exocytotic release of [3H]GABA induced by subsequent K+ depolarization. Thus, our results show that the vesicular release of [3H]GABA is rather insensitive to bulk cytoplasmic [Ca2+] and are compatible with the view that GABA exocytosis is triggered very effectively by Ca2+ entry through Ca2+ channels near the active zones.
The behavioral effects of adult imipramine administration were examined in female rats treated with desipramine as juveniles (JDES), treated with saline as juveniles (JSAL), and untreated as juveniles (JUNT). In the forced swimming test, the juvenile groups displayed similar behavioral effects of imipramine when administered short term following a pretest forced swimming exposure. Similar effects of imipramine were observed when administered long term prior to the only test exposure. When rats were not given a pretest forced swimming test exposure, short-term imipramine had no effect on JDES rats but did influence JSAL and JUNT rats. In the open-field test, short- and long-term imipramine treatment affected the behavior of JUNT and JSAL rats. Short-term imipramine treatment influenced open-field behavior of JDES animals, but long-term imipramine treatment had no effect. These results suggest that JDES treatment may permanently alter the neural mechanism underlying the behavioral effects of antidepressant treatment.
Several domains of behavior were measured in rats (n = 465) 10 days to 100 days after induction of limbic seizures by a single subcutaneous injection of lithium and pilocarpine. These rats displayed enhanced intragroup aggression but normal muricide; gustatory neophobia and conditioned taste aversion were virtually eliminated. Severe working and reference memory deficits were evident within the radial arm maze. Both state-dependent memory and possible situation-dependent precipitation of spontaneous seizures were suggested. The behavioral changes were considered commensurate with the multifocal pattern of thalamic, hippocampal/amygdaloid, and limbic cortical damage.
In the brains of individuals with Alzheimer disease, senile plaques containing aggregates of beta-amyloid peptide, derived from the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), are seen in association with degenerating nerve terminals. It is not known whether the degenerating nerve terminals cause the formation of these aggregates or whether beta-amyloid peptide in the aggregates causes nerve-terminal degeneration. In the present study of rat brain, degeneration either of local neurons or of nerve terminals caused decreased levels of a neuron-enriched isoform of APP, increased levels of a glia-enriched isoform of APP, and increased levels of potentially amyloidogenic, as well as nonamyloidogenic, COOH-terminal fragments of APP. Our results demonstrate that neuronal degeneration affects APP processing and suggest that it may contribute to amyloid formation in mammalian brain.
High-titer, site-specific antibodies have been produced against the rat kidney broad-spectrum, sodium-independent neutral and basic amino acid transporter (NBAA-Tr) whose cDNA we cloned earlier. These antibodies have allowed us to characterize the transporter protein in normal rat tissues and in various cellular and in vitro expression systems. Western analysis detected 84- to 87-kDa glycosylated species enriched in rat renal and jejunal epithelial cell brush border membranes. In vitro translation of NBAA-Tr complementary RNA in the rabbit reticulocyte lysate system yielded a 78-kDa protein, a molecular mass that was predicted by the amino acid sequence deduced from the cloned cDNA. Translation in the presence of rough microsomal membranes yielded a glycosylated 89-kDa species. Glycosylated 87- to 89-kDa species were also expressed in Xenopus oocytes microinjected with NBAA-Tr complementary RNA and in COS-7 cells transfected with NBAA-Tr cDNA. Localization of NBAA-Tr in renal and intestinal brush border membranes is consistent with its proposed role in transepithelial transport of amino acids.
A manned space mission to Mars might take as long as 1 year each way. Consequently, artificial gravity is being considered as a way of preventing the debilitating effects of long-duration exposure to microgravity on the human body. The present article discusses some of the problems associated with adapting to the rotation levels that might be used to generate artificial gravity. It also describes how exposure to background-force levels greater or less than the 1-G force of Earth gravity affects orientation and movement control. The primary emphasis of the article is that human movement and orientation control are dynamically adapted to the 1-G force background of Earth and that accommodation to altered force levels or to rotating environments requires a wide range of adaptive changes.
Progress in biomedical engineering has provided implantable and programmable stimulators which allowed application of neurophysiological knowledge to therapeutic attempts on human neurological diseases. Chronic electrodes can be implanted accurately and safely into the brain, against the spinal cord and around the nerves. Therapeutic applications, mainly on pain, dyskinesias and epilepsy are therefore available, which call for careful clinical evaluation, basic and technological research to improve indications and diminish the cost of these methods.
Pseudotumoral presentation of Neuro-Behet's disease has been described before. The diagnosis may be difficult obtain in patients without mucosal, cutaneous, and ocular signs. We report the observation of a young patient suffering from a right hemiparesis with computed-tomographic (CT) features suggestive of a thalamocapsular expanding lesion. Histologic study of brain biopsy tissue ruled out a tumor but did not show any specific diagnosis. The patient improved with steroid therapy.
The acute effects of low concentrations of aluminium (10(-12)-10(-3)m) in neural cell culture were investigated over 1-48 hr. Mitochondrial and lysosomal activities were used as measures of metabolic change after aluminium administration to C1300 mouse-derived neuroblastoma cells (C1300 N2A) and primary mixed cultures of rat embryonic mid-brain. Very rapid increases in mitochondrial and lysosomal activity occurred over periods as short as 3 hr. The aluminium-induced metabolic changes in C1300 N2A cells were compared with those produced by iron. The similar time course of metabolic events observed with iron is suggestive of a similar neurotoxicological mechanism. Experiments examining the effect of preincubation with the free radical scavenger, alpha-tocopherol (200 mum), on the aluminium and iron induced changes in primary rat mid-brain cultures, showed an inhibition of these short-term metabolic events.
Understanding the functional organization of the cerebral structures underlying receptive and expressive musical processes is confronted with a wide variety of difficulties inherent in the artistic and subjective nature of the musical experience. Yet clarifying the relationships between music and the brain is a legitimate goal of neuroscientific research. One approach toward this goal is based on new developments of brain imaging techniques, and recent investigations indicate that the realization of musical abilities such as sight-reading and piano performance relies on a distributed neural network comprising locally specialized cortical areas. Another approach is concerned with the study of musicians, like Maurice Ravel, who have been affected by brain damage. An analysis of their deficits helps to uncover some properties of music-brain relationships, to identify the essential questions raised by these deficits, and to clarify the neurofunctional anatomy of musical abilities. The understanding of the neurocognitive bases of musical functions is still at an early stage, but recent progress in cognitive and neurofunctional research opens the way to more systematic studies than had so far been possible.
Several viruses, including mouse hepatitis virus strain JHM (MHV-JHM), enter the brain after intranasal inoculation and spread transneuronally to other parts of the central nervous system (CNS). Both the olfactory and trigeminal nerves innervate the nasal cavity and are potential portals of virus entry into the CNS. To evaluate the relative importance of each nerve for MHV infection, mice were infected under conditions that discriminated between trigeminal and olfactory nerve entry. When olfactory nerve entry was selectively eliminated by surgical removal of both olfactory bulbs or by chemical destruction of the olfactory epithelium, MHV-JHM spread into the CNS was completely prevented. On the other hand, direct inoculation into the olfactory bulb, which eliminates all entry via the trigeminal nerve, had no effect on the pattern of virus infection. Thus MHV-JHM enters the CNS via the olfactory nerve after intranasal inoculation while entry via the trigeminal nerve is an insignificant part of this process.
Receptive fields of ganglion cells have been studied in cats possessing a chronic, arrested lesion of central retinal degeneration. Lesions were characterized by an ophthalmoscopically sharp border separating apparently normal retina from the region of the lesion. Under direct ophthalmoscopic guidance, a succession of recordings was obtained from ganglion cells having cell bodies at various positions relative to the lesion. Cells located more than 1 deg outside the ophthalmoscopic border had normal visual sensitivity as assessed by area-threshold experiments. Inside the lesion cells within 1 deg of the border had reduced sensitivity which often precluded functional classification by the usual visual tests. Ganglion cells located more than 1 deg inside the border of large lesions were blind and some had abnormal patterns of maintained discharge of action potentials. Nevertheless, the antidromic latencies of these blind cells fell into the familiar conduction groups (T1/T2/T3). Receptive-field maps of cells near the border of the lesion often appeared truncated, with the missing portion of the field covered by the lesion. These observations were consistent with the abnormal form of area-threshold curves. Although the responsiveness of cells near the lesion was abnormally low for grating stimuli, cutoff spatial frequency and orientation bias of these cells were within normal limits.

Complexes of manganese have previously been shown to exhibit SOD activity. In this study, we tested the ability of several (salen)-manganese complexes to scavenge O2.. Both neutral and cationic complexes were determined to be SOD-mimics. The activity of the complexes was not affected by the presence of bovine serum albumin in the assay. For most compounds, the activity was inhibited by the addition of EDTA. The stability and high catalytic activity of some of these molecules suggest that they might have potential use in a variety of conditions which involve overproduction of oxygen free radicals.
The conditioned medium from gamma-interferon-stimulated macrophages elevated the choline acetyltransferase activity in mouse septal neurons as well as in cholinergic hybrid cell lines SN6.10.2.2 in vitro. After purification and sequencing, the active fraction was identical to thioredoxin (TRX), and the neurotrophic activity of recombinant TRX was confirmed.
In the rat, transient drug-induced elevations of arterial blood pressure, which are sufficient to activate peripheral baroreceptors, produce a brief and selective cessation in the spontaneous activity of vasopressin-secreting cells in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus. This response appears to require the noradrenergic innervation of the diagonal band of Broca. The present study evaluated whether injections of norepinephrine into the diagonal band of Broca affect the spontaneous activity of supraoptic vasopressin-secreting neurons. Extracellular recordings were obtained from antidromically identified supraoptic neurons in pentobarbital anesthetized rats using a transpharyngeal approach. Injections of 200 nl of 10 microM norepinephrine into the diagonal band of Broca region arrested the spontaneous activity of 80% (12/15) of vasopressin-secreting neurons but only 7% (1/14) of oxytocin secreting-neurons demonstrated a comparable decrease in excitability. Vehicle injections did not influence the activity of any of the neurons tested. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the baroreceptor-sensitivity of vasopressin neurons is mediated by a noradrenergic mechanism in the diagonal band of Broca.
The enzymatic and regulatory properties of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase in the postsynaptic density (mPSDp CaM kinase) of the rat forebrain was compared with those of soluble Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II). mPSDp CaM kinase was different from soluble CaM kinase II in terms of substrate specificity, regulatory consequences and sites of autophosphorylation. Both soluble and PSD kinases generated Ca(2+)-independent activity by autophosphorylation and Ca(2+)-independent activity almost reached the maximum during the first minute of autophosphorylation. Ca(2+)-independent activity of mPSDp CaM kinase was more stable than that of the soluble kinase under autophosphorylating conditions. Autophosphorylation of the kinases decreased the mobility of the kinases on SDS-polyacrylamide gels. The mobility shift and determination of 32P phosphate incorporation into the kinases demonstrated that there were three species in mPSDp CaM kinase alpha isoform: two active forms with and without the mobility shift (about 22 and 19%, respectively), and an inactive form (about 59%). However, there was only one species in the soluble kinase alpha isoform, which was active. The maximum incorporation of 32P phosphate into mPSDp CaM kinase alpha isoform was less than that of the soluble kinase. Tryptic peptide analysis indicated that the phosphorylation sites of mPSDp CaM kinase alpha isoform differed from those of the soluble kinase.
The effect of electroshock on the brain levels of somatostatin mRNA were evaluated by in situ hybridization using a selective oligonucleotide probe. Rats were submitted to single or repeated (7 days, one session for each day) sessions of electroshock. There was a marked increase of the expression of somatostatin mRNA in the hippocampal formation, mostly in the multiform layer of the hilus of the dentate gyrus, following repeated but not single electroshock. Our findings show that repeated ECS is associated with increase in the synthesis of somatostatin. The results also support previous data indicating that the hippocampal formation is selectively affected by the treatment.


Several relatively selective compounds with affinity for the sigma binding site were assessed for their ability to inhibit apomorphine-induced climbing in the mouse. Although, the majority of compounds inhibited apomorphine-induced climbing, there was no correlation between the ability to inhibit climbing and potency in sigma binding assays using [3H]1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG) or [3H](+)-pentazocine as ligands. The potency of the compounds to inhibit binding to muscarinic M1 or M2 receptors correlated with the potency to inhibit apomorphine-induced climbing. However, several of the compounds that inhibit climbing had microM affinity at muscarinic receptors. Whether these concentrations were achieved in vivo is unclear. Our data suggest that sigma activity per se is not responsible for inhibition of apomorphine-induced climbing.
D2 dopamine receptors were identified immunohistochemically in rodent tissues using anti-peptide antisera to distinguish regional and cellular staining patterns. These subtype selective polyclonal antibodies were directed against both extracellular and intracellular regions of the native protein and showed that the D2 dopamine receptors are widely distributed within the nervous system. The highest expression of D2-like dopamine receptor immunoreactivity was visualized in the forebrain and components of the basal ganglia, supportive of previous investigations of the D2 dopamine receptor distribution using in vitro autoradiographic ligand binding or in situ hybridization for its messenger RNA. The anti-peptide antisera could detect the dopamine receptor in both perfusion-fixed and fresh-frozen tissue preparations. The reactive cells and their processes could be distinguished using experimental incubations from 1:8,000 (in immunofluorescence processing) to 1:80,000 (in immunoperoxidase processing) in the most reactive nervous system region, the neostriatum. The antisera are selectively directed against extracellular or intracellular epitopes in both the long and short isoforms of the D2 dopamine receptor, and should prove useful in subsequent studies of the subcellular distribution of this receptor in particular, and the dopamine system in general.
We examined the responses to hypoxia of 48 spontaneously active barosensitive neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) of anesthetized rats. Twenty-nine projected to the spinal cord while 19 did not. All spinal barosensitive neurons increased their discharges in advance of an elevation of arterial pressure in the presence or absence of arterial chemoreceptors. In contrast, 18/19 of the non-spinal barosensitive neurons were not excited by hypoxia. The results indicate that barosensitive RVL neurons consist of two populations differing in efferent pathway and responsivity to hypoxia and that the spinal barosensitive RVL neurons are functionally discrete and selectively sensitive to hypoxia.
The changes in extracellular concentrations of noradrenaline (NA) in the prefrontal cortex of morphine-dependent rats were studied by microdialysis following an acute morphine challenge and during naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Animals were implanted with morphine- or placebo-containing pellets for 5 days. In control rats a challenge dose of morphine (5 mg/kg s.c.) induced a maximum decrease in NA output of about 45% of pre-drug levels. In contrast, morphine challenge had no effect on extraneuronal NA concentrations in morphine-implanted animals. In control animals, naloxone (2 mg/kg i.p.) produced no behavioral effect nor changed NA levels. However, in morphine-dependent animals naloxone suddenly increased extraneuronal NA by 175% of baseline dialysate levels in the first sample after the injection and precipitated a morphine-withdrawal symptomatology that paralleled the changes in NA output. Thus, chronic morphine treatment in rats results in the development of tolerance to the acute inhibitory effect of morphine on extraneuronal NA and is associated with a stimulation of prefrontocortical NA output during naloxone-precipitated withdrawal.
The normal development of somatostatin (SOM) expression in neurons of the chick ciliary ganglion and the effects of ciliary neuronotrophic factor (CNTF) on SOM induction in cultured ciliary ganglion neurons, were studied by immunocytochemical techniques. SOM immunoreactivity was first detectable in some neurons of the ganglion at embryonic day (E)8 and between E14 to hatch. 44-46% of the neuronal population contained the peptide. It was inferred that essentially all choroid neurons, which constitute 50% of the neuronal population, contain SOM. Culture studies indicated that CNTF supported both the SOM positive choroid neurons and the SOM negative ciliary neurons. Although CNTF was necessary for the survival and maturation of cultured ciliary ganglion neurons, it did not influence either the induction or maintenance of SOM expression in these neurons. CNTF may instead act as a permissive factor, allowing the induction of SOM in neurons of the ciliary ganglion by other, more specific, factors.
In vitro granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), erythropoietin (EPO), and erythroid differentiation factor (EDF) augmented choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in mouse embryonic primary septal neurons and in cholinergic hybridoma cell line, SN6.10.2.2. This is similar to the effects seen with interleukin-3 (IL-3) or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Moreover, in vivo GM-CSF and EPO promoted survival of septal cholinergic neurons in adult rats which had undergone fimbria-fornix transections. These results suggest that some of the hematopoietic factors act on cholinergic neurons as 'neurotrophic factors' to influence the differentiation, maintenance and regeneration of these neurons.
We sought to characterize the non-adrenergic binding site for imidazolines, the imidazoline receptor in whole membranes and subcellular compartments of chromaffin cells of bovine adrenal medulla. [3H]Idazoxan exhibited saturable and high affinity (KD = 5 nM) binding to chromaffin cell membranes fully displaceable by idazoxan and cirazoline but not by epinephrine or rauwolscine. Binding sites were highly enriched in mitochondrial but not plasma membranes and absent from nuclear fractions. The rank order of potency for displacement of [3H]idazoxan from mitochondrial membranes was: cirazoline &gt; idazoxan &gt; naphazoline &gt; amiloride &gt; detomedine &gt; clonidine &gt; phentolamine &gt; cimetidine = imidazole 4-acetic acid &gt; p-iodoclonidine = epinephrine = norepinephrine = rauwolscine. Binding was also inhibited with high affinity by the purported endogenous ligand clonidine-displacing substance and by K+ and the K(+)-channel antagonists 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium bromide but not Na+. We conclude that: (a) adrenal chromaffin cells express imidazoline receptors but not alpha 2-adrenergic receptors; (b) these sites are predominantly localized to adrenal medullary mitochondria; and (c) imidazoline receptors conform to an idazoxan preferring (I-2) rather than the clonidine preferring (I-1) subclass and are amiloride sensitive. The data support the view that alpha 2-adrenergic and imidazoline receptors are distinct receptor species and that adrenal chromaffin cells would be a useful cultured cell system, expressing only imidazoline receptors, for further molecular and functional studies of the receptors.
Acute injections of the full dopamine D1 receptor agonist A-77636 ((1R,3S)-3-(1'adamantyl)-1-aminomethyl-3,4-dihydro-5,6-dihydroxy-1 H-2-benzopyran hydrochloride) induce ipsilateral Fos-like immunoreactivity and contralateral rotation into rats bearing unilateral dopamine depleting lesions. However, following repeated treatment, A-77636 fails to induce either striatal c-fos or rotation. Our results suggest that striatal c-fos activation mirrors behavioral indices of dopamine D1 receptor sensitivity.
Recent studies have demonstrated an important contribution of the A5 noradrenergic cell group of the rostral medulla in the regulation of nociceptive messages at the level of the spinal cord. These noradrenergic controls parallel those arising from the serotonin-containing neurons of the nucleus raphe magnus. In the present study, we used postembedding immunogold staining to identify GABA-immunoreactive terminals that synapse upon identified spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons of the A5 cell group in the rat. A5 projection neurons were identified by Fluoro-Gold transport from the spinal cord; sections containing retrogradely labelled cells were then immunoreacted for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to identify the catecholamine-containing, presumed noradrenergic, neurons. Double-labelled A5 cells were intracellularly filled with Lucifer Yellow (LY) and then the LY was photo-oxidized to an electron-dense product. Seven intracellularly filled TH-immunoreactive projection neurons were studied with postembedding immunocytochemistry. Each A5 neuron received a significant GABA-immunoreactive terminal input. Out of a pooled total of 151 terminal profiles found in apposition to intracellularly labelled somatic and dendritic profiles, 31 (20.5%) were GABA-immunoreactive. The proportion of GABA-immunoreactive terminals that contacted somatic profiles (12/72; 17%) was similar to the proportion that contacted TH-labelled dendritic profiles (19/79; 24%). There was a discernible synaptic specialization in about 50% of the labelled terminals that contacted the TH projection neuron. Both symmetric and asymmetric synaptic specializations were found. Labelled terminals contained round or pleiomorphic vesicles, but not flat vesicles; many also contained dense-core vesicles. Our results indicate that noradrenergic neurons of the A5 cell group, which contribute to both antinociceptive and cardiovascular controls through their projection to the spinal cord, are regulated by local GABAergic, presumably inhibitory, mechanisms. Whether the initiation of A5 neuron activity results from a lifting of tonic GABAergic inhibitory control, as has been proposed for the neurons of the nucleus raphe magnus, remains to be determined.
Retinal rods respond to light with a membrane hyperpolarization produced by a G-protein-mediated signalling cascade that leads to cyclic GMP hydrolysis and the consequent closure of a cGMP-gated channel that is open in darkness. A protein that forms this channel has recently been purified from bovine retina and molecularly cloned, suggesting that the native cGMP-gated channel might be a homo-oligomer. Here we report the cloning of another protein from human retina which has only about 30% overall identity to the rod channel subunit. This protein, immunocytochemically localized to rod outer segments, does not form functional channels by itself. However, when co-expressed with the cloned human rod channel protein, it introduces rapid flickers to the channel openings that are characteristic of the native channel. The hetero-oligomeric channel is also highly sensitive to the blocker L-cis-diltiazem, like the native channel. This new protein thus seems to be another subunit of the native rod channel. The hetero-oligomeric nature of the rod channel means that it is no exception to a common motif shared by other ligand-gated channels.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a form of synaptic plasticity that may underlie learning and memory. The experiments reported here demonstrate that cocaine blocks the induction of LTP at the excitatory synapses in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, but does not appear to do so by blocking NMDA receptors or channels. Once LTP had been established, however, cocaine had no effect on the potentiated response. Cocaine was also able to block LTP initiated by superfusing slices with 25 mM TEA. The ability to block LTP was shared by the local anesthetics lidocaine and procaine, but not by tetrodotoxin, suggesting that the blockade of sodium channels alone did not disrupt LTP. Biochemical experiments demonstrated that cocaine can inhibit phosphorylation of purified Synapsin I by Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. This effect, presumably mediated by effects on calmodulin, is a previously unreported action of cocaine, and suggests that cocaine at high dose levels might disrupt types of learning that are mediated by an LTP-like mechanism.
A presumed balance between striatal dopaminergic and cholinergic systems forms a major theoretical framework for the development of new agents for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. We therefore studied the effect of two drugs currently used as anti-parkinsonian agents, bromocriptine (BROMO) and L-beta-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), on the release of striatal acetylcholine (ACh) in intact and 6-hydroxy-dopamine-treated rats using in vivo microdialysis. Lesioned rats with a &gt; 90% tissue depletion of striatal dopamine (DA) had a significantly higher output of striatal ACh than unlesioned rats (88 fmol/min vs. 52 fmol/min; 0.3 mumol/l neostigmine in perfusate). BROMO (4 mg/kg) inhibited the output of striatal ACh in both groups. Whereas the lowest dose of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg) potently stimulated ACh output in lesioned rats, unlesioned rats were significantly less responsive. A higher dose of L-DOPA (100 mg/kg) stimulated ACh output to the same extent in both groups. At the highest dose tested, L-DOPA (200 mg/kg) given to intact rats did not further increase striatal ACh output. Thus, BROMO decreases whereas L-DOPA increases striatal ACh release after systemic application. Therapeutic as well as side effects of L-DOPA may therefore be mediated by neurochemical alterations that are more complex than previously thought.
We have previously demonstrated that prior exposure to chronic cold stress does not alter basal levels of norepinephrine (NE) release or synthesis in hippocampus of rat. However, in response to a subsequent novel stressor, an enhancement of both of these noradrenergic parameters is observed in the chronically stressed animals relative to naive controls. In the present experiments, we have examined whether the biochemical sensitization of NE release and synthesis produced by chronic stress can be demonstrated by local depolarization of the noradrenergic nerve terminals with elevated K+. The local application of elevated K+ in dorsal hippocampus resulted in a greater increase in extracellular NE and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in chronically stressed rats than in naive controls. It is proposed that in dorsal hippocampus, extracellular NE and DOPAC provide measures of NE release and biosynthesis, respectively. Therefore, these data suggest that local depolarization, similar to novel stress, elicits both enhanced NE release and synthesis in chronically stressed rats. One factor that is known to modulate both of these processes is the presynaptic alpha-2 adrenergic receptor. Therefore, we examined whether a change in the sensitivity of these receptors might contribute to the altered noradrenergic responsivity observed in chronically stressed rats. Local administration of clonidine, an alpha-2 receptor agonist, produced a decrease in extracellular NE and DOPAC in both naive and chronically stressed rats. The dose-response curve for the effect of clonidine on NE was shifted to the left in the latter group. In addition, local administration of idazoxan, an alpha-2 receptor antagonist, produced a greater increase in extracellular NE and DOPAC in the chronically stressed rats than in naive controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the serotonin and dopamine metabolites, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5HIAA) and homovanillic acid (HVA), respectively, were measured in a group of 17 children with Autistic Disorder (DSM-III-R). The group means observed for 5HIAA (135 +/- 91 nmol/L) and HVA (502 +/- 324 nmol/L) in the autistic children were not significantly different from those seen in the control group of 15 nonneurologically impaired children (5HIAA, 122 +/- 120 nmol/L; HVA 401 +/- 378 nmol/L). These data suggest that consistent, marked alterations in central serotonin and dopamine turnover are not present in the autistic subjects studied. Although studies to date have found little or no alteration in CSF 5-HIAA in autism, the various reports of CSF HVA are not entirely congruent. Although this study is consistent with most previous studies in not finding a group difference in CSF HVA, the possibility of increased CSF HVA in autism cannot be ruled out.
Neurotrophic factors regulate the developmental survival and differentiation of specific neuronal populations. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) are members of the nerve growth factor (NGF) protein family, also known as the neurotrophins. Insights into the different roles of neurotrophins can be gained by studying the expression of their functional receptors. Here we report the development of procedures for their radiolabeling and efficient crosslinking to specific cell-surface receptors. BDNF and NT-3 receptors in cell lines and tissue preparations expressing receptors for the 2 neurotrophins have been identified using this affinity crosslinking procedure. Like NGF, BDNF and NT-3 crosslinked to the low affinity NGF receptor (p75NGFR) on PC12 cells. BDNF and NT-3 also crosslinked to cells expressing p145trkB protein, producing an approximately 160 kD neurotrophin-receptor complex. Crosslinking of the 2 neurotrophins in vivo to specific trk family members in many areas of the central nervous system also produced a 160 kD receptor complex. However, in all brain regions a complex of approx. 100 kD could also be identified, all or most of which represents crosslinking to a truncated form of trkB. The broad distribution of BDNF and NT-3 receptors throughout the CNS suggests that neurotrophins may have yet unrecognized functions on specific neuronal populations. BDNF and NT-3 receptors were also found in brain areas in which the neurotrophins themselves are also synthesized, suggesting that beyond long-range trophic effects, these proteins may also act as autocrine or short-range paracrine regulators.
Primary embryonic hippocampal neurons can develop morphologically and functionally in culture but do not survive more than a few weeks. It has been reported that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) promotes the survival of and neurite elongation from fetal hippocampal neurons. We report that bFGF, in a dose-dependent manner, can induce the survival (50 pg to 1 ng/ml) and proliferation (10-20 ng/ml) of embryonic hippocampal progenitor neurons in vitro. In serum-free medium containing high concentrations of bFGF, neurons not only proliferated (4-day doubling time) and differentiated morphologically but also could be passaged and grown as continuous cell lines. The neuronal nature of the proliferating cells was positively established by immunostaining with several different neuron-specific markers and by detailed ultrastructural analyses. The proliferative effect of bFGF was used to generate nearly pure neuronal cell cultures that can be passaged, frozen, thawed, and cultured again. Neurons have been maintained &gt; 5 months in culture. The ability to establish long-term primary neuronal cultures offers the possibility that clonal lines of distinct neuronal cell types may be isolated from specific areas of the central nervous system. Such long-term neuronal cultures should prove valuable in studying neurons at the individual cell level and also in exploring interactions between neurons in vitro. The observed dose dependence raises the possibility that cell survival and proliferation in vivo may be influenced by different levels of bFGF.
DARPP-32, a dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 32,000, has been shown to be phosphorylated on threonine-34, both in vitro with high efficiency by cAMP-dependent and cGMP-dependent protein kinases and in vivo by dopamine acting through cAMP-dependent protein kinase. In the present study, we investigated the nitric oxide (NO)/cGMP pathway for its ability to regulate the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 in slices of rat substantia nigra. DARPP-32 was phosphorylated on threonine-34 in these slices by sodium nitroprusside (SNP), an NO donor. The effect of SNP was abolished by preincubation of the slices with hemoglobin, indicating that the effect of SNP was due to released NO. The same concentration of SNP produced a 4-fold elevation of the cGMP level but did not alter the level of cAMP. The effect of SNP on DARPP-32 phosphorylation was mimicked by low concentrations of 8-bromo-cGMP and 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate, activators of cGMP-dependent protein kinase, but not by low concentrations of 8-bromo-cAMP, an activator of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The data indicate a physiological role for the NO/cGMP pathway in the regulation of DARPP-32 phosphorylation in nerve terminals of striatonigral neurons. The results provide further evidence that the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 represents an important mechanisms for integration of information arriving at striatonigral neurons via a variety of neuronal pathways.
Intracellular recording of rat striatal neurons was performed in vitro to investigate posttetanic changes in the excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP) elicited by stimulation of the corpus callosum. Tetanic stimulation induced posttetanic potentiation (PTP) in 11 of 12 cells. The PTP decayed in 1-5 min and was followed by either a short or long duration depression of the EPSP in 10 of 12 neurons. The remaining two neurons examined showed a slight enhancement of the EPSP that lasted for 30 min after the tetanus. The group of cells demonstrating short-duration depression (n = 3) were characterized by a decay of the depression to the control level by 15-20 min post-tetanus. The EPSP in the remaining cells showing depression (n = 7) showed a maintained depression for the entire recording session. Blockade of GABAA receptors with bicuculline (30 microM) or NMDA receptors with APV (50 microM) did not effect the induction of long-lasting depression of the striatal EPSP. The data indicates that the corticostriatal pathway can undergo enduring forms of use-dependent synaptic plasticity. This type of synaptic modification may participate in the refinement of movement and contribute to striatal related learning and memory.
We generated four transgenic mice with a 34 kb genomic fragment including the complete human neurofilament heavy (NF-H) gene. This human NF-H fragment contained all regulatory elements for tissue-specific expression, and in two transgenic lines, human NF-H proteins were produced at levels up to 2-fold the levels of endogenous mouse NF-H protein. By 3-4 months of age, these NF-H transgenics progressively develop neurological defects and abnormal neurofilamentous swellings that are highly reminiscent of those found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We propose that a modest up-regulation of NF-H cross-linkers can result in an impairment of neurofilament transport, causing neuronal swellings with ensuing axonopathy and muscle atrophy, a mechanism of pathogenesis pertinent to the possible etiology of ALS.

When inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) receptors are activated, calcium is released from intracellular stores in excitatory propagating waves that annihilate each other upon collision. The annihilation phenomenon suggests the presence of an underlying refractory period that controls excitability. Enhanced calcium-adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) activity might alter the refractory period of calcium release. Expression of messenger RNA encoding the avian calcium-ATPase (SERCA1) in Xenopus laevis oocytes increased the frequency of IP3-induced calcium waves and narrowed the width of individual calcium waves. The effect of SERCA1 expression on calcium wave frequency was dependent on the concentration of IP3 and was larger at higher (1 microM) than at lower (0.1 microM) concentrations of IP3. The results demonstrate that calcium pump activity can control IP3-mediated calcium signaling.
This is the first report showing, in an in vivo study, that systemic morphine produced a marked (89%, P &lt; 0.01) increase of the cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) immunoreactivity in the perfusate of the rat spinal cord, an effect completely reversed by naloxone. Since CCK-8 has been shown to possess potent anti-opioid activity at a spinal level, a blockade of the spinal cholecystokinin effect would be expected to potentiate opiate analgesia. With tail flick latency as a nociceptive index, it was found that intrathecal (i.t.) injection of a novel CCKB antagonist L-365,260 produced a marked potentiation of the analgesic effect induced by the mu-opioid agonists morphine (4 mg/kg s.c.) or ohmefentanyl (32 ng i.t.). Similar effects were obtained with the CCKA antagonist devazepide at a dose 40-50 times higher than that of L-365,260. Both devazepide and L-365,260 showed a bell-shaped dose-response curve. The results confirm the notion that an increased release of CCK-8 may constitute a self-limiting process for opioid effects at the spinal level, and that it is the CCKB receptor which mediates the anti-opioid effect of CCK-8 in the rat spinal cord.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the tachykinin receptor types present on neurones of the rat medial habenula nucleus. Extracellular recordings were made from spontaneously active medial habenula neurones in tissue slices of rat brain. The tachykinin analogues [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P, [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10) and senktide were chosen for their potency and selectivity at NK1, NK2 and NK3 receptors, respectively. No neurone was observed to respond to [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10). Neurones did respond to [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P and to senktide with a rapid and concentration-dependent increase in firing rate. Of the neurones where recordings were made, responses were obtained to one, both or neither of the agonists. These data suggest that receptors similar to NK1 and NK3, but not NK2 receptors, are differentially expressed on subpopulations of neurones of this nucleus.
Nerve growth factor treatment of PC12 cells results in the rapid activation of MAP kinases. These enzymes are activated through interaction with a protein &quot;activator.&quot; The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activator has been partially purified by ion exchange and gel filtration chromatography. The activator has an apparent molecular mass of 50-60 kDa. The MAP kinase activator is rapidly generated in response to nerve growth factor (NGF) and can be detected within 30 s of exposure, reaching maximal levels within 2 min and then declining to near basal levels by 15-20 min. The activation of MAP kinase is dependent upon the time of incubation with the activator and on activator concentration. The MAP kinase activator is itself a protein kinase that phosphorylates MAP kinases and mediates their activation. The NGF-stimulated MAP kinase activator phosphorylates MAP kinase on serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues, establishing this enzyme as dual specific kinase. The MAP kinase activator is itself a phosphoprotein whose phosphorylation on tyrosine residues is stimulated upon NGF treatment of the cells. The enzyme activity of MAP kinase activator is abolished by treatment with both the tyrosine-specific phosphatase PTP-1 and the serine/threonine-specific phosphatase PP2A. The activator is produced in response to NGF, epidermal growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor. The protein kinase inhibitor K252a selectively inhibits the ability of NGF to generate MAP kinase activator activity. These data suggest that the upstream events governing MAP kinase activation involve the regulated phosphorylation of dual specificity MAP kinase activator as an immediate consequence of receptor activation.
Electrical stimulation of the preganglionic fibers innervating the rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) produces both short-term and long-term increases in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity that are not completely blocked by nicotinic antagonists. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and secretin, two neuropeptides known to produce short-term increases in TH activity, were examined for their ability to produce long-term increases in this enzyme activity. Culturing the SCG in the presence of either peptide produced a 30-50% increase in TH activity measured 2 days later. The results raise the possibility that one of these peptides or a related molecule participates in the transsynaptic induction of ganglionic TH.
Spinal neurons, lethally challenged with excitatory amino acids (EAAs) or with high-K+, underwent a biphasic rise in free intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i). In contrast to the initial rise in [Ca2+]i which recovered, the secondary, irreversible [Ca2+]i increase was unaffected by antagonists of EAA receptors or Ca2+ channels. Also, it correlated highly with cell death, but preceded vital staining with trypan blue and ethidium homodimer, reflecting damaged cellular Ca2+ regulation rather than plasma membrane leakiness. Our findings suggest that delayed Ca2+ overload is the end-product rather than the cause of Ca(2+)-triggered neurotoxic processes.
An animal model of peripheral neuropathy resulting in a unilateral hyperalgesia has recently been developed. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 reduces the thermal hyperalgesia observed in this model. The goal of the present study was to determine whether the immunohistochemical changes in dorsal horn peptides shown by neuropathic animals could also be modified by MK-801. Changes in immunostaining densities of substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) within the spinal cord of untreated (reference population) neuropathic rats and that of neuropathic rats treated for 7 days with MK-801 were quantified and compared. The reference neuropathic animals demonstrated thermal hyperalgesia and an ipsilateral decrease in SP staining density without an accompanying change in CGRP staining density. MK-801-treated animals showed a dose-dependent attenuation of the thermal hyperalgesia. The expected ipsilateral decrease in SP was prevented in neuropathic animals treated with a low dose (0.5 mg/kg) of MK-801, while a higher dose of MK-801 (1 mg/kg) resulted in an increase in SP staining ipsilateral to the injury. MK-801 treatment in naive rats caused a global increase in both SP and CGRP staining in the dorsal horn. However, this global increase failed to mask the changes in staining density in neuropathic animals following MK-801 treatment. The results suggest a functional interaction between excitatory amino acids (EAAs) and SP, with activation of NMDA receptors mediating depletion of SP in neuropathic animals. It is suggested that SP-containing interneurons are a target of the EAAs in the dorsal horn.
We previously reported that a late onset reduction of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (LORMAR) occurs in the gerbil hippocampus after 5 min of transient ischemia. This reduction begins as late as 7 days post-ischemia and accompanies the accumulation of glia, but is subsequent to completion of the disappearance of CA1 pyramidal cells. In the present study, we showed that this LORMAR was prevented by daily post-ischemic administration of the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (CsA). The effectiveness of CsA against the LORMAR indicates that an immune mechanism may be involved in the progressive brain damage occurring after transient ischemia.
Previous intracellular recordings have demonstrated that dorsolateral septal nucleus (DLSN) neurons express a novel nicotinic receptor which produces a direct membrane hyperpolarization when activated by nicotinic agonists. Activation of the classical excitatory nicotinic receptors has been shown to require a disulfide bond involving the cysteines at positions 192 and 193 of the alpha subunits of the receptor. Reduction of this cystine bond with dithiothreitol (DTT) abolishes agonist activation of excitatory nicotinic receptors. We have now examined whether DTT treatment of the inhibitory nicotinic receptor on DLSN neurons also abolishes the inhibitory nicotinic response. We find that the inhibitory response persists after treatment of the neurons with 1 mM DTT, even if the reduction is followed by alkylation of the receptor with bromoacetylcholine to prevent possible reformation of disulfide bonds. This result suggests that the agonist binding site on the inhibitory nicotinic receptor does not require an intact disulfide bond, similar to the bond on the alpha subunit of the excitatory nicotinic receptor, for agonist activation of the receptor. Some of these results have been previously reported in abstract form.
Actions of the polyamines spermine and spermidine on NMDA-induced currents were examined in cultured hippocampal neurons from embryonic rat. In whole-cell patch experiments using voltage-clamp, spermine (300 microM) produced about a two-fold potentiation of responses to NMDA (at -70 mV in the presence of saturating glycine); half-maximal potentiation was elicited at 207 microM. The potentiation produced by spermine was somewhat greater at positive potentials. The onset of potentiation was fast (t1/2 &lt; 1 s), indicative of an extracellular site of action. Spermidine was of comparable potency but less efficacious than spermine in potentiating NMDA responses. In excised outside-out patches, spermine exhibited two actions on NMDA-induced single-channel responses. In some patches, it increased the channel open probability; both frequency of channel opening and burst length were increased with no significant change in the mean open duration, which accounted for much of the potentiation seen in whole-cell experiments. In all patches, spermine decreased channel conductance at negative voltages, an effect ascribable to fast channel block (with a possible contribution by charge screening). These results are consistent with opposing actions of polyamines mediated at distinct sites on the NMDA receptor.
The administration of ethanol (2 g/kg, i.p.) or of the non-competitive antagonist(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cycloepten-5,1 0-imine maleate (MK-801; 1 mg/kg, i.p.) induced a decrease in the extracellular concentrations of glutamate, as studied by microdialysis in the striatum of awake rats. Moreover, ethanol and MK-801 completely prevented the increase in extraneuronal glutamate concentration induced by the focal application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). The present results suggest that ethanol suppresses glutamate release through an inhibition of NMDA glutamate receptors in the rat striatum.
Neurokinin receptors can couple to several second messenger systems including phospholipase C and intracellular calcium mobilisation. Using FURA-2 microspectrofluorimetry, this study examines the mobilisation of calcium in CHO cells which had been stably transfected with the long isoform of the human NK1 receptor. Substance P caused a concentration-dependent rise in inositol phosphate production which was correlated with a reversible increase in intracellular calcium levels. The mobilisation of calcium was reduced by the removal of extracellular calcium from the bathing solution, and almost totally abolished by depletion of intracellular calcium pools with 1 microM thapsigargin. These data suggest that the transduction mechanism associated with NK1 (long) receptor activation can utilise both intracellular and extracellular calcium pools in this expression system.
Demonstration of NADPH diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity in the nervous system has recently gained considerable interest since it has been shown that this enzyme is a nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Therefore, histochemical staining of NADPH-d activity provides a specific labelling of neurons that use nitric oxide (NO). In this work, spatiotemporal distribution of NADPH-d neurons has been determined during forebrain ontogenesis. NADPH-d neurons first appeared between embryonic days 15 and 16 and were confined to the fronto-lateral aspect of the incipient corpus striatum and cortical subplate but were not present in the cortical plate. Until birth, NADPH-d neurons differentiated progressively in cortical subplate and striatum in rostro-caudal and latero-medial directions. For both regions, the adult cortical pattern was established during the first postnatal week. The pattern of genesis of NADPH-d neurons might be related to the spatiotemporal ontogenesis of catecholaminergic afferents to the forebrain described previously in the literature.
A major challenge of current neuroscience is to elucidate the brain mechanisms that underlie cognitive function. There is no doubt that cognitive processing in the brain engages large populations of cells. This article explores the logic of investigating these problems by combining psychological studies in human subjects and neurophysiological studies of neuronal populations in the motor cortex of behaving monkeys. The results obtained show that time-varying psychological processes can be visualized in the time-varying activity of neuronal populations. Moreover, the functional interactions between cells in the motor cortex are very similar to those observed in a massively interconnected artificial network performing the same computation.
Gaetano Perusini merits a great deal more credit for his work on the elaboration of the concepts regarding what is now called Alzheimer's disease (AD). Perusini's work in Alzheimer's laboratory and his subsequent studies have been, if not neglected, largely unmentioned. This article is an attempt to report a fascinating piece of medical history in order to redress the balance. Surely, Perusini's work deserves to be reexamined. The same applies to Fischer's investigation. Some of the puzzles discussed by Perusini are still unresolved.
Recent improvements in magnetic resonance imaging techniques now allow the developing brain to be visualized in sufficient detail to perform &quot;in vivo neuropathology.&quot; In this study we compared the cortical morphology in six children with Angelman and four with Prader-Willi syndrome. These two syndromes are of special interest because, although they are both caused by deletions in the same region of chromosome 15, Angelman children are far more severely affected, and do not speak. We measured the length of the banks of the Sylvian fissure in a gapless series of thin sagittal images. Angelman children had a significantly larger proportion (75%) of anomalous fissures than the Prader-Willi children (12%). Anomalous cortical growth could result from mistimed expression and recognition of macromolecules involved in axonal guidance, target recognition, and pruning. We hypothesize that misrouting of long projection axons may be related to the Sylvian fissure anomalies and the language disorder in Angelman syndrome.
Although Angelman (AS) and Prader-Willi (PWS) syndromes are human genetic disorders with distinctly different developmental and neurobehavioural phenotypes, they both have abnormalities in inheritance of chromosome 15q11-q13. Whether AS or PWS arises depends on the parental origin of a deletion or uniparental disomy (the inheritance of 2 copies of a genetic locus from only one parent) for 15q11-q13. Normal development requires a genetic contribution for this genetic region from both a male and a female parent. The dependence on parental origin implies that genes in human 15q11-q13 have distinct functions depending upon epigenetic, parent-of-origin differences, known as genomic imprinting. Here, I review the role of uniparental disomy and genomic imprinting in the pathogenesis of AS and PWS, and briefly discuss phenotype-genotype correlations using candidate genes and mouse models, in particular for hypopigmentation.
Intracellular recordings of organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) neurons were obtained from superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. Most (32 of 34) OVLT neurons displayed a low threshold spike response during depolarizing pulses applied from holding membrane potentials negative to -70 mV. In 17 of 34 cells, electrical stimulation of the supraoptic nucleus area evoked antidromic responses. In 20 of the 34 cells, 8 of which were antidromically driven, identical stimuli also revealed either excitatory (n = 12) or inhibitory (n = 5) or mixed (n = 3) postsynaptic potentials. Axonal projections to the ipsilateral supraoptic nucleus were confirmed afterwards using reconstruction of Lucifer yellow-filled cells. A 10-40 mosmol/kgH2O increase in the osmolality of the superfusion media by addition of NaCl or mannitol prompted a membrane depolarization of 2-10 mV in each of nine OVLT neurons tested. These results indicate that OVLT neurons project to the supraoptic nucleus and possess intrinsic properties capable of influencing their excitability. Because neurons in OVLT depolarize consequent to elevations in media osmolality, the OVLT may provide a means by which hyperosmotic stimuli influence neuroendocrine function.
The authors found that buspirone added to the treatment of 33 patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder who were refractory to the serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine was no better than placebo in reducing obsessive-compulsive, depressive, or anxiety symptoms. This finding suggests that addition of buspirone to ongoing fluvoxamine therapy is not an effective treatment strategy for most patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.
The human hypothalamus is involved in a wide range of functions in the developing, adult and aging subject and is responsible for a large number of symptoms of neuroendocrine, neurological and psychiatric diseases. In the present review some prominent hypothalamic nuclei are discussed in relation to normal development, sexual differentiation, aging and a number of neuropathological conditions. The suprachiasmatic nucleus, the clock of the brain, shows seasonal and circadian variations in its vasopressin neurons. During normal aging, but even more so in Alzheimer's disease, the number of these neurons decreases. In homosexual men this nucleus is larger than in heterosexual men. The difference between the sexually dimorphic nuclei of men and women arises between the ages of 2-4 to puberty. In adult men this nucleus is twice as large as in adult women. In the process of aging, a sex-dependent decrease in cell number occurs. The vasopressin and oxytocin cells of the supraoptic and paraventricular nucleus are present in adult numbers as early as mid-gestation. Lower oxytocin neuron numbers are found in Prader-Willi syndrome, AIDS and Parkinson's disease. Familial hypothalamic diabetes insipidus is based upon a point mutation in the vasopressin-neurophysin-glycopeptide gene. Parvicellular corticotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus increase in number and are activated during the course of aging. In post-menopausal women, the infundibular or arcuate nucleus contains hypertrophic neurons containing oestrogen receptors. These neurons may be involved in the initiation of menopausal flushes. The nucleus tuberalis lateralis may be involved in feeding behaviour and metabolism. In Huntington's disease the majority of its neurons is lost; in Alzheimer's disease it shows very strong cytoskeletal alterations. Tuberomammillary nucleus neurons contain, e.g., histamine or galanine, and project to the cortex. Strong cytoskeletal changes, as well as plaques and tangles are found in this nucleus in Alzheimer's disease. The various hypothalamic nuclei are probably involved in many functions and symptoms of which only a minority has been revealed.
The prognosis of patients with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is poor, with few patients showing remission or surviving. We describe a 37-year-old man who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in association with sarcoidosis. Despite treatment with cytarabine and acyclovir, he continued to deteriorate. Shortly following the addition of interferon alfa, he made a dramatic improvement, regaining full functional independence. The use of interferon alfa in addition to cytarabine in such patients offers a new therapeutic approach worthy of further trial.

We propose that the brain monoamine metabolism is one of the protective systems against oxidant- and free radical-induced damage in brain. In the present study, we show that norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), serotonin (5-HT), and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) protect brain homogenate and mitochondria against iron-dependent lipid peroxidation and protect brain microsomes against both iron-dependent and iron-independent lipid peroxidation. These compounds protect deoxyribose and benzoate against free radical-induced degradation and aromatic hydroxylation. Electron spin resonance studies show that the monoamines are excellent scavengers or inhibitors of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl radicals in organic solution, of superoxide and hydroxyl radicals in aqueous solution, and of carbon-centered radicals induced by iron ions in brain homogenate. Pro-oxidant properties were found in Fe(II)-H2O2-induced glutamic acid and 2-aminobutyric acid degradation, and confirmed in Fe(III)-bleomycin-dependent DNA degradation in a biphasic manner. The above effects are approximately in the order of NE = DA = 5-HT; DA &gt; DOPAC &gt; HVA; and 5-HT &gt; 5-HIAA. Related supportive and contrary observations and hypotheses are discussed. Attempts are also made to briefly interpret some experimental and clinical observations.
Developments in the neurosciences, neuropharmacology and in cognitive/behavioural therapy have helped in providing effective treatment for OCD. That OCD can be treated successfully is likely to lead to greater public demands on clinicians for diagnosis and treatment. It is thus hoped that the quality of life for sufferers will improve and the secretiveness and shame they now feel about their illness will no longer occur.
1. The effects of the glycine/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, R-(+)-HA-966 on the neurochemical and behavioural responses to phencyclidine (PCP) and dizocilpine (MK-801) have been determined in rodents. 2. In rats, pretreatment with PCP (5 and 10 mg kg-1) or MK-801 (0.25 and 0.5 mg kg-1) dose-dependently stimulated dopamine turnover in nucleus accumbens, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex, but had no effect in striatum. In contrast, pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 (10 and 30 mg kg-1) did not affect dopamine turnover in any brain region investigated. 3. Pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 (10 and 30 mg kg-1) significantly antagonized the stimulation of dopamine turnover induced by both PCP (10 mg kg-1) and MK-801 (0.5 mg kg-1) in rat nucleus accumbens, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. 4. Intracerebral dialysis studies in conscious rats demonstrated that systemic injection of PCP (10 mg kg-1) markedly stimulated dopamine release from the nucleus accumbens, an effect that was abolished by pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 (30 mg kg-1). 5. Pretreatment with PCP (3-30 mg kg-1) or MK-801 (0.1-1.6 mg kg-1) significantly increased locomotor activity in mice. In contrast, subcutaneous injection of (+)-HA-966 (10-100 mg kg-1) failed to stimulate activity. 6. Pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 (10 and 30 mg kg-1) dose-dependently antagonized both PCP (10 mg kg-1) and MK-801 (0.4 mg kg-1) induced hyperactivity in mice. 7. Blockade of PCP-induced hyperactivity by (+)-HA-966 is unlikely to be explained by the induction or potentiation of sedation/ataxia since PCP-induced rotarod deficits were not significantly different in mice pretreated with (+)-HA-966 (30 mg kg-1) or saline.8. The results demonstrate that (+ )-HA-966 antagonizes both the neurochemical and behavioural effects of PCP and MK-801, possibly through interactions at the glycine/NMDA receptor.
We describe a case of marked increases in serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) associated with a dramatic exacerbation of tardive dyskinesia (TD). Chart review of eight additional patients with severe TD revealed three cases with mild CPK elevations. These cases suggest that TD, especially when accompanied by dystonia, may be associated with pathology of striated muscle.
It was the object of this study to measure the time course of the action potential in individual human sensory nerve fibres in relation to conduction properties of the axons. For this purpose, the technique of percutaneous microneurography was combined with intradermal electrical stimulation of distal portions of the axons. Recordings were made at the wrist level from 57 type-identified mechanoreceptive median nerve afferents [mainly rapidly adapting (RA) and slowly adapting type I (SAI)] innervating the glabrous skin of the hand. Measurements were made of the duration and time-to-peak of the positive peak of the diphasic (large positive phase followed by smaller, slower negative phase) action potential typically recorded using microneurography. Durations ranged from 0.31 to 0.75 ms (mean 0.50 ms) and times-to-peak from 0.12 to 0.45 ms (mean 0.21 ms), with no difference between afferent categories (RA, SAI). Time-to-peak was strongly positively correlated with duration (linear r = 0.81). Conduction velocity was measured over the distance extending from the point of intradermal stimulation (typically in the fingertips) to the point of recording at the wrist (distal conduction velocity). Absolute refractory period was measured using paired stimuli applied at the point of intradermal stimulation, within the receptive field of the afferent (distal absolute refractory period). Distal conduction velocities ranged from 15 to 60 m/s (mean 33 m/s), and distal refractory periods from 0.7 to 4.5 ms (mean 2.1 ms), with no difference between afferent types (RA, SAI). Distal absolute refractory period was inversely correlated with distal conduction velocity. The data were slightly better described assuming a non-linear (exponential) relationship; the non-linear correlation coefficient was -0.77. The time course of the action potential varied inversely with distal conduction velocity and directly with distal absolute refractory period. The time-to-peak versus conduction velocity data were slightly better described by a power than a linear relationship. Coefficients of correlation were: duration versus conduction velocity, linear r = -0.76; time-to-peak versus conduction velocity, non-linear r = -0.64; duration versus absolute refractory period, r = 0.70; time-to-peak versus absolute refractory period, r = 0.76. Extensive intercorrelation between the variables duration, distal conduction velocity and absolute refractory period was revealed by multiple correlation techniques. Inter- and intra-subject skin temperature variation was within 5 degrees C. Correcting the time course, conduction velocity and absolute refractory period values for temperature variation within this limited range did not affect the results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The aim of this study was to evaluate how different memory disorders affect subjective time durations. For this purpose we studied prospective time estimations in 4 amnesic (A) and in 15 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and compared their performance with that of 5 matched young normal controls (YC) and 15 elderly subjects (EC). For the short-time durations we asked the subject to repeatedly reproduce a standard interval of 1 s. To test how subjects evaluated longer time durations, we choose a verbal estimation procedure. The subjects' task was to read either 5, 10, 20, or 40 digits appearing one at a time, while concurrently keeping the rhythm of 1 key press per second. At the end of each sequence, subjects had to judge the elapsed time from the beginning of the trial. Results showed that amnesics can correctly reproduce 1-s intervals. However, their accuracy of verbal estimates of longer durations was severely impaired. AD patients showed increased variability on repeated reproduction of 1-s intervals and were both inaccurate and imprecise in their verbal estimate of longer durations. Using the framework of the Scalar Timing Model, we conclude that amnesic patients exhibit a deficit in encoding and storing the current time for intervals that exceed their short-term memory range, while AD patients show a pattern of deficit that is explained by a more widespread involvement of both the clock, the memory, and the decisional mechanisms.
A cDNA library directed by a specific primer was constructed from the rat spinal cord and screened with 32P-labeled rat choline acetyltransferase cDNA which was recently isolated in this laboratory. Sequence analysis of 29 clones indicated that there are four types of cDNA (R1-, R2-, N1- and M-types). The nucleotide sequences in these cDNAs were identical in the coding region and the first 38 bp of the 5'-noncoding region, but differed in the 5'-noncoding region upstream of -38 bp. The R1-type was identical to the cDNA previously cloned from the rat spinal cord. The M and N1-type cDNAs both had sequences homologous to that of the cDNA previously obtained from the mouse spinal cord. Polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed the presence of these 4 types of mRNA and found another type (N2-type) of transcript. The numbers of cDNA clones isolated and the relative amounts of polymerase chain reaction products for each type of mRNA suggested that the most abundant transcript was M-type. Sequencing of the genomic clone containing the 5'-region of choline acetyltransferase mRNA revealed that these five types of mRNA species were transcribed from three different promoter regions and produced by differential splicing of the 5'-noncoding exons.
To investigate the mechanisms regulating neurofilament gene expression, we generated transgenic mice with high copy number of the intact human neurofilament light (NF-L) and heavy (NF-H) genes. Overexpression in transgenic mice of NF-L mRNA from 3- to 5-fold in different regions of the central nervous system (CNS) resulted only in a mild increase of 10-50% in the levels of NF-L proteins. The failure to enhance NF-L protein content was not due to interspecies differences in posttranscriptional NF-L regulation. For instance, based on specific immunodetection, it is estimated that human NF-L proteins composed 80% of total NF-L content in the spinal cord of transgenics. In contrast to the situation with NF-L, the CNS of transgenic mice bearing multiple copies of the human NF-H gene showed comparable increases in the levels of NF-H mRNA and proteins. These results suggest that the NF-L and NF-H genes are subject to different posttranscriptional regulation in the CNS. In vivo labeling of newly synthesized proteins by injection of [35S]methionine in the spinal cords of normal and transgenic mice provided evidence that the posttranscriptional regulation of NF-L expression in the CNS must occur, at least in part, at the level of translation.
Immunohistochemical localisation of Fos was used as a marker of neuronal activity to demonstrate neurons active during non-convulsive spike-wave epilepsy. Fos-positive neurons in cortex and several subcortical areas were counted. In undisturbed animals. Fos counts were not related to spike-wave in any region. With the electroencephalographic (EEG) recording procedure. Fos induction occurred in all regions, even after habituation. However, in central cortex, counts were found to be inversely related to spike-wave duration. This suggests that neuronal activity is not increased during spike-wave and that the central cortex in these animals is less responsive to arousal than in non-epileptic animals.
We analyzed the effect of several growth factors and cytokines on the expression of amyloid beta protein precursor (APP) mRNAs in cultured mouse neuronal and glial cells. In neuronal cultures from embryonic day-15 brain. Northern blotting revealed that APP mRNAs increased by 1.3- to 2.6-fold when treated with nerve growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, interleukin 1, interleukin 2, interleukin 3, interleukin 6 or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor but not with tumor necrosis factor alpha. An S1 nuclease protection assay revealed that the enhanced APP mRNA in neuronal cultures was exclusively APP695 mRNA. On the other hand, astrocyte-enriched cultures prepared from postnatal day-2 brain did not show any significant alteration among these factors. We conclude that certain growth factors and cytokines could enhance APP 695 mRNA expression in neurons in vitro.
GAP-43 (B-50,F1, pp46) is a calmodulin binding protein which is specific to the nervous system and also a substrate for the protein kinase C. Furthermore an enrichment of this protein in the growth cone and developmental brain indicate that this protein is related to nerve development, regeneration, and outgrowth. While its level dramatically decreases after the completion of synaptogenesis, the protein is still to some extent continuously expressed in certain regions of the mature brain. In order to clarify GAP-43 localization in mature normal rats, we investigated the distribution of GAP-43 mRNA in the rat central nervous system by using a non-radioisotopic in situ hybridization histochemistry. This method demonstrated GAP-43 mRNA expressing cells with high resolution. GAP-43 mRNA was more abundant in the forebrain than in the lower brainstem. Intense hybridization signal was observed in the mitral cells of olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, CA3 region of hippocampus, diagonal band, substantia nigra, raphe nuclei, locus coeruleus, and dorsal motor nucleus of vagus. Weak to moderate hybridization signals were also widely expressed in thalamus, hypothalamus, and midbrain. Moreover, most noradrenergic, adrenergic, serotonergic, histaminergic, and caudal part of dopaminergic cells exhibited an intense GAP-43 mRNA signal. Thus, GAP-43 mRNA is abundantly expressed under normal conditions in the brain and may play an important physiological role particularly in the forebrain and in monoaminergic neurons supporting the findings that GAP-43 could be implicated in plasticity and monoamine release.
The present study attempted to explore the gene expression of the subunits (GluR1-4) of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type receptor, subunit (GluR5) of kainic acid (KA)-type receptor, NR1 [a subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors] and the possible glutamate-binding subunit of an NMDA receptor complex in the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cords using in situ hybridization histochemistry. These results were compared with those of the spinal motor neurons. Expression of the subunits of the AMPA-type receptor was also examined at the protein level using immunocytochemistry, with reference to the motor neurons. Although all the four subunits of the AMPA-type receptor were expressed throughout the dorsal horn, the pattern of expression was different according to the dorsal horn region and to the subunits. GluR2 showed the strongest expression in the dorsal horn. Huge numbers of strongly labelled cells formed a dense collection in lamina II and superficial parts of lamina III. Many neurons in lamina II and superficial parts of lamina III expressed GluR1 moderately. Scattered neurons moderately expressing GluR3 were also seen in these regions, while the expression of GluR4 was very low. Labelling of the dorsal horn neurons by the GluR5 probe was low, and NR1 probe and a glutamate-binding subunit of an NMDA receptor complex probe labelled them diffusely with low to moderate intensity. These findings show a close relationship between the glutamergic nociceptive primary afferent system and AMPA-type receptors in which GluR2 is especially highly expressed. The present study further showed that the expression pattern of the glutamate receptors in the spinal sensory neurons differs considerably from that of spinal motor neurons. Motor neurons very strongly express GluR3 and 4, while the expression of GluR2 and GluR1 is moderate and low, respectively. Expression of GluR5 is also low in the motor neurons. However, expression of NR1 and the glutamate-binding subunit of an NMDA receptor complex is very strong. These findings indicate that the subunit composition of the AMPA-type receptors regulating motor neurons is different from that of the AMPA-type receptors in the spinal sensory neurons, and that there are at least two kinds of glutamergic systems which regulate motor neurons: via AMPA-type receptors and via NMDA receptors.
The overall distribution of mRNA for the substance P receptor (NK-1) was investigated in the rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry using synthetic oligonucleotide probes. The NK-1 positive cells were distributed throughout the brain. Among the positive cells an intense hybridization signal was observed in the basal ganglia and the dorsal tegmental areas. In the hippocampus, hypothalamus, midbrain, and medulla oblongata, weak to moderate positive signal were recorded in various areas. Comparing our results with those of previous workers on the localization of substance P using both immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization various relationships between the ligand and its receptor localization were characterized. Generally the areas containing the abundant substance P immunoreactive (SP-IR) terminals were associated with NK-1 mRNA positive cells, some examples of this can be seen in the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the locus coeruleus, and the dorsal raphe nucleus. Contrary to these matched areas, we could not detect NK-1 mRNA positive cells in the substantia nigra, where there is a strong projection from the caudate putamen containing the substance P. Similarly the substantia gelatinosa in the trigeminal tract nucleus and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord where numerous SP-IR fibers are located, did not show abundant NK-1 mRNA positive cells. Only a few weakly labeled positive cells could be found.
Hemorrhagic infarction and cerebral hematoma are feared events that may follow cerebral ischemia. Newly developed thrombolytic agents may be effective stroke therapy, but may also promote hemorrhagic complications after ischemic stroke. It is therefore critically important to understand the true incidence of hemorrhagic transformation after ischemic stroke, and to identify if possible the mechanisms underlying the phenomenon. In recent years, studies using serial computed tomography to identify hemorrhage have shown that transformation occurs in 15 to 43% of patients presenting with ischemia. Experimental and clinical evidence support the notion that hemorrhage results from augmented collateral circulation into the ischemic zone, perhaps in concert with hypertension. Recanalization and distal migration of the thrombus are not factors that are associated with transformation. Pharmacologic recanalization using thrombolytic drugs are not likely to be associated with hemorrhage if reperfusion is accomplished very soon after the onset of neurologic symptoms.
A unique case of a 3-year-old child who presented with neck pain and torticollis following a streptococcal pharyngitis is described. Radiological evaluation revealed dislocation of the synchondrosis between the odontoid and the body of the axis with resultant atlantoaxial instability. This dislocation healed spontaneously over the course of 2 months without any orthotic or surgical treatment.
We performed a crossover study of apomorphine-induced motor response reproducibility in 10 parkinsonian patients with the &quot;on-off&quot; phenomenon. On 2 separate days, each patient received two successive identical s.c. apomorphine injections, the second injection being randomly administered either 10 or 80 min after the end of the first apomorphine-induced motor benefit. Latency (12.3 +/- 4.5 min) and duration (61.9 +/- 13.3 min) of motor effects were similar in all tests. A transient worsening of the parkinsonian state after a motor improvement induced by apomorphine occurred in most of the patients. Therefore, the duration and severity of the &quot;off&quot; period after a motor improvement does not seem to influence the efficacy of a second apomorphine administration.
We describe an approach to automatic all-night sleep analysis based on neural network models and simulated on a digital computer. First, automatic sleep stage scoring was performed using a multilayer feedforward network. Second, supervision of the automatic decision was achieved using ambiguity rejection and artifact rejection. Then, numerical analysis of sleep was carried out using all-night spectral analysis for the background activity of the EEG and sleep pattern detectors for the transient activity. Computerized analysis of sleep recordings may be considered as an essential tool to describe the sleep process and to reflect the dynamical organization of human sleep.

Developmental dyslexia was until recently considered to belong solely in the domain of educational psychology. With the advent of better theories on language and reading, and better methods for assessing the structure and function of living human brains and for determining genetic transmission, dyslexia is now poised to become a focal concern of cognitive neuroscience, neurology, and genetic research. Still unresolved are questions relating to how much a reading disability represents a normal variation or a separate pathological entity, and whether the cognitive disorder is primarily cognitive, or secondary to a disorder in early perception. Recent findings from neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neuropsychology, and genetics research are reviewed. (This review is an updated version of a review first published in Current Opinion In Neurology and Neurosurgery 1992, 5:71-76.)
Non-invasive recordings of electrical and magnetic fields from the human brain have revealed spatio-temporal patterns of neuronal activity associated with sensory, motor, and cognitive processes. Recent technical advances allow for improved localization of these activity patterns to specific brain structures. This review considers how electrical and magnetic recordings can help to delineate the neural systems and information processing operations that underlie auditory and visual perception, selective attention, mental chronometry, and memory.
How can higher level aspects of cognition, such as figure-ground segregation, object recognition, selective focal attention and ultimately even awareness, be implemented at the level of synapses and neurons? A number of theoretical studies emerging out of the connectionist and the computational neuroscience communities are starting to address these issues using neural plausible models.
LTP is a form of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity that has been investigated mainly in the hippocampus. It is considered likely that similar mechanisms may also account for aspects of naturally occurring plasticity in the neocortex. Consequently, an increasing number of studies have been devoted to the investigation of neocortical LTP. Recent results suggest that at least two forms of LTP coexist in layer III of the neocortex. One depends on NMDA-receptor activation and resembles the LTP observed in hippocampal field CA1. A second form is independent of NMDA receptors and requires activation of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels.
The roles of innervation, muscle electrical activity, and muscle contraction in regulating the formation and survival of primary and secondary myotubes during embryonic and fetal development of skeletal muscle were studied using the mouse mutants peroneal muscular atrophy (pma) and muscular dysgenesis (mdg). The pma phenotype includes the absence of the peroneal division of the sciatic nerve, so muscles in the anterior compartment of the lower hindlimb are aneural throughout development. Muscles in mdg mice are paralyzed due to the absence of excitation-contraction coupling and hyperinnervated due to suppression of motoneuron death in consequence of their paralysis, but otherwise are electrically excitable and receive synaptic transmission. In a quantitative comparison between control and mutant extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles at E15, primary myotube numbers were depressed by 20-30% in both mutants and in paralyzed or denervated muscles from control strain animals. The number of secondary myotubes, however, was normal in pma mutants and two and a half times greater than normal in the hyperinnervated mdg EDL muscles, so that the ratio of secondary to primary myotubes was increased by 300% in the mutant with respect to heterozygous or -/- littermates. Chronic paralysis with tetrodotoxin (TTX) caused no further depression of primary myotube numbers in aneural pma muscles, but secondary myotube numbers were reduced by 40%, reducing the ratio of secondary to primary myotubes by 35%. We conclude that during normal development the generation of secondary myotubes depends on neurally evoked electrical activity in primary myotubes, which stimulates mitosis of secondary myoblasts. The effect of TTX shows that aneural pma primary myotubes discharge spontaneous myogenic action potentials, while mdg muscles may receive greater than normal electrical activation due to their hyperinnervation, explaining the presence and numbers of secondary myotubes in the mutant mouse muscles.
The role of motor innervation in supporting and regulating muscle development was studied using aneural muscles in the hindlimb of the mouse mutant peroneal muscular atrophy (pma). This is a single-locus autosomal mutation where homozygous animals lack the common peroneal nerve, so that muscles in the anterolateral compartment of the lower leg develop entirely without innervation. In adults, these muscles are extremely atrophied, and the mice display a clubfoot deformity. The mutant animals provide a preparation in which aspects of muscle formation can be studied in muscles that have never been exposed to direct contact with somatic motor or sensory axons, without pharmacological or surgical intervention. Using quantitative electron microscopy, we found that normal numbers of primary myotubes formed in aneural pma EDL muscles, but a greater than normal proportion degenerated during the first 2 days after their formation. Secondary myotubes appeared at their normal time and position within the muscle, initially in normal numbers, so that the ratio of secondary to primary myotubes initially was greater in pma than in CF1 control strain mice. No abnormalities in ultrastructure were seen until the time of birth, when retardation in development was obvious, together with invading macrophages and degenerating myofibres. The results show that secondary myotube formation in the mouse, as in the chick (B. J. Fredette and L. T. Landmesser, Dev. Biol. 143, 19-35, 1991) is not directly dependent on innervation. In control muscles, secondary myotubes first form in the vicinity of endplates on primary myotubes. No aggregations of ACh receptors or acetylcholinesterase were present in the aneural muscles, showing that these are neurally induced in the mouse, but secondary myotubes formed in their normal position indicating that positional information related to endplate formation is present in aneural muscles.
Skeletal muscles formed in the absence of innervation are deficient in number of fibers, atrophic, and prone to degeneration. We and others have suggested that primary myotubes form autonomously, and the major effect of embryonic denervation is to halt the formation of secondary myotubes by removing the mitotic stimulus for generation of their precursor myoblasts. This hypothesis has recently been put into question by the results of work by Condon et al. (Dev. Biol., 138, 275-295, 1990) and by B. J. Fredette and L. T. Landmesser (Dev. Biol. 143, 19-35, 1991) who propose that lowered secondary myotube numbers are at least in part due to absence of the primary myotubes which would normally serve as scaffold for their formation. We distinguish between these hypotheses by studying generation and degeneration of primary myotubes and formation of secondary myotubes in fetal rat muscles denervated by injection of beta-bungarotoxin at different times between Embryonic Days (E) 14 and 17. Denervation at any of these times reduced primary myotube numbers on E18 to about 80% of control. Despite this modest decrease in primary myotube numbers, secondary myotube generation fell to below 3% of normal in extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles denervated on E14 or E15 and to below 12% of control in soleus muscles denervated on E14-E16. Secondary myotubes were associated with degenerating as well as intact primary myotubes. More secondary myotubes were generated only if nerves had been present up until E16 for EDL or E17 for soleus. We suggest that these observations of a critical period until E16 (EDL) or E17 (soleus) during which innervation is an absolute prerequisite for secondary myotube formation reflect the presence of a nerve-dependent population of myoblasts which must be activated before secondary myotube formation can commence.
Nerve regeneration in diabetic animals is delayed and qualitatively impaired, but the mechanisms responsible for these defects have not been elucidated. The extracellular matrix protein laminin promotes the extension of neuronal processes, and recent studies have localized neurite-promoting activity to a lysine-containing sequence (IKVAV) within the laminin molecule. Because long-lived molecules such as laminin are likely to accumulate excessive amounts of nonenzymatic glycosylation products in diabetic subjects, we have investigated whether such adduct formation on laminin or the IKVAV peptide affects their neurite-promoting properties. These studies used the murine neuroblastoma cell line NB2a, which extends neurites on laminin when differentiated by cAMP. Neurite outgrowth in NB2a cells plated on glycosylated laminin was significantly decreased from that occurring on unmodified laminin. Similarly, neurite outgrowth in NB2a cells plated on glycosylated IKVAV peptide was inhibited compared with that observed on native IKVAV. These data suggest that nonenzymatic glycosylation of a biologically active domain within laminin may contribute to impaired nerve regeneration in diabetes.
Studies were performed with the overall goal of testing the hypothesis that cholecystokinin (CCK), a peptide hormone released from the gastrointestinal tract in response to meal consumption, provides a metabolic signal which modulates LH secretion in response to changes in the body's nutritional intake. In an initial study to document the effects of CCK on LH secretion in adult male rhesus monkeys, sulfated CCK-8 (7 and 15 micrograms/kg) was administered to six monkeys, and blood samples were collected from indwelling venous catheters. The 15-micrograms/kg dose of CCK elicited a rapid release of LH, with peak LH levels of 31.29 +/- 7.19 ng/ml occurring within 5-15 min. To determine the CCK receptor type mediating the effect of CCK on LH secretion, specific CCK type-A (L-364,718) and type-B (L-365,260) receptor antagonists (1 mg/kg) were administered to five monkeys 15 min before CCK administration. The CCK-A antagonist completely blocked LH secretion in response to CCK, whereas the CCK-B antagonist had no effect. To assess whether endogenous CCK, released in response to food intake, stimulates LH secretion, six monkeys were fasted for 1 day and then provided with a normal meal of monkey chow (i.e. a refeed meal) the following day, with either no antagonist, CCK-A antagonist, or CCK-B antagonist administered 30 min before the meal. As previously demonstrated, meal consumption after a brief period of fasting caused a rapid stimulation of pulsatile LH secretion. The refeed meal led to a comparable stimulation of LH secretion regardless of whether monkeys received no antagonist (3.7 +/- 0.44 LH pulses/9 h), CCK-A antagonist (3.33 +/- 0.56 LH pulses/9 h), or CCK-B antagonist (4.0 +/- 0.78 LH pulses/9 h). These results indicate that CCK can stimulate LH secretion in adult male rhesus monkeys, acting via type-A CCK receptors. However, endogenous CCK released in response to meal intake does not appear to be responsible for the meal-induced stimulation of LH secretion that occurs when monkeys are fed a normal meal after a brief period of fasting.
The neuroanatomical basis of forelimb motor control was examined following various surgical spinal cord lesions in the rat. Focal myelotomies were made at spinal level C4 to determine the effects that damage to long-tract pathways in the dorsal columns, dorsolateral funiculi, and ventrolateral funiculi have on a forelimb reaching and pellet retrieval task. Dorsal column lesions did not significantly reduce retrieval performance but did yield: (i) qualitative alterations in digit use during grasp execution, (ii) targeting errors during reaching attempts, and (iii) an apparent lack of ability to sense the presence of a pellet in the paw. Damage to the dorsolateral funiculi produced significantly diminished pellet retrieval performance at all postlesion intervals due to a prominent grasp deficit involving impaired digit flexion. Lesions of the ventrolateral funiculi did not produce a sustained, significant reduction in retrieval performance, although a qualitative deficit characterized by a mild forelimb reaching hypometria and premature grasp execution was exhibited. Based on comparisons with previous supraspinal and peripheral lesion studies in rats and supraspinal and spinal lesion studies in other mammalian species, the current results indicate that organization of descending and ascending spinal long-tract motor control of the forelimb in the rat is very similar to that described in other mammals, including primates. Additionally, these results demonstrate that the rat can serve as a biomedically relevant model of behavioral impairment and recovery following cervical spinal cord injury.
Synaptic bodies (SBs) associated with rings of synaptic vesicles and well-defined, pre- and post-synaptic membrane structures are indicators of maturity in most hair cell-afferent nerve junctions. The role of the SBs remains elusive despite several experiments showing that they may be involved in storage of neurotransmitter. Our results demonstrate that SBs of the adult posterior semicircular canal (SCC) cristae hair cells become less electron dense following incubation of the SCC with the transmitter-depleting drug tetrabenazine (TBZ). Objective quantification and comparison of the densities of the SBs in untreated and TBZ-treated frog SCC demonstrated that TBZ significantly decreased the electron density of SBs. This reduction in electron density was accompanied by a reduction in firing rates of afferent fibers innervating the posterior SCC. A second transmitter-depleting drug, guanethidine, previously shown to reduce the electron density of hair cell SBs, also reduced the firing rates of afferent fibers innervating the posterior SCC. In contrast, the electron density of dense granules (DG), similar in size and shape to synaptic bodies (SB) in hair cells, did not change after incubation in TBZ, thus indicating that granules and SBs are not similar in regard to their electron density. The role of SBs in synaptic transmission and the transmitter, if any, stored in the SBs remain unknown. Nonetheless, the association of the lessening of electron density with a reduction in afferent firing rate provides impetus for the further investigation of the SB's role in neurotransmission.
Vasopressin receptors are present in both the developing and mature dentate gyrus of the rat brain and are of the V1 vasopressor type. Because vasopressin has been shown to influence memory function when injected into the dentate gyrus, the influence of this peptide on an electrophysiological model of learning and memory using the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) of the dentate gyrus was investigated. Results of these studies showed that nanomolar concentrations of [Arg8]-vasopressin induced a prolonged increase in the amplitude and slope of the evoked population response in the presence of 1.5 mM calcium. Moreover, the expression of the vasopressin-induced potentiation of the EPSP persisted following removal of vasopressin from the perfusion medium. The vasopressin-induced sustained increase has been termed long-term vasopressin potentiation (LTVP). The closely related neuropeptide oxytocin had no effect upon the EPSP of the dentate gyrus. Preincubation of hippocampal slices in a selective V1 antagonist blocked the expression of LTVP. The ability of the V1 antagonist to block LTVP demonstrates that the potentiation induced by vasopressin is receptor-specific. In the presence of 2.5 mM calcium, the effect of vasopressin was opposite to that observed in 1.5 mM calcium. Under the conditions of 2.5 calcium, vasopressin induced a prolonged depression in the amplitude and slope of the EPSP. Expression of both potentiation and depression appeared within 5 minutes of application and persisted for the length of the observation, 60 minutes. These experiments demonstrate that vasopressin can induce long-lasting changes in the excitability of dentate gyrus neurons that are both calcium-dependent and receptor-specific.


Fucosidosis is a rare lysosomal storage disease due to a nearly complete deficiency of alpha-L-fucosidase (EC 3.2.1.51). In this study, all 8 exons of the alpha-L-fucosidase structural gene (FUCA-1) were amplified by PCR methods, and the amplified products were subcloned and sequenced. Five patient groups with fucosidosis were selected according to their ethnic backgrounds and haplotypes for RFLPs in FUCA-1. Four presumptive disease causing mutations were detected: 1) A major deletion of DNA containing the last two exons of FUCA-1 in two Algerian siblings. 2) A G to T mutation in exon 6 resulting in an in-frame termination codon (E375X) in eight Hispanic patients from Colorado and New Mexico. 3) A G to A mutation (G60D) in exon 1 in four Italian patients and in three related French-American (Cajun) patients. This G60D mutation creates a unique site for AflIII. 4) A frameshift mutation resulted from a two-base deletion in exon 2 (K151fs) in an Italian patient. This deletion obliterates a unique BstXI site and creates a new BpmI site, and was found in only this patient and in only one allele. The rationale for proposing these defects as disease causing mutations includes pedigree analysis and the predicted consequences of each defect upon the activity and the concentration of the enzyme. An A to G transition (Q281R) in exon 5 was found to be present in homozygous form in affected patients and also in normal subjects; it appears to be a newly identified polymorphism. It causes a charge change and may be responsible for the electrophoretic variant phenotype of fucosidosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of glycolytic inhibitor 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) on radiation damage were studied in a human glioma cell line (BMG-1), grown to confluence in monolayer. After irradiation (60Co-gamma-rays, 2 Gy) and incubation with low concentrations of 2-DG (0.5, 1.25 mM; 2-DG/glucose = 0.1, 0.25; 2 hr), in the absence or presence of respiratory inhibitor KCN (0.5-2 mM), cells were trypsinized and plated to assay radiation induced cytogenetic damage (micronuclei formation). The observations made were: (1) 2-DG and/or KCN treatments did not induce damage in unirradiated cells. (2) Either of these treatments did not increase radiation induced micronuclei formation. (3) Presence of 2-DG along with KCN (1,2 mM) significantly enhanced the radiation induced micronuclei formation. (4) Preliminary experiments by macrocolony assay showed that radiation induced cell death was also significantly increased by the combined treatment. These observations suggest that presence of clinically feasible, low concentrations of 2-DG (2-DG/glucose &lt; 0.5) for short intervals of time after radiation could increase radiation damage in non-cycling, hypoxic tumour cells with impaired oxidative and increased glycolytic energy metabolism.
A questionnaire on ECT, tapping attitudes, opinions and usage, was mailed to all medical members of the Indian Psychiatric Society whose addresses were known; 263 (28.8%) responded. This paper, the second in a series that presents the results of the survey, describes the practical administration of ECT. Specific issues discussed are the availability of a cardiopulmonary resuscitation kit, ECT premedication, the ECT device, certain aspects of ECT stimulation, the electrode placement during ECT, administration of multiple ECT during a single treatment session and monitoring of the seizure duration. It is concluded that, in many respects, the practical administration of ECT in India in suboptimal; further research is required in certain areas.
Recently, we reported the production and secretion of plasminogen (Pg) in cultured rat brain microglia [Nakajima et al., (1992) Fedn. Eur. Biochem. Socs Lett. 308, 179-182]. To investigate the physiological significance of Pg, we determined the effect of Pg on neurite outgrowth of cultured neocortical explants of an embryonic rat brain in serum-free chemically defined medium. Pg markedly enhanced the neurite outgrowth. Although plasmin, which is derived from Pg by activation by urokinase (UK), had a similar effect in this explant culture system, UK itself did not show any effect. Furthermore, we studied the characteristics of Pg binding to cultured neocortical neurons dissociated from an embryonic 16-day-old rat brain by using 125I-Pg. Specific binding of Pg to neocortical neurons was detected and Scatchard plot analysis revealed high- and low-affinity binding sites on the neurons. The estimated dissociation constants of high- and low-affinity binding sites were approximately 16.1 and 124.2 nM, respectively. These results suggest that microglia-derived Pg plays certain roles in the regulation of neurite extension through binding to the surface of neocortical neurons.
Explant cultures of glial scars generated by surgical removal of the retina in 3-60-day-old rats were used to determine if reactive astrocytes survive in vitro and how closely reactive astrocytes in culture resemble their in vivo counterparts. Characterization of the composition of age matched glial scars in vivo and in vitro showed that reactive astrocytes survived in glial scar explants even after several weeks in culture. Reactive astrocytes in both neonatal and adult glial scars retained ultrastructural features characteristic of reactive astrocytes in vivo. However, fewer reactive astrocytes survived in culture when explants were prepared from adult rat glial scars. The results of this study demonstrate that tissue culture is a viable model for the study of reactive astrocytes. A critical factor in the survival of reactive astrocytes in culture was the complete removal of myelin debris prior to the establishment of the culture. This outcome suggests that it will be important to clarify why myelin debris persists in culture and how it affects the survival of reactive astrocytes.
This study evaluates whether the rapid transient increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA in the hippocampus after electrolytic lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC) are triggered by lesion-induced changes in hippocampal neuronal activity (either the decreases that result from loss of afferent drive or transient increases that occur during lesion production). To evaluate the role of activity, we carried out four experiments: (1) tetrodotoxin (TTX) was injected into the EC to mimic the decreases in afferent drive that occur after lesion; (2) TTX was injected into the EC or hippocampus before producing electrolytic lesions to block any abnormal activity induced during lesion production; (3) the EC was destroyed by aspiration, thus creating a lesion comparable in size to the electrolytic lesion, without passing direct current; (4) seizures were elicited by stimulating the EC of anesthetized rats, to examine whether electrographic seizures alone can induce the same type of increases in GFAP mRNA as lesions. Our results demonstrated that: (1) TTX injections into the EC did not induce the same increases in GFAP mRNA levels that occurred after EC lesions; (2) animals that received TTX injections into the EC prior to lesions exhibited increases in hippocampal GFAP mRNA that were nearly as great as following EC lesions alone; (3) aspiration lesions of the EC resulted in increases in GFAP mRNA that were comparable to those observed after electrolytic lesions; and (4) seizure-inducing stimulation of the EC resulted in 2-fold increases in GFAP mRNA in the hippocampus 24 hr after stimulation rather than the 5-13-fold increases observed after lesions. These results suggest that lesion-induced changes in hippocampal neuronal activity are not solely responsible for inducing the rapid transient increases in GFAP mRNA levels in the hippocampus ipsilateral to EC lesions.
Thirty patients with major depressive disorder of melancholic subtype were randomly allocated to receive ECT either twice or thrice a week. Double-blind ratings on the Hamilton Scale for Depression and Clinical Global impression showed no differences in the outcome through 4 weeks of trial as well as at 6-month follow-up. Cumulative seizure duration was higher in the thrice weekly group but not significantly so in spite of having received a significantly greater number of ECTs. The results indicate that ECT given thrice a week conferred no advantage over ECT given twice a week.
In the chronic stretch model, muscle fiber hyperplasia precedes fiber hypertrophy [Alway et al. Am. J. Physiol. 259 (Cell Physiol. 28): C92-C102, 1990]. This study was undertaken to determine if an intermittent stretch protocol would induce fiber hypertrophy without fiber hyperplasia. A weight equalt to 10% of the bird's mass was attached to the right wing of seven adult quail while the left wing served as the intra-animal control. The weight was attached to the wing for 24-h periods interspersed with a 48- to 72-hr rest interval. The actual stretch time was 5 days while the length of the treatment period was 15 days. Muscle mass and length increased significantly 53.1 +/- 9.0 and 26.1 +/- 7.3% in the stretched anterior latissimus dorsi. Fiber number, which was determined from a histological section in the midregion of the muscle, did not change (control 1,651.6 +/- 94.8; stretch 1,626.0 +/- 70.9). The slow tonic fiber areas increased significantly an average of 28.6 +/- 5.7%, whereas the fast fibers increased 18.5 +/- 8.4% when compared with control values. Mean fiber area (average of slow and fast fibers) increased significantly by 27.8 +/- 6.0% in the stretched anterior latissimus dorsi. There were no differences in the percentage of slow fibers or volume density of noncontractile tissue. These data indicate that muscle adapts differently to intermittent stretch than it does to chronic stretch despite an equivalent load and stretch duration. In contrast to chronic stretch, 5 days of intermittent stretch produces muscle fiber hypertrophy without fiber hyperplasia.
The effects of hypobaric hypoxia on cognitive processing in humans were studied by recording event-related potentials (ERPs) from the scalp in a go/no-go reaction time (RT) paradigm under various simulated high altitudes. Most subjects indicated abrupt impairment of RT at high altitudes. RTs lengthened in association with changes in latency and amplitude of the N2-P3 components, reflecting sensory discrimination and evaluation processes. Some subjects did not suffer any changes in RT up to an extremely high altitude of 6,000 m. In the latter case, although the N2-P3 components did not undergo any changes, the P3 component was followed by a sequence of negative on-going (frontal maximum) and positive on-going (parietal maximum) slow waves. The amplitudes of these slow waves increased as altitude increased. Although these same waves appeared in the ERPs of subjects who demonstrated the increase in RTs at high altitudes, when the subjects failed in the RT task, both of the slow waves either disappeared or diminished. Such slow waves may be associated with attempts to maintain RTs against the deteriorative effects of hypobaric hypoxia.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of bioactive peptides through a two step reaction catalyzed by separate enzymes contained within the PAM precursor. To characterize the trafficking of integral membrane PAM proteins in neuroendocrine cells, we have generated stable AtT-20 cell lines expressing full length and COOH-terminally truncated integral membrane PAM proteins. Full length integral membrane PAM was present on the cell surface in low but detectable amounts and PAM proteins which reached the cell surface were rapidly internalized but not immediately degraded in lysosomes. Internalized PAM complexed with PAM antibody was found in a subcellular compartment which overlapped with internalized transferrin and with structures binding WGA. Thus the punctate juxtanuclear staining of full length PAM represents PAM in endosomes. Endoproteolytic processing of full length PAM-1 and PAM-2 resulted in the secretion of soluble PAM proteins; the secretion of these soluble PAM proteins was stimulus dependent. Although some of the truncated PAM protein was also processed and stored in AtT-20 cells, much of the expressed protein was redistributed to the plasma membrane. Soluble proteins not observed in large amounts in cells expressing full length PAM were released from the surface of cells expressing truncated PAM and little internalization of truncated integral membrane PAM was observed. Thus, the COOH-terminal domain of PAM contains information important for its trafficking within the regulated secretory pathway as well as information necessary for its retrieval from the cell surface.
Fourteen consecutive children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) (age range, 4 months to 11 years; median 4 years) were studied prospectively comparing nonenhanced cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomographic (CT) scans. MRI and CT were performed twice: at time of entry into protocol and again at 1 year. In addition, sequential neurologic (every 2 months) and neuropsychological examinations (every 6 months) were performed. At entry, 12 children had abnormal neurologic examinations; of these, 10 had developmental delay; two children were normal by developmental history and neurologic examination. Five children performed in the normal range on a standardized neuropsychological test, whereas nine children showed significant delays in verbal or motor/perceptual development. Following 1 year of study, four children had normal and six had abnormal neurologic examinations (six stable and four improved). Neuropsychological examinations were normal in five children and abnormal in five (seven stable, one improved, and two deteriorated). At entry, the following neuroradiographic abnormalities were seen: brain parenchymal volume loss (eight, MR = CT), cervical lymphatic enlargement (four, MR = CT), striatal-thalamic calcification (one, CT &gt; MR), delayed myelination (one, MR &gt; CT), and focal white-matter lesions (one, MR &gt; CT). At 1 year the following neuroradiographic changes were seen: brain parenchymal volume loss (10, MR = CT; two improved, eight stable); cervical lymphatic enlargement (one, MR = CT; three improved, one stable), striatal-thalamic calcification (one, CT &gt; MR; one new), and focal white-matter lesions (one, MR &gt; CT; one stable).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In order to evaluate comprehensively haloperidol pharmacokinetics under fixed-dose treatment conditions, psychiatric patients were studied after treatment with an acute dose, during maintenance therapy, and after withdrawal from haloperidol following steady-state conditions. After single doses, haloperidol appeared rapidly in serum, achieving peak concentration at a mean of 4.5 hours. The range of observed elimination half-life was broad, between 8.5 and 66.6 hours, with a mean of 19.5 hours. Under conditions of chronic dosing, serial measurements of steady-state serum concentration revealed intrapatient coefficients of variation between 2 and 72%. The mean for all patients was 26.4%. Body clearance decreased nonsignificantly, and elimination half-life increased significantly after chronic dosing compared with kinetic parameters determined after a single dose. The concentration of haloperidol in serum obtained at 8 hours after a single dose correlated most strongly (r = 0.73; p &lt; 0.0001) with steady-state concentration resulting from chronic dosing. A value of 4 ng/ml or lower determined 8 hours after a single oral dose of 0.2 mg/kg identified patients who did not accumulate haloperidol during chronic dosing of 0.4 mg/kg per day above a presumed therapeutic range for haloperidol of 5 to 15 ng/ml. The implications of these data for the clinical use of haloperidol are discussed.
Recent studies on the distribution of optic axons in the mature visual pathways, as well as on the genesis of their ganglion cells of origin, suggest that the time of axonal arrival at the optic chiasm determines the side of the brain to which a temporal retinal axon will project. The present study has examined this issue directly in fetal ferrets, by determining the projection of the temporal retina at different developmental stages. Fetuses of known gestational age were fixed with paraformaldehyde and subsequently implanted with crystals of the carbocyanine dye, DiI, into either the temporal retina, or into one optic tract. The lipophilic diffusion of the dye within the plasma membrane of the axons revealed the course of temporal retinal fibers through the fetal chiasm, as well as the distribution of ganglion cells across the two retinae projecting to one optic tract. During early fetal stages, the temporal retina extends axons preferentially into the ipsilateral optic tract: the early retinal projection shows a classical partial decussation pattern. During later fetal stages, temporal retinal axons can be traced into both optic tracts, and the distribution of cells with crossed and uncrossed optic axons in the temporal retina is overlapping. These results indicate that the mature decussation patterns of retinal ganglion cell classes are not primarily the consequence of regressive phenomena such as cell death; rather, they are formed as axons navigate the chiasmatic region during development. The differences in decussation pattern between cell classes arise from the fact that the mechanisms producing the segregation of nasal and temporal retinal axons at the chiasm must change as development proceeds.
Spinal somatic and autonomic (sympathetic preganglionic) motor neurons are generated synchronously and, subsequently, migrate from the ventricular zone together to form a common primitive motor column. However, these two subsets of motor neurons ultimately express several phenotypic differences, including somal size, peripheral targets, and spinal cord locations. While somatic motor neurons remain ventrally, autonomic motor neurons (AMNs) move both dorsally and medially between embryonic days 14 and 18, when they approximate their final locations in spinal cord. The goal of the present investigation was to determine the potential guidance substrates available to AMNs during these movements. The dorsal translocation was studied in developing upper thoracic spinal cord, because, at this level, the majority of AMNs are located dorsolaterally. Sections were double-labeled by ChAT (choline acetyltransferase) and SNAP/TAG-1 (stage-specific neurite associated protein/transiently expressed axonal surface glycoprotein) immunocytochemistry to visualize motor neurons and the axons of early forming circumferential interneurons, respectively. Results showed that during the developmental stage when AMNs translocated dorsally, SNAP/TAG-1 immunoreactive lateral circumferential axons were physically located along the borders of the AMN region, as well as among its constituent cells. These findings indicate that lateral circumferential axons, as well as the SNAP/TAG-1 molecules contained upon their surfaces, are in the correct spatial and temporal position to serve as guidance substrates for AMNs. The medial translocation was studied in developing lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinal cord, because, at this level, more than half of the AMNs are medially located. Sections were double-labeled by ChAT and vimentin immunocytochemistry to visualize motor neurons and radial glial fibers, respectively. Observations on consecutive developmental days of the medial translocation revealed that AMNs were aligned with parallel arrays of radial glial fibers. Thus, the glial processes could serve as guides for the AMN medial movement. Future experimental analyses will examine whether circumferential axons and radial glial fibers are in fact functioning as migratory guides during AMN development, and, if so, whether specific surface molecules on these guides trigger the subsequent differentiation of AMNs.

Tactile experiences remodel the central nervous system representations of the body surface. The results of assessments of ten peripheral manipulations that reveal different aspects of representational plasticity are reviewed: (1) chronic peripheral denervation; (2) surgical amputation; (3) digital syndactyly and its natural behavioral equivalents; (4) peripheral nerve crush with reinnervation; (5) peripheral nerve transection and repair, with reinnervation; (6) denervation of very large skin surfaces, for very long times; (7) electrical stimulation of large-fiber afferents in the median nerve, simulating electroacupuncture; (8) implantation of always-innervated island pedicle flaps; (9) behavioral training with locationally invariant stimuli; and (10) behavioral training with moving stimuli. Focus is on the changes recorded in a primary somatosensory cortical field, area 3b, following these ten manipulations, in adult monkeys. On the basis of these findings, the following are discussed: (1) how altered schedules of activity from the skin contribute to cortical representational remodeling; (2) other factors that influence the representational remodeling; (3) where the remodeling actually occurs; and (4) some implications of these findings for sensory rehabilitation.

We describe here a simple method for combining non-radioactive and radioactive in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry on the same brain tissue section. This approach was first developed on the well-characterized hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system, facilitating the optimization of the triple-labeling procedure and the verification of labeling specificity. We report the simultaneous detection of vasopressin (VP) mRNA with a digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotide, oxytocin (OT) mRNA with a 35S-labeled oligonucleotide, and OT peptide in the same 12-microns cryostat section. This was performed on floating sections as follows: first, the two probes were hybridized simultaneously; second, the peptide was detected with an immunoperoxidase-DAB procedure; third, the digoxigenin-labeled probe was detected with an alkaline phosphatase-NBT/BCIP technique; and finally, the 35S-labeled probe was detected by histological autoradiography. We also demonstrate that this approach is suitable for the simultaneous detection of tyrosine hydroxylase and two less abundant mRNAs, vasoactive intestinal peptide and vasopressin mRNAs, in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The combination of the three techniques did not significantly diminish their specificity or sensitivity. In conclusion, this new method, permitting the simultaneous detection of three different products of gene expression in the same section, could be useful for further analysis of the phenotypic organization and its plasticity in endocrine or neural tissues.
The bombesin-like peptides comprise a large family of peptides common to both amphibians and mammals that function as growth factors, neurotransmitters, and paracrine hormones. GRP, the mammalian homolog of bombesin and its receptor, as well as NMB, the mammalian homolog of ranatensin, are expressed in human neoplasms and, in particular, in small cell lung carcinomas (SCLC). To better characterize the physiological roles of bombesin-like peptides, our laboratory has cloned the receptors for GRP in murines, rats, and humans. The 3T3 GRP receptor was isolated and characterized using the two-electrode-voltage-clamp analysis and acquorin-emission methods in xenopus oocytes expression system. The rat and human GRP and NMB receptors were cloned by hybridization at low stringency, using the mouse cDNA receptor probe. Sequence analysis of the receptors showed 384 and 390 amino acids for GRP and NMB receptors, respectively. The homology between the two receptors is 60% and between species in the same receptor, 90%. The receptors belong to the 7-membrane spanning domains superfamily. The specific GRP-R antagonist blocked the response to bombesin in oocytes injected with GRP-R, but failed to do so in oocytes injected with NMB-R. The two receptors differ in their distribution of tissue expression. RNA blot and RNase protection analysis showed the same size of mRNA without alteration in the receptors. RT + PCR analysis performed on genomic DNA revealed similarity between normal and cell DNAs, suggesting no major gene deletion or rearrangement. Southern blot analysis indicated the absence of gene amplification. Sequence analysis of the exonic segments of the receptor genes displayed identical amino acids to the respective cDNAs. None of the genes had classic TATAA box. Somatic cell hybrids localized the GRP-R on the X-chromosome and the NMB-R on chromosome 6. The same sequence of normal genes and cDNAs of GRP and NMB receptors, together with the gene characterization, demonstrated that SCLC cell lines do not require a structural change in receptor protein or genomic rearrangement.
Newborn rats were treated with the opiate antagonist naltrexone daily for 1-2 wk in order to examine the effects of endogenous opioid peptides on astrocytes during CNS development. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and cyclic AMP were measured in astrocytes cultured from cerebellum, striatum, and hippocampus of 1 d, 1 wk, and 2 wk postnatal rats. Cerebellar and striatal, but not hippocampal, astrocytes prepared from naltrexone-treated animals produced higher levels of NGF than those from controls. The turnover rate of cyclic AMP, measured following treatment of the cells with forskolin in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX, was increased in naltrexone-derived cerebellar and striatal astrocytes. Opiate receptors could not be detected on the cultured astrocytes, either by direct binding of 3H-etorphine or by modulation of cyclic AMP content. These results suggest that endogenous opioid peptides may function indirectly to alter trophic factor synthesis in astrocytes.
Fifteen days after transection of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial tract at the lateral retrochiasmatic hypothalamic area, neurosecretory axons had vigorously regenerated into transplants of explanted hypophysial neural lobe, to a lesser extent into sciatic nerve transplants, and least into optic nerve transplants. Regenerating axons were always closely associated with the specific glial cells of these grafts. When these glial cells were killed by cryotreatment prior to transplantation, neurosecretory axons did not regenerate into the abundant extracellular matrix of the transplants, including persisting basal lamina tubes in neural lobe and sciatic nerve grafts. The presence of viable glial cells is a prerequisite for neurosecretory axon regeneration.


The effect of cyclic AMP on the gene expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was studied in NG108-15, mouse neuroblastoma and rat glioma hybrid cell lines. Addition of dibutyryl cyclic AMP to the culture medium increased both the ChAT mRNA level and ChAT activity twofold. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of the ChAT mRNA indicated that, among the multiple mRNA species, M-type mRNA was transcribed most efficiently, with or without the addition of dibutyryl cyclic AMP. The 5' region of the mouse ChAT gene was ligated to the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene, and the expression of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity was determined by transfection analysis. Cyclic AMP derivatives enhanced the reporter gene expression in both transiently and stably transfected cells. DNA deletion analysis indicated that the intron region downstream of the M-type exon is necessary for the cyclic AMP responsiveness, and that cyclic AMP derivatives increase ChAT gene transcription mainly from M-type promoter. These results suggest that a cis-acting DNA element that confers the cyclic AMP responsiveness of the ChAT gene is present in the intron downstream of the M-type exon.
Polyamines positively modulate the activity of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive glutamate receptors. The concentration of polyamines in the brain increases in certain pathological conditions, such as ischemia and brain trauma, and these compounds have been postulated to play a role in excitotoxic neuronal death. In primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons, exogenous application of the polyamines spermidine and spermine (but not putrescine) potentiated the delayed neurotoxicity elicited by NMDA receptor stimulation with glutamate. Furthermore, both toxic and nontoxic concentrations of glutamate stimulated the activity of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC)--the key regulatory enzyme in polyamine synthesis--and increased the concentration of ODC mRNA in cerebellar granule neurons but not in glial cells. Glutamate-induced ODC activation but not neurotoxicity was blocked by the ODC inhibitor difluoromethylornithine. Thus, high extracellular polyamine concentrations potentiate glutamate-triggered neuronal death, but the glutamate-induced increase in neuronal ODC activity may not play a determinant role in the cascade of intracellular events responsible for delayed excitotoxicity.
During development of the vertebrate CNS the functional properties of astrocytes change significantly. Many of these functional changes result from modifications in the expression of cell surface adhesion molecules on astrocytes that mediate the interactions of astrocytes with other astrocytes, neurons, and growing axons. In this study we have compared the cell surface expression of HNK-1, NCAM, and laminin on rat cortical type-I-like astrocytes during maturation in vitro and in vivo. Both the proportion of immunoreactive cells and the relative levels of expression of these antigens on different aged astrocyte populations were assayed by flow cytometry. At birth, most cortical type-I astrocytes express high levels of HNK-1 and NCAM, while approximately 50% of the cells express laminin. During maturation in vitro, the proportion of cortical astrocytes that expressed these surface molecules decreased over a period of 28 days, even though cell size and glial fibrillary acidic protein content increased. During maturation in vivo, a qualitatively and temporally similar decrease in antigen expression on astrocytes was observed. This reduction in the expression of specific cell surface molecules on maturing astrocytes results from maturation of a single population of astrocytes and not differential proliferation of a nonexpressing subpopulation of astrocytes, as shown by cell cycle analysis of both immunoreactive and nonimmunoreactive cell populations. These data indicate that during maturation of rat cortical type-I-like astrocytes, the expression of cell surface adhesion molecules is regulated. Furthermore, this regulation appears to be cell autonomous and not dependent on environmental factors. Such regulation of adhesion molecule expression may have profound consequences for the functional properties of astrocytes during CNS maturation.
Plasma prolactin concentrations were measured in unanaesthetized male rats before and after stereotaxic microinjection of adrenergic agents into the mediobasal and preoptic-anterior hypothalamus. In the mediobasal hypothalamus injection of the alpha 2 agonist clonidine produced a dose-dependent increase in prolactin secretion over the dose range 0.1 to 10 nmoles, the stimulation due to 1 nmole being blocked by idazoxan (alpha 2 antagonist). Stimulation of prolactin release was also caused by isoprenaline (beta agonist) and was significantly reduced by the beta antagonist propranolol. The beta 2 agonist salbutamol was also effective in stimulating prolactin secretion. However, the adrenergic agonists, noradrenaline (mixed alpha and beta), phenylephrine (alpha 1) and tyramine (sympathomimetic) failed to affect prolactin secretion. In the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus clonidine caused a dose-dependent increase in prolactin secretion over the dose range 0.001 to 10 nmoles, the stimulation due to 0.1 nmole being abolished by idazoxan. While prolactin levels were significantly elevated by noradrenaline and tyramine, phenylephrine was ineffective. We conclude that the activation of alpha 2 and beta 2 adrenoceptors in the mediobasal hypothalamus and of alpha 2 adrenoceptors in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus, on or near prolactin-regulating neurons, results in increased prolactin secretion. An alpha 1 inhibitory action in the mediobasal hypothalamus has however not been ruled out. Adrenergic inputs in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus appear to exert a predominant facilitatory effect on prolactin secretion.
To investigate the role of endogenous catecholamines and 5-hydroxytryptamine in the control of growth hormone (GH) secretion, secretory profiles of GH and prolactin were measured in conscious, male rats following intravenous administration of either 1) alpha 2 antagonist idazoxan 2 mg/kg, a dose that blocked alpha 2 agonist induced GH rise, 2) alpha 1 antagonist prazosin 1 mg/kg, 3) non-specific beta-blocker propranolol 1.5 mg/kg, a dose that prevented beta 2 agonist (salbutamol) induced inhibition, 4) serotonin antagonist cyproheptadine 0.5 mg/kg, a dose that inhibited serotonin agonist quipazine induced GH rise, or 5) control. No drug altered mean GH or prolactin levels and pulsatile GH release persisted. Unilateral injections of prazosin, propranolol and idazoxan were made into the medial basal hypothalamus and preoptic-anterior hypothalamic area and of cyproheptadine into the medial basal hypothalamus, all with no effect on short-term GH release. GH and prolactin secretory profiles were measured after giving rats 6 units/kg intravenous insulin. Blood glucose levels fell to less than 50% basal. Hypoglycaemia caused a non-significant 30% fall in mean 2 h GH. Intravenous idazoxan, prazosin, propranolol and cyproheptadine (doses as in first study) did not modify the blood glucose fall, but idazoxan produced a significant reduction of mean GH compared to insulin alone (4 +/- 1.1 ng/ml SEM, idazoxan/insulin versus 16 +/- 5.6 ng/ml, saline/insulin). The lack of an effect of alpha- and beta-blockers on normal, pulsatile GH release is against a role for endogenous catecholamines in controlling this release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The impact of transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) on the management of 107 consecutively referred patients with suspected vertebrobasilar ischemia was studied. Physicians who referred patients for TCD of the posterior circulation were interviewed before and after being given the results of the TCD examination. Management plans devised prior to knowledge of the TCD results were compared to those devised after TCD results were given. Management changed in 42% of the patients after TCD results were given, and there was a 58% reduction in the use of angiography (p = 0.04) and a 128% increase in the use of aspirin (p = 0.005). Changes in the use of anticoagulants and other diagnostic or therapeutic approaches were not significant. TCD appears to have a significant impact on the management of patients with suspected vertebrobasilar ischemia.
The monoclonal antibodies SMI-31 and SMI-34 react with phosphate-dependent epitopes of the high molecular mass (200 kDa) neurofilament protein (Hphos). Determination of whether or not these monoclonals react with different epitopes would assist in interpretation of post mortem immunocytochemical analyses in neurodegenerative disorders and in normal aging. We therefore examined the relative immunoreactivity of these antibodies against Triton-insoluble (cytoskeleton-associated) and Triton-soluble Hphos variants in NB2a/d1 neuroblastoma and post-natal mouse brain in immunoblot analysis. Densitometric analysis yielded a 'reactivity ratio' (soluble Hphos/insoluble Hphos) for each antibody. This ratio was approximately 44% and 87% less for SMI-34 than for SMI-31 in neuroblastoma and brain, respectively. These findings confirm that the SMI-34 epitope is distinct from that recognized by SMI-31, and, in these systems, is preferentially associated with the cytoskeleton.
Of 50 patients with the clinical characteristics of mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS), 38 had a point mutation at nucleotide position (nt) 3243 in the tRNA(Leu(UUR)) region in mitochondrial DNA and 6 at nt 3271 in the same tRNA(Leu(UUR)) gene. Except for the later onset of the disease in the patients with the 3271 mutation, there were no clinical, biochemical and pathological differences between the two groups. Since the nt 3271 region is not located in the binding site for mitochondrial transcription termination (mTERM) factor, which has been proposed to be defective in the 3243 mutation, a functional defect in tRNA itself might be responsible for the enzyme defects in MELAS patients; however the mechanism by which the defective tRNA(Leu(UUR)) induces the stroke-like episodes remains to be clarified.
The characteristics of memory disturbance in multiple sclerosis (MS) are briefly reviewed and the interactions of conceptual and memory dysfunction in MS are considered. Although conceptual functions such as abstraction and problem solving traditionally have been considered to be frontal lobe functions, there is now convincing evidence from studies of patients with focal brain lesions that these capacities are not localized to the frontal lobes. Thus, the concept of frontal lobe dysfunction in MS is without empirical support. Nevertheless, studies examining the relationship between memory and conceptual impairment in MS have value for both basic and clinical neuroscience.
1. Electrical microstimulation was applied to an in vitro turtle brain preparation while recording extracellular activity from the cerebellar cortex. A visual input to the cerebellum was investigated by measuring spike responses evoked by stimulation of drifting visual patterns imaged onto the contralateral retinal eyecup. A vestibular input was assessed by extracellular field potentials following brief current pulses through monopolar suction electrodes holding the eighth cranial nerve (nVIII). 2. The cortical topography of visual and vestibular inputs was first examined. Visual units and vestibular fields show considerable topographic overlap in the rostrolateral quadrant of the cerebellum. In addition, granule layer units were isolated that responded to current stimulation of nVIII (60-150 microA monopolar). In some cases, spikes occurred at short and fixed latency after each current pulse for stimulus frequencies of 100 Hz. The responses of these units suggest a direct path between the stimulating and recording electrodes without intervening synapses. Alternatively, extracellular units were also encountered that responded with longer, more variable latencies but only for low stimulation frequencies (&lt; or = 20 Hz). Of the units that responded to nVIII stimulation, three units also responded to visual stimuli, yet those units all failed to follow high-frequency stimulation of nVIII. This cortical area may then be a site for convergence of visual and vestibular signals on postsynaptic cells. 3. The cellular identity of the visual units in the granule layer and the visual pathways leading there were next investigated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Single units were recorded extracellularly in the turtle's cerebellar cortex from an isolated brain preparation during visual stimulation. Only a small fraction of the isolated units responded to visual stimuli. For these visually responsive units, the most effective visual stimulus was a moving check pattern that covered the entire surface of the retinal eyecup. The visually responsive units had little or no spontaneous spike activity, nor were they driven by flashes of diffuse light or stationary patterns. 2. All the visually responsive units were direction sensitive and were driven exclusively by the contralateral eye. This direction tuning was well fit by a limaon model (mean correlation coefficient, 0.89). The distribution of the entire sample indicates a slight preponderance of upward preferred directions. 3. The direction tuning of these cerebellar units was independent of stimulus contrast or the pattern's configuration (such as checkerboards or random check or dot patterns). In the preferred direction, a unit's spike frequency increased monotonically as a function of stimulus velocity until approximately 10 degrees/s, but remained direction sensitive (relative to the opposite direction) at speeds as fast as 100 degrees/s. 4. In some experiments the ventrocaudal brain stem was transected in the frontal plane just caudal to the cerebellar peduncles. Although this lesion presumably removes climbing fiber input from the inferior olivary nuclei, the visual-response properties in the cerebellar cortex were unaffected. 5. The response properties of these units indicate that they encode retinal slip information in the cerebellum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. The goal of this study was to characterize the functional properties of spinal interneurons that are excited by muscular free nerve endings and to assess their contributions to the clasp-knife reflex. 2. The patterns of activity of 82 spinal interneurons that were excited by squeezing the Achilles tendon or manipulation of the muscle surfaces, preferential stimuli for muscular free nerve endings, were extracellularly recorded in lamina V-VII of the L5-S1 spinal cord in decerebrated and spinalized cats. 3. Interneurons were uniformly excited by increases in muscular length and force. Responses to muscle stretch exhibited gradual decay during maintained stretch, afterdischarge after stretch release, and adaptation to repeated stretch. Responses to isometric contraction induced by electrical stimulation of motor axons was also prolonged after contraction, but did not decay during maintained contraction. For similar increases in force, stretch evoked greater excitation than contraction, indicating that both stretch and contraction contributed to interneuronal activity. Overall, the time course and magnitude of the interneuronal responses to stretch and contraction paralleled the time course and magnitude of the clasp-knife reflex. 4. Interneurons were powerfully excited by muscular free nerve endings, which mediate the clasp-knife reflex, and by cutaneous receptors. Only occasionally were they excited by primary spindle or Golgi tendon organ afferents, which suggests that activation of muscular free nerve endings mediated the interneuronal responses to stretch and contraction. 5. Simultaneous recordings of interneuronal activity and the clasp-knife reflex revealed a broad correlation between interneuronal activity and clasp-knife inhibition. 6. Because the patterns of activity of free nerve ending-responsive interneurons during stretch and contraction were similar to the clasp-knife reflex, were closely correlated with clasp-knife inhibition during simultaneous interneuronal and reflex recordings, and were powerfully excited by muscular free nerve endings, it is likely that the interneurons described above contributed to the clasp-knife reflex. 7. In contrast, a small number (n = 16) of interneurons were recorded that were only weakly excited by muscular free nerve endings but strongly excited by group I afferents, exhibited less spontaneous and evoked activity, and had significantly different responses to stretch and contraction. These interneurons are less likely to have contributed to the clasp-knife reflex.
Despite great progress in the neurosciences, our understanding of the determinants of sexual orientation is incomplete. The authors review for the clinician/neuropsychiatrist studies pertaining to the formation of sexual orientation in the following areas: hormone effects on sexual behavior (animal and human); the complicated relationship between gender identity, gender role, and sexual orientation in humans; cross-cultural studies of homosexuality; behavioral observations in pseudohermaphrodites and offspring of mothers treated with hormones during pregnancy; brain studies of homosexual and heterosexual individuals; and genetic studies. The authors conclude that human sexual orientation is complex and diversely experienced and that a biopsychosocial model best fits the current state of knowledge in the field.
Effects of ibotenic entorhinal cortex (EC) lesions on both retrograde and anterograde amnesia in mice were assessed using two-choice discrimination tasks learned at different intervals before surgery in two eight-arm radial mazes. The results indicated that EC-lesioned mice were severely impaired in postoperative retention of discrimination problems learned 3 d or 2 weeks prior to surgery, but showed no deficit on problems learned between 4, and up to 6 weeks before surgery, as compared to sham-operated controls. When trained on a novel two-choice discrimination problem (not acquired preoperatively), experimental subjects demonstrated quite normal rates of acquisition, but were impaired in learning its reversal. Furthermore, they exhibited a faster rate of forgetting (anterograde amnesia) relative to controls over a 2-week retention interval. These results indicate that approximately 4 weeks is required before memory for a two-choice spatial discrimination problem no longer depends on the integrity of the entorhinal cortex, and suggests that, beyond this time, an EC-independent memory storage system is capable of supporting the retrieval of information. The data, together with complementary behavioral results, are discussed in the context of current theories of memory storage.
We have identified the glutamate receptor genes expressed by developing and adult rat optic nerve. Results from PCR suggested that of the ionotropic glutamate receptor (GluR) gene family, only GluR1 and GluR3 subunits are expressed by optic nerve. However, Northern blot analysis demonstrated that only the GluR1 subtype is expressed at appreciable levels. In situ hybridization histochemistry of GluR1 was performed and a diffuse pattern of expression was observed in both postnatal day 15 and adult optic nerve. Restriction mapping of the GluR1 PCR product indicated the expression of the flip alternative splice version in optic nerve. The detected GluR1 message was not due to axons because no loss of expression was observed after the degeneration of axons. PCR analysis also revealed the presence of a metabotropic glutamate receptor in optic nerve.
The expression of neurotransmitters/neuromodulators in sympathetic neurons is regulated by anterograde and retrograde mechanisms. We have examined the role of such mechanisms in the regulation of the neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). The adult rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) contains low levels of peptide-like immunoreactivity (IR) and mRNA for VIP. Some VIP-IR nerve processes, but only a few VIP-IR cell bodies, are detectable. Previous evidence demonstrates, however, that after the SCG is placed in organ culture for 48 hr, the level of VIP-IR and VIP mRNA and the number of VIP-IR cell bodies and fibers increase considerably. Two of the possible causes for these changes in peptide expression in sympathetic neurons are deafferentation and axotomy, both of which occur when the SCG is placed in culture. To determine the importance of deafferentation, the preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk was cut and the ganglion left in situ. Forty-eight hours later, VIP-IR increased twofold. A corresponding increase in the number of VIP-IR nerve processes was seen, but there was no detectable change in the number of VIP-IR cell bodies. The content of VIP/PHI mRNA also increased by 1.8-fold. The effect of axotomy on VIP-IR was examined by cutting the postganglionic internal and external carotid nerves and leaving the ganglion in situ. Forty-eight hours later, the level of VIP-IR increased 22-fold, many immunostained neurons were found, and the content of VIP mRNA increased over fivefold. After either deafferentation or axotomy, changes in VIP-IR were accompanied by comparable changes in the related molecule peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI)-IR. Neuropeptide Y-IR, on the other hand, decreased after deafferentation and increased only twofold after axotomy. The results indicate plasticity in the expression of VIP- and PHI-IR in adult sympathetic neurons in vivo, and suggest that the changes previously seen in organ culture were primarily a response to axotomy.
We have localized CDRK and DRK1, two novel K+ channels of the Shab subfamily by immunohistochemistry. The two channels are closely related in structure with about 90% amino acid identity in the N-terminal and middle portions and 60% identity in the C-terminal region. We observe striking differences in cellular localizations of the two channels. DRK1 tends to localize to cell bodies and proximal dendrites discretely, while CDRK is diffusely present in cell bodies and is also found on fibers in specific brain areas. In the cerebral cortex DRK1 is localized to pyramidal cells, whereas CDRK occurs in small cells, presumably interneurons. These localizations may reflect specialized delayed rectifier functions and targeting properties manifested differentially by K+ channel subfamily members.
Response properties of vertical (VC) and horizontal (HC) canal/otolith-convergent vestibular nuclei neurons were studied in decerebrate rats during stimulation with sinusoidal linear accelerations (0.2-1.4 Hz) along different directions in the head horizontal plane. A novel characteristic of the majority of tested neurons was the nonzero response often elicited during stimulation along the &quot;null&quot; direction (i.e., the direction perpendicular to the maximum sensitivity vector, Smax). The tuning ratio (Smin gain/Smax gain), a measure of the two-dimensional spatial sensitivity, depended on stimulus frequency. For most vestibular nuclei neurons, the tuning ratio was small at the lowest stimulus frequencies and progressively increased with frequency. Specifically, HC neurons were characterized by a flat Smax gain and an approximately 10-fold increase of Smin gain per frequency decade. Thus, these neurons encode linear acceleration when stimulated along their maximum sensitivity direction, and the rate of change of linear acceleration (jerk) when stimulated along their minimum sensitivity direction. While the Smax vectors were distributed throughout the horizontal plane, the Smin vectors were concentrated mainly ipsilaterally with respect to head acceleration and clustered around the naso-occipital head axis. The properties of VC neurons were distinctly different from those of HC cells. The majority of VC cells showed decreasing Smax gains and small, relatively flat, Smin gains as a function of frequency. The Smax vectors were distributed ipsilaterally relative to the induced (apparent) head tilt. In type I anterior or posterior VC neurons, Smax vectors were clustered around the projection of the respective ipsilateral canal plane onto the horizontal head plane. These distinct spatial and temporal properties of HC and VC neurons during linear acceleration are compatible with the spatiotemporal organization of the horizontal and the vertical/torsional ocular responses, respectively, elicited in the rat during linear translation in the horizontal head plane. In addition, the data suggest a spatially and temporally specific and selective otolith/canal convergence. We propose that the central otolith system is organized in canal coordinates such that there is a close alignment between the plane of angular acceleration (canal) sensitivity and the plane of linear acceleration (otolith) sensitivity in otolith/canal-convergent vestibular nuclei neurons.

Both the cAMP and the phosphoinositide (PI) second messenger systems have been implicated in olfactory signal transduction. We have developed a primary culture system of mammalian olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs; Ronnett et al., 1991a) to permit analysis of odorant-induced second messenger system activation in the intact ORN. The ability of a series of odorants to stimulate PI turnover and adenylyl cyclase was examined. All odorants stimulated both second messenger systems, although with differential potencies. Stimulation of PI turnover desensitized upon reexposure of cultures to odorant. The enhancement by single odorants of both adenylyl cyclase and PI turnover, but to varying degrees, affords a mechanism for increased specificity in olfactory signal transduction.
Periventricular white matter injury, the principal variety of brain injury of the human premature infant, involves differentiating oligodendroglia. Nothing is known of the biochemical mechanism of oligodendroglial death in this disorder. Because an early event in periventricular white matter injury is ischemia-induced axonal disruption and because such axonal destruction could lead to a marked increase in local concentrations of glutamate, we evaluated the vulnerability of differentiating oligodendroglia to glutamate in a culture model. Oligodendroglia were isolated from mixed-glial primary cultures by a selective detachment technique and grown in a primary culture under conditions that lead to differentiation. These oligodendroglia were found to be highly vulnerable to glutamate-induced cell death. The EC50 for glutamate for a 24 hr exposure was approximately 200 microM, comparable to the value reported for neurons in conventional cerebral cortical cultures. Astrocytes, in contrast, were shown to be resistant to as much as 5 mM glutamate. Study of glutamate receptor antagonists and glutamate transport substrates showed that the glutamate-induced oligodendroglial death was not related to a receptor mechanism, as operates in neurons, but rather was secondary to glutamate uptake by the oligodendroglia. Glutamate transport by high-affinity, sodium-dependent and by sodium-independent systems was shown. The central importance of glutamate uptake for the toxic effect of glutamate was shown by total prevention of the oligodendroglial toxicity by the simultaneous inhibition of glutamate uptake by the specific inhibitor D,L-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate. Subsequent observations showed that the toxicity of glutamate was mediated by free radical attack, the consequence of glutathione depletion, apparently caused by the action of a glutamate-cystine exchange mechanism that results in cystine and thereby glutathione depletion. Thus, addition of cystine or cysteine totally prevented the glutamate toxicity to oligodendroglia. Second, glutamate exposure led to cystine efflux. Third, glutathione levels decreased markedly in cells exposed to glutamate, and this marked decrease preceded the loss of cell viability. Fourth, glutamate toxicity could be prevented totally by exposure to different free radical scavengers, vitamin E and idebenone. The data thus show that glutamate is highly toxic to oligodendroglia. Moreover, the findings raise the possibilities that such glutamate toxicity is operative in the oligodendroglial cell death associated with ischemic processes that disrupt axons, such as periventricular white matter injury of the premature infant, and that novel therapies directed against glutamate transport, glutathione depletion, and free radical attack might be beneficial in prevention of that injury.
A novel FET instrumentation amplifier is described which, as compared to most traditional operational FET preamplifiers, is characterized by an about 7-10 times lower intrinsic electronic noise and a higher common mode rejection. This allows discrimination of single units from multi-unit recording, even if the action potential amplitudes are as small as 20-30 microV and the units are located more than 100 microns away from the electrode tips. Such a distant and chronic recording may be expected to reduce the possibility of mechanical interference with functions of neuronal membrane and its immediate environment, and may be suitable for studying changes in functional connectivities among neurons during the animal's behavior and learning.
Radical changes in the health care system, including the paradigm shift from an acute to chronic illness model, and advances in managing major neuroscience patient populations are redefining neuroscience nursing practice in the 1990s. For example, advances in management mean that many more neurotrauma patients and patients with cerebrovascular disorders survive. Once stabilized, illness may become chronic and require long-term management. There are also promising developments in managing major neurological diseases. The decade of the 90s will require more collaboration, new practice models and a greater focus on rehabilitation. Research and education must support practice in reshaping neuroscience nursing.
Neuroscience nurses are challenged by the current climate of cost containment and the nursing shortage to continue to provide quality patient education. One strategy for meeting this challenge is to follow the process outlined in this overview for the development and use of printed materials.
Lund University was founded in 1666 as part of a strategy to assimilate the province of Scania in southern Sweden, which had been obtained from Denmark after a war ending in 1658. The present main building was erected in 1882. The University Hospital and the medical departments are located in the campus area northeast of the building. The main strength of the medical faculty lies in the neuro-biosciences. In retrospect, they offer a fascinating development with interesting historical connections as well as present-day contracts between many scientific disciplines. This shows once again that real scientific progress requires the interaction of many brains; in other words, the cross-fertilization offered by a critically large mass of scientists from different fields working relatively close together over long periods of time.
The teratogenic effects of triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride (Trien-2HCl) on fetal mouse brain were studied on gestational day 19. Trien-2HCl was given throughout pregnancy at levels of 0 (control), 3,000, 6,000, or 12,000 mg/liter as drinking water, ad libitum. Mean litter size and live fetus per dam at birth were not significantly different among the four groups. The frequency of gross brain abnormalities in live fetus at birth such as hemorrhages, delayed ossification in cranium, hydrocephaly, exencephaly, and microcephaly increased with increasing levels of the drug. Microscopically, disorganization of neuronal cell layers, spongiform changes in white matter, and reduced myelin development were noted in the coronally sectioned cerebrum from Trien-2HCl-treated fetus. These abnormal findings increased dose-dependently in regard to the extent and severity at the levels of 6,000 and 12,000 mg/liter. No such changes were observed in the cerebrum of controls. These results suggest that microscopic changes in fetal brain caused by Trien-2HCl may be in part similar to those in brindled mutant mouse. Special attention should be paid to the developing fetal brain when Trien-2HCl is used during pregnancy.
Immunohistochemical studies with antisera against four peroxisomal enzymes, catalase and beta-oxidation enzymes (acyl-coenzyme A oxidase, bifunctional protein, and 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase), were performed on brain, liver, and kidney specimens from patients with peroxisomal disorders, as well as specimens from three control subjects, by using conventional paraffin-embedded autopsy material. The patients included eight with Zellweger syndrome and one with neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy. In the liver and kidney specimens from all patients, except one with Zellweger syndrome, diffuse immunostaining with all antisera in the cytoplasm of hepatocytes and renal tubular epithelium suggested an absence of peroxisomes but the presence of peroxisomal enzymes. Examination of brain specimens indicated a weak or negative reaction of neurons in the cerebral cortex and a weak reaction of glial cells in the white matter, which suggested maturational delay compared with control subjects. The delayed immunoreactive pattern of peroxisomal enzymes in Zellweger syndrome and neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy may be related to the significant neuropathologic features of polymicrogyria and dysmyelinogenesis. One patient with Zellweger syndrome had a unique finding of a positive granular catalase reaction and a negative reaction with antisera to 3-ketoacyl-coenzyme A thiolase, which suggested a diagnosis of pseudo-Zellweger syndrome. This study validates the application of these immunohistochemical methods to the study of peroxisomal enzymes. Use of these methods improves the accuracy of diagnosis of peroxisomal disorders.
Studies involving carbachol (100 microM) treatment of cerebellar granule cells for 1, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 24 hr show a decrease in the mRNA encoding for the muscarinic m2 receptor. The response was transient, decreasing m2 mRNA by 25 to 50% in 6 and 9 hr, respectively. The data presented in this work were quantified by ribonuclease protection assay, using a [32P]-cRNA probe corresponding to nucleotide +1138 to 1650 of the rat m2 muscarinic receptor. Because cerebellar granule cells express muscarinic m2 and m3 receptors, we tested whether the carbachol-mediated decrease in m2 mRNA resulted from a homologous or heterologous activation of muscarinic receptors. At a 1 microM concentration, methoctramine specifically blocked the muscarinic m2 receptor and reversed carbachol's action. These data suggested that carbachol acts via a possible homologous activation of muscarinic m2 receptors. The half-life of the receptor mRNA measured in the presence of actinomycin D with and without carbachol were similar. Because carbachol treatments decrease the steady-state levels of m2 mRNA without changing the half-life of the message, we suggest that a carbachol treatment induces a decrease in the transcription of the gene for the muscarinic m2 receptor.
Cerebellar granule cell cultures of rat express only muscarinic m2 and m3 receptor subtypes and exhibit the pharmacological profile of muscarinic m2 receptors that couple to guanine nucleotide binding proteins to inhibit adenylyl cyclase. In vivo pretreatment with muscarinic agonists desensitizes the muscarinic m2 receptor with 50% complete desensitization within 15 to 20 min. After a 1-hr pretreatment with a maximal concentration of carbachol (short-term desensitization), m2 receptor responsiveness reappeared after a 1-hr treatment of cultures with atropine. However, after a 6-hr pretreatment with carbachol (long-term desensitization), m2 receptor responsiveness did not reappear after 1-hr treatment with atropine. Short-term desensitization was homologous for the m2 receptor because treatment of cultures with carbachol did not alter gamma-aminobutyric acidB receptor-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. Muscarinic m2 receptor desensitization was not mimicked by the addition of analogs of cyclic AMP, cyclic GMP or diacylglycerol to the cultures. The agonist-induced desensitization was not blocked by a cyclic AMP analog, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cyclic AMP. Pretreatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides against the mRNA-encoding beta adrenergic receptor kinase attenuated the desensitization by carbachol (100 microM, 1 hr) of m2 receptors. Irreversible labeling of muscarinic m2 and m3 receptors with [3H]propylbenzilycholine mustard followed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis produced a loss of the muscarinic m2 receptor (66-kDa protein), but not the muscarinic m3 receptor (92-kDa protein). We suspect that the short-term desensitization results from the phosphorylation of the muscarinic m2 receptor followed by loss of receptor from the plasma membrane.
This review presents some of the newer techniques in the rapidly advancing area of neurotoxicity testing in vitro. They are not described at length, and more details can be obtained from the cited references. In vitro testing offers the possibility of relatively inexpensive screening of large numbers of pharmaceutical compounds, formulations, and environmental substances. The level of sophistication attained in this field may soon allow much more accurate safety limits to be set, as specific mechanisms of neurotoxicity are elucidated.
Within-subjects comparisons of processing strategies for cochlear implants are reviewed. Compressed analog strategies were compared to interleaved pulses strategies in tests with one group of 8 subjects, and to continuous interleaved sampling strategies in tests with another group of 11 subjects. The tests included open-set recognition of words and sentences. The results show that, while different strategies may produce quite different outcomes across subjects, individual performances with one processing strategy are significantly correlated with those of alternative strategies. These findings emphasize the importance of patient variables in determining outcomes across a variety of prosthesis designs.
Blood flow velocities were measured in right and left middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) and in basilar artery (BA) on rest conditions by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in three groups of patients: a) Alzheimer's disease patients (AD, N = 12, age = 63.5 +/- 6.6 years), b) patients with multi-infarct dementia (MID, N = 12, age = 72.8 +/- 9.0 years), and c) control subjects (CS, N = 12, age = 57.20 +/- 7.5 years). TCD measures were taken through the temporal window for MCA recordings, and transforaminal approach for BA recordings, with a 2 MHz ultrasonic probe using a TC-2000S (EME). A significantly (p &lt; 0.05) decrease in TCD measures was found in right and left MCA and BA of dementia patients with respect to controls. Data analysis included a significant correlation between blood flow velocities and Hachinski scores (p &lt; 0.016) in multi-infarct dementia patients. These results appear to show a general hypoperfusion pattern in the brain of senile dementia patients.
Pituitary cultures from adult rats contain two subtypes of prolactin (PRL) cells, small-plaque (SP) and large-plaque (LP) lactotropes, which exhibit distinct rates of basal secretion and thereby form PRL plaques of different sizes in reverse hemolytic plaque assay experiments. In the present study, we have used plaque assays to examine the effects of omega-conotoxin (omega-CgTx) and nifedipine, which block Ca2+ entry through high voltage-activated (HVA) channels in the plasma membrane, on basal PRL secretion from single male rat lactotropes. We found that omega-CgTx, like nifedipine, is a potent inhibitor of PRL secretion. In addition, we observed that both drugs decrease the number of cells forming large PRL plaques, while promoting a comparable increase in the abundance of small plaque formers. The results indicate that blocking the HVA Ca channels preferentially suppresses PRL release from LP lactotropes, and suggest that the inhibited PRL secretors tend to behave functionally as SP lactotropes.
Hemocyanin-conjugated peptides corresponding to amino acid sequences from 14 different regions of the rat dopamine transporter were used to immunize rabbits and the resulting antisera were tested for dopamine transporter recognition. Eleven of the peptide sequences produced antipeptide antibodies detectable with ELISA assays. Sera directed against four of the peptides immunoprecipitated striatal transporters photoaffinity labeled with [(125)I]DEEP. Antisera directed against a peptide sequence at the C-terminal region of the transporter's putative second extracellular loop, &quot;peptide 5,&quot; recognized photolabeled dopamine transporter protein from rat, dog, and human basal ganglia. These sera also recognized dopamine transporters from rat striatum in immunoblots; however, no reaction was found when rat cerebellum or frontal cortical tissue was used. These results provide further evidence that the cloned cDNA and its deduced amino acid sequence represents the protein expressed in brain and highlights the regions of the transporter which may be promising sites for the development of high-affinity antibodies.
Early rapid response genes such as c-fos are activated in the central nervous system by a variety of agents including psychostimulants. In the present studies, we investigated changes in c-fos mRNA content in several brain regions of the rat in response to nicotine. A single injection of nicotine ip increased the c-fos mRNA content within 30 min and returned toward baseline by 120 min. Significant elevations were induced by 0.5 mg/kg bw nicotine in the medial habenula and by 1.0 mg/kg in the hippocampus, dentate gyrus, and piriform cortex. At 1.0 mg/kg, significantly greater increases in c-fos mRNA levels were present in medial habenula and hippocampus compared to dentate gyrus and in dentate gyrus compared to piriform cortex. Moreover, at 1.0 mg/kg nicotine, increases were significantly less in cerebellar cortex and cingulate gyrus, and these were not dose-dependent. Mecamylamine, a nicotinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, significantly attenuated or eliminated c-fos mRNA response to 1.5 mg/kg nicotine in all regions, except in the cerebellar cortex. Desensitization of the c-fos mRNA response to nicotine was investigated by administering two injections of 2.0 mg/kg nicotine 2 h apart. In the hippocampus, dentate gyrus, and piriform cortex, the first dose of nicotine significantly reduced the c-fos mRNA response to a second dose. The magnitude of desensitization ranged from 43% (piriform cortex) to 81% (hippocampus). In summary, nicotine rapidly elevated the c-fos mRNA content in several rat brain regions. The sensitivity of this response to nicotine and development of desensitization differed among the regions.

The specific binding characteristics of the novel cholecystokinin (CCK)B/gastrin receptor-selective peptoid antagonist radioligand [3H]PD 140376 were investigated using membrane homogenates prepared from guinea pig cerebral cerebral cortex and gastric fundic mucosa. [3H]PD 140376 (0.01-10 nM) bound to both cerebral cortex and gastric gland homogenates with comparable high affinity (Kd, 0.1-0.2 nM) and to an apparent single population of sites with Bmax values of 119 and 296 fmol/mg of protein, respectively. The level of specific binding, defined as that displaced by unlabeled CCK sulfated octapeptide, was routinely between 60 and 70% in the cortex and between 50 and 60% in the fundic mucosa. Pharmacological characterization of the [3H]PD 140376-labeled binding sites with a series of agonist and antagonist ligands selective for each of the CCK receptor subtypes demonstrated, in both preparations, an affinity profile consistent with that of the CCKB/gastrin receptor. However, Hill slopes for the competition curves for the unlabeled agonist ligands against specific [3H]PD 140376 binding were significantly less than unity, whereas those for the antagonist ligands, including unlabeled PD 140376, were close to unity. The affinity and Hill slope for PD 140376 and the related CCKB/gastrin antagonist CI-988 were unaffected by the presence of the nonhydrolyzable GTP analogue guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate. In contrast, guanylyl-5'-imidodiphosphate caused a characteristic decrease in affinity and an increase in the Hill slopes towards unity for the agonist ligands CCK sulfated octapeptide and pentagastrin. The binding characteristics of unlabeled PD 140376 were also unaffected by the presence of the monovalent cation sodium. In conclusion, the present study has demonstrated that [3H]PD 140376 is the most potent and selective antagonist radioligand yet described for the characterization of CCKB/gastrin receptors in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against a 70-kDa ligand-binding protein of the imidazoline receptor purified from solubilized bovine adrenal chromaffin cell membranes by ligand affinity chromatography. The antibodies labeled a single protein (approximately 70 kDa) in Western blots of bovine adrenal chromaffin cell membranes, inhibited 40% of specific [3H]idazoxan binding to imidazoline receptors in chromaffin cell membranes, and specifically immunoprecipitated 75% of all imidazoline-binding activity of solubilized chromaffin cell membrane proteins. The antibodies specifically immunostained heterogeneous subsets of cultured bovine chromaffin cells. They stained subpopulations of chromaffin cells of rat adrenal medulla but not the cells of adrenal cortex. We conclude that the antibodies recognize with high specificity and selectivity a approximately 70-kDa binding protein associated with or representing the imidazoline receptor that is expressed in mammalian species. Highly specific antibodies against the imidazoline receptor protein will permit mapping of the distribution of imidazoline receptors in brain and periphery and also may be useful as probes in cloning genes encoding the imidazoline receptors.
Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies are caused by defects of the dystrophin gene. Expression of this large X-linked gene is under elaborate transcriptional and splicing control. At least five independent promoters specify the transcription of their respective alternative first exons in a cell-specific and developmentally controlled manner. Three promoters express full-length dystrophin, while two promoters near the C terminus express the last domains in a mutually exclusive manner. Six exons of the C terminus are alternatively spliced, giving rise to several alternative forms. Genetic, biochemical and anatomical studies of dystrophin suggest that a number of distinct functions are subserved by its great structural diversity. Extensive studies of dystrophin may lead to an understanding of the cause and perhaps a rational treatment for muscular dystrophy.
The mossy fibre pathway in the hippocampus uses glutamate as a neurotransmitter, but also contains the opioid peptide dynorphin. Synaptic release of dynorphin causes a presynaptic inhibition of neighbouring mossy fibres and inhibits the induction and expression of mossy fibre long-term potentiation. These findings demonstrate a physiological role for a neuropeptide in the central nervous system, provide a functional basis for the coexistence of a neuropeptide with classic neurotransmitters and demonstrate the very different roles played by these two classes of signalling molecules.
The effect of guanidinoethanesulfonic acid (GES) on rat electrocorticograms (ECoG) and the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and GABA-agonists on the ECoG changes induced by GES were studied. Sporadic spike discharges began 2-5 min after 1 mumol GES/10 microliters on filter paper was applied to the pia mater of the left sensorimotor cortex; spike discharges extended to the opposite cerebral hemisphere 60 min after the onset of the ipsilateral spike discharges. The spike discharges with a frequency of 5-10 spikes/min lasted until the end of the 4 hour recording. The induced spike discharges were suppressed when the original GES soaked filter paper was replaced by one containing GES (1 mumol) supplement combined with taurine (1 mumol/10 microliters). GABA (1 mumol) and its receptor agonist, muscimol (10 nmol) and (3R)-(-)-4-amino-3-hydroxybutyric acid (1 mumol) also suppressed the GES-induced spike discharges when applied topically. Diazepam (DZP) (10 mg/kg) suppressed the GES-induced spike discharges 10 min after i.p. injection, but phenobarbital (20 mg/kg) increased the frequency and voltage of spike discharges 100 min following subcutaneous administration. Intraperitoneal injection of either valproate (200 mg/kg) or phenytoin (25 mg/kg), after the completion of the spike discharges, showed no effect. These findings suggest that neurotransmission or neuromodulatory effects of taurine participate in GES-induced seizure activity, and that GABAA and DZP receptors may play a role in the mechanism that suppresses GES-induced seizures.
We made stereotaxic microinjections of adrenoceptor agonists and the catecholamine-releasing agent, tyramine, into the preoptic anterior hypothalamic area (PO/AHA) or the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) of unstressed rats. Growth hormone (GH) plasma concentrations were measured serially before and after intrahypothalamic injections. Noradrenaline and phenylephrine inhibited GH secretion wherever injected but were effective at lower doses in the PO/AHA. Clonidine stimulated GH secretion at both sites, at several doses in the MBH and only at one dose in the PO/AHA. Tyramine inhibited GH when injected in the PO/AHA, but not in the MBH. We conclude: (a) alpha 1 inhibition is predominant over alpha 2 stimulation of GH on or near somatostatin neurons; (b) alpha 2 stimulation predominates over alpha 1 inhibition of GH on or near GRF neurons, and (c) endogenous catecholamines in the PO/AHA have a predominantly inhibitory effect on GH secretion.
The release of norepinephrine (NE) and its metabolites in the central nucleus of the amygdala was measured using in vivo microdialysis during immobilization (IMMO) stress in conscious rats. Animals underwent 2-hour periods of IMMO either once or daily for 7 days. Extracellular fluid concentrations of NE, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), and the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were measured before, during, and after IMMO. Microdialysate levels of NE and DHPG attained 2- to 3-fold increments during the 1 h of IMMO and declined thereafter, whereas MHPG and DOPAC levels attained maximal levels of about twice basal concentrations during the 2- or 3-h after initiation of IMMO. After the sixth IMMO basal levels of NE, DHPG, MHPG, and DOPAC were decreased, and NE, DHPG, and DOPAC responses during the seventh IMMO failed to attain levels found during the first IMMO, although the absolute changes during IMMO were similar between animals subjected to IMMO once or seven times. The results indicate that acute IMMO increases synthesis, release, and metabolism of NE in the central nucleus of the amygdala and that repetition of IMMO decreases basal catecholamine synthesis and noradrenergic turnover in this brain region, without inhibiting acute noradrenergic responses.
Traditional neuro-ophthalmologic accounts of the optic pathway in primates stipulate that two half-retinal maps, one from each optic nerve, are combined within the chiasmatic region to yield a single, unified representation of the contralateral visual hemi-field in each optic tract. Yet visual disturbances produced by compromise to the visual pathways in the region of the describes recent neuroanatomical studies in monkeys that contradict those classical accounts but are consistent with the incongruous field defects and the functionally selective visual impairments documented in the clinical literature.

Close axotomy of identified lamprey neurons induces phosphorylation of somatodendritic neurofilaments (NFs), followed by ectopic regeneration of neurofilamentous sprouts from the dendrites. We used in situ intracellular microinjection to study the mechanism of axotomy-induced NF phosphorylation. We found that inhibitors of protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA) block somatodendritic NF phosphorylation for up to 15 days when injected at the time of axotomy. Injection of PKA catalytic subunit, diacylglycerol, or okadaic acid induces somatodendritic NF phosphorylation in intact neurons with the same time course as close axotomy. These results suggest that transient activation of PKC, PKA, and/or serine phosphatase inhibition by axotomy triggers persistent intracellular changes that may be related to polarity loss in these neurons.
Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (HYPP), one of several inheritable myotonic diseases, results from genetic defects in the human skeletal muscle Na+ channel. In some pedigrees, HYPP is correlated with a single base pair substitution resulting in a Met replacing Thr704 in the fifth transmembrane segment of the second domain. This region is totally conserved between the human and rat channels. We have introduced the human mutation into the corresponding region of the rat muscle Na+ channel cDNA and expressed it in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Patch-clamp recordings show that this mutation shifts the voltage dependence of activation by 10-15 mV in the negative direction. The shift results in a persistent Na+ current that activates near -70 mV; this phenomenon could underlie the abnormal muscle activity observed in patients with HYPP.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) has long been recognized for its neurotrophic actions upon sensory and sympathetic neurons of the PNS and upon cholinergic neurons of the CNS basal forebrain. Much evidence, however, suggests that potential reciprocal interactions between NGF and various endocrine systems may also occur. In the present investigation we used immunohistochemical techniques to investigate whether NGF is found within the adult rat pituitary, thereby suggesting a possible interaction within this critical neuroendocrine gland. Our results indicate that NGF immunoreactivity is present only within the anterior lobe of the male and female rat pituitary and is exclusively localized within cells immunoreactive for thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).
Modifications of responses of hippocampal neurons to sensory stimuli at the background of increased endogenous acetylcholine level (injection of physostigmine) and during blocking by scopolamine were analysed in the chronic alert rabbit. A significant decrease of reactivity (about 40%) of hippocampal neurons to sensory stimuli occurred after physostigmine injection, inducing stable theta modulation. Suppression and decrease of inhibitory responses (including initial reset phase) and of some excitatory reactions (including on-effects) were observed. However, a limited group of excitatory responses was augmented and prolonged under physostigmine action. Scopolamine, which blocked electroencephalogram theta-rhythm, did not change the responsiveness of hippocampal neurons. Some of the inhibitory and excitatory effects of sensory stimuli, especially on-responses, were strongly facilitated. Tonic responses were shorter, but they were stably reproduced without typical gradual habituation. All these effects were also present in the hippocampus after basal undercutting of the septum, which eliminates ascending brainstem input. It is suggested that under normal conditions a new or significant sensory stimulus evokes, in the hippocampus, an initial inhibitory reset of neuronal activity with subsequent coordinated triggering of rhythmic theta modulation by the septal input and arrival of the cortical input signal phase-locked to it. During the period of theta triggered by the stimulus, its processing and fixation in memory occurs, while the other, interfering stimuli, which are not phase-locked to the ongoing theta activity, are actively filtered out. Thus, septohippocampal interactions may participate in the organization of selective attention as a necessary condition for memory trace formation.
Cholinergic modulation of single cell responses and field potentials evoked in the hippocampus by electrical stimulation of the perforant path and mossy fibres was investigated in two groups of chronic unanesthetized rabbits--with intact hippocampus and with basally undercut septum (without ascending medial forebrain bundle afferents). In both groups of animals responses to stimulation were blocked or significantly depressed by i.v. physostigmine injection in many neurons (50% in the intact hippocampus and 69% in the hippocampus without medial forebrain bundle). In minor groups of neurons (10 and 8%, respectively), facilitation of responses was observed. Scopolamine restored initial responsiveness of hippocampal neurons and augmented effects of stimulation in some of them. The effect of physostigmine was reproduced by stimulation of the medial septum. Depressive influence of medial septal area stimulation was increased by physostigmine and blocked by scopolamine. Population spikes evoked by stimulation of the perforant path of the intact group were equally suppressed (by 43%) during sensory stimulation evoking natural theta, after physostigmine and after medial septal area stimulation. In the group of animals without medial forebrain bundle these influences resulted in a complete suppression of field potentials; scopolamine restored them. It is concluded that the main function of the septohippocampal cholinergic input consists of filtering out the signals appearing at the background of theta-rhythm triggered by a previous signal, thus preventing their interference with its processing and registration.
The aim of this paper was to evaluate the cholinergic component of the septohippocampal input signals in neuronal activity of the hippocampal fields CA1 and CA3 recorded extracellularly in chronic alert rabbits. Effects of electrical stimulation of the medial septal area were analysed in the control state, on the background of an increased level of endogenous acetylcholine (by physostigmine injection) and during its blockade by antimuscarinic drugs (scopolamine, atropine). Two groups of animals were used in the experiments: intact rabbits and rabbits with complete chronic undercutting of the septum, depriving the septohippocampal system of ascending medial forebrain bundle afferents. Primary inhibitory effects of standard duration (40-140 ms) evoked by medial septal area stimulation dominated in the hippocampus of intact rabbits (54%), though some neurons responded by initial diffuse excitation (37.5%); responses by single-spike on-effects were observed in a minority of neurons (8.5%). The primary suppression of activity prevailed (90%) in animals with basal undercutting of the septum. In intact rabbits under physostigmine action, the effects of medial septal area stimulation were depressed or completely blocked in 78% of hippocampal neurons on the background of increased theta modulation of activity. Neuronal responses to medial septal area stimulation recovered at the background of muscarinic antagonists. These effects of cholinergic drugs were reproduced in animals without medial forebrain bundle. It is concluded that the initial effect of the septal input upon the hippocampal neurons consists of a general suppression of their activity (reset), depending upon a non-cholinergic (presumably GABAergic) component of the septohippocampal connections.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The background activity of hippocampal neurons was recorded extracellularly in waking rabbits in the control state and after systemic injections of physostigmine and scopolamine. Similar analysis was done in the hippocampus chronically deprived of ascending brainstem afferents. Cholinergic drugs control the number of hippocampal neurons with theta modulation and stability, but not the frequency of theta modulation. Increase of endogenous acetylcholine also resulted in regularization of the activity with suppression of delta modulation and complex spike discharges; its blockade produced the opposite changes. Both drugs changed the level of background activity in the majority of the neurons, but the overall mean frequency did not vary between the states. Regression analysis demonstrated significant negative correlations with dominating decrease in the level of discharges in high-frequency neurons (&gt; 25 spikes/s) and its increase in low-frequency ones (&lt; 25 spikes/s) after injection of both drugs. Stability of the overall mean frequency and uniformity of its shifts during both stimulation and suppression of the cholinergic component of theta-rhythm presumably indicate that the frequency of background activity, unlike its pattern, is not directly controlled by the cholinergic septal input.
Small all-or-none pre-potentials have been shown under some conditions to underlie antidromic and orthodromic spike discharge in somatic recordings of hippocampal pyramidal neurons [Andersen P. and Lomo T. (1966) Expl Brain Res. 2, 247-260; Kandel E. R. et al. (1961) J. Neurophysiol. 24, 225-242; Schwartzkroin P. A. (1977) Brain Res. 128, 53-68; Spencer W. A. and Kandel E. R. (1961) J. Neurophysiol. 24, 272-285]. These potentials are taken to reflect spike discharge in distant regions of the cell (axonal or dendritic) [Andersen P. and Lomo T. (1966) Expl Brain Res. 2, 247-260; Kandel E. R. and Spencer W. A. (1961) Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 94, 570-603; Schwartzkroin P. A. (1977) Brain Res. 128, 53-68] or electronic spike conduction across a gap junction between neighboring pyramidal cells [Dudek F. E. et al. (1983) In Basic Mechanisms of Neural Hyperexcitability, pp. 31-73]. The present study compared pre-potentials recorded at the somatic and dendritic levels and used restricted applications of tetrodotoxin to examine the relationship between pre-potentials and Na+ spike discharge. Intrasomatic and intradendritic recordings were obtained from CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slices maintained in vitro. Orthodromic and antidromic spike discharge was evoked by stimulation of afferent fibers in stratum radiatum and pyramidal cell axons in the alveus, respectively. Focal pressure application of tetrodotoxin in the immediate vicinity of somatic or dendritic recordings uncovered pre-potentials following blockade of antidromic spike discharge. Blockade of these pre-potentials required the diffusion of tetrodotoxin to a location remote from the recording site. Focal application of tetrodotoxin in the cell body layer reliably uncovered orthodromic pre-potentials at the soma only when stimulus intensity was raised beyond threshold for somatic spike discharge; e.g. to intensities shown to initiate spike discharge in apical dendritic locations [Turner R. W. et al. (1991) J. Neurosci. 11, 2270-2280]. These data provide evidence that propagation of a Na+ spike over the pyramidal cell axis is preceded by a depolarization in the form of a pre-potential. The uncovering of orthodromic somatic pre-potentials by tetrodotoxin during suprathreshold activation further supports the proposal [Spencer W. A. and Kandel E. R. (1961) J. Neurophysiol. 24, 272-285] that dendritic spike discharge [Turner R. W. et al. (1991) J. Neurosci. 11, 2270-2280] can underlie fast pre-potential generation in pyramidal cell somata.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate- and caffeine-induced Ca2+ release was examined in neurons isolated from the mollusc Helix pomatia using Ca2+ indicator fura-2 and fluorescent digital-imaging microscopy technique. Extracellular application of caffeine caused a fast and pronounced augmentation of [Ca2+]i whose amplitude and kinetics differ in the centre of the cell and near its membrane. Mean values of caffeine-induced increase of [Ca2+]i were 0.97 +/- 0.11 microM at the periphery and 0.53 +/- 0.13 microM in the centre. The rates of rise and relaxation of caffeine-evoked [Ca2+]i transients were faster near the membrane. Pressure injection of inositol, 1,4,5-trisphosphate into the same neurons produced an abrupt and significant increase of [Ca2+]i in the centre (mean value of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-induced elevation = 0.55 +/- 0.11 microM) while the response was smaller or even absent near the cellular membrane. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate- and caffeine-induced Ca2+ transients did not affect each other. The data obtained indicate that in snail neurons these two calcium pools are not overlapping and at least some part of the caffeine-sensitive store is located close to the cellular membrane and that the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive one is located in the centre of the cell.
The S-100 protein-PC12 cell interaction has been studied as a model system of the possible physiological role played by S-100 protein in the nervous system. The data reported demonstrate that S-100 exerts a cytotoxic action which eventually leads to PC12 cell death, regardless of the cell cycle phase. The effect is specific for the S-100 isoforms, which are made up of two identical subunits and is abolished by a monoclonal antibody directed against the same isoforms. Other isoforms and/or calcium-binding proteins, such as troponin or calmodulin, do not induce the same effects. The action of S-100 on cell viability is not detectable in other cell lines of different embryological origin, such as 3T3, L1210, GH3. S-100 causes a rapid and considerable increase (two- to three-fold) of intracellular Ca2+ concentration in PC12 cells accompanied by cytostatic and cytotoxic action. It is postulated that this action also occurs in vivo, as part of the physiological action of this protein.
We have examined the effects of pentylenetetrazol-induced epileptic seizures on brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA and protein and on the messenger RNA of its receptor in the rat. Pentylenetrazol, which acts at the picrotoxin recognition site of the GABAA receptor, was injected intraperitoneally and induced seizures by decreasing the inhibitory GABAergic activity. The effects of a single acute convulsive dose (50 mg/kg) of pentylenetetrazol were analysed at different time points by in situ hybridization or immunohistochemistry. Kindling was induced by daily subconvulsive injections (30 mg/kg) of pentylenetetrazol. At different time points during the kindling process, the messenger RNAs of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and trkB and the protein levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor were analysed. We showed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA dramatically increased in neurons of the granule cell layer, piriform cortex and amygdala 3 h but not 6 h after an acute high dose of pentylenetetrazol, while brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like immunoreactivity was decreased in the granule cell layer and neurons of the hilus. The trkB messenger RNA was similarly increased 3 h and 6 h after the injection and returned to control levels after 24 h. The first change during the kindling development was seen after the first severe seizure: brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was markedly increased in the piriform cortex and amygdala but not in the hippocampus. In fully kindled rats, which had several severe seizures, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA and trkB messenger RNA were unaffected 3 h and 24 h after the last pentylenetetrazol injection. However, brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like immunoreactivity was markedly increased in the hippocampal formation 3 h, 24 h and three days after the last pentylenetetrazol injection, and still increased after 10 days. These results suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor may be involved in protection mechanisms after damage during seizures and in sprouting responses. The piriform cortex/amygdala seems to be an area of origin for the kindling development.
Neurotrophin-3 has been characterized as the product of a gene cloned by homology with nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Recombinant neurotrophin-3, like nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, has been shown to enhance survival and differentiation of specific neuronal populations in vitro. However, little is known about its function and regulation in vivo. Both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor messenger RNAs increased in adult rat brain, in a wide range of excitatory paradigms. In contrast, neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA decreased in some of them. Neurotrophin-3 is the most highly expressed neutrophic factor in immature areas of the central nervous system. However, no stimulation of its expression in the mature central nervous system, either in physiological or pathological conditions, has been described to date. This behaviour suggests that neurotrophin-3 could be involved in biological roles different from the prototypes nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated neurotoxicity (excitotoxicity) is believed to contribute to neuronal loss in a wide range of neurodegenerative conditions (for a review, see Ref. 17). Moreover, locally increased levels of the endogenous excitotoxin quinolinic acid may be involved in the natural development of neurodegenerative diseases. The unilateral intrahippocampal injection of 120 nmol of quinolinic acid induced seizures together with local neurodegeneration in specific cell layers. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to analyse the spatiotemporal pattern of expression of neurotrophin-3. As in other excitotoxic paradigms, neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA clearly decreased, nearly disappearing, in the contralateral hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Administration of alpha-bungarotoxin and other curare-like drugs during embryogenesis arrests motoneuron death which normally occurs in the spinal cord from day 6 to day 10 of embryogenesis. The accepted explanation is that such motoneuron rescue is mediated by inhibition of neuromuscular transmission following the blockade of nicotinic cholinoceptors at the neuromuscular junction. In this study we investigated a further possibility, namely that motoneuron rescue might also involve the blockade of alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive sites within the spinal cord. The kinetic profile of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding was examined in the brachial and lumbar regions of chick spinal cord at embryonic day 15. Binding was specific and apparently saturable within the range 1-34 nM reaching a maximum after 45 min. Specific binding involved a single class of non-interacting sites with a KD of 8.0 nM and a Bmax of 106 +/- 12 fmol/mg of protein. Nicotine displaced specific [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in a concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, specific binding dissociated slowly in the absence of nicotine. Autoradiographs localizing [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in embryonic spinal cord revealed that, at embryonic day 15, specific toxin binding sites could be detected throughout the gray matter. In contrast, at embryonic day 6, the ventral horn contained the majority of specific binding sites. Exogenously administered [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin reached and bound to nicotine-sensitive sites in the spinal cord at embryonic day 7. To conclude, these data demonstrate that central nicotine-sensitive sites which bind [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin in a saturable and specific manner were present at the beginning of the critical motoneuron death phase of neurogenesis and that they were accessible to exogenously administered toxin. It is proposed that the [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding characterized here is to a class of putative alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive nicotinic cholinoceptors. These studies raise the possibility that alpha-bungarotoxin blockade of such putative nicotinic cholinoceptors within the spinal cord may contribute to toxin-induced arrest of naturally occurring motoneuron death.
The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus is considered to be the major component of the biological clock, involved in the temporal organization of a wide variety of physiological and behavioral processes. The present study was conducted to investigate whether there are diurnal or annual variations in the morphology of the vasopressin-containing neuron population of the suprachiasmatic nucleus in human beings. To that end, the brains of 48 human subjects were investigated. A marked annual variation was observed in the volume and vasopressin cell number of the human suprachiasmatic nucleus: the volume of the vasopressin cell population was, on average, 2.5 times larger in October-November than in May-June and contained 2.7 times as many vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons. In general, the annual cycle of the human suprachiasmatic nucleus showed a non-sinusoidal pattern with a maximum in early autumn, a lower plateau in winter and a deep trough in late spring and early summer. In contrast, no such seasonal variations could be detected in suprachiasmatic nucleus vasopressin numerical cell density or cell-nuclear diameter. The number of vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, on the other hand, did not show any significant periodic changes over the year, indicating the specificity of the suprachiasmatic nucleus rhythm. In contrast with the annual cycle of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, no significant diurnal variations were observed in any of these parameters. In conclusion, the findings indicate that photoperiod may be considered a potential environmental factor controlling the activity of the vasopressin system of the human suprachiasmatic nucleus.
Previous studies have shown that both somatostatin and somatostatin receptors are expressed in the visual system of the rat early during ontogenesis, suggesting that somatostatin plays a role in the development of visual functions. In the present study, we have examined the localization of somatostatin receptors in the lateral geniculate nucleus and the superior colliculus of the developing rat by autoradiography, and we have investigated the effect of neonatal enucleation on the density of receptors in young and adult animals. In the dorsal part of the lateral geniculate nucleus, somatostatin receptors were transiently expressed during the first two postnatal weeks, while in the ventral part, receptors were detected during the whole developmental period. In the superior colliculus, a high density of somatostatin receptors was measured before eye opening; thereafter the concentration of receptors decreased markedly in the whole structure to reach the adult level. Uni- or bilateral enucleation one day after birth only induced minor modifications of the expression of somatostatin receptors in the lateral geniculate nucleus and colliculus. Conversely, bilateral enucleation caused a significant reduction of the density of receptors in the inter-geniculate leaflet and the medial zone of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus. Taken together, these results indicate that, in the relay nuclei, somatostatin receptors are not borne by retinal afferents. The presence of high densities of receptors in the lateral geniculate nucleus and superior colliculus during development suggests that somatostatin exerts trophic activities in these structures. In adult rat, somatostatin is probably involved in the modulation of visual information in the superior colliculus, but not in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus.
Neurons in the middle and posterior parts of the lateral hypothalamus project to the parabrachial area, and in particular to the gustatory relay-station located in the medial part of this area. In the present study we have examined some of the neuropeptide immunoreactivities of the lateral hypothalamus neurons that project to the gustatory region of the parabrachial area. By coupling retrograde transport and immunohistochemistry, we found that 50-60% of medial parabrachial area-projecting cells located in the juxta-capsular region of the posterior lateral hypothalamus are labeled by rat melanin-concentrating hormone antiserum, while 28% of the retrogradely labeled neurons located in the perifornical lateral hypothalamus are visualized with alpha-neoendorphin antiserum. Moreover, a large number of terminals distributed throughout the parabrachial nucleus are immunoreactive to melanin-concentrating hormone or alpha-neoendorphin antisera. These immunoreactivities are not co-localized within the same lateral hypothalamic neurons. The potential role of these peptidergic projections in the reward mechanisms elicited in the medial parabrachial area and in the control of palatability is discussed.
Focal ischaemia in the rat cerebral cortex was produced by means of a photochemically induced thrombosis of cerebral arteries. This was achieved by intravenous infusion of the photosensitive dye Rose Bengal and illumination of the skull with focused green light. Initial experiments justified the use of tetrazolium staining as an index of infarct damage. Using this technique it was demonstrated that chlormethiazole (200 mg/kg, i.p.) given 5 min post ischaemia markedly reduced the area of infarcted cortical tissue. A second experiment replicated this observation and showed that, in contrast, nimodipine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) given 5 min post infarct was without effect on infarct size. The pattern of Evans Blue extravasation indicated that the infarct developed over a 24-h period with the major damage occurring in the first 4.5 h. The spread of the infarct beyond the initial core of damage was decreased by an estimated value of almost 50% by injection of chlormethiazole (200 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min after the light exposure. These data indicate that chlormethiazole is an effective drug in protecting against the effects of focal ischaemia in the rat and, taken with earlier observations that chlormethiazole protects against the effects of global ischaemia in the gerbil, suggest that the drug may be an effective treatment against the ischaemic cell death that can occur following a stroke or cardiac arrest.
Monoclonal antibody 4C5 was obtained after immunization of Balb/c mice with a crude membrane preparation derived from the brains of 15-day-old rat embryos. As revealed by immunocytochemistry on primary cell cultures from embryonic rat brain, it was shown that the antigen recognized by monoclonal antibody 4C5 (4C5 antigen) is localized on the cell surface of the neurons. Preliminary biochemical characterization showed that it is a peripheral protein with a molecular weight of 94,000. The 4C5 antigen does not appear to be linked with other polypeptides by S--S bonds and contains few or no disulphide intramolecular bridges. N-Glycanase digestion indicated that the protein is probably not glycosylated. Monoclonal antibody 4C5 crossreacts with membrane fractions from rat, rabbit, pig and human developing brain. It was shown by immunohistochemistry that the 4C5 antigen is widely distributed in the embryonic and adult rat brain. In the peripheral nervous system 4C5 immunoreactivity was present in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry on dissociated cells from rat brain and on tissue sections of brain and dorsal root ganglia revealed an age-dependent decline in the expression of the epitope recognized by monoclonal antibody 4C5, in the central and peripheral nervous system. In particular, intense 4C5 immunoreactivity was observed during the embryonic and early postnatal ages. By the second postnatal week, expression of the protein was greatly reduced, becoming very weak at later stages of development and in the adult animal. In PC12 cell cultures, expression of the 4C5 antigen was intense in proliferating cells while being greatly reduced after nerve growth factor induced differentiation of these cells. The increased expression of the 4C5 antigen in proliferating PC12 cells and the prominent presence of this molecule during a time of neuronal migration suggest that it is involved in these developmental events.
Neuron-glia-related cell adhesion molecule (Nr-CAM) is a recently characterized cell adhesion molecule in the family of immunoglobulin-related molecules of which the neural cell adhesion molecule, N-CAM, is the prototype. Nr-CAM shares structural properties with another member of this family (neuron-glia CAM, Ng-CAM) and both molecules exhibit homophilic and heterophilic binding properties. To understand better the role of such molecules in development, we have examined the sites of synthesis and expression of Nr-CAM by means of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Both methods indicated that Nr-CAM is expressed only in the nervous system. The molecule was observed on neurons in both the peripheral and central nervous systems and on epithelial floor plate cells in the spinal cord, but it was absent in the germinal zones. The protein was present on perikarya, but was found preferentially on axonal tracts. As observed for messenger RNAs specifying other cell adhesion molecules, messenger RNA for Nr-CAM was localized in the perikarya. The temporal expression of Nr-CAM was correlated with various neural morphoregulatory events, including cell proliferation and migration, axonal outgrowth and myelination. The molecule was expressed during the onset of neurogenesis at embryonic day 3 in the floor plate epithelium, and then on postmitotic ventral horn motor neurons of the spinal cord. At later stages, it was expressed throughout the spinal cord but disappeared from the floor plate. In the cerebellum, Nr-CAM was found on granule and Purkinje neurons and afferent fibers. Both local and projection neurons in the optic tectum, as well as axonal pathways throughout the telencephalon, expressed Nr-CAM. In the peripheral nervous system, Nr-CAM was expressed strongly in sensory and autonomic ganglia and in the enteric nervous system. At the onset of myelination, there was a general decrease in staining for Nr-CAM protein in the central nervous system but not in the periphery. Comparison of the expression of Nr-CAM to that of the structurally related Ng-CAM showed considerable overlap in their distributions, although there were differences in the levels at which each CAM was observed in particular structures. For example, sympathetic ganglia stained more intensely for Nr-CAM protein than for Ng-CAM. This differential but co-distributed pattern is consistent with the idea that although similar cell adhesion molecules have independent binding specificities, they may have related functions that act synergistically in the development of the nervous system.
Recent anatomical studies in this laboratory have demonstrated that the proisocortex cortex adjacent and dorsal to the rhinal sulcus is one of the major forebrain afferent inputs to the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter in the rat. The physiological influence(s) of this projection has not been examined. The present studies investigated the responses of periaqueductal gray neurons to chemical and electrical stimulation of proisocortex in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. In addition, the role of glutamate as a possible transmitter in excitatory proisocortex-periaqueductal gray synaptic responses was tested. Microinjection of D,L-homocysteate into proisocortex excited 44% (19/43), inhibited 37% (16/43) and had no effect on 19% of periaqueductal gray cells. The onset of D,L-homocystic acid-evoked responses ranged from 2 to 60 s; the duration of responses ranged from 1 to 18 min. Low-frequency, single-pulse electrical stimulation of proisocortex robustly altered neuronal discharge in 25% of periaqueductal gray neurons sampled; 10% (74/724) of neurons were excited and 15% (107/724) were inhibited. Insular cortex-evoked excitatory responses had a mean onset latency of 19.5 +/- 4.2 ms and a mean duration of 38.5 +/- 26.9 ms. Inhibitory responses had a mean onset latency of 26.2 +/- 15.6 ms and mean duration of 108.0 +/- 84.9 ms. Trains of high-frequency electrical stimulation of proisocortex excited 22% (13/59) and inhibited 25% (15/59) of periaqueductal gray cells tested. In separate experiments, stimulation electrodes were placed in periaqueductal gray to antidromically activate proisocortex neurons that project to periaqueductal gray.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of postsynaptic neurons in the maintenance of adult terminal axon arbours was investigated in the rat olivocerebellar system. The degeneration of Purkinje cells, the main target of olivary axons in the cerebellar cortex, was obtained by intraparenchymal application of kainate. The structural features of target-deprived climbing fibres, visualized by Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin tracing, were examined from two days to six months after the lesion. Following the degeneration of its Purkinje cell, the climbing fibre underwent remarkable regressive modifications involving the disappearance of most of the terminal arborization. Never the less, atrophic arbours still spanned through the molecular layer six months after the lesion. Morphometric evaluations showed that, one week after kainate application, total arbour length was already reduced to 52% of control, whereas the number of branches and of varicosities had both dropped around 40%. This retraction process progressed in the following stages to reach its maximum at about one month after the lesion, when total length was 30% of control and only 10% of branches and varicosities were still present. Only a slight tendency to a further decrease of the values could be detected at longer survival times. Branching pattern analysis revealed that such regressive phenomena mainly involved the distal compartment of the climbing fibres, the one made of fine varicose branchlets, while sparing the proximal thick branches. In addition, the whole process appeared to follow some rather strict guiding principles leading to an ordered branch retraction, from the periphery of the arbour inwards. Finally, in order to rule out the possibility that the observed changes could be due to a direct action of kainate on climbing fibres, we designed an alternative method of killing Purkinje cells by intraparenchymal injection of propidium iodide. The structural features of climbing fibres deprived of their target by such a procedure were very similar to those shown by arbours from time-matched kainate-lesioned animals at both qualitative and quantitative levels. Our results show that target deprivation induces remarkable structural modifications in the climbing fibre, leading to the retraction of most of the arbour. Never the less, the integrity of the Purkinje cell is not necessary for the maintenance of the whole arborization since its proximal compartment is maintained in the molecular layer for several months after target degeneration. It is proposed that the Purkinje cell, most likely by acting through a contact factor, directly controls the formation and the maintenance of the distal climbing fibre branches with their varicosities, which represent the presynaptic compartment of the axonal arbour.
The expression pattern of six different immediate early gene-encoded proteins was examined in the rat forebrain after intraperitoneal administration of MK-801, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, at doses of 3 mg/kg and 0.3 mg/kg, respectively. Following MK-801 treatment, the presence of c-FOS, FOS B, KROX-24, c-JUN, JUN B, and JUN D were investigated by immunocytochemistry with specific antisera at different time intervals up to 48 h. Selective induction of all six immediate early genes was found in layer III neurons of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex. More complex effects were observed in the neocortex: MK-801 did not influence constitutive expression of different FOS and JUN proteins, but caused marked induction of c-FOS, FOS B, JUN B and JUN D, mainly in layer IV, but also in layers V and VI. In contrast, strong neocortical constitutive expression of KROX-24 was almost abolished by MK-801 administration, and replaced by an expression pattern similar to that of FOS and JUN proteins. Subcortical areas such as the hypothalamus and thalamus demonstrated an induction of a subset of immediate early genes (c-fos, fos B, Krox-24, jun B). Injection of MK-801 caused the same distributional pattern of immediate early gene expression irrespective of the dose given, but the extent of changes was stronger after 3 mg/kg, and altered levels of immunoreactivity persisted longer. In many experimental paradigms, immediate early genes are induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated mechanisms. This induction can readily be blocked by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists like MK-801. Our data, however, indicate that MK-801 itself causes immediate early gene expression in specific neuronal populations. In the present study MK-801-elicited expression of immediate early gene-encoded proteins seems to identify reversibly injured neurons, mainly in layer III of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex. These neurons have previously been shown to be the principal target of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist toxicity. Since immediate early gene induction precedes heat-shock protein expression as well as pathomorphological changes, and is induced in additional cortical cell populations, it seems to be a more rapid and more sensitive indicator of non-lethal neuronal injury.
Vasopressin has been shown to be localized in specific central nervous system (CNS) sites. There is considerable evidence that it can act as a central neurotransmitter and it has been ascribed a variety of putative roles in the CNS. To identify those regions of the brain capable of responding to this peptide, 250 pmol vasopressin were infused into the lateral ventricle intracerebroventricular of conscious, handled male rats, and their brains processed for fos-immunohistochemistry 60 min later. Increases in fos-immunoreactivity, compared with cerebrospinal fluid-infused controls, were found in specific regions of the basal forebrain and brainstem: the central nucleus of the amygdala, ventrolateral septum, parvocellular divisions of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, dorsal tuberal nucleus and locus coeruleus. Pre-infusion of 2500 pmol of a V1a antagonist prevented or reduced the expression of c-fos by intracerebroventricular vasopressin in all areas except the dorsal parvocellular paraventricular nucleus, implying that in most (but not all) areas the actions of vasopressin are mediated by the V1a receptor. Central administration of vasopressin had no effect on plasma corticosterone levels. Vasopressin and corticotropin-releasing factor act synergistically on the anterior pituitary to cause release of adrenocorticotropic releasing hormone and have corresponding synergistic interactions on behaviour. Infusion of 250 pmol corticotropin releasing factor produced a similar but not identical pattern of fos-like immunoreactivity to that of vasopressin. Activation of the parabrachial nucleus was observed, but there was no significant effect on the lateral septum and apparent increases in the medial parvocellular division of the paraventricular nucleus and locus coeruleus were not significant. Corticotropin releasing factor also caused a marked rise in plasma corticosterone. When the two peptides were infused together (125 pmol each) no evidence for synergy was found, in terms of the number of neurons activated to express c-fos. The induction of differential patterns of fos-like immunoreactivity by vasopressin and corticotropin-releasing factor in specific regions of the limbic forebrain and brainstem has implications for the individual roles they play in the CNS.
While it is well documented that locus coeruleus neurons are potently activated by foot-pinch or sciatic nerve stimulation, little is known about the circuit producing this sensory response. Previous work in our laboratory has identified the medullary nucleus paragigantocellularis as a major excitatory afferent to the locus coeruleus. Here, we use local microinjections into the paragigantocellularis to test whether this nucleus is a link in the pathway mediating the activation of locus coeruleus neurons by subcutaneous footpad stimulation, or footshock, in anesthetized rats. Lidocaine HCl microinjected into the paragigantocellularis reversibly attenuated footshock-evoked activation of 50 out of 56 locus coeruleus cells, with responses in 20 cells completely blocked. Microinjections of GABA into the paragigantocellularis reduced the footshock-evoked responses of 17 out of 27 locus coeruleus cells (seven complete blocks); microinjections of the GABAB agonist baclofen had no effect (0 out of 11 cells blocked). Microinjections of a synaptic decoupling cocktail of manganese and cadmium also attenuated locus coeruleus activation in eight out of nine cells with two complete blocks. With each agent, the most effective injection placement for complete blockade of responses was the ventromedial paragigantocellularis; injections bordering this region attenuated responses, while those outside of the paragigantocellularis (dorsal medullary reticular formation, nucleus tractus solitarius, or facial nucleus), or vehicle injections, were ineffective. These results are consistent with previous findings that pharmacologic blockade of paragigantocellularis-evoked locus coeruleus activity also blocks footshock-evoked responses of locus coeruleus neurons [Ennis and Aston-Jones (1988) J. Neurosci. 8, 3644-3657], and support the view that this somatosensory response, and perhaps other sensory-evoked responses of locus coeruleus neurons, involve the nucleus paragigantocellularis.
Slices of striatal tissue from newborn to eight-day-old rats were cultured for six to 47 days. Cholinergic neurons and fibres were then visualized by histochemical staining for acetylcholinesterase or immunocytochemical staining for choline acetyltransferase. GABA-containing neurons and fibres were visualized by immunocytochemical staining for glutamate decarboxylase or GABA. Corresponding to the normal postnatal development in vivo, acetylcholinesterase staining of the striatal tissue progressed from a &quot;patchy&quot; distribution in the six to 14 days old cultures to an almost even distribution of high acetylcholinesterase activity after 18-27 days. Extrinsic afferents were accordingly not necessary for the maintenance of a patch-matrix-like, acetylcholinesterase distribution during the first one to two weeks in culture, just as a subsequent, normal developmental change of the acetylcholinesterase staining pattern into a more homogeneous distribution also occurred without such afferents. Cholinergic, choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons were evenly distributed within the cultured striatal tissue, like in vivo, but the density of the neurons appeared to be higher in the cultures. The neurons had a morphology corresponding to the &quot;classical&quot;, large-sized, aspiny, cholinergic interneurons in the adult rat striatum. Glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive and GABA-immunoreactive neurons were either lightly or darkly stained and of medium size, but some large, lightly stained glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive and GABA-immunoreactive neurons were also found. The difference in staining density among the medium-sized cells was observed with both antisera and hence provide evidence for the existence of two populations of medium-sized GABAergic neurons, which in vivo are intensely stained interneurons and more weakly stained, spiny projection neurons. Fibres stained better for glutamate decarboxylase than for GABA and outgrowth of glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive nerve fibres from the striatal slice cultures onto the coverslip was often observed. The presence at all culture periods of &quot;protospines&quot; on cell bodies and proximal dendrites of some glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive, and in particular some GABA-immunoreactive neurons, suggested that at least some developmental characteristics might be maintained for extended periods in culture. In several cultures, groups of small GABA-immunoreactive cells were observed. Similar groups were also found by staining for glutamate decarboxylase, but a smaller proportion of the cells were then positively stained. In view of their immature appearance with few or no processes, the known presence of GABA in neuroblast-like cells, and the recent demonstration of neuronal and glial progenitor cells in the adult mouse striatum, the small cells might belong to a population of undifferentiated cells surviving in the slice cultures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Dopaminergic regulation of striatal enkephalin biosynthesis and secretion was studied in primary neuronal cultures from fetal rat striatum. To allow pharmacological treatment, striatal primary cell cultures were seeded in chemically defined medium onto extracellular matrix. In these conditions, pharmacological treatment of the striatal neurons on the 10th day in vitro for 48 h with 10(-6) M dopamine induced a 50% decrease in preproenkephalin mRNA level concomitant with a 50% decrease in methionine enkephalin neuronal content. These effects of dopamine were mimicked by the D2 agonist bromocriptine (10(-6) M). The decrease in methionine enkephalin neuronal content induced by dopamine or bromocriptine was reversed by the simultaneous application of sulpiride (10(-6) M), a selective D2 antagonist. Interestingly, the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (10(-6) M) application for 24 or 48 h was found to have no significant effect on methionine enkephalin neuronal content. To ensure dopamine regulation of enkephalin secretion, shorter dopaminergic treatments were performed. Dopamine application (10(-6) M) for 2 h had no significant effect on basal methionine enkephalin secretion but significantly decreased (50%) methionine enkephalin secretion induced by KCl 56 mM. This effect of dopamine on the KCl-induced methionine enkephalin secretion was mimicked by bromocriptine (10(-6) M), reversed by sulpiride (10(-6) M) and unaffected by the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (10(-6) M) application onto striatal neurons. Our data provide direct evidence for a dopaminergic inhibitory control on enkephalin biosynthesis and secretion from striatal cell cultures, mediated through the dopaminergic D2 receptor activation.
Intrastriatal infusions of cholecystokinin-8-sulphate in the rat exerts a dose-dependent inhibition of dopamine-release from nigrostriatal terminals in the neostriatum, as measured by push-pull perfusion. This effect is abolished by excitotoxic lesions of the neostriatum, which, along with behavioural, electrophysiological and receptor binding studies, suggests that cholecystokinin exerts its action indirectly on dopamine release via receptors located on intrinsic striatal neurons. Grafts of embryonic striatum implanted in the lesioned striatum become innervated by host-derived dopamine axons and restore the response of those host neurons to cholecystokinin infusion. This suggests that the innervation of the grafts by dopaminergic axons of the host brain does not simply provide a tonic input to the grafts, but rather represents a phasic input that is under dynamic local regulation by graft-host feedback influences from the transplanted neurons themselves.
Neocortical infarction induces biochemical and morphological retrograde degenerative changes in cholinergic neurons of the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis [Sofroniew et al. (1983) Brain Res. 289, 370-374]. In the present study, this lesion model has been reproduced in the non-human primate (Cercopithecus aethiops) to investigate whether degenerative changes affecting the cortex surrounding the lesioned area and the ipsilateral basal forebrain are prevented by the early administration of recombinant human nerve growth factor alone or in combination with the monosialoganglioside GM1. Six months after surgery and treatment, the monkeys were processed either for biochemistry (choline acetyltransferase assay) or immunocytochemistry. In lesioned vehicle-treated animals, choline acetyltransferase activity significantly decreased by 28% in the cortex surrounding the injured area and by 31% in the ipsilateral nucleus basalis of Meynert when compared with values of sham-operated monkeys. These biochemical changes were fully prevented with the administration of nerve growth factor alone or in combination with the monosialoganglioside GM1. The morphometrical analysis revealed a significant shrinkage of cholinergic neurons (61 +/- 1.4% of sham-operated cell size) and loss of neuritic processes (59 +/- 10% of sham-operated values) within the intermediate nucleus basalis region of lesioned vehicle-treated animals. Although a protection of the cholinergic cell bodies within the nucleus basalis was found with both treatments, a significant recovery of the neuritic processes (84 +/- 7.2% of sham-operated values) was assessed only in the double-treated monkeys. These results indicate that the early administration of nerve growth factor alone or in combination with the monosialoganglioside GM1 induces a long-term protective effect on the nucleus basalis cholinergic neurons in cortical injured non-human primates.
In addition to labelling endothelium, some ependymal cells (including tanycytes), and a subpopulation of neurons, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase histochemistry of stab lesion sites in the neocortex revealed a large population of cells concentrated within several hundred micrometers of the lesion site. To determine the identity of these cells, NADPH-diaphorase reactivity was compared to binding with either the I-B4 isolectin from Bandeiraea simplicifolia (which has previously been shown to identify endothelial cells and activated mononuclear phagocytes), or a monoclonal antibody (OX-42) that recognizes activated mononuclear phagocytes. Many I-B4 lectin-labelled cells were also NADPH-diaphorase reactive, and other I-B4 lectin-labelled cells were also OX-42 immunoreactive, but co-existence of OX-42 immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase reactivity was not observed. Only a small minority of NADPH-diaphorase-reactive cells did not exhibit I-B4 lectin binding. In contrast to the simple somatic morphology of the majority of NADPH-diaphorase-reactive cells, the I-B4 lectin-negative cells had a ramified appearance, and while readily observed at two days postlesion, they were only rarely seen at three days postlesion. Primary cultures of bovine aortic endothelial cells also exhibited NADPH-diaphorase reactivity which occupied most of the cytoplasm in a filamentous web pattern. Endothelial cells possess a constitutive form of nitric oxide synthase which, as demonstrated in NADPH-diaphorase-reactive neurons, may be the basis of their NADPH-diaphorase reactivity. These findings indicate that NADPH-diaphorase-reactive cells observed at lesion sites are probably angiogenic endothelial cells not associated with extant blood vessels. Thus, NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry offers an effective method of visualizing neovascularization in the brain and other tissues.
The second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate triggers the release of intracellular Ca2+ stores upon binding to the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor protein, a calcium channel that has been purified and molecularly cloned. To clarify the roles of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the central nervous system, we have examined in detail the distribution of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors in the rat brain and spinal cord using immunohistochemical methods. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors are present in neuronal cells, fibers and terminals in a wide distribution of areas throughout the central nervous system. These include a number of areas not previously reported, such as the olfactory bulb, thalamic nuclei and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In addition, we have noted a strikingly high density of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors in circumventricular organs and neuroendocrine structures such as the area postrema, choroid plexus, subcommisural organ, pineal gland and pituitary. The distribution of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors in discrete structures throughout the central nervous system, including interconnected neuronal systems and neuroendocrine and circumventricular organ structures, presumably reflects the importance of Ca2+ release mediated by the phosphoinositide second messenger system in control of diverse physiological processes.
The sleep spindle rhythm of thalamic origin (7-14 Hz) displays widespread synchronization among thalamic nuclei and over most of the neocortex. The mechanisms which mediate such global synchrony are not yet well understood. Here, we theoretically address the hypothesis of Steriade and colleagues that the reticularis thalami nucleus may be considered as a genuine pacemaker for thalamocortical spindles. Interestingly, the reticularis consists of a population of neurons which are GABAergic and synaptically coupled. These cells, as do thalamic relay cells, exhibit a transient depolarization following release from sustained hyperpolarization. This postinhibitory rebound property is due to a T-type calcium ionic current which is inactivated at rest but de-inactivated by hyperpolarization. Theoretically, rebound-capable cells coupled by inhibition can generate rhythmic activity, although such oscillations are usually alternating (out-of-phase), rather than synchronous (in-phase). Here, we develop and apply to Steriade's pacemaker hypothesis our earlier finding that mutual inhibition can in fact synchronize cells, provided that the postsynaptic conductance decays sufficiently slowly. Indeed, postsynaptic receptors of the GABAB subtype mediate inhibition with a large decay time-constant (approximately 200 ms). In contrast, chloride-dependent, GABAA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are fast and brief. Both GABAA and GABAB receptor binding sites are present in most thalamic regions, including the reticularis. We suggest that if GABAB receptors exist postsynaptically in the reticularis, they may play a critical role in the rhythmic synchronization among reticular neurons, hence in the thalamocortical system.
Exposure of nervous tissue to hypoxia results in interstitial acidification. There is evidence for concomitant decrease in extracellular pH to the increase in tissue lactate. In the present study, we used double-barrelled pH-sensitive microelectrodes to investigate the link between lactate transport and acid-base homeostasis in isolated rat spinal roots. Addition of different organic anions to the bathing solution at constant bath pH caused transient alkaline shifts in extracellular pH; withdrawal of these compounds resulted in transient acid shifts in extracellular pH. With high anion concentrations (30 mM), the largest changes in extracellular pH were observed with propionate &gt; L-lactate approximately pyruvate &gt; 2-hydroxy-2-methylpropionate. Changes in extracellular pH induced by 10 mM L- and D-lactate were of similar size. Lactate transport inhibitors alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid and 4,4'-dibenzamidostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid significantly reduced L-lactate-induced extracellular pH shifts without affecting propionate-induced changes in extracellular pH. Hypoxia produced an extracellular acidification that was strongly reduced in the presence of alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid and 4,4'-dibenzamidostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid. In contrast, amiloride and 4,4'-di-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulphonate were without effect on hypoxia-induced acid shifts. The results indicate the presence of a lactate-proton co-transporter in rat peripheral nerves. This transport system and not Na+/H+ or Cl-/HCO3- exchange seems to be the dominant mechanism responsible for interstitial acidification during nerve hypoxia.
Renal sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord of rabbits were transneuronally retrogradely labelled by injection of Herpes simplex virus type 1 into the renal nerve and immunohistochemical demonstration of viral antigen. The morphology of the labelled neurons was examined, particularly with respect to the shape and extent of their dendritic trees. Double-labelling immunohistochemical studies were performed to determine the relationship of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive axons to virus-labelled perikarya and dendrites. The shape of the renal sympathetic preganglionic neurons differed according to whether the neurons were located in the intermediolateral cell column or in other sympathetic areas. The neurons in the intermediolateral cell column had very long dendrites, extending in the rostrocaudal and mediolateral directions. The medially oriented processes extended towards and beyond the central canal. The laterally oriented dendritic processes projected within the dorsolateral funiculus, towards the edge of the spinal cord. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibres were concentrated in regions containing renal sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the spinal segments examined (T7-L2). Immunoreactive varicose terminals were closely opposed to individual preganglionic neurons, especially to the dendritic processes of these neurons. Our findings indicate that neurotransmitter candidates such as neuropeptide Y are likely to influence renal preganglionic neurons by an input to dendritic processes at some distance from the perikarya. Electrophysiological and other functional studies utilizing applications of neurotransmitter candidates onto these neurons should take this into account.
The nucleus accumbens occupies a strategic position as an interface between limbic cortex and midbrain structures involved in motor performance. The fornix-fimbria carries limbic inputs to the ventral striatum, namely by way of fibers originating in the CA1/subiculum and projecting to the nucleus accumbens. It also carries fibers arising in the septal area that project to the hippocampal formation, and projection fibers to other areas of the rostral forebrain from Ammon's horn. Electrical stimulation of this bundle causes characteristic field potentials both in the nucleus accumbens and in the subiculum. In rats, under halothane anesthesia, the responses evoked by fornix/fimbria stimulation in the nucleus accumbens consist of two main positive peaks (at 10 and 25 ms, referred to as P10 and P25, respectively). P10 represents monosynaptic activation. We hypothesized that P25 reflects the activation of a polysynaptic loop, i.e. a fornix-fimbria hippocampal loop in series with the fibers that arise in the subiculum and project to the nucleus accumbens. To test this hypothesis, we reversibly blocked the fibers projecting caudally to the hippocampus by a local anesthetic (lidocaine) and the glutamatergic transmission through the CA1/subiculum by a local injection of kynurenic acid. Both manipulations yielded a reversible depression of about 90% of the P25 component while P10 remained unaffected as expected. In concert a strong reduction (to 24-31%) of control values of the responses evoked in the subiculum was seen. The dynamics of the mono- and polysynaptic pathways differ markedly. The synaptic responses through both pathways are enhanced by paired-pulse stimulation, but the polysynaptic pathway is facilitated in a much stronger way. Following a tetanus (50 Hz, 2 s duration) applied to the fornix/fimbria, the P10 component of the nucleus accumbens responses showed an immediate increase by a factor of about 2 followed by a phase of gradual decrement with half-decay time of about 10 min, after which a persistent long-term potentiation of about 25% above control level was maintained for the rest of the experiment (max 90 min). The P25 component showed a transient 10-fold potentiation with return to control values after about 10 min. In contrast to the P25 elicited by a conditioning stimulus, the P25 component elicited by a second stimulus delivered at an interval of 100 ms (test stimulus) showed a persistent long-term potentiation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The expression of beta 1, beta 2, beta 3, gamma 2 and delta subunit messenger RNAs of the GABAA receptor was followed by in situ hybridization histochemistry using radiolabeled oligodeoxynucleotide probes in sections of embryonic (E12-21) and early postnatal (P1-5) rat. beta 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs were first detectable at E15 in the spinal cord (ventral &gt; dorsal) and lower central nervous system regions (e.g. pons, medulla and thalamus). beta 3 subunit messenger RNA was abundantly expressed in olfactory bulb neurons at E15. At E17, the expression pattern of these subunit messenger RNAs continued in the lower central nervous system. In the upper central nervous system, beta 2, beta 3, and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs were first detectable in the outer layer of the hippocampal and entire cortical neuroepithelium. The expression for both beta 3 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs increased significantly over that observed at E15, whereas beta 2 subunit messenger RNA increased to a lesser extent and was more discretely expressed in inferior colliculus, cerebellar neuroepithelium and spinal cord (ventral = dorsal). By E19, messenger RNAs for beta 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 subunits a widespread and abundant co-existent distribution throughout the central nervous system. Exceptions to this co-expression were the absence of beta 2 messenger RNA in the dentate gyrus and beta 3 messenger RNA in entorhinal cortex, areas in which they are present in adult. There was also a differential distribution of subunit messenger RNAs in developing olfactory bulb at E19-20: the glomerular cells preferentially expressed beta 3 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs; the mitral cells preferentially expressed beta 2 subunit messenger RNA; inner granule cells expressed moderate levels of beta 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs. Expression of beta 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 messenger RNAs was also anatomically co-existent at P5. In addition, significant expression of beta 1 and delta subunit messenger RNAs was apparent in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. The identity of the gamma 2 expressed between E15 and E21 was shown to be mostly the short isoform of gamma 2 subunit messenger RNA. Expression of both forms was evident beginning around P3-5. These results indicate that during the late embryonic and early postnatal period of development, beta 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs are abundantly expressed and co-localized to most central nervous system regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Distribution of the messenger RNA for a metabotropic glutamate receptor, mGluR2, which is coupled to the inhibitory cyclic AMP cascade, was investigated in the central nervous system of the adult rat by in situ hybridization. Transcripts of mGluR2 were specifically localized to neuronal cells of the brain. Although the hybridization signals were widely distributed in the brain, the most prominent expression of mGluR2 messenger RNA was seen in Golgi cells of the cerebellum. Marked expression of mGluR2 messenger RNA was further observed in the mitral cells of the accessory olfactory bulb, neurons in the external part of the anterior olfactory nucleus, and pyramidal neurons in the entorhinal and parasubicular cortical regions. The granule cells of the accessory olfactory bulb, and many pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons in the neocortical, cingulate, retrosplenial and subicular cortices, were moderately labeled. All of the granule cells in the dentate gyrus were also labeled moderately, whereas no significant hybridization signals were detected in Ammon's horn. In the basal forebrain regions, moderately labeled neurons were distributed in the triangular septal nucleus, in the lateral, basolateral and basomedial amygdaloid nuclei, and in the medial mammillary nucleus. Weakly labeled neurons were sparsely scattered in the striatum, globus pallidus, ventral pallidum and claustrum. The subthalamic nucleus was also labeled weakly. No significant labeling was found in the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra. In the thalamus, moderately labeled neurons were distributed in the anterodorsal, anteromedial, ventromedial, intralaminar and midline nuclei; the ventrolateral part of the anteroventral nucleus and the rostral pole of the ventrolateral nucleus also contained moderately labeled neurons. No significant labeling was found in the thalamic reticular, submedius, ventroposterior, lateral geniculate and medial geniculate nuclei. In the lower brainstem, labeling was generally weak. No significant hybridization signals were found in the spinal cord. Some neurons in the inner part of the inner nuclear layer of the retina and some retinal ganglion cells were labeled moderately. The pattern of distribution of mGluR2 messenger RNA revealed in the present study indicates specific roles of mGluR2 in the glutamatergic system in the brain.
The distribution sites of messenger RNA encoding for the thyrotrophin-releasing hormone receptor have been studied in rat pituitary and brain. A specific 35S-labelled riboprobe generated from a rat thyrotrophin-releasing hormone receptor complementary DNA clone was used to perform in situ hybridization experiments on brain and pituitary sections. A positive hybridization signal was found in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, the intermediate and posterior lobes were negative. Hybridization was also detected in different areas of the brain. These areas include distinct regions in the olfactory system, septal area, amygdaloid complex, cerebral cortex, hypothalamus, hippocampus, basal ganglia and the motor nuclei of cranial nerves in brainstem. This study has shown for the first time the exact site of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone receptor expression in the central nervous system. These results correlate well with regions thought to possess thyrotrophin-releasing hormone recognition sites.
Receptor autoradiographic and histological techniques were used to investigate the long-term changes that occur in the gerbil brain following the induction of transient cerebral ischemia. Transient ischemia was induced for 3 and 10 min, and animals were allowed to survive for eight months. Autoradiographic analysis of second messenger systems showed that 3-min ischemia caused a significant reduction in [3H]inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate binding in the hippocampal CA1 sector, whereas the alteration in [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, [3H]forskolin and [3H] cyclic-AMP bindings was not found in this region. In the striatum, 3-min ischemia caused no significant alteration in [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, [3H]inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and [3H]forskolin binding sites, whereas the [3H]cyclic-AMP binding showed a significant elevation. The thalamus exhibited a significant elevation only in the [3H]inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate binding sites. Following 10-min ischemia, [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, [3H]inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and [3H]cyclic-AMP binding sites revealed a significant reduction in the hippocampus, whereas the [3H]forskolin binding showed a significant elevation in this area. In the striatum, 10-min ischemia caused no significant alteration in [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, [3H]inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and [3H]cyclic-AMP binding sites. However, marked reduction in the [3H]forskolin binding was seen in the striatum. Furthermore, the substantia nigra also exhibited a significant reduction in [3H]forskolin binding. Histological studies suggested that 3-min ischemia can produce severe neuronal damage and mild shrinkage to the hippocampal CA1 sector. They also showed that 10-min ischemia can cause severe tissue shrinkage and severe neuronal damage in the hippocampal CA1 sector and hippocampal CA3 sector. Thus, the hippocampal damage following ischemia was not static but progressive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Amphetamine induces a pronounced rotation directed ipsilateral to the lesion and lasting about 2 h in rats bearing a unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. Implantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons into the lesioned striatum leads to a compensation of this rotation. However, graft-bearing animals display a strong biphasic contralateral rotation, lasting up to 5 h. To try to ascertain the mechanisms of this anomalous rotation, two separate experiments were performed. First, we tested whether the contralateral rotation presented by the grafted animals could be correlated to the persistence of the lesion-induced decoupling of striatal D1 and D2 receptors. Lesioned and grafted animals were submitted to a series of four amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) rotation tests. Preceding each test animals received, in a randomized order, one of four of the following treatments: physiological saline, a D1 receptor blocker (SCH-23390, 0.1 mg/kg, s.c.), a D2 receptor blocker (raclopride, 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or the combination of the D1 and D2 antagonists. The ipsilateral rotation observed in the lesioned animals was abolished by the separate blockade of both classes of dopamine receptor as well as by their combined blockade. Grafted animals could be separated into two subgroups, based on the effect of the antagonists during the first 2 h of amphetamine-induced rotation. In one subgroup, antagonists had the same effect on the amphetamine-induced contralateral rotation as they did on the ipsilateral rotation displayed by lesioned animals. In this group, D1 and D2 receptors were therefore recoupled by the implant in the lesioned striatum. In the other subgroup, the contralateral rotation could be antagonized only by the combined D1 and D2 blockade, while the separate blockade of D1 or D2 receptors did not decrease or even increased the amphetamine-induced rotation. This indicates that in this group the lesion-induced decoupling of D1 and D2 receptors persisted. Nevertheless, the characteristics of the amphetamine-induced rotation (magnitude, duration) were the same in the two subgroups. Likewise, hypersensitivities of both D1 and D2 receptors were completely abolished by the graft in both subgroups. From this experiment it is concluded that the amphetamine-induced rotation observed in grafted animals is not correlated with the state of coupling of striatal D1 or D2 receptors. In a second experiment, dopamine release was monitored by microdialysis in the graft-bearing and the contralateral normal striatum of awake, behaving animals following the administration of amphetamine to test whether the observed rotation could be explained by a higher than normal dopamine release from the implanted dopaminergic neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Previous studies have demonstrated that histamine primarily excites unidentified neurons in the rat supraoptic nucleus. We investigated the neuromodulatory effects of histamine on immunohistochemically identified vasopressin neurons in the rat supraoptic nucleus using intracellular recording techniques from the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial explant. Exogenous application of histamine (0.1-100 microM) to vasopressinergic neurons produced a small membrane depolarization accompanied by an increase of up to 100% in the amplitude of the depolarizing afterpotential that follows current-evoked trains of action potentials. The enhancement of the depolarizing afterpotential by histamine did not depend upon the depolarization. Further, histamine enhanced the amplitude of the depolarizing afterpotential when blocking the afterhyperpolarizing potential with d-tubocurarine or apamin, and in the presence of tetrodotoxin and d-tubocurarine or apamin, indicating a postsynaptic action of histamine on the depolarizing afterpotential that is not simply a reflection of a decrease in the afterhyperpolarizing potential. These toxins also had no effect on the histamine-induced depolarization. The enhancement of the depolarizing afterpotential by histamine was mimicked by the histamine H1-receptor agonist 2-thiazolylethylamine and was reduced or blocked by the H1-receptor antagonist promethazine, but was not blocked or reduced in the presence of the histamine H2-receptor antagonist, cimetidine. In summary, these results show that the excitatory effect of histamine on immunohistochemically identified vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus is due in part to the H1-receptor-mediated enhancement of the depolarizing afterpotential independent of any change in the afterhyperpolarizing potential or membrane potential.
Activity of entopeduncular neurons was studied in chronic experiments on cats during performance of instrumental movement: pedal pressing and holding. One-hundred and twenty-four neurons were extracellularly investigated in intact animals and 81 neurons in cats treated with N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (5 mg/kg daily, intramuscularly for five days). The mean discharge frequency of nucleus entopeduncularis neurons recorded 48-72 h after the last MPTP injection increased from 12.9 +/- 1.5 to 22.1 +/- 1.4 impulses/s, but dropped to preinjection values within the next ten days. In intact animals and in MPTP-treated cats 23 and 17%, respectively, of neurons changed their activity before or during the movement performance. Along with nucleus entopeduncularis neurons that changed their activity simultaneously with instrumental movement performance, 16% of nucleus entopeduncularis nerve cells in intact cats and 12% in MPTP-treated cats responded 50-800 ms before the myogramme of working forepaw biceps was started. Excitatory responses associated with movement performance in MPTP-exposed cats were more pronounced, indicating enhancement of nucleus entopeduncularis neuronal activity in animals with injured nigrostriatal system. Since nucleus entopeduncularis neurons are inhibitory cells, the increase in their activity had to be accompanied by reinforcement of inhibitory influence on neurons in motor thalamic nuclei. In order to test this hypothesis, two groups of acute experiments were performed on ketamine-anaesthetized and myorelaxine-immobilized cats. Neuronal responses in ventral anterior and ventral lateral thalamic nuclei to nucleus entopeduncularis stimulation were investigated in normal and MPTP-treated animals in doses that were identical to those administered in chronic experiments. In intact cats, 28% of neurons responded to nucleus entopeduncularis stimulation with the latency shorter than 7 ms. In half of the inhibited neurons after the first phase of inhibition lasting 18 +/- 2 ms, the second inhibitory phase was recorded. The duration of the latter was 24 +/- 4 ms. Although in MPTP-treated cats the number of neurons inhibited by nucleus entopeduncularis stimulation was practically the same as in normal ones (24.5%), the first phase tended to be shorter, and a statistically significant increase of the second inhibitory phase duration (up to 50 +/- 11 ms) was found. It was suggested that changes in the inhibitory processes in motor thalamic neurons receiving afferents from nucleus entopeduncularis could be explained by GABAB-mediated hyperpolarization of the neuronal membrane, evoked by increasing pallidothalamic inhibitory influences.
Effects of glutamate agonists and their selective antagonists on the Ca(2+)-dependent release of [3H]GABA from rat hippocampal slices were studied in a superfusion system. The release was enhanced by glutamate, kainate, quisqualate, N-methyl-D-aspartate and glycine in a concentration-dependent manner. In general, (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohept-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801) strongly antagonized the effects of all agonists tested in low-Mg2+ (0.1 mM) media. 6-Cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione did not inhibit the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate, glycine or N-methyl-D-aspartate together with glycine in 0.1 mM Mg2+ media. Extracellular Mg2+ failed to block the release elicited by the agonists alone. However, the action of N-methyl-D-aspartate was potentiated by glycine only in low-Mg2+ media. We suggest that under the present experimental conditions the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate/low-affinity quisqualate receptors located presynaptically on excitatory fibre terminals and/or postsynaptically on GABAergic interneurons is essential in hippocampal GABA release. A functional interaction is proposed between glycine and extracellular Mg2+ in the modulation of the quisqualate N-methyl-D-aspartate-gated ionophores involved in this process.
The distribution of dopamine-immunoreactive neurons and fibres in the feline medulla oblongata was examined by immunocytochemistry with antisera to the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, and with antisera to the catecholamines dopamine and L-dihydroxyphenylalanine. Neurons immunoreactive for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes were found in two regions of the medulla, the ventrolateral A1 region and the dorsomedial A2 region. Double-staining studies with antisera to the enzymes indicated that a population of neurons within both regions were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase but not dopamine-beta-hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, implying that they synthesize dopamine. Studies using the dopamine antisera demonstrated the presence of dopamine-immunoreactive neurons in both the ventrolateral and dorsomedial regions of the medulla; in the dorsomedial region, they were found in the area postrema, nucleus tractus solitarius and dorsal motor vagal nucleus, mainly at levels caudal to the obex. Dopamine-immunoreactive fibres were found in several areas of the medulla including the nucleus tractus solitarius, inferior olive, dorsal motor vagal, spinal trigeminal, hypoglossal, cuneate, gracile, and raphe nuclei. Double-staining studies with antisera to dopamine and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase revealed a population of cells immunoreactive for dopamine alone. The presence of some double-stained neurons, however, implies some cross-reactivity of the dopamine antiserum with noradrenaline or adrenaline and/or recognition of dopamine present as a metabolic intermediary in some noradrenergic neurons. No L-dihydroxyphenylalanine-immunoreactive neurons were found in the medulla, although fibres were seen. These data provide evidence for the existence of catecholamine neurons which utilize dopamine as a final synthetic product within the medulla oblongata.
In rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway, blockade of muscarinic receptors by scopolamine potentiates the contralateral turning induced by selective dopaminergic D1 agonists (SKF 38393, A 68930), but does not influence the contralateral turning induced by the D2 agonist LY 171555. Studies on the expression of the early gene c-fos as reflected by the immunohistochemical demonstration of the Fos protein, show that administration of scopolamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) potentiates c-fos expression elicited by SKF 38393 (1.5 mg/kg, s.c.) in the caudate-putamen of the lesioned side. The results indicate that cholinergic transmission is differentially involved in the behavioral expression of D1 versus D2 receptor stimulation in a denervated condition and suggest that blockade of central cholinergic transmission might be useful in improving the antiparkinsonian efficacy of D1 receptor agonists.
The present study determined the effects of chronic intranigral injections of recombinant human brain-derived neurotrophic factor (1 micrograms) every second day for 19 days on the functional capacity of dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway of unlesioned adult rats. In animals chronically treated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, we observed amphetamine (5 mg/kg)-induced circling behavior directed toward the neurotrophin-injected side (33 turns/5 min). The behavioral asymmetry was paralleled by reductions of striatal [3H]dopamine uptake (27%), tyrosine hydroxylase activity (68%), dopamine content (36%) and [3H]mazindol binding site density (35%) on the same side as brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment. While chronic injections of brain-derived neurotrophic factor produced a modest decrease in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies in the vicinity of the injection site, a similar reduction in cell number was observed in animals injected with a control protein, cytochrome c. However, in contrast to the animals treated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, rats treated with the control protein showed no amphetamine-induced circling behavior, and there were no significant reductions in neurochemical parameters of striatal dopaminergic function. Lastly, we found that in brain-derived neutrophic factor-injected animals there was a 30% decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in the ventral mesencephalon. We also determined the effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment on animals with transections of the medial forebrain bundle. Medial forebrain bundle-lesioned animals challenged with amphetamine circled (55 turns/5 min) ipsilateral to the lesioned side. The medial forebrain lesions decreased the following markers of striatal dopaminergic function: [3H]opamine uptake (65%), tyrosine hydroxylase activity (79%), dopamine content (80%) and [3H]mazindol binding site density (52%), induced a pronounced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies within the substantia nigra and also reduced tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels. Chronic intranigral brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment did not attenuate nor did it exacerbate the medial forebrain bundle lesion-induced decreases of dopaminergic parameters in either the substantia nigra or striatum. The results of the present study indicate that chronic intranigral administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor to normal adult rats induces a dopaminergic hypofunction in the striatum which is manifested behaviorally by amphetamine-induced rotations. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor-induced striatal function is not the result of significant cell loss at the levels of the substantia nigra, but seems to be related to brain-derived neurotrophic factor-induced down-regulation of dopaminergic-specific proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Two-color fluorescence immunohistochemistry was used to identify and map the distribution of nerve processes immunoreactive for both serotonin and substance P in the rat brainstem. Doubly labeled fibers were observed throughout the brainstem, but tended to be densest in cranial nerve motor nuclei and in reticular regions of the ventral medulla. In the trigeminal motor nucleus, the facial nucleus and the spinal accessory nucleus, the majority of serotonergic varicosities also appeared to contain substance P; in the occulomotor nucleus and the hypoglossal nucleus the numbers of double-labeled and single-labeled serotonergic varicosities were roughly equal. Thus, co-existence of substance P with serotonin was common in many cell groups innervating skeletal muscle. The proportion of double-labeled varicosities was significantly lower in the nucleus of the solitary tract, wherein single-labeled varicosities were much more common. Double-labeled fibers and varicosities were also significantly less common in the spinal trigeminal nucleus. In addition, double-labeling appeared to be uncommon in regions involved in the processing of special sensory information (e.g. auditory, vestibular and visual pathways). These results demonstrate a subpopulation of serotonergic fibers immunoreactive for substance P in the brainstem of the rat. The consistently high density of double-labeled processes in cranial nerve motor nuclei suggests that, as may be the case in the spinal cord, neurons containing serotonin and substance P regulate the activity of motoneurons that innervate skeletal muscle. In addition, they may be involved in other aspects of the function of the brainstem.
The results of a previous experiment suggest that the cell bodies of many jaw closing muscle spindle afferents in the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus of the rabbit are phasically inhibited during fictive mastication. The aim of this study was to investigate one possible neurotransmitter system that could be involved in this modulation, serotonin, by use of receptor autoradiography techniques and immunofluorescence combined with retrograde labelling of masseteric spindle afferents and motoneurons. A second objective was to compare the serotonin innervation of neurons in the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus with that of masseteric motoneurons. Serotoninergic fibres were seen surrounding labelled masseteric spindle afferents, as well as unlabelled neurons, in the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus. These fibres were close to the cell bodies and sometimes to the axon hillocks of the neurons. Although it has been reported that many neurons of the trigeminal nucleus are multipolar in some species, none of the labelled spindle afferent in this study had more than one process. Throughout the motor trigeminal nucleus, serotonin fibres were found in close proximity with cell bodies and with the proximal portions of axons and dendrites of labelled and unlabelled motoneurons. Serotonin fibres were also seen adjacent to cell bodies and processes of efferent neurons in cell group k. Autoradiography with several tritiated ligands was used to reveal the presence of receptors for serotonin as well as its uptake sites. Only serotonin2 receptors were found to be abundant in the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus. The motor nucleus and cell group k contained serotonin2 and serotonin3 receptors, as well as serotonin uptake sites. Serotonin1A receptors appear to be absent from both nuclei. The findings suggest that release of serotonin from fibres in close proximity to trigeminal primary afferent somata could modify the transmission of action potentials from muscle spindle receptors during mastication through an action on serotonin2 receptors. In the motor nucleus and cell group k, serotonin may alter neuronal properties through actions on at least two receptor subtypes (serotonin2 and serotonin3).
Endopeptidase-24.11 is a widely distributed cell surface enzyme with a role in inactivating some neuropeptides and peptide hormones. In the central nervous system it has been implicated in the metabolism of enkephalins and tachykinins, neuropeptides which are expressed by neurons projecting to the substantia nigra. Two immunochemical methods have been used to reveal the ultrastructural localization of endopeptidase-24.11 and substance P in the substantia nigra of piglets. In the first approach, substance P was revealed by immunoperoxidase staining using the rat monoclonal antibody, NC1, and endopeptidase-24.11 by 1 nm colloidal gold using an affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antibody, both being applied at the pre-embedding stage. NC1 was shown to be highly specific for substance P, with negligible cross-reactivity with neurokinins A and B. The specificity of the immunostaining was confirmed by processing all sections for both markers, even when only one primary antibody was applied. In the second approach, ultrathin cryosections were immunostained using gold particles of different diameters. In a survey of electron micrographs, 80% of the silver-enhanced gold particles were touching neuronal membranes, consistent with the known topology of endopeptidase-24.11. Endopeptidase-24.11 immunoreactivity was observed both on membranes of axons and on pre- and postsynaptic elements. Substance P immunoreactivity was seen within some boutons, apparently associated with vesicles, and in axons. In doubly stained sections, many examples of immunopositive gold-labelled boutons (i.e. endopeptidase-24.11-immunoreactive-positive) containing immunoperoxidase reaction product (i.e. substance P-immunoreactive-positive) were recorded. In ultrathin cryosections, substance P immunoreactivity was mainly observed in dense-core vesicles within boutons, some of which also showed membrane-associated gold particles marking endopeptidase-24.11 immunoreactivity. This is the first demonstration of endopeptidase-24.11 by immunogold at the electron microscopic level and the first demonstration of the ultrastructural co-localization of a membrane peptidase and its putative neuropeptide target. The results lend strong support to the view that endopeptidase-24.11 has a physiological role in the metabolism of substance P, but do not exclude a role in the inactivation of other neuropeptides.
The aim of this study was first to specify the morphology and neuronal environment of the large cholinergic neurons, and second to determine the distribution and mode of termination of the corticostriatal and dopaminergic inputs on these neurons in the rat striatum. Immunocytochemical procedures with a monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase, Golgi staining and standard electron microscopic techniques were used to specify the ultrastructural features of the putatively cholinergic classical large neurons. The large/choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons are characterized by a voluminous, eccentric, and deeply indented nucleus leaving a large cytoplasmic area, and by the presence of an abundant granular endoplasmic reticulum and of many polysomes and free ribosomes. Serial ultrathin sectioning further indicated the presence of nematosomes or nucleolus-like bodies within the nucleus and the cytoplasm of the large neurons. In addition, these neurons were found to be in direct apposition with up to four surrounding neurons showing features typical of medium-sized spiny neurons. These data support the view that the putatively cholinergic neurons may have an intense metabolic activity and may be involved in striatal clusters. When choline acetyltransferase immunostaining was coupled with the identification of degenerating corticostriatal afferents after lesion of the cerebral cortex, degenerating terminals were seen to form synapses of an asymmetrical type on distal labelled dendrites, but these contacts were very rare. On the other hand, nigrostriatal dopaminergic axons, identified by means of either the degeneration method or tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining, were often found to run directly for long distances around the choline acetyltransferase-positive cell bodies. Occasionally, dopaminergic terminals formed possible symmetrical synapses on choline acetyltransferase-positive cell bodies or proximal dendrites. These data provide evidence that the putatively cholinergic neurons are directly contacted by corticostriatal and dopaminergic nigrostriatal afferents. The respective positions and nature of the two types of contacts further provide morphological support for the hypothesis that postsynaptic interactions may occur between the corticostriatal and dopaminergic nigrostriatal afferents at the level of the cholinergic neurons.
The role of cell lineage in the organization of the cerebral cortex and striatum of the developing rat forebrain was analysed using retroviral-mediated gene transfer to mark the progeny of individual progenitors. Injections around the onset of neurogenesis (embryonic day 14) produced neuronal- and glial-specific clones in the striatum and cortex. The majority of the neuronal clones were restricted to either the deep or superficial layers of the cortex and to either the striatal patch or matrix compartments of the striatum. Moreover, modeling the distributions of the neuronal clones in various ways revealed that grouping the clones into deep vs superficial cortical compartments and patch vs matrix striatal compartments best accounted for the clone distributions. These results suggest that at the onset of neurogenesis there is a heterogeneity of neuronal progenitors within the proliferative ventricular zone.
[125I]Peptide YY was used to localize and characterize peptide YY and neuropeptide Y receptor binding sites in the heart. In the rat and rabbit heart, nearly every artery and arteriole that could be histologically identified also expressed saturable binding sites for [125I]peptide YY. In the arteries, these [125I]peptide YY binding sites were primarily associated with the smooth muscle layer. Pharmacological experiments demonstrated that peptide YY and neuropeptide Y were equipotent in competing for [125I]peptide YY binding in the heart. In another competition series, [Leu31,Pro34]-neuropeptide Y (a Y1 receptor-specific agonist when used with [125I]peptide YY) was significantly more potent than neuropeptide Y (a Y2 receptor-specific agonist when used with [125I]peptide YY) in competing for [125I]peptide YY binding from coronary arteries, suggesting that the receptor binding sites on cardiac arteries and arterioles are of the Y1 subtype. These results demonstrate that smooth muscle cells of the atrial and ventricular arteries and arterioles in rat and rabbit heart express Y1 receptors and suggest a possible direct effect of neuropeptide Y on coronary blood vessels to induce vasoconstriction.
The interaction between cocaine and footshock stress was evaluated by determining changes in extracellular dopamine and metabolite levels by in vivo microdialysis in the medial prefrontal cortex. In the first experiment, rats were given one of three treatments: no pretreatment (naive); or five daily injections of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.); or daily saline. Six to seven days later, animals had a microdialysis probe implanted into the medial prefrontal cortex and an acute 20-min footshock stress (0.45 mA/200 ms per s) or sham shock was delivered. The results showed that acute footshock in daily saline pretreated rats increased medial prefrontal cortex extracellular dopamine concentrations to 203% of baseline levels. In rats pretreated with daily cocaine, this stress-induced response was completely abolished and extracellular dopamine was reduced 38% below baseline levels by 100 min post-shock. Naive animals showed a response to footshock that was intermediate between cocaine and saline pretreated rats (156% of baseline). In the second experiment, rats were given either no pretreatment (naive) or five daily 20-min footshock treatments (as above) or daily sham shock. Six to seven days later, an acute cocaine or saline injection was given. In daily sham-pretreated rats, extracellular dopamine levels were increased to 500% of baseline in response to acute cocaine. Pretreatment with daily footshock significantly reduced the response to acute cocaine (216% of baseline). Naive rats showed an intermediate increase that was not significantly different from footshock-pretreated animals (265% of baseline). Locomotor activity measured concurrently with dialysis showed a non-significant trend towards enhanced activity in daily footshock animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Non-adrenergic non-cholinergic nerves provide the main inhibitory autonomic supply to intestinal smooth muscle and other organ systems. Nitric oxide is likely to act as a neurotransmitter in these nerves and a nitric oxide synthase has been demonstrated in autonomic neurons. However, there are as yet no biochemical measurements of nerve-induced release of nitric oxide or its breakdown products nitrite and nitrate. We have examined the possibility that nitric oxide is released by stimulation of autonomic nerves in the guinea-pig intestine by studying the release of nitric oxide, nitrite and nitrate. The biological activity of a vascular relaxing factor released by the activation of these nerves was compared with that of nitric oxide using a bioassay system as previously described. Nitrite and nitrate release were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography using UV absorbance. The relaxation of the bioassay tissues to nerve stimulation was indistinguishable from the relaxation induced by nitric oxide. Both relaxations were equally unstable and inhibited to a similar degree by haemoglobin and enhanced by superoxide dismutase. Furthermore, the release of the relaxing factor was attenuated by treatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine. Concomitant with the release of the relaxing factor, which was frequency dependent, there was a frequency-dependent release of nitrite and nitrate in amounts sufficient to explain the vascular relaxations observed during nerve stimulation. The release of nitrite and nitrate was also inhibited by treatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Transcranial doppler measurements of blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery were made during treatment of raised intracranial pressure (ICP) in 22 patients with severe brain injury. Twenty patients also had continuous measurement of arterial and jugular bulb venous oxygen saturation (SJO2). The transcranial Doppler parameters studied included both mean flow velocity and pulsatility index (PI). Successful treatment was defined as a reduction of ICP to less than 20 mm Hg with improvement or preservation of cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) above 60 mm Hg. Successful therapy was associated with a significant rise in SJO2 and reduction of cerebral arteriovenous oxygen content difference (AVDO2) and PI only when the pretreatment CPP was less than 60 mm Hg. An increase in CPP beyond 70 mm Hg did not further improve cerebral oxygen delivery and PI, suggesting that autoregulation became a factor above this CPP threshold. Treatment failure during administration of hypnotic drugs resulted in a reduction in arterial pressure, CPP, SJO2, and mean velocity and in an increase in PI and AVDO2, despite a decrease in ICP. CPP is the most important parameter to monitor during ICP therapy. It should be maintained above 70 mm Hg in patients with severe brain injury.
To study the involvement of the septohippocampal pathway in colchicine-induced changes in the hippocampus, colchicine was used to lesion the septum and/or hippocampus of male, Fischer-344 rats. Rats were killed 12 weeks post-lesion and histochemical and biochemical measurements were performed. [3H]-QNB binding, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and agonist-stimulated release of inositol phosphates (IPs) were measured in hippocampal slices. AChE histochemistry was also performed to visualize AChE positive fibers in the hippocampus. Increases in ChAT activity, AChE staining and carbachol-stimulated IP release observed in hippocampal-lesioned animals were attenuated in animals receiving both septal and hippocampal lesions. However, the decrease observed in [3H]-QNB binding sites after intradentate colchicine was not affected by septal lesions. Subsequent studies also found enhanced sensitivity to excitatory amino acid (EAA)-stimulated IP release in hippocampal-lesioned animals. Similar to the changes observed in carbachol-stimulated PI hydrolysis, this increase was also long-lasting. However, the hyperstimulation of EAA-induced IP release was not attenuated by the septal lesion. Thus, it appears that the neurochemical and morphological changes observed in the hippocampus following intradentate colchicine are dependent upon more than one afferent projection to the hippocampus.
The effect of chronic administration of 2(2-dimethylaminoethylthio)-3-phenylquinoline (ICI-169,369) and 2(2-dimethylamino-2-methylpropylthio)-3-phenylquinoline (ICI-170,809), two selective 5-HT2 antagonists, on sleep was studied in rats. As previously shown, the acute effect of ICI-170,809 was to increase latency to rapid eye movement sleep (REMS), decrease the number of REM periods (REMPs), suppress the cumulative amount of REMS over 12 h, and increase the duration of REMPs in the first 6 h, while having no effect on non-REM sleep (NREMS). Administration of ICI-169,369 had similar effects except no change was seen in the duration of REMPs and cumulative REMS was suppressed for 24 h. When given 2 x daily for 5 days, tolerance to the REMS suppressant effects developed in both drugs. After discontinuation of treatment, a REMS rebound occurred after ICI-170,809, but not ICI-169,369. No significant effect on NREMS was seen after administration of ICI-170,809, whereas ICI-169,369 lowered 24-h cumulative NREMS on the fifth day of administration.
[125I]Corticotropin-releasing factor binding was measured in membrane homogenates prepared from the anterior pituitary, frontal cortex, motor cortex, somatosensory cortex, mesolimbic area (olfactory tubercle and nucleus accumbens), caudate putamen, hypothalamus, midbrain, and cerebellum from control and chronically stressed rats. The stressor consisted of 3 or 14 days of around-the-clock intermittent foot-shock (approximately one trial per 5-min frequency) that could be avoided or escaped on 90% of the trials presented by pulling a ceiling chain. Plasma corticosterone levels were almost doubled in stressed rats following 3 days of chronic stress and remained significantly elevated in rats stressed for 14 days as compared to controls. Plasma corticotropin levels were similar in controls and stressed animals in both the 3- and 14-day experiments. [125I]Corticotropin-releasing factor binding was decreased in anterior pituitary and frontal cortex following 3 days of chronic stress; binding affinity of anterior pituitary membranes was not different between control and stressed animals. [125I]Corticotropin-releasing factor binding was similar in control and 3-day-stressed animals in the other brain areas examined. After 14 days of chronic stress, hypothalamic [125I]corticotropin-releasing factor binding was decreased in stressed rats as compared to control animals but no other differences were seen. The decrease in the apparent number of anterior pituitary corticotropin-releasing factor receptors following 3 days of stress may be due, in part, to increased plasma corticosterone levels and/or increased corticotropin-releasing factor secretion during that time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rats exposed to low levels of dietary sodium throughout development exhibit reduced chorda tympani nerve taste responses to sodium stimuli during adulthood, apparently due to altered activity of some hormone(s) or growth factor(s) during early development. We were concerned that such an alternation in the activity of some humoral factor(s) could affect development globally. To test this possibility, we utilized a battery of morphological and behavioral measures in neonatal, sodium-restricted rats, expecting serious deficits to be reflected in altered onset and expression of these behaviors. As compared with control rat pups, preweanling sodium-restricted rat pups exhibited greatly diminished body weight gain and delayed acquisition of several morphological features. However, in terms of sensorimotor development, no significant differences between sodium-restricted and control rat pups were found. We interpret these results to indicate that despite significant somatic effects, sodium restriction may not influence the development of physical prowess or of early sensorimotor function in a global manner.
By adapting to sustained stimuli, hair cells in the internal ear retain their sensitivity to minute transient displacements. Because one model for adaptation asserts that this process is mediated by a myosin isozyme, we reasoned that we should be able to arrest adaptation by interfering with myosin's ATPase cycle though introduction of ADP into hair cells. During tight-seal, whole-cell recordings of transduction currents in cells isolated from bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) sacculus, dialysis with 5-25 mM ADP gave variable results. In half of the cells examined, the rate of adaptation remained unchanged or even increased; adaptation was blocked in the remaining cells. Because we suspected that the variable effect of ADP resulted from the conversion of ADP to ATP by adenylate kinase, we employed the ADP analog adenosine 5'-[beta-thio]diphosphate (ADP[beta S]), which is not a substrate for adenylate kinase. Adaptation consistently disappeared in the presence of 1-10 mM ADP[beta S]; in addition, the transduction channels' open probability at rest grew from approximately 0.1 to 0.8 or more. Both effects could be reversed by 2 mM ATP. When used in conjunction with the adenylate kinase inhibitor P1,P5-bis(5'-adenosyl) pentaphosphate (Ap5A), ADP had effects similar to those of ADP[beta S]. These results suggest that adaptation by hair cells involves adenine nucleotides, and they lend support to the hypothesis that the adaptation process is powered by a myosin motor.
The effect of imprinting, an early form of exposure learning, on the phosphorylation state of the protein kinase C substrates myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) and protein F1/43-kDa growth-associated protein (F1/GAP-43) was studied in two regions of the chick forebrain. One region, the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV), is probably a site of long-term memory; the other, the wulst, contains somatic sensory and visual projection areas. After imprinting, a significant increase in MARCKS protein phosphorylation was observed in the left IMHV but not the right IMHV. No significant alteration in F1/GAP-43 was observed in IMHV. MARCKS was resolved into two acidic components of pI approximately 5.0 and approximately 4.0. Phosphorylation of the pI approximately 5.0 MARCKS but not the pI approximately 4.0 MARCKS was significantly altered by imprinting. The partial correlation between preference score (an index of learning) and phosphorylation, holding constant the effect of approach activity during training, was significant only for the pI approximately 5.0 MARCKS in the left IMHV. A significant negative partial correlation between preference score and F1/GAP-43 phosphorylation in the right wulst was observed. Because the imprinting-induced alteration in MARCKS is selective with respect to phosphoprotein moiety, hemispheric location, and brain region, we propose that these alterations may be central to the learning process.
Evidence is presented for linkage of opioid receptors directly to the stimulatory G protein (guanine nucleotide-binding protein), Gs, in addition to the generally accepted linkage to the inhibitory and &quot;other&quot; G proteins, gi and Go, in F-11 (neuroblastoma-dorsal root ganglion neuron) hybrid cells. Treatment of intact F-11 cells with cholera toxin decreased specific binding of the opioid agonist [D-Ala2,D-Leu5]enkephalin to F-11 cell membranes by 35%, with the remaining binding retaining high affinity for agonist. Under these conditions cholera toxin influenced the alpha subunit of Gs (Gs alpha) but had no effect on the alpha subunit of Gi/o (Gi/o alpha), based on ADP-ribosylation studies. Pertussis toxin treatment decreased high-affinity opioid agonist binding by about 50%; remaining binding was also of high affinity, even though pertussis toxin had inactivated Gi/o alpha selectively and essentially completely. Simultaneous treatment with both toxins had an additive effect, reducing specific binding by about 80%. While opioid agonists inhibited forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity of F-11 cells as expected, opioids also stimulated basal adenylate cyclase activity, indicative of interaction with Gs as well as Gi. Cholera toxin treatment attenuated opioid-stimulation of basal adenylate cyclase, whereas pertussis toxin treatment enhanced stimulation. In contrast, inhibition by opioid of forskolin-stimulated activity was attenuated by pertussis toxin but not by cholera toxin. It is concluded that a subset of opioid receptors may be linked directly to Gs and thereby mediate stimulation of adenylate cyclase. This Gs-adenylate cyclase interaction is postulated to be responsible for the novel excitatory electrophysiologic responses to opioids found in our previous studies of sensory neurons and F-11 cells.
Calcium ion plays an important role in the hair cell's mechanoelectrical transduction process; in particular, Ca2+ controls adaptation to protracted mechanical stimuli. Because calmodulin is a ubiquitous intracellular receptor for Ca2+ and has been shown to accumulate at the tips of stereocilia, we determined its concentration and identified the proteins with which it interacts in the hair bundle. By performing quantitative immunoblot analysis on isolated bundles, we ascertained that the average concentration of calmodulin within each stereocilium is approximately 70 microM. Extraction experiments disclosed that, in the presence of 20 microM Ca2+, 50% of the calmodulin is bound to detergent-soluble receptors. To distinguish these receptors, we developed an assay that utilizes calmodulin crosslinked to alkaline phosphatase. This technique is approximately 100-fold more sensitive than calmodulin-binding assays that employ 125I- or biotin-labeled calmodulin. When used with chemiluminescence detection in a blot-overlay assay, the calmodulin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate identified hair-bundle proteins of molecular masses 25, 35, 145, 175, 240, and 350 kDa. We examined the subcellular distribution of these receptors; all but the 240-kDa molecule are soluble in a nonionic detergent. The relatively high concentration of calmodulin and the presence of several calmodulin-binding proteins provide evidence for a role of calmodulin in hair bundles.

Peptide alpha-amidation is a widespread, often essential posttranslational modification shared by many bioactive peptides and accomplished by the products of a single gene encoding a multifunctional protein, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). PAM has two catalytic domains that work sequentially to produce the final alpha-amidated product peptide. Tissue-specific alternative splicing can generate forms of PAM retaining or lacking a domain required for the posttranslational separation of the two catalytic activities by endoproteases found in neuroendocrine tissue. Tissue-specific alternative splicing also governs the presence of a transmembrane domain and generation of integral membrane or soluble forms of PAM. The COOH-terminal domain of the integral membrane PAM proteins contains routing information essential for the retrieval of PAM from the surface of endocrine and nonendocrine cells. Tissue-specific endoproteolytic processing can generate soluble PAM proteins from integral membrane precursors. Soluble PAM proteins are rapidly secreted from stably transfected nonneuroendocrine cells but are stored in the regulated secretory granules characteristic of neurons and endocrine cells.
This article provides a hierarchical model of animal spatial cognitive maps. Such maps include both topological information, which affords loose, yet operational, representations of the connectivity of space and its overall arrangement, and metric information, which provides information about angles and distances. The model holds that maps can be initially described as a set of location-dependent reference frameworks providing directional information about other locations. The addition of an overall directional reference allows for the buildup of more complete (allocentric) representations. A survey of recent neurobiological data provides some hints about the brain structures involved in these processes and suggests that the hippocampal formation and the posterior parietal cortex would act differently by handling topological and metric information, respectively.
It is a preliminary study testing the applicability of a method for knowledge characterization based on graphs theory. 11 (eleven) nurses working in a medical surgical intensive care unit including neurological patients constructed graphs to explain the diagnostic process. The results show that: the knowledge structure is in a developing stage; there is agreement regarding to diagnosis formulation and the data base on which it is founded is diversified and link to a specified form of related causes. The method demonstrated to be feasible and should be reapplied on a larger population.
Nitric oxide (NO) has recently been proposed to act as a retrograde messenger to produce long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal area CA1. This notion is based largely on the absence of LTP when hippocampal slices are incubated in the presence of inhibitors of NO synthase (NOS) or of NO scavengers. In the present study, we tested the effects of such compounds on both the induction and maintenance of LTP in field CA1 of hippocampal slices. Incubation of slices in the presence of N-methyl-L-arginine (MLA) or L-nitro-arginine (LNA), two inhibitors of NOS, or in the presence of hemoglobin (Hb), a NO scavenger, produced a large reduction in the magnitude of LTP induced by a theta burst stimulation (TBS) paradigm. These compounds had no effect on the degree of paired-pulse facilitation but produced a significant reduction of the facilitation of postsynaptic responses occurring during TBS. On the other hand, MLA did not prevent the potentiation induced by application of tetraethylammonium (TEA). These results suggest that the inhibition of LTP produced by these agents could be due to an effect on a physiological mechanism that triggers LTP and not necessarily on an event that follows the triggering step.
Development of the R7 neuron in the compound eye of Drosophila requires an inductive interaction between the R8 photoreceptor cell and the bipotential R7 precursor cell. Two transmembrane proteins mediate this induction: sevenless (sev), a receptor tyrosine kinase expressed on the apical surface of the R7 precursor cell, and its ligand, the bride of sevenless protein (boss) on the apical membrane of the R8 neuron. The boss protein, with its large extracellular domain and seven transmembrane segments, is an unusual ligand for a receptor tyrosine kinase, and its internalization into the R7 cell following interaction with sev is particularly intriguing.
Cerebral angiography is associated with a risk of neurological complications and air embolism may contribute towards this risk. To test this hypothesis, transcranial doppler ultrasonography was used to monitor the presence of air emboli in the middle cerebral arteries of 7 patients undergoing cerebral angiography. Doppler signals consistent with numerous air emboli were noted during each injection of radiographic contrast. This phenomenon was studied further in sheep. Radiographic contrast medium was injected into the carotid artery while a major carotid branch was insonated transorbitally. Embolic signals similar to those seen in patients were noted. Air was introduced at two points. First, at the time of drawing up the contrast into the syringe, especially with more viscous media. Standing the media before injection resulted in a highly significant reduction of air embolism, reducing the total mean duration of emboli from 1.32 (SD 0.60) s after immediate injection to 0.04 (0.05) s after ten minutes standing for iohexol 340 mg/mL (p &lt; 0.001). Second, air was introduced at the time of injection, possibly by the formation of cavitation bubbles under pressure. This occurred most prominently with the less viscous contrast media and with saline, and was significantly reduced by slow injection (mean duration of emboli for saline 2.85 [2.43] s with fast injection compared with 0.32 [0.37] s with slow injection, p = 0.004). Air embolism may contribute towards neurological dysfunction after angiography. Measures should be taken to reduce this by allowing contrast media to stand prior to injection, and by flushing catheters with saline injected slowly.
This study tests the effect of serotonin (5-HT) (1 microM) on the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) at the commissural/associational (C/A)-CA3 synapse. The C/A input to CA3 was measured by field potentials in rat hippocampal slices. At the concentration used 5-HT had little or no effect on synaptic transmission, but suppressed the induction of LTP. Similar results were observed in normal saline and in saline containing picrotoxin (10 microM) and bicuculline (10 microM) to block GABAA inhibition. Perfusion with methysergide (1 microM), a 5-HT antagonist, had no effect on synaptic transmission, but partially blocked the effect of 5-HT on LTP. The block of LTP by 5-HT could be overcome by using a higher intensity of stimulation suggesting that 5-HT might hyperpolarize the postsynaptic neurons to inhibit LTP induction. We conclude that the activation of serotonergic receptors inhibits the induction of LTP at the C/A-CA3 synapse.
Cytochrome oxidase (COX) activity and COX II mRNA expression were localized in the perirhinal and superior temporal sulci of the rhesus monkey brain. In both regions, a laminar distribution of COX activity and COX II mRNA was observed. COX activity was intense in layers I and IV and were localized to the neuropil. In contrast, COX II mRNA was localized to neuronal cell bodies. In the prorhinal region, highest levels of COX II mRNA was detected in cell bodies of layers II and IV, and in the perirhinal region, in cell bodies of layers III and V-VI. In the superior temporal sulcus, COX II mRNA was detected in cell bodies of layers III and V-VI. Thus, COX II mRNA and COX activity are uniquely localized in the cortical layers and to those neurons that support cortico-cortical connections.
Glial growth factors, proteins that are mitogenic for Schwann cells, and several ligands for the p185erbB2 receptor, are products of the same gene. Alternative splicing of the messenger RNA generates an array of putative membrane-attached, intracellular and secreted signalling proteins, at least some of which are expressed in the developing spinal cord and brain. These factors are probably important in the development and regeneration of the nervous system.

The hindbrain is evolutionarily conserved among diverse vertebrate phyla. In vertebrate embryos, the hindbrain is segmentally organized as a series of overt swellings known as rhombomeres. In the larval zebrafish Brachydanio rerio, conspicuous and identifiable reticulospinal neurons are positioned in the center of rhombomeres. Segmentally homologous reticulospinal neurons that share a range of morphological, developmental, and biochemical features occupy adjacent rhombomeres. We have recently shown that reticulospinal neurons of the zebrafish survive ontogeny without considerable morphological modification and we suggested that homologous neurons may share similar functions at different stages of development (Lee and Eaton: Journal of Comparative Neurology 304:34-52, 1991). The goldfish Carassius auratus, a related cyprinid, is especially suited for neurophysiological and behavioral studies. However, it is not yet known if the various reticulospinal neurons of zebrafish are generalizable to other species such as the goldfish. Therefore, we sought to examine the extent to which reticulospinal neurons of the zebrafish are also present in the adult goldfish. Analysis of 45 brains retrogradely labeled with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) from the spinal cord showed that reticulospinal neurons are arranged as a series of seven segments within the hindbrain; a regular interval of approximately 200 microns separates adjacent segments. Although the goldfish reticulospinal system has more neurons than the zebrafish, many reticulospinal neuron types continue to be identifiable. Moreover, comparisons of dendritic arborizations and axon paths between the two species showed that the morphology between various neuron types is virtually identical. The cross-taxonomic similarities between the reticulospinal systems of these related cyprinids make it possible to pursue functional considerations of segmentally homologous neurons in the goldfish hindbrain.
Swollen, bulbous-shaped (dystrophic) neurites are a common pathologic feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and represent one of the most abundant neuritic abnormalities within the brains of patients with this disease. In the present study, we sought to determine whether the dystrophic neurites which are observed in association with senile plaques are unique to AD or whether they are characteristic of a more generalized process of neuritic and/or neuronal degeneration which can be observed in other neurodegenerative diseases. To accomplish this, we examined post-mortem brain material from patients with AD, Parkinson's disease (PD), Parkinson's disease with associated AD, Parkinson's disease with dementia yet without AD pathology, Huntington's disease (HD), Pick's disease and normal age-matched controls (NC). Using a battery of antibodies to amyloid beta-protein (A beta P), paired-helical filaments (PHF), tyrosine hydroxylase, substance P, neurotensin, and somatostatin we found that immunolabeled dystrophic neurites of the type characteristically observed in AD, were seen only in cases and in brain regions where A beta P deposition was present. More specifically, brain areas known to display severe afferent and/or local degenerative changes such as the caudate and putamen in all three PD groups, the caudate in the HD cases, and the temporal cortex in the HD and Pick's cases were conspicuously free of these swollen neurites unless A beta P deposition was also present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study analyzed the ontogeny of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive (CGRP-IR) structures in the mouse cerebellum. No CGRP-IR neurons were detected at any stage, but three types of CGRP-IR fibers were seen: (1) CGRP-IR dense fiber plexuses which appeared transiently in the developing cerebellum, (2) thin varicose fibers, and (3) mossy fiber-like fibers. The CGRP-IR dense fiber plexuses appeared in the developing Purkinje cell layer at postnatal day 2. From postnatal days 6 to 11, these fibers formed pericellular nests around Purkinje cells. After that stage, these fibers rapidly disappeared and no such plexuses were seen in the adult cerebellum. CGRP-IR fiber plexuses were not evenly distributed, and they had a parasagittal banded pattern in the frontal sections. These plexuses existed in the region of all vermis, crus 1 of the ansiform lobe, simplex lobule, and flocculus, while the other lobules were devoid of such fibers. Under electron microscopy, these CGRP-IR fibers were seen to make synaptic contacts with somatic spines of Purkinje cells, suggesting that CGRP-IR plexuses were closely related to the developing Purkinje cells. Mossy fiber-like CGRP-IR fibers appeared in the granular layer on postnatal day 2, and increased in number to reach a peak on postnatal day 12. Thereafter, they decreased slightly to reach a plateau on postnatal day 30. Under electron microscopy these CGRP-IR fibers were revealed to be the mossy fibers which regulated the granule cells. Thin varicose CGRP-IR fibers were rarely seen at birth, but on postnatal day 8, many fibers appeared in all layers and increased by postnatal day 30. They distributed equally throughout the cerebellar cortex with a slight predominance in density in the molecular and Purkinje cell layer. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis showed that these fibers made synaptic contacts with small dendrites in the molecular layer.
We determined the neurotrophic activity of interleukin-2 (IL-2) on primary cultured neocortical neurons from embryonic rat brain. IL-2 clearly enhanced the viability of cultured neurons in a dose-dependent manner. The neurotrophic effect of IL-2 was completely neutralized by IL-2 antibody. Furthermore, expression of IL-2 receptor mRNA was more pronounced in neurons than in other cultured cells such as astroglia and microglia. These results strongly suggest that IL-2 plays certain roles in the central nervous system as a neurotrophic factor.
In a previous study, two coexisting mechanisms of dopamine release were identified in dopamine neuron terminals. One can be blocked with gamma-butyrolactone, suggesting it is impulse flow-dependent, while the other one cannot and is apparently impulse flow-independent. The goal of this study was to further characterize the gamma-butyrolactone-resistant mechanism and its relation to dopamine metabolism. Following acute and chronic haloperidol or clozapine treatment, gamma-butyrolactone was given to block dopamine neuronal impulse flow. In all groups, 3-methoxytyramine levels after monoamine oxidase inhibition with pargyline (an index of dopamine release) were measured in the frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and striatum. Regional steady-state levels of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were also measured in the rats treated acutely with neuroleptics. In all three regions, gamma-butyrolactone reduced the 3-methoxytyramine levels by over 50% after chronic neuroleptic treatment. This indicates that dopamine release from the terminals is primarily impulse flow-dependent during chronic neuroleptic treatment, both in the dopamine neurons which do undergo depolarization block, and in those that do not. No neuroleptic effect on the gamma-butyrolactone-resistant dopamine release was observed, while DOPAC and HVA were markedly elevated by the acute treatment, suggesting a predominant production of these metabolites from unreleased dopamine.

Myogenin, one of the MyoD-related factors containing basic-helix-loop-helix motifs, is transcriptionally activated in skeletal muscle lineages in somites and limb buds during embryogenesis. In an attempt to understand regulatory mechanisms which govern transcriptional activation of the myogenin gene, transgenic mice bearing the lacZ gene driven by the upstream region of the myogenin gene were generated. Stereoscopic visualization of LacZ-positive cells of these transgenic mouse embryos revealed that the upstream region of the myogenin gene conferred its transcriptional activation in cells of the skeletal muscle lineages in somites, limb buds, and visceral arches. Moreover, transient LacZ expression in newly formed somites in addition to its strong activation in myotomal regions of mature somites with a rostro-caudal gradient raised the possibility that myogenin is transcriptionally activated in immature somites before myotome formation.
Catecholamines in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) have been implicated in autonomic responses to circulating hormones that act on neurons in the area postrema, the most caudal circumventricular organ in brain. We combined immunoperoxidase labeling of the anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHAL) with immunogold-silver labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase to determine whether this enzymatic marker for catecholamines was present in efferents from the area postrema or their targets in the rat NTS. At survival periods of 10-12 days after PHAL injections into the area postrema, light microscopy revealed numerous varicose processes containing peroxidase reaction product for PHAL in the dorsomedial, medial, and commissural NTS. Some of these labeled processes were located near neuronal perikarya and processes containing immunogold-silver intensified reaction product for tyrosine hydroxylase. Electron microscopy of the commissural and dorsomedial NTS established that the majority of the labeling for PHAL was in axon terminals, whereas immunogold labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase was mainly in soma and dendrites. Only 3 out of 579 PHAL-labeled terminals also contained detectable tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Fifty-eight percent (335/579) of the PHAL-labeled terminals formed synapses with recognized symmetric junctions, whereas the remainder lacked synaptic specializations within the examined series of serial sections. Of those PHAL terminals forming recognized symmetric junctions, 22% were on tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dendrites, 74% on unlabeled dendrites and 4% on unlabeled axon terminals. From a total of 1,250 observed contacts on tyrosine hydroxylase labeled dendrites, 88 (7%) contained PHAL, 9 (&lt; 1%) contained TH, and 1,180 (93%) lacked detectable immunoreactivity and formed primarily symmetric synapses. We conclude that a few catecholamine, but mainly noncatecholamine efferents from the area postrema provide a monosynaptic, and most likely inhibitory input to target neurons both with and without tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the dorsomedial and commissural NTS. Synapses between the efferent terminals from the area postrema and tyrosine hydroxylase labeled and unlabeled dendrites as well as unlabeled axons in these specific subnuclei of the NTS suggest multiple sites for modulation of gastric and cardiovascular reflexes in response to circulating peptides.
The neurocytokine ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) was described originally as an activity that supports the survival of neurons of the chicken ciliary ganglia in vitro. The widespread expression of CNTF and its principal binding protein, CNTF receptor alpha, in the central and peripheral nervous systems suggests a broader trophic role for this peptide. In the present study, we report that CNTF prevents axotomy-induced cell death of neurons in the anteroventral and anterodorsal thalamic nuclei of the adult rat. Using the polymerase chain reaction, we also demonstrate the presence of CNTF and CNTF receptor alpha mRNA in these same thalamic nuclei. The coincidence of CNTF and its receptor in a population of neurons responding to the factor suggests a paracrine function for CNTF. The present findings establish that CNTF has significant effects on neurons of the central nervous system in vivo and demonstrate that neurocytokines can prevent cell death in the adult central nervous system.
Different groups of rats received three injections of either D-amphetamine (2.5 micrograms/0.5 microliters/side) or saline into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), one injection every third day. Two weeks following the last injection, dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens (N. Acc.) was assessed with in vivo microdialysis before and after a challenge with systemic D-amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.). Prior to challenge, basal extracellular concentrations of DA in the N.Acc. did not differ in VTA amphetamine- and saline-preexposed animals. Following challenge, however, both groups showed an increase in N.Acc. DA but this was significantly greater (2-fold) in VTA amphetamine-preexposed animals. These latter animals also showed significantly higher DA metabolite levels in comparison to saline-preexposed animals prior to (DOPAC) as well as after challenge (HVA). These findings extend those of behavioral experiments showing that intra-VTA amphetamine produces sensitized locomotor responding to drug challenge (J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther., 245 (1988) 1095-1102; Brain Res., 516 (1990) 99-106; Ann. NY Acad. Sci., 654 (1992) 444-447) and demonstrate that amphetamine applied to the somatodendritic region of mesolimbic DA neurons sensitizes these neurons as evidenced by their enhanced N.Acc. DA response to a systemic amphetamine challenge.
In a previous study, we showed that microM concentrations of mu or delta opioid agonists increase voltage-dependent outward K+ currents in neuroblastoma x DRG neuron hybrid F11 cells via pertussis toxin-sensitive receptors. The present study demonstrates that much lower concentrations (fM to nM) of these opioids (DAGO and DPDPE) decreased voltage-dependent outward K+ currents during step depolarization. The opioid antagonist, naloxone (3 nM) prevented these decreases in K+ current as did the cholera toxin subunits A or B (ca. 1 nM). Furthermore, the specific mu opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine (5 nM) blocked the decrease by DAGO and the specific delta antagonist, naltrindole (1 nM) blocked that by DPDPE. Acute GM1 ganglioside (1 microM) treatment markedly enhanced the efficacy of opioid-induced decrease in K+ current. After treating the cells with pertussis toxin (1 microgram/ml) for 2 days or more, these opioids decreased the K+ current even when tested at concentrations as high as 1 microM. These results indicate that the decrease in K+ current elicited in F11 cells by low concentrations of mu and delta opioid agonists resembles the opioid-induced prolongation of the action potential duration and decrease in voltage-dependent K+ conductance that occur in DRG neurons in primary cultures. The F11 cell line provides therefore a valuable model system for correlative pharmacologic, electrophysiologic and biochemical analyses of Gs-coupled, GM1 ganglioside-regulated excitatory opioid receptor functions, in addition to G(i)/G(o)-coupled inhibitory receptor functions, in sensory neurons.
ADP-ribosylation, involving the transfer of an ADP-ribose moiety from NAD to proteins, is mediated by several bacterial toxins and endogenous ADP-ribosyltransferases. We report here the synthesis of biotinylated NAD and its use to label and purify biotinyl-ADP-ribosylated proteins. We demonstrate that biotinylated NAD can be used by diphtheria toxin to biotinylate elongation factor 2. Using avidin affinity chromatography, we have purified a protein whose ADP-ribosylation is enhanced by nitric oxide and which has been identified as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.
The zeta (zeta) opioid receptor mediates the activity of the opioid growth factor, [Met5]-enkephalin, a peptide that regulates developmental events in a variety of normal and tumorigenic tissues and cells, including the nervous system. To identify the binding subunit(s) of the zeta receptor, protein blots of rat cerebellar proteins from 6-day-old animals were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate 10% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and electrophoretically transferred onto nitrocellulose. Ligand blotting of these blots with 1.5 nM [125I]-[Met5]-enkephalin revealed four binding polypeptides of 32, 30, 17, and 16 kDa. Binding occurred at concentrations relevant to the Kd of the receptor, was blocked by cold ligand and opioid antagonists, and exhibited a stereospecific response. No binding was recorded in the adult rat cerebellum. Subcellular fractionation studies using ligand blotting and receptor-binding analysis indicated that these binding subunits were associated with the nucleus. Two-dimensional protein analysis using non-equilibrium pH gradient electrophoresis (NEPHGE) SDS-PAGE of 6-day-old cerebellum and ligand blotting showed that the 32-, 30-, 17-, and 16-kDa subunits have basic isoelectric points. Two-dimensional chymotryptic peptide mapping showed a strong homology between the 32- and 30-kDa subunits, but not with the 17- and 16-kDa polypeptides. The 17- and 16-kDa subunits had only a partial homology to each other. These results are consistent with the biology, biochemistry, and pharmacology of the zeta receptor, and are the first to identify and characterize the binding polypeptides of an opioid receptor that has important growth-related properties.
The design, synthesis, and structure-activity relationships (SAR) for the development of selective dipeptoid ligands for both of the cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor subtypes CCK-A and CCK-B are described. The SAR developed is used to design a ligand with equal nanomolar binding affinity for both the CCK-A and CCK-B receptors. Example compounds such as [1R-[1 alpha[R*(R*)],2 beta]]-4-[[2-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)- 2-methyl-2-[[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1- oxopropyl]-amino]-1-phenylethyl]amino]-4-oxo-butanoic acid (24c), (1R-trans)-N-[alpha-methyl-N-[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy] carbonyl]-D-tryptophyl]-L-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (28i), and N-[alpha-methyl-N-[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1]dec-2-yloxy) carbonyl]-D-tryptophanyl]-L-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (30m) are CCK-B selective compounds having CCK-B binding affinities of IC50 = 3.9, 0.34, and 0.15 nM with a CCK-A/CCK-B ratio of 464, 53, and 170, respectively. Other compounds such as (1R-trans)-N-[alpha-methyl-N-[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]- L-tryptophyl]-D-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (281) and N-(alpha-methyl-N-[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1]dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]-L - tryptophyl]-D-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (30p) are CCK-A-selective compounds having CCK-A binding affinities of IC50 = 7.9 and 2.82 nM with a CCK-A/CCK-B ratio of 0.007 and 0.01, respectively. Further to these, (1S-trans)-N-[alpha-methyl-N-[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy] carbonyl]-D-tryptophyl]-L-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (28h) is a mixed CCK-A/CCK-B ligand with a CCK-A binding affinity of IC50 = 3.9 nM and a CCK-B binding affinity of IC50 = 4.2, producing a CCK-A/CCK-B ratio of unity. The CCK-B selective compounds are shown to be antagonists in electrophysiological tests on the rat ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus with an equilibrium constant (Ke) value of 2.8 nM for 30m and are also shown to be anxiolytic in the mouse ligh/dark box test with a minimum effective dose of 0.01 mg/kg, sc, for 30m. The CCK-A selective compounds are also shown to be competitive antagonists by the inhibition of CCK-8S-evoked amylase secretion from pancreatic acinar cells with a Ke value of 16 nM for 30p. In electrophysiological tests on the rat dorsal raph (an area rich in CCK-A receptors) 30p had a Ke value of 12.8 nM. The mixed CCK-A/CCK-B compound 28h showed antagonistic properties in both CCK-A and CCK-B models; thus it inhibited CCK-8S-evoked amylase secretion from pancreatic acinar cells and is anxiolytic in the light/dark box paradigm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The pharmacological profile of NK2 binding sites has been characterised in homogenates of rabbit urinary bladder and compared with that present in homogenates of hamster bladder. In both species, [125I]neurokinin A-specific binding to urinary bladder membranes was displaced by neurokinin A and the NK2 agonist [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10) whilst the NK1 ligands [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P and (+/-)-CP-96,345, and the NK3 agonist, senktide, were only weak displacers or ineffective. At rabbit NK2 sites, the rank order of affinity of NK2 receptor-selective antagonists was; MEN 10,376 &gt; MEN 10,207 &gt; L-659,877 &gt; R 396. In contrast, the rank order of displacement of [125I]neurokinin A-specific binding to hamster bladder membranes was: L-659,877 &gt; R 396 &gt; MEN 10,376 &gt; MEN 10,207. These data demonstrate that [125I]neurokinin A binds to pharmacologically distinct NK2 binding sites in hamster and rabbit urinary bladder.
The vertical eye movements in humans produced in response to head-over-heels constant velocity pitch rotation about a horizontal axis resemble those from other species. At 60 degrees/s these are persistent and tend to have non-reversing slow components that are compensatory to the direction of rotation. In most, but not all subjects, the slow component velocity was well characterized by a rapid build-up followed by an exponential decay to a non-zero baseline. Super-imposed was a cyclic or modulation component whose frequency corresponded to the time for one revolution and whose maximum amplitude occurred during a specific head orientation. All response components (exponential decay, baseline and modulation) were larger during pitch backward compared to pitch forward runs. Decay time constants were shorter during the backward runs, thus, unlike left to right yaw axis rotation, pitch responses display significant asymmetries between paired forward and backward runs.
Classification of psychosis in childhood and adolescence has always been controversial due to the possible developmental modulation of symptom expression. Major classificatory systems have no special criteria for children, and recommend the use of adult criteria. Hence, this study aimed to study the nosology of psychosis of childhood and adolescence, using adult criteria (ICD-9, ICD-10 and DSM-III-R). Fifty subjects between the age of 5 and 16 years who met the ICD-9 definition of psychosis were studied using the Intake Sheet for Adolescents: cross-cultural study and the Interview Schedule for Children and Adolescents. Most of the subjects could be classified into one of the major functional psychosis categories, indicating the applicability of adult criteria in children and adolescents.
Can discrete, single-shot movements and continuous, cyclical movements be reduced to a single concept? In the classical, computational approach to human motor behaviour, cyclical aimed movement has generally been considered to derive from discrete primitives through a concatenation mechanism. Much importance, accordingly, has been attached to discrete-movement paradigms and to techniques allowing the segmentation of continuous data. An alternative approach, suggested by the nonlinear dynamical systems theory, views discreteness as a limiting case of cyclicity. Although attempts have been made recently to account for discrete movements in dynamical terms, cyclical paradigms have been favoured. The concatenation interpretation of cyclical aimed movement is criticized on the ground that it implies a complete waste of mechanical energy once in every half-cycle. Some kinematic data from a one-dimensional reciprocal (i.e., cyclical) aiming experiment are reported, suggesting that human subjects do save muscular efforts from one movement to the next in upper-limb cyclical aiming. The experiment demonstrated convergence on simple harmonic motion as aiming tolerance was increased, an outcome interpreted with reference to Hooke's law, in terms of the muscles' capability of storing potential, elastic energy across movement reversals. Not only is the concatenation concept problematic for understanding cyclical aimed movements, but the very reality of discrete movements is questionable too. It is pointed out that discrete motor acts of real life are composed of complete cycles, rather than half-cycles.
omega-Conotoxin and ethanol produce similar actions on in vitro calcium channel functions. The present study was designed to determine their possible behavioral interaction. omega-Conotoxin injected ICV at either 0.1 microgram or 0.3 microgram, produced an increase in spontaneous and evoked tremor activity in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The tremor was present at 30 min and continued at least 4 h after injection. At 4 h post ICV injection, animals were given an IP injection of ethanol (3 g/kg body weight). Although no blood alcohol differences were observed between groups, rats injected with omega-conotoxin showed a concentration-dependent increase in sleep times: Saline controls slept for an average of 84.7 +/- 16.7 min, 0.1 and 0.3 microgram conotoxin treated animals slept for 121.3 +/- 16.2 and 211.1 +/- 30.7 min, respectively. These results extend the class of calcium channel blockers capable of producing a behavioral interaction with ethanol.
We studied axonal damage in Alzheimer's disease frontal cortex and hippocampus with a novel monoclonal antibody (SMI 312) against phosphorylated neurofilaments. This antibody immunolabeled, with great detail, the neuropil axonal network. In aged normal cases only a few pyramidal cell perikarya were immunostained. In Alzheimer's disease there was a two- to four-fold increase in neuronal SMI 312 immunolabeling, and neuropil neuritic processes were severely disrupted. Double-immunolabeling analysis showed that 88% of SMI 312-immunolabeled abnormal neuritic clusters were associated with amyloid, whereas the remaining 12% were not. Serial section analysis and 3-D reconstructions suggested that dystrophic neurites of classical plaques were derived from long axons. These abnormal neurites were also growth-associated protein 43 positive and occasionally tau positive. The present study supports the contention that a subpopulation of aberrantly sprouting axons in the neuritic plaque is derived from cortico-cortico fibers. This disruption of the neocortical association fibers and neuritic microcircuitry could underlie the cognitive impairment of Alzheimer's disease.

The effects of repeated treatment of rolipram, a cAMP specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor (0.1 mg/kg/day i.p., 14 days), on several neuronal cholinergic indices, especially on those in aged rats were examined. In young-adult rats, rolipram treatment increased choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity (V(max)value) in the striatum as well as in thalamus + midbrain, whereas it decreased choline esterase activity in the hippocampus. The ChAT activity (V(max)value) and the M1-R binding (B(max)value) in the aged control rats were significantly reduced in all the brain regions examined, compared with the young-adult rats, but consecutive rolipram treatment ameliorated the reductions of both indices in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus to approximately the young-adult control levels. Since high membrane binding site concentrations for rolipram itself were revealed in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus, where the rolipram treatment showed ameliorating effects on the ChAT activity and the M1-R binding, the present findings indicate that repeated rolipram administration easily affects these two brain regions. Thus, repeated rolipram administration could restore both the presynaptic ChAT activity and the postsynaptic muscarinic cholinergic M1-R binding which are decreased with aging.
Choline acetyltransferase (CAT) and muscarinic cholinergic receptor (MCR) activities are markedly reduced in aged as compared with young-adult rat brain. Nicergoline was found to correct these reduced activities in most regions of the brain, especially in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Chronic administration of nicergoline had no effect on CAT activity or MCR binding in young-adult rat brain. Nicergoline thus appears to have a specific therapeutic effect on cholinergic functions in aged rat brain, where it acts both pre-synaptically and post-synaptically.
Depo cytarabine (DTC 101 [formerly identified as Depo/Ara-C]) is a slow-releasing, depot formulation in which cytarabine is encapsulated within the aqueous compartments of microscopic (DepoFoam) particles. A phase I trial of DTC 101, given intraventricularly, was conducted in patients with leptomeningeal metastasis. Nine patients were given 1 to 7 cycles of DTC 101 in doses ranging from 25 to 125 mg that were administered via an Ommaya reservoir into the lateral ventricle. The dose-limiting toxic reaction was encephalopathy that occurred at the 125-mg dose level. All toxic episodes but one were transient and reversible, with the total duration of toxicity lasting from 1 to 7 days. The ventricular concentration of free cytarabine released from DTC 101 into cerebrospinal fluid decreased biexponentially with an initial half-life of 7.2 +/- 1.7 (+/- SEM) hours and a terminal half-life of 140 +/- 49 hours. The cerebrospinal fluid was cleared of malignant cells within 3 weeks of initial therapy in five of six cytologically evaluable patients. The duration of response ranged from 2 to more than 14 weeks, with a median of over 11 weeks. In conclusion, DTC 101 appears to be a pharmacologically attractive agent for use against leptomeningeal metastasis. The toxic episodes that occur with this therapy are well tolerated by patients.
Intramuscular promethazine and its efficacy in the treatment of Space Motion Sickness (SMS) were evaluated using standardized questions administered during postflight debriefings to crewmembers immediately after their first Shuttle flight. Space Motion Sickness was graded as none, mild, moderate, or severe, based on published criteria. Immediate symptom relief (within 1-2 h) was evaluated by subjective reports; medication efficacy was based on scores derived from the four most frequently reported symptoms of SMS: nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and stomach awareness. Scores were given for each symptom, mild = 1, moderate = 2, and severe = 3, and added for a total score for each flight day. Following intramuscular (IM) promethazine on flight day 1, the scores were used to determine if the crewmembers were &quot;sick&quot; or &quot;not sick&quot; on flight day 2. On the basis of the scoring criteria, any subject with a score adding to greater than three, with any severe symptom, or with vomiting was defined as &quot;sick.&quot; The comparison showed that 25% of crewmembers treated with IM promethazine were &quot;sick&quot; on flight day 2, compared to 50% of crewmembers who did not receive promethazine (p = 0.046). Of crewmembers treated with IM promethazine, 90% reported immediate symptom relief as well. Untreated crewmembers typically have slow symptom resolution over 72-96 h, and those treated with oral scopolamine/dextroamphetamine show delayed symptom development. This study suggests that intramuscular promethazine is an effective treatment for SMS and merits continued use and further controlled investigations.

The effect of saposins (A, B, C and D) on acid sphingomyelinase activity was determined using a crude human kidney sphingomyelinase preparation and a purified sphingomyelinase preparation from human placenta. Saposin D stimulated the activity of the crude enzyme by increasing its apparent Km and Vmax. values for sphingomyelin hydrolysis. Unlike the crude enzyme, the activity of the purified enzyme was strongly inhibited by saposin D as well as other saposins. Saposin D decreased the apparent Km and Vmax values of purified sphingomyelinase activity. The effects of saposin D on the activity of different sphingomyelinase preparations appear to depend on Triton X-100, which is present in the crude enzyme but not in the purified enzyme. When the detergent was removed from the crude preparation, the effect of saposin D changed from being stimulatory to inhibitory. Conversely, when the detergent is added to the purified enzyme, the effect of saposin D on sphingomyelinase activity changed from being inhibitory to stimulatory. While other saposins were inhibitory or had no effect on sphingomyelinase activity in the above assay system, not only saposin D but also saposins A and C exhibited a stimulatory effect upon purified sphingomyelinase activity when the substrate, sphingomyelin, was added in the form of liposomes without detergent. Saposin B was not only inhibitory in the liposome system, but also reduced the stimulatory effect of saposins A, C and D. These observations indicate that the stimulatory effect of saposins A, C and D on acid sphingomyelinase activity is greatly influenced by the physical environment of the enzyme and suggest that similar effects by saposins may be exerted in lysosomal membranes.
Alkaline phosphodiesterase I was purified from calf kidney following extraction with 0.5% Triton X-100 and then fractionation with a Rotfor cell and high-pressure liquid chromatography. The isoelectric point of alkaline phosphodiesterase I was 5.9. Both the native and the subunit molecular weight of alkaline phosphodiesterase I was determined to be 125 kDa. The N-terminus of its amino acid sequence appeared to be blocked. The immobilized protein, separated by gel electrophoresis and transblotted to a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, was digested on the membrane by proteases and separated by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Eighty one amino acids were sequenced. One of the internal sequences was identical with that of an active-site-containing fragment from calf intestinal enzyme, as reported by Culp et al. (1985).
1. It has been suggested that HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which are administered as inactive, lipophilic lactones (e.g. simvastatin) have a greater propensity to evoke nocturnal sleep disturbances than pravastatin, an inhibitor given in the active, hydrophilic, open-acid form. 2. The effects of 4 weeks treatment with equipotent doses of simvastatin (20 mg day-1) and pravastatin (40 mg day-1) have been compared using polysomnography and subjective sleep assessments in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period, incomplete block design study involving 24 male patients with primary moderate hypercholesterolaemia (mean LDL cholesterol 5.11 mmol l-1). 3. Analysis of sleep EEG measures relevant to insomnia provided no evidence of significant differences between pravastatin, simvastatin and placebo, except in terms of entries and latency to stage I sleep. The number of entries to stage I sleep was significantly greater after simvastatin treatment than after either pravastatin or placebo (P &lt; 0.05), but by contrast the latency to stage I sleep was significantly prolonged only in the pravastatin group (P &lt; 0.05 vs placebo). 4. Subjective ratings of sleep initiation, maintenance and quality made during and after therapy were not significantly different between the three treatment groups. 5. It appears that the inherent hydrophobicity of simvastatin does not increase the occurrence of sleep disturbances in this patient population at a dose shown to elicit a characteristic hypolipidaemic response.
1. Administration to rats of methamphetamine (15 mg kg-1, i.p.) every 2 h to a total of 4 doses resulted in a neurotoxic loss of striatal dopamine of 36% and of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the cortex (43%) and hippocampus (47%) 3 days later. 2. Administration of chlormethiazole (50 mg kg-1, i.p.) 15 min before each dose of methamphetamine provided complete protection against the neurotoxic loss of monoamines while administration of dizocilpine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) using the same dose schedule provided substantial protection. 3. Measurement of dopamine release in the striatum by in vivo microdialysis revealed that methamphetamine produced an approximate 7000% increase in dopamine release after the first injection. The enhanced release response was somewhat diminished after the third injection but still around 4000% above baseline. Dizocilpine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not alter this response but chlormethiazole (50 mg kg-1, i.p.) attenuated the methamphetamine-induced release by approximately 40%. 4. Dizocilpine pretreatment did not influence the decrease in the dialysate concentration of the dopamine metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) produced by administration of methamphetamine while chlormethiazole pretreatment decreased the dialysate concentration of these metabolites still further. 5. The concentration of dopamine in the dialysate during basal conditions increased modestly during the course of the experiment. This increase did not occur in chlormethiazole-treated rats. HVA concentrations were unaltered by chlormethiazole administration. 6. Chlormethiazole (100-1000 microM) did not alter methamphetamine (100 microM) or K+ (35 mM)-evoked release of endogenous dopamine from striatal prisms in vitro. 7. Several NMDA antagonists prevent methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity; however chlormethiazole is not an NMDA antagonist. Inhibition of striatal dopamine function prevents methamphetamine-induced toxicity of both dopamine and 5-HT pathways. Therefore the attenuation of the enhanced dopamine release which occurs in animals given chlormethiazole may be associated with the protective action of this drug against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
1. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from L-cells transfected with 2 combinations of subunits of the GABAA receptor. Log concentration-response curves were constructed to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on alpha 1,beta 1,gamma 2L containing cells and compared to those from alpha 1,beta 1 containing cells. The effects of flunitrazepam, pentobarbitone and alphaxalone on the concentration-response relationships were also examined. 2. From the log concentration-response curves, GABA had a mean (+/- s.e. mean) pEC50 = 5.2 +/- 0.09 and slope factor = 1.7 +/- 0.02 on alpha 1,beta 1,gamma 2L cells which were significantly different from the values obtained from alpha 1,beta 1 cells where the pEC50 = 5.6 +/- 0.02 and the slope = 1.5 +/- 0.02. 3. Flunitrazepam produced a parallel leftward shift of GABA concentration-response curves on alpha 1,beta 1,gamma 2L cells. The EC50 for flunitrazepam = 6.3 +/- 2.7 nM. No increase in the maxima of the GABA concentration-response curves was found in the presence of flunitrazepam. Flunitrazepam did not potentiate responses from alpha 1,beta 1 cells. 4. The log concentration-response curves from both populations of cells were shifted to the left by equal amounts by pentobarbitone. A significant increase in the maximal response to GABA was also produced by pentobarbitone. This occurred at lower concentrations of pentobarbitone on alpha 1,beta 1 cells. 5. Alphaxalone produced leftward shifts of GABA log concentration-response curves of similar magnitudes in both populations of cells. Significant increases in the maxima were found at 100 nM in alpha 1, beta 1 cells but not up to 1 microM in alpha 1,beta 1,gamma 2L cells.6. These results provide further evidence of the modulatory role of the gamma 2L subunit of the GABAA receptor containing alpha 1 and beta 2 subunits. As well as influencing the apparent affinity of GABA and conferring benzodiazepine modulation, it also appeared to regulate the increase in maximal response produced in the presence of barbiturates and steroids. This latter effect may imply that barbiturates and steroids increase the channel open-state probability in the presence of GABA and that this effect is diminished by the presence of the gamma 2L subunit.
1. The present study has investigated whether the neurotoxic effects of the relatively selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurotoxins, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or 'Ecstasy'), p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) and fenfluramine on hippocampal and cortical 5-HT terminals in rat brain could be prevented by administration of either chlormethiazole or dizocilpine. 2. Administration of MDMA (20 mg kg-1, i.p.) resulted in an approximate 30% loss of cortical and hippocampal 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) content 4 days later. Injection of chlormethiazole (50 mg kg-1) 5 min before and 55 min after the MDMA provided complete protection in both regions, while dizocilpine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) protected only the hippocampus. 3. Administration of a single dose of chlormethiazole (100 mg kg-1) 20 min after the MDMA also provided complete protection to the hippocampus but not the cortex. This regime also attenuated the sustained hyperthermia (approx +2.5 degrees C) induced by the MDMA injection. 4. Injection of PCA (5 mg kg-1, i.p.) resulted in a 70% loss of 5-HT and 5-HIAA content in hippocampus and cortex 4 days later. Injection of chlormethiazole (100 mg kg-1, i.p.) or dizocilpine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) 5 min before and 55 min after the PCA failed to protect against the neurotoxicity, nor was protection afforded by chlormethiazole when a lower dose of PCA (2.5 mg kg-1, i.p.) was given which produced only a 30% loss of 5-HT content. Chlormethiazole did prevent the hyperthermia induced by PCA (5 mg kg-1), while the lower dose of PCA (2.5 mg kg-1) did not produce a change in body temperature.5. Neither chlormethiazole nor dizocilpine prevented the neurotoxic loss of hippocampal or cortical 5-HT neurones measured 4 days following administration of fenfluramine (25 mg kg-1, i.p.).6. In general, chlormethiazole and dizocilpine were effective antagonists of the 5-HT-mediated behaviours of head weaving and forepaw treading which appeared following injection of all three neurotoxins.7. Both chlormethiazole and dizocilpine have previously been shown to prevent the neurotoxic effects ofa high dose of methamphetamine on cerebral 5-HT and dopamine pathways. These drugs also prevent MDMA-induced neurotoxicity of 5-HT pathways, but not that induced by injection of PCA or fenfluramine. This suggests that the mechanisms of neurotoxic damage to 5-HT pathways produced by substituted amphetamines cannot be identical. The monoamine loss does not appear to result from the hyperthermia produced by the neurotoxic compounds.
Studies on haptic processing show inconsistent results concerning sex and hand differences. We present a novel approach in which manual exploratory strategies were examined. Twenty-four right-handed adults of both sexes had to monohaptically explore unseen meaningless stimuli and then to recognize their visually presented outline drawings among drawings of different stimuli. Tactual stimuli were composed of eight smoothly joined cubes whose junctions were not haptically discernible. The computer recorded number and duration of hand contacts on each cube. Analyses included the accuracy of the recognition phase, the number and duration of exhaustive explorations of the stimulus, and the number of cubes simultaneously touched. Neither hand nor sex differences were found for the accuracy measurement. The number and duration of exhaustive explorations also provide no evidence of hand differences. However, the left hand touched simultaneously more cubes than the right and this asymmetry was more pronounced in males than in females. Such an asymmetry was apparent in the very first contact of the hand with the shape. It is suggested that exploratory strategies may be more sensitive measures in revealing hand lateralization than the accuracy measurement.
In the adult rat hippocampus mRNA of F1/GAP-43, an axonal growth-associated protein, is highly expressed in pyramidal cells, but is absent in granule cells. To determine whether granule cells can be induced to express mRNA of F1/GAP-43, transcript levels were studied after limbic seizures, which can induce sprouting of granule cell mossy fibers. Seizure-inducing electrolytic lesions were made in the dentate gyrus hilus with stainless-steel electrodes and mRNA levels were measured in contralateral hippocampus by quantitative in situ hybridization. Induction of F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression was observed in granule cells at 24 h, but not at 6 or 12 h, after the hilar lesion. When equivalent sized hilar lesions were made with platinum electrodes, which do not induce seizures, no hybridization was apparent over the granule cells. Hybridization over granule cells had declined by 48 h post-lesion, but even at 10 days it was still slightly higher than in control rats. F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression was also increased 2-fold in CA1 pyramidal cells with peak expression at 48 h post-lesion. These are the first data to our knowledge that demonstrate that F1/GAP-43 gene expression can be altered in neurons located within the adult brain. Induction of F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression in the granule cells may be important for the sprouting of mossy fibers and could be triggered by the elevated levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in CA3 cells which precede the increased F1/GAP-43 gene expression in granule cells.
One source of diversity in the inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) is generated at the level of alternative splicing. Our previous studies of splice isoforms of the receptor in various tissues suggested that some tissues, specifically those containing neurons, selectively express a 40 amino acid insert located between 2 sites for phosphorylation by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), and that the presence of this insert changes the preferred site of phosphorylation of the receptor. Studies of the mouse receptor have also suggested the existence of intermediately spliced forms containing partial versions of the splice and exhibiting different brain distributions. In this study, we have investigated the alternative splicing of the rat receptor in greater detail using RNase protection and PCR analysis. We find little evidence for the existence of intermediately spliced forms in rat, raising the possibility that the degree of alternative splicing at this site differs in the brains of two very similar species. Our screen of tissue distribution supports the selectively neuronal expression of the long spliced form, and suggests that regulation of this receptor in neurons may be different than in other tissues.
Intracellular calcium ion (Ca2+) changes in NIH-3T3 fibroblasts responding to inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) injections have been monitored using high resolution digital imaging of the calcium indicator Fura-2. Ester loaded and microinjected indicator report radically different patterns of Ca2+ change during the IP3 response. These differences arise from intracellular compartmentalization of the ester loaded indicator which can seriously distort reported Ca2+ levels. Prominent among these aberrant responses is a signal in which Ca2+ levels in the cell nucleus appear to exceed those in the rest of the cell, and an apparent slowing of the Ca2+ recovery time-course throughout the cell when temperature is increased. Similar behavior is observed in other cell types. Judicious use of both loading techniques can provide information on Ca2+ movements into organelles that might otherwise escape detection. The Ca2+ rise normally measured in bulk or integrated single cell measurements is a complex mix of cytosol/nucleus and organellar changes. Much, if not all, of the observable organellar change is an accumulation, not release, of Ca2+ following the IP3 injection. The Golgi apparatus is a conspicuous early site for this accumulation, and mitochondria show a large, temperature sensitive uptake that is capable of limiting the maximal Ca2+ change during the response.
Previous studies have shown that central cholecystokinin (CCK) octapeptide (CCK-8) suppresses the binding of opioid receptors to the opioid agonists. In the present study, tritium-labelled etorphine (opioid agonist) and naloxone (opioid antagonist) as well as guanosine-5'-0-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTPrS) were used to investigate the possible mechanisms underlying the suppression of opioid binding by CCK-8 in rat brain membranes. CCK-8 at a concentration range of 10 nmol/L to 1 mumol/L dose-dependently suppressed the binding of [3H]-naloxone to opioid receptors, with a decrease in Bmax and an increase in Kd. GTPrs was found to reduce the affinity of [3H]-etorphine binding in a dose-dependent manner. This effect was markedly diminished in the presence of 10 nmol/L of CCK-8. These results suggest that CCK-8 might suppress opioid binding at both the receptor and post-receptor levels; that is, 1) by reducing the number and affinity of opioid receptors, and 2) by uncoupling opioid receptors from their G proteins.
This paper investigates the incorporation of intravenously (i.v.) administered radiolabelled fatty acids--[9,10(3)-H]palmitate (3H-PA), [1-14C]arachidonate (14C-AA) and [1-14C]docosahexaenoate (14C-DHA)--into intracerebrally implanted tumours in awake Fischer-344 rats. A suspension of Walker 256 carcinosarcoma tumour cells (1 x 10(6) cells) was implanted into the right cerebral hemisphere of 8- to 9-week-old rats. Seven days after implantation, the awake rat was infused i.v. for 5 min with 3H-PA (6.4 mCi/kg), 14C-AA (170 microCi/kg) or 14C-DHA (100 microCi/kg). Twenty minutes after the start of infusion, the rat was killed and coronal brain sections were obtained for quantitative autoradiography and histology. Each fatty acid showed well-demarcated incorporation into tumour tissue. Areas of necrosis or haemorrhage showed no or small levels of incorporation. The ratios of incorporation into the tumour to incorporation into contralateral brain regions were 2.8-5.5 for 3H-PA, 2.1-3.3 for 14C-AA and 1.5-2.2 for 14C-DHA. The mean ratios differed significantly between the fatty acids (P &lt; 0.01). 3H-PA was not incorporated into necrotic tumours despite the presence of an open blood-tumour barrier, indicated by extravasated horseradish peroxidase. The incorporation rate constant of 3H-PA was similar for small intracerebral and large extracerebral tumours. The results show that 3H-PA, 14C-AA and 14C-DHA are incorporated more readily into tumour tissue than into brain, and that the increase is primarily due to increased utilization of fatty acids by tumour cells and not due to a high blood-tumour permeability. The relative increases in rates of incorporation for the different fatty acids may be related to lipid composition of the tumour and to the requirement of and specific role of these fatty acids in tumour cell growth and division.
The lipophilic derivatives of the anticancer alkylating agent chlorambucil, chlorambucil-methyl, -isopropyl and -tertiary butyl esters, were synthesized and administered i.v. to anesthetized rats. Plasma and brain concentrations of these agents and of their active metabolites, chlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard, then were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography between 5 and 60 min. Whereas large amounts of chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester entered and were maintained in brain, lower amounts of chlorambucil-isopropyl ester and no chlorambucil-methyl ester were found in brain. The comparative brain/plasma concentration-time integral ratios of the total active agents generated from chlorambucil-tertiary butyl, -isopropyl and -methyl esters were 0.85, 0.12 and 0.06, respectively, compared to a ratio of 0.02 for chlorambucil. In vitro alkylating activity of each ester was compared to that of equimolar chlorambucil, by reaction with 4-(p-nitrobenzyl)pyridine. Each ester possessed high intrinsic alkylating activity, equal to 38.4, 57.0 and 69.9% of chlorambucil activity, for the -tertiary butyl, -isopropyl and -methyl esters, respectively. Therefore each is an active antineoplastic agent irrespective of whether or not chlorambucil is regenerated. The rates of ester hydrolysis of these derivatives to chlorambucil were measured in fresh rat blood and in liver and brain homogenates at 37 degrees C. Chlorambucil-methyl and -isopropyl esters were hydrolysed quickly within 30 s in blood and liver, whereas chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester was more stable with half-lives of approximately 7 h and 2 h, respectively. All proved to be relatively stable in brain homogenate. Steric hindrance around the ester linkage of chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester reduces its affinity to and rate of hydrolysis by plasma and liver esterases, and allows it to accumulate within the brain. Chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester maintains high levels in brain despite rapidly declining plasma concentrations and, due to these favorable pharmacokinetics and to its intrinsic anticancer activity, it possess promising characteristics for the treatment of malignant brain tumors.
A 16-year-old male diabetic patient presented with bilateral salivary gland swellings followed by encephalitis. The EEG did not show the characteristic periodic lateralising epileptic discharges. Neuro-imaging disclosed compromise of temporal and frontal lobes as well as brain stem which correlated well with his clinical deterioration. Serology and frontal brain biopsy were positive for herpes simplex virus while mumps titers were not significant. Despite delayed acyclovir therapy, the patient recovered enough to be discharged home with a permanent pseudobulbar palsy. Herpes simplex encephalitis involving zones other than temporal lobes is exceptional. To our knowledge, there are no reported cases of pseudobulbar palsy as a sequelae of HSV encephalitis.
Laterality in paw use was investigated over a period of 6 years in 44 domestic cats trained to perform a reaching movement toward a moving spot of light. Both paw preference and paw performance were recorded. At a 50 percent criterion, no significant paw preference was found at the level of the group. When a 90 percent criterion was considered, 23 subjects had a significant preference for one paw. Among these strongly lateralized animals, there were more left- (N = 17) than right-pawed (N = 6) cats. The analysis of visuo-motor performances included reaction time, movement time, and reaching accuracy. Lateralized cats had a faster reaction time than nonlateralized cats. The more-used paw had a shorter reaction time, a shorter movement time, and was also more accurate than the less-used paw. Thus, the findings demonstrate a functional advantage of being lateralized. Moreover, the results confirm the existence of an asymmetry of paw preference in cats and show a consistent relation between paw preference and performance.

A pattern of reduced cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) has been shown by positron emission tomography (PET) in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type. To verify if a similar rCMRglc pattern is present in subjects 'at risk' for Alzheimer's disease (AD), we used high-resolution PET to longitudinally study a subject with isolated memory impairment and a family history for autosomal dominant AD. Initial rCMRglc data did not reveal any consistent abnormality as compared to a group of sex- and age-matched healthy controls. However, 1 year later, a follow-up evaluation did reveal reduced parietal rCMRglc values coinciding with a worsening of cognitive impairment, which suggested that standard analyses of resting rCMRglc data may not be useful in the early diagnosis of AD. In contrast, when a previously determined discriminant function for distinguishing controls from AD patients was applied, the subject was correctly identified as an AD patient on both PET scans.
The dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) of the spinal cord is the interface between the central and peripheral nervous systems and is the pathway through which sensory afferents enter the central nervous system during development. However, in the rat, the DREZ becomes a boundary to regenerating sensory axons after Postnatal Days 2-3. The cellular and molecular mechanisms that cause regenerative failure at the DREZ after the critical period for regeneration are unknown. Recent studies demonstrate that two extracellular matrix molecules, Cytotactin/tenascin (CT) and chondroitin 6-sulfate-containing proteoglycans (C-6S-PG) are present in normal boundary regions of the brain and spinal cord during development. In the present study we sought to visualize the expression of these two putative inhibitory molecules in the DREZ of normally developing and adult animals, and also in animals after injury. CT and C-6S-PG spread laterally from the midline to the DREZ by Postnatal Day 3, correlating exactly with the end of the critical period. The staining intensity for these two molecules increases further in the DREZ after root lesions, but not sciatic lesions, at ages when axons cannot regenerate into the spinal cord. Following root lesion CT and C-6S-PG were mostly present in association with reactive glia at the DREZ and in white matter, rather than with reactive glia in grey matter of the dorsal horn, suggesting that astroglia are heterogeneous in their response to root lesion. The coexpression of CT and C-6S-PG may create a molecular barrier which might channel or deflect axons at the DREZ during CNS development and inhibit their growth during regeneration.
Adult male rhesus monkeys have a diurnal pattern of reproductive hormone secretion that is characterized by significantly elevated LH and testosterone secretion in the evening hours and a nadir in secretion of these hormones in the morning. To test the hypothesis that the daily pattern of food intake may play a role in regulating the diurnal pattern of reproductive hormone secretion we performed three studies. First, to determine the relationship between the timing of the diurnal rise in LH secretion and meal consumption, blood samples were collected from 13 adult male rhesus monkeys via chronically indwelling venous catheters (samples every 15-20 min from 0800-0800 h) while monkeys were maintained on the standard feeding regimen in our colony (one meal of Purina monkey chow fed between 1100 and 1200 h). On a day of normal feeding there was a significant diurnal rhythm in mean LH concentrations with elevated levels at night (nadir: 13.41 +/- 0.82 ng/ml from 0800-1100 h; peak: 21.34 +/- 1.56 ng/ml from 2000-2300 h, P &lt; or = 0.05). The rising phase of the diurnal rhythm in LH secretion was apparent starting in the early afternoon, shortly after the daily meal, at 1400 h (5 h before lights went off at 1900 h), and the diurnal rise in LH secretion was no longer apparent by 0500 h (several hours before the lights went on at 0700 h). Second, we examined the influence of missing the daily meal on the diurnal pattern of LH and testosterone secretion. Blood samples were collected for a 24-h period on a day of fasting from 9 monkeys. On a day of fasting there was no diurnal rise in plasma LH or testosterone concentrations; plasma concentrations of these hormones remained at the low morning levels throughout the day. Third, we examined the diurnal pattern of LH and testosterone secretion after adapting 5 monkeys (for 6-8 weeks) to a new meal time that was 6 h later in the day than the standard meal time (i.e. at 1700 h). After adaptation to this later feeding time monkeys showed a 6-h delay in the time of the first significant rise in LH secretion (which occurred at 2000 h).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The existence of cytoplasmic estrogen receptor immunoreactivity (ER-IR) has been reported in the brain using three different antibodies raised against different epitopes on the ER protein. With each antibody, the darkest reaction product was seen within cell nuclei, but cytoplasmic ER-IR was also observed with each antibody in most neuroanatomical areas. We have reported previously that an injection of estradiol causes a rapid decrease in ER-IR in ovariectomized guinea pigs when the H 222 estrogen receptor antibody was used. In extending this work to rats, we used three different ER antibodies to determine if this decrease in ER-IR is likely to be due to down-regulation of the receptor by estradiol or a decrease in the ability of some antibodies to bind to their particular epitopes on the receptor. Estradiol injection in ovariectomized rats caused a rapid (within 20 min), nearly total loss of cytoplasmic ER-IR when the H 222 antibody was used to visualize the receptor. This decrease did not appear to be due to movement of the receptors to the cell nucleus, as cell nuclear ER-IR also decreased. When other antibodies were used, the extent of loss and the pattern of immunostaining were greatly influenced by the particular antibody. Extensive loss of cytoplasmic and cell nuclear ER-IR was seen when an antiserum against the hinge region of the receptor was used. However, when an antiserum against the N-terminus of the ER was used, a decrease was seen in cytoplasmic ER-IR, but little or no decrease was observed in cell nuclear ER-IR. Because loss of cell nuclear ER-IR was not seen with all of the antibodies, these results suggest that the dramatic decrease in cell nuclear ER-IR seen immediately after estradiol injection is due at least in part to a conformational change in the receptor. This, in turn, may impede association with particular antibodies during the immunocytochemical procedure.
The need for new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and more sensitive methods of assessing their efficacy is well recognized. This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lamotrigine (LTG), a potential new AED and to develop and test new outcome measures. A health-related quality of life (HRQL) model was developed which contains previously validated measures of anxiety, depression, happiness, overall mood, self-esteem, and mastery and a specifically designed seizure severity scale with patient- and caregiver-based components. This HRQL model was used in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over study of LTG in 81 patients with refractory partial seizures. Seizure frequency was the primary measure and seizure severity and the HRQL were secondary measures of efficacy. The reduction in seizure frequency with LTG, relative to placebo, was 29.7% [95% confidence interval (CI) 17.8%, 39.9%] for total seizure count, 33.4% (95% CI 14.8%, 47.9%) for complex partial seizures (CPS) and 20.3% (95% CI 0.3%, 36.2%) for secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS). However, although 41 patients elected to continue with LTG, only 11 experienced at least 50% reduction in total seizures, indicating that other factors influenced their decision. The score with LTG, relative to placebo, was significantly lower for the ictal (p = 0.017) and caregivers (p = 0.035) subscales of the seizure severity scale and significantly higher for happiness (p = 0.003) and mastery (p = 0.003). Simple correlation and multiple-regression analyses indicate that the effects on seizure frequency, seizure severity, and psychological variables appear to be independent of each other. This study indicates that LTG is effective in reducing seizure frequency and has additional favorable effects on seizure severity, mood, and perceived internal control. Some of the scales used indicate the potential of secondary measures of efficacy to enhance the sensitivity of trials of new AEDs.



In order to quantify motor disabilities in Parkinson's disease (PD), we designed a compact, portable, neurophysiological system based upon a personal computer to measure tremor, bradykinesia, and muscle tone. Tremor was detected by solid state accelerometers and translated into a digital signal. The system displayed the root mean square displacements and frequency distribution of the tremor in the horizontal and vertical planes, along with a reconstructed graphic image of the displacement. Bradykinesia was measured using a panel that detects release and depression of switches in response to auditory and visual signals; the system calculated subjects' reaction times and movement times in milliseconds. Tone at the elbow was measured by strapping the upper extremity to a lightweight low-friction cradle and then passively moving the cradle with an instrumented handle. Signals representing torque and arm angle were processed by the computer and displayed in real time on the screen with stiffness as a mean slope in Nm/degree. In clinical tests, quantitative measures of tremor, movement time and rigidity were significantly abnormal in PD patients compared to control subjects. We conclude that this system is a convenient and accurate method to quantitate important aspects of the parkinsonian syndrome, and may be applied to quantitate other movement disorders.

To learn more about the possible role of the coated pits endocytic pathway in cell adhesion, we studied attachment and spreading of fibroblasts whose coated pits were disrupted by depletion of intercellular potassium. Fibroblasts incubated in suspension in potassium-free medium lost 80% of their intracellular potassium within 10 min and showed disrupted coated pits based on fluorescence staining of clathrin. Potassium-depleted cells attached and spread on fibronectin-coated substrata over the same time course (15 min-2 h) as control cells. Unlike controls, however, potassium-depleted fibroblasts attained a radial morphology with circumferentially organized actin filament bundles and were unable to make the transition to a polarized morphology with stress fibers. In the radially spread fibroblasts, fibronectin receptors and vinculin colocalized in focal adhesion sites and appeared to be membrane insertion points for circumferentially arranged actin filament bundles, but these sites were much smaller than the focal adhesion plaques in polarized cells. The effects of potassium depletion on cell adhesion were reversible. Within 1 h after switching K(+)-depleted fibroblasts to medium containing KCl, cells developed a polarized morphology with actin stress fibers inserting into focal adhesion plaques. Coated pits also reformed on the cell surface during this time. Because formation of focal adhesion plaques preceded reappearance of clathrin-coated pits at the cell margins, it seems unlikely that coated pits play a direct role in adhesion plaque assembly. Polarization of fibroblasts upon addition of KCl was inhibited by ouabain showing that intracellular potassium was required for activity. Polarization also was inhibited when potassium-depleted cells were switched to potassium-containing medium under hypertonic or acidified conditions, both of which have been shown to inhibit receptor-mediated endocytosis. Our results suggest that the coated pit endocytic pathway is not required for initial attachment, spreading, and formation of focal adhesions by fibroblasts, but may play a role in cell polarization.
The capacity of endothelin-1 to induce severe reductions in cerebral blood flow and ischaemic neuronal damage was assessed in anaesthetised rats. Endothelin-1 (25 microliters of 10(-7)-10(-4) M) was applied to the adventitial surface of an exposed middle cerebral artery and striatal blood flow assessed by the hydrogen clearance technique. Endothelin-1 induced severe dose-dependent reductions in cerebral blood flow (e.g., minimum CBF at 10(-5) M of 9 +/- 11 ml 100 g-1 min-1 compared to 104 +/- 22 ml 100 g-1 min-1 with vehicle, p &lt; 0.05), which persisted for at least 60 min at each concentration of endothelin-1. Application of endothelin-1 to the middle cerebral artery produced dose-dependent ischaemic brain damage (e.g., volume of damage of 65 +/- 34 mm3 at 10(-5) M compared to 0.22 +/- 0.57 mm3 for vehicle, p &lt; 0.01). These data demonstrate that endothelin-1 is capable of reducing blood flow to pathologically low levels and provide a new model of controlled focal ischaemia followed by reperfusion.


Three experiments, using a matching-to-sample procedure, were conducted to examine hemispheric specialization in mirror-image discrimination and mental rotation in baboons (Papio papio). In Experiment 1, no significant difference was found in discrimination of mirror-image and asymmetric pattern stimuli. In Experiment 2, orientation discrimination was assessed within the left (LVF) and right (RVF) visual half-fields. An RVF advantage was found in accuracy for asymmetric patterns, whereas an LVF advantage was found for discrimination of mirror-image stimuli. No significant relation was found between angular disparity of the stimuli and response time. Experiment 3 examined the effect of bilateral visual input on accuracy and response time. Significantly lower accuracy and longer response times were found for bilateral compared with unilateral visual input.
Prostaglandin (PG) D2 and PGE2 receptor binding activities are regulated in various fashions. The protein phosphorylation by exogenous cAMP-dependent protein kinase or calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II significantly increased PGE2 binding activity through an increase in the apparent amount of the maximal binding, suggesting that the PGE2 receptor may be regulated through protein phosphorylation-dephosphorylation. Other possible regulatory mechanisms were found as the result of studies on functional modification of glycoconjugates. Pretreatment with glycoprotein-specific endoglycosidases (peptide N-glycohydrolase F, endo-alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase) decreased both PGD2 and PGE2 receptor binding activities and consequently these activities became nonspecific ones. In addition, these binding activities were increased by the addition of a ganglioside or cerebroside mixture, but not ceramide. The addition of separate purified glycolipids showed more specifically their effect on each PG binding. PGD2 binding activity was increased by GD1a and GQ1b and decreased by GM1 and GT1a, while PGE2 binding activity was increased by GQ1b and galactocerebroside. In such a way, PG receptors may require some specific microenvironment for their maximal binding activity.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of neuropeptides in a reaction requiring the sequential action of two enzymes contained within this bifunctional protein. The CNS contains primarily transcripts encoding rPAM-1 and rPAM-2, integral membrane proteins differing by the presence or absence of a noncatalytic domain separating the two enzymes. Subcellular fractionation of adult rat hypothalamus and hippocampus demonstrated the localization of both enzymatic activities to fractions enriched in neurosecretory vesicles. Upon separation of the soluble contents from the membranes of neurosecretory vesicles, 30-40% of both enzymatic activities was recovered in the soluble fraction. Over 40% of both enzymatic activities remained membrane-associated following removal of peripheral membrane proteins. Antisera specific to different regions of PAM were used to identify intact rPAM-1 and rPAM-2, a monofunctional integral membrane peptidyl-alpha-hydroxy-glycine alpha-amidating lyase protein generated from rPAM-1, and a noncatalytic COOH-terminal fragment as the major PAM proteins in carbonate-washed membranes. Endoproteolytic processing generated large amounts of soluble, monofunctional forms of both enzymes from rPAM-1 and smaller amounts of a soluble, bifunctional PAM protein from rPAM-2. A significant amount of both monofunctional enzymes lacking the transmembrane domain was tightly associated with membranes. Whereas soluble mono- and bifunctional enzymes may be released upon exocytosis of neurosecretory vesicles, membrane-associated PAM proteins may remain on the cell surface or be internalized.
ARPP-21 is a cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein (M(r) = 21,000) that has a distribution in brain similar to that of DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) = 32,000). It is enriched in the medium-sized spiny neurons in the striatum and in the striatonigral nerve terminals in the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra. The present study shows that dopamine D1 agonist SKF 38393 increases the state of phosphorylation of ARPP-21 by 26% in nigral slices and that pretreatment of the slices with D1 antagonist SCH 23390 blocks this effect. These results demonstrate that ARPP-21 is a dopamine-regulated phosphoprotein. Because D1 receptors are localized on nerve terminals of striatonigral pathway, the phosphorylation of ARPP-21 is likely to mediate some of the intracellular effects of dopamine on these terminals.
Two methods for the measurement of receptor-activated phosphoinositide turnover were evaluated for their degree of correspondence in slices of rat brain; they involved the Li(+)-dependent accumulations of either [3H]-inositol-labeled inositol phosphates or [3H]cytidine-labeled CDP-diacylglycerol. In contrast to the expectation that the ratio of these two responses would remain approximately constant, varying degrees of correspondence were obtained. The two extremes are exemplified by carbachol, which elicited large increases in both inositol phosphate and CDP-diacylglycerol labeling, and endothelin, which gave a robust inositol phosphate response with little or no accumulation of 3H-CDP-diacylglycerol. No instance of the presence of the latter response in the absence of 3H-inositol phosphate accumulation was observed. Measurement of 3H-CDP-diacylglycerol accumulation thus may add additional insight into the regulation of phosphoinositide turnover and the complex action of Li+.
In Wistar rats, a subpopulation of sympathetic ganglionic neurons dies during ageing, but in the GH strain, these same neurons die during the period of perinatal maturation. We have compared tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in superior cervical ganglia of GH and control rats at different ages. Ganglionic TH rose to near adult levels between postnatal weeks 1 and 2. No significant differences in TH values were seen between GH and control ganglia at any age, indicating that reduced neuron numbers are compensated for by increased cellular activity. Ganglionic ChAT rose initially in parallel with TH and then more slowly over postnatal weeks 3-4, reaching adult levels that were about 20% lower in GH than in normal ganglia. During ageing, TH remained constant but ChAT continued to rise slowly in GH ganglia, whereas ChAT in normal ganglia fell by about 10%. Both the strain difference in ChAT during development and the fall in ChAT during ageing in normal animals parallel the differences in ganglion cell numbers seen under these circumstances.
The effects of a synthetic peptide fragment of human immunodeficiency virus gp120 (HIV gp120) on opioid (D-ala2-D-met5 enkephalinamide; DAMA) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) induced chemotactic responses in human granulocytes and monocytes and invertebrate (Mytilus edulis) immunocytes were studied. Both DAMA and IL-1 increased the velocity of cell migration from both species and the response is chemotactic (e.g. directed). Non-treated control cells move randomly or not at all. The addition of gp120 to DAMA or IL-1 treated human granulocytes or monocytes results in a slower movement which is chemokinetic (loss of directionality or random) in nature. A similar phenomenon occurs in the invertebrate immunocytes. If gp120 alone is added, it inhibits the movement of spontaneously active human granulocytes and Mytilus edulis immunocytes. In contrast, it stimulates chemokinesis of spontaneously active human monocytes. These responses occur immediately after addition of the peptide. Based on experiments with the selective calcium channel antagonist nimodipine, it appears that the gp120 causes its effects by irreversible binding to a calcium channel. Our results suggest a universal inhibitory mechanism is occurring since the invertebrate immunocytes must recognize HIV gp120 peptide to result in this effect, possibly through a CD4 or other type of surface determinant.
We developed a sensitive and reliable gas chromatographic (GC) technique for the quantitative analysis of MK-801 in brain and serum and applied the technique to investigate tissue concentrations of neuroprotective and non-neuroprotective doses of MK-801 in a neonatal rat model of hypoxic-ischemia. Brain concentrations of MK-801 were a linear function of dose over 4 orders of magnitude. After administration of a neuroprotective dose of MK-801 (29.6 mumol/kg) to control rats, both serum and brain concentrations rose rapidly to approximately 300 nM and approximately 2000 nM, respectively, within 30 min. Approximately 60% of serum and 90% of brain MK-801 were bound leaving the free concentrations in both blood and brain at approximately 100-200 nM. After hypoxic-ischemia, serum MK-801 concentrations were not different from controls but brain concentrations were lowered by 32%. Free brain concentrations of MK-801 after hypoxic-ischemic were 124 nM after 29.6 mumol/kg while after 8.9 mumol/kg (the non-neuroprotective dose) they were 39 nM. In view of the slow kinetics of MK-801 channel blockade, which never reaches equilibrium during the current experiment, this difference in concentration would be expected to result in an 80-fold (or greater) difference in the current flux through NMDA receptor-operated ion-channels as the rate of NMDA receptor-operated ion-channel blockade is concentration dependent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. The effects of constant anodal currents (100 microA) delivered bilaterally to both labyrinths on the horizontal vestibuloocular response (VOR) were studied in squirrel monkeys during steps of angular velocity in the dark. We report that bilateral anodal currents decreased eye velocity approximately 30-50% during the period of galvanic stimulation without a change in the time constant of VOR. The decrease in eye velocity, present during steps of angular velocity, was not observed during sinusoidal head rotation at 0.2, 0.5, and 1 Hz. The results suggest that responses from irregular vestibular afferents influence VOR amplitude during constant velocity rotation.
1. Rabbit retinas were isolated from the eye and incubated in the presence of 3H-choline. Samples of retina taken from a defined midperipheral eccentricity were spread over the domed end of a fiberoptic bundle that formed the floor of a superfusion chamber. The rate of release of labeled acetylcholine by the starburst amacrine cells was studied. 2. When the retina was stimulated by moving gratings, the cells vigorously increased their secretion of acetylcholine. Responses were observed when the bars were as small as 60 microns in width. Systematically varying the spatial and temporal frequency of stimulation revealed that temporal frequency was the dominant variable: the cells responded best to stimuli of 1-4 Hz, whether those stimuli were flashing lights, fine gratings moving slowly, or coarse gratings moving rapidly. 3. With temporal frequency constant, the cells' responses decreased as the spatial frequency of the grating increased. The decreased response to fine gratings is most likely due, at least in part, to lateral interactions that become stronger as the light and dark bars become more closely spaced. These could occur in either the outer or inner retina. 4. The velocity tuning curve for the starburst cells' release of acetylcholine matched fairly well the velocity tuning of ON-OFF directionally selective cells in the rabbit. It did not correspond at all well with the tuning curve for the ON directionally selective cells. If the ON cells receive input from the starburst cells, that input appears to be quite indirect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Neuron-specific expression of alternately spliced exons of the gene encoding the Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH2 (FMRFamide) family of neuropeptides and the role of encoded peptides in synaptic transmission were examined in an identified cardiorespiratory interneuron, the visceral white interneuron (VWI), in the snail Lymnaea. 2. In situ hybridization using exon-specific probes showed VWI cytoplasmic expression of the exon encoding the Lymnaea heptapeptides Gly-Asp-Pro-Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-NH2 (GDPFLRF amide) Ser-Asp-Pro-Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-NH2 (SDPFLRF amide) but not the exon encoding the tetrapeptides FMRFamide and Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-NH2 (FLRFamide). 3. The absence of the tetrapeptides (FMRFamide and FLRFamide) in the VWI was indirectly confirmed by the lack of immunoreactivity to a specific antibody raised against the sequence Leu-Tyr. This sequence is present in the Lymnaea tetrapeptide precursor, but not the heptapeptide precursor. 4. The VWI has monosynaptic connections with many identifiable neurons in the CNS. These were excitatory on three clusters of identified neurons [B group (Bgp), E group (Egp), and F group (Fgp)], inhibitory on another cluster [A group (Agp)] or biphasic (excitation followed by inhibition) on a single giant neuron [right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1)]. 5. The role of GDPFLRFamide/SDPFLRFamide as putative neurotransmitters was examined by comparing neuronally evoked postsynaptic responses with the effects of focal peptide application. 6. The heptapeptides closely mimicked the inhibitory responses (threshold pressure pipette concentration 10(-9) M) on the Agp cells and RPeD1, including an increase in membrane conductance. FMRFamide was 1 order of magnitude less potent. GDPFLRFamide/SDPFLRFamide, applied either alone or in &quot;cocktails&quot; (combinations of GDPFLRFamide, SDPFLRFamide, FMRFamide, and FLRFamide), did not reproduce the excitatory effect of the VWI on the Bgp, Egp, and Fgp cells. These peptides, applied either together or separately, inhibited the cells. 7. FMRFamide or FLRFamide, but not GDPFLRFamide or SDPFLRFamide, could reproduce the initial depolarizing component of the biphasic response on RPeD1. This only occurred at concentrations of &gt; or = 10(-4) M (10(-3) M was necessary to get spikes on RPeD1) and may not be physiologically significant. 8. We conclude that at least one so far unidentified co-transmitter must be present in the VWI to account for its full range of synaptic responses.
It has been proposed that supporting cells may be the progenitors of regenerated hair cells that contribute to recovery of hearing in birds, but regeneration is difficult to visualize in the ear, because it occurs deep in the skull. Hair cells and supporting cells that are comparable to those in the ear are present in lateral line neuromasts, and in axolotl salamanders these cells are accessible to microscopic observation in vivo. After amputation of a segment of the tail that contains neuromasts, cells from the posteriormost neuromast on the tail stump divide rapidly and form a migratory regenerative placode. The cells of the regenerative placode represent a lineage that eventually produces both hair cells and supporting cells in replacement neuromasts. We sought to identify the progenitors of the regenerative placode by using differential interference contrast microscopy combined with time-lapse video recording in living axolotl salamanders. In response to amputation, the mantle-type supporting cells at the posteroventral edge of the neuromast that is nearest to the wound increased their frequency of cell division, and gave rise to the first cells of the placode. The increase in mitotic activity of mantle-type supporting cells was accompanied by an unexplained decrease in the frequency of divisions in the same neuromast's population of internal supporting cells. The time-lapse records suggested that the changes in the mitotic activity of supporting cells might have been linked to the presence of phagocytic leukocytes in the vicinity of the neuromast that was nearest to the wound. Leukocytes were evenly distributed around control neuromasts, but during regeneration leukocyte activity increased significantly in the vicinity of the posterior half of the posteriormost neuromast. The redistribution of leukocytes occurred early in the regenerative response, but a causal role for the leukocytes has not been conclusively established. It is possible that the leukocytes could contribute to the formation of the regenerative placode at that location by breaking down the glycocalyx that ensheaths the outermost cells of the neuromast, or through the secretion of mitogenic growth factors.
Voltage-activated high- and low-threshold Ca2+ currents were studied using whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques and fura-2 fluorescence measurements of intracellular Ca2+ in neurons acutely isolated from rat neostriatum. High-threshold Ca2+ currents activated around -40 mV and were present in at least 95% of neostriatal neurons. The maximum current, 736 +/- 44 pA (mean +/- SEM, n = 141), was observed around 0 mV. In 70% of neurons, high-threshold Ca2+ currents exhibited both inactivating and noninactivating components. The majority of the high-threshold Ca2+ currents appeared to belong neither to the &quot;L-type&quot; nor the &quot;N-type&quot; classification, since omega-conotoxin (5 microM) decreased this current by only 29% and nimodipine (10 microM) decreased the noninactivating component of this current by only 17%. A low-threshold transient (T-type) Ca2+ current was observed in 40% of neurons. When both T-type and high-threshold Ca2+ currents were present, their maximum amplitudes were 78 +/- 7 pA and 800 +/- 57 pA, respectively (mean +/- SEM, n = 58). At a holding potential of -100 mV, the T-type Ca2+ current activated around -60 mV, with maximum current near -40 mV. Steady-state inactivation of the T-type Ca2+ current was observed at holding potentials positive to -125 mV, and the current was half-inactivated at -88 mV. Recovery from inactivation to 90% of maximum occurred within 800 msec. Mn2+ or Co2+ (3 mM) blocked both high-threshold and T-type Ca2+ currents, whereas Cd2+ (25 microM) or verapamil (50 microM and 150 microM) preferentially blocked high-threshold over T-type Ca2+ currents. In response to depolarization by 50 mM K+, fura-2 fluorescence measurements showed increased intracellular Ca2+ in both the soma and the proximal dendrites of neostriatal neurons that was markedly reduced by 25 microM Cd2+. These findings suggest that high-threshold Ca channels are present in both the soma and proximal dendrites of neostriatal neurons.
Brain (CATH.a) and adrenal (PATH.1 and PATH.2) cell lines have been established that synthesize abundant dopamine and norepinephrine and express the appropriate catecholaminergic biosynthetic enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine beta-hydroxylase. The lines were derived from TH-positive tumors in transgenic mice carrying the SV40 T antigen oncogene under the transcriptional control of 773 base pairs of 5' flanking sequences from the rat TH gene. Although the lines continue to express T antigen, they exhibit neuronal properties such as neurofilaments and synaptophysin and lack glial intermediate filaments. Although in vivo TH is only expressed in postmitotic neurons in the CNS, the CATH.a line demonstrates that TH expression and continued cell division are not incompatible after oncogenic transformation.
This report presents a novel computerized oxygen tension clamp for use with single neurons. One main objective for developing such a system is to be able to study the intrinsic response of single neurons to graded hypoxia. The device described in this paper is comprised of three major subsystems: (1) an oxygen monitoring subsystem, (2) a motorized perfusion subsystem and (3) a computer subsystem for data acquisition and control. The clamp uses an oxygen scavenger (sodium hydrosulfite) to decrease O2 availability. The system has many advantageous features: (a) studies on hypoxia can be carried out without using chemical metabolic inhibitors to simulate hypoxia; (b) precise control of the O2 level around a given cell is feasible for extended periods of time; (c) rapid and accurate changes in the O2 level around a cell can be made because the O2 level is continuously monitored and adjusted by a computer; (d) other cells outside of the immediate vicinity of the cell being studied are not subjected to hypoxic exposures; and (e) the system is inexpensively built around readily available components.
Neurons containing neuropeptide Y (NPY) are numerous in those hippocampal regions that receive septal and monoaminergic afferents. To assess the role of these afferents in the expression of NPY in hippocampal neurons, the number and distribution of perikarya with NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) was examined quantitatively in the dentate gyrus of adult male rats following unilateral transection of the right fimbria/fornix. In unlesioned rats, immunoperoxidase labeling for the antibody to NPY was detected mostly in fibers and only a few perikarya in the dentate gyrus. Following fornix transections, the number of detectable NPY-containing neurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus ipsilateral to the lesion increased at 3 days post-lesion (dpl), peaked at 6 and 9 dpl, then returned to basal levels at 14 dpl and 1 and 6 months post-lesion. This elevation followed a rostral to caudal gradient. No apparent changes were found in the distribution of NPY-labeled neurons at any post-lesion interval studied. Moreover, no significant changes at any of the post-lesion times were found in the number or distribution of neurons with NPY-LI in the hilus of sham lesioned (i.e., ablations of the cortex and anterior hippocampal formation sparing the fornix) rats. The observed increases in the number of hippocampal neurons containing detectable NPY suggests that the cellular levels of this peptide are dependent on pathways travelling through the fornix. The rapid and transient increases in NPY are not due exclusively to changes in cholinergic pathways but may involve changes in other pathways within the fornix or even indirect neurotrophic effects.
A binding assay for WIN 55212-2, an aminoalkylindole (AAI) with antinociceptive activity in rodents, is described. [3H]WIN 55212-2 bound to rat cerebellar membranes with a Kd of 2 nM and a maximum binding of 1.2 pmol/mg of protein. Specific binding in this filtration assay was greater than 90%, saturable, reversible, stereospecific, pH sensitive and heat labile. Binding was decreased by Na+, K+, Li+ and nonhydrolyzable analogs of GTP and increased by Mg++ and Ca++. The density of specific binding sites varied throughout the central nervous system with the highest found in the cerebellum, hippocampus and striatum and the lowest in the medulla/pons and spinal cord. The binding affinities of other AAIs for the WIN 55212-2 binding site correlated with their potencies for inhibiting neuronally stimulated contractions in the isolated mouse vas deferens. Of more than 60 compounds representing recognized neurotransmitter systems, only cannabinoids effectively inhibited binding. The effect of cannabinoids on AAI binding was consistent with competitive inhibition and suggests that AAI activity may be mediated in whole or in part by interaction with cannabinoid receptors. AAIs appear to represent a structurally novel class of compounds with which to study cannabinoid receptors.
Felbamate (2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate) is a novel agent effective against maximal electroshock, pentylenetetrazol and other chemically induced seizures in mice and rats. Felbamate has been proposed as a novel anticonvulsant for the treatment of generalized tonic-clonic and complex partial seizures. In addition, felbamate has been shown to have neuroprotectant effects (in vitro and in vivo) in neonate models of cerebral ischemia. However, few existing studies have contributed to the elucidation of the mechanism of anticonvulsant and neuroprotectant action of felbamate. Because glycinergic mechanisms have been demonstrated to be involved with seizure disorders and neuroprotection, we investigated the binding interaction of felbamate with strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors and compared these findings with brain and plasma levels of felbamate after drug treatment. Inhibition of [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (a high-affinity glycine receptor antagonist) binding by felbamate (IC50 = 374 microM) corresponded well with peak felbamate concentrations found in brain (683 and 759 microM) and plasma (679 and 807 microM) 8 hr after 300 (i.p.) or 500 mg/kg (p.o.) doses, respectively. Chemically diverse anticonvulsants tested and MK 801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate] did not modulate [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid binding. Additional studies have shown that felbamate does not interact with other sites associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. Thus, the data presented in this report strongly indicate a mechanism of action for felbamate through strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor interaction.
The abundance of gap junctions between rat pineal astrocytes formed by connexin43 (Cx43) was studied during development. Levels and distribution of Cx43 were measured by immunoblotting and indirect immunofluorescence, respectively. The amount of Cx43 in cells located within the gland was low until about the 7th postnatal day and increased to adult values between the 14th and 21st days postpartum. Although astrocytes, recognized by their vimentin immunoreactivity, were scarce before birth, they were abundant by the 7th postnatal day suggesting that the low levels of Cx43 found at this age corresponded to a low expression of this protein. Localization of the immunoreactivity to Cx43 and vimentin showed a close correlation, indicating that mature or immature pineal astrocytes form gap junctions made of Cx43. Since Cx43 levels attained their adult values at about the time the innervation and the functional state of the gland reached maturity (2-3 weeks after birth), it is proposed that astrocyte gap junctions are involved in the function of the adult rat pineal gland.
Total numbers of daily hospital admissions for cardiac emergencies were obtained from 3 hospitals within the Sudbury Basin in Canada for November through March for each of 4 consecutive years (1983-1986). Major diagnostic categories were also differentiated. No statistically significant correlations were found between the amount of snowfall during the day of or the days before or after admissions for the major categories of cardiac emergency. Specific analyses, conducted to reveal possible recondite associations between extreme or cumulative snowfalls and the most extreme days of cardiac emergencies, indicated a chance association. We conclude that the occurrence of heart attacks is independent of snowfall but that, when they occur, they are attributed to shoveling if there has been a recent major snow storm.
American Sign Language (ASL) has evolved within a completely different biological medium, using the hands and face rather than the vocal tract and perceived by eye rather than by ear. The research reviewed in this article addresses the consequences of this different modality for language processing, linguistic structure, and spatial cognition. Language modality appears to affect aspects of lexical recognition and the nature of the grammatical form used for reference. Select aspects of nonlinguistic spatial cognition (visual imagery and face discrimination) appear to be enhanced in deaf and hearing ASL signers. It is hypothesized that this enhancement is due to experience with a visual-spatial language and is tied to specific linguistic processing requirements (interpretation of grammatical facial expression, perspective transformations, and the use of topographic classifiers). In addition, adult deaf signers differ in the age at which they were first exposed to ASL during childhood. The effect of late acquisition of language on linguistic processing is investigated in several studies. The results show selective effects of late exposure to ASL on language processing, independent of grammatical knowledge.

Mating behavior and litter production of female meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) housed in long (14 h light: 10 h dark; long day; LD) or short (10 h light: 14 h dark; short day; SD) photoperiods were monitored to determine whether the reduced birthrate of SD females resulted from a lack of copulation. All females mated, but fewer SD females gave birth. LD and SD females fell into three distinct groups based on mating latency. The rapid onset group (RO) mated between 7 min and 9 h after pairing, the intermediate onset group (IO) mated between 16-44 h and the late onset group (LO) mated after 58-262 h of male contact. Sixty-seven per cent of LD females were assigned to group RO, 27% to IO, and 6% to LO. In contrast, 30% of SD females were assigned to group RO, 35% to IO and 35% to LO. Fertility was predicted by mating latency. Sixty-nine per cent of RO, 93% of IO and 33% of LO animals gave birth. In a further experiment, a small-mouthed cup was added to the environment to serve as an escape for females wishing to avoid mating. Although females did not use the cup to escape male approaches, mating occurred in only 66% of SD females, but was observed in all LD females. In a final experiment, mating latency and litter production were recorded in primiparous LD and SD females initially observed in the first experiment. Group LO was eliminated in parous females; all primiparous LD and SD females mated within 48 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Basic neuroscience research conducted over the last quarter century has provided us with much information concerning potential biobehavioral and neuromolecular mechanisms involved in the initiation and maintenance of tobacco dependence. Nicotinic-acetylcholinergic receptors (AChRs), in addition to having a primary locus on cholinergic neurons, appear to be also located on a variety of noncholinergic neurons (presynaptic and/or postsynaptic sites). Nicotine therefore appears to be able to affect a variety of neuronal pathways involved in behavioral reward and arousal processes, which appear paramount to tobacco dependence. Nicotine appears to have several unique properties at the cellular level that allow it to act both as an agonist and as a potential antagonist at select AChRs. Nicotine's ability to act as an agonist appears to be contingent on an action at nAChRs, which initially open a receptor-linked cation channel, eliciting the entrance of CA++ (or other cations) into the cell. Cation entrance into the cell, therefore, may be the cellular transducer of nicotine's behavioral and dependence-producing effects. Subsequent to this initial agonist effect, the nicotinic receptor is believed to undergo a refractory period, via a desensitization process, during which Ca++ is prevented from further entrance into the cell. It is this ability to induce receptor desensitization which seems central to nicotine's ability to act as an antagonist. The duration of nAChR desensitization may also be useful in explaining individual variability to nicotine's behavioral effects and may be related to the induction of acute and/or chronic tolerance in both animals and man. Nicotine-induced desensitization may also be important to relapse in the smoker if conditioned stimuli are able to provoke such mechanisms, which could lead to the need to smoke. Finally, a model is presented to account for individual smoking patterns and level of tobacco dependence which is partially based on the proposed cellular mechanisms of nicotine action and desensitization at the nAChR.
The fusogenic properties of the uncleaved spike (S) protein of murine coronavirus JHMV variant cl-2 were studied by expressing the S protein with a deleted putative cleavage site. The amino acid sequence of the putative cleavage site, Arg-Arg-Ala-Arg-Arg, was replaced by Arg-Thr-Ala-Leu-Glu by in vitro mutagenesis of the cl-2 S protein cDNA. Recombinant vaccinia viruses containing the cl-2 S cDNA [RVV t(+)] or the mutated cDNA [RVV t(-)] were constructed and monitored for fusion formation and cleavage of the expressed S proteins. When cultured DBT cells were infected with RVV t(+) at a multiplicity of infection of 0.5, fusion formation was first observed at 10 to 12 h postinoculation and spread throughout the whole culture by 20 to 24 h postinoculation. In cells infected with RVV t(-) under the same conditions, fusion formation appeared by 12 to 14 h. This result represented a 2- to 4-h delay in the onset of fusion, compared with its appearance in cells expressing the wild-type S protein. By 25 to 30 h, most of the cells infected by RVV t(-) had fused. By immunoprecipitation and Western blotting (immunoblotting), the 170-kDa S protein was detected in DBT cells expressing the wild-type S protein and the mutated S protein. However, interestingly, the cleavage products of the S protein, S1 and S2, were not detected in RVV t(-)-infected cells, producing the mutated S protein, even though fusion was clearly visible. Both products were, of course, detected in RVV t(+)-infected DBT cells, producing the wild-type S protein. The same results concerning the fusion formation and cleavage properties of the S proteins were reproduced by the transiently expressed S proteins. These results suggest that the cleavage event in the S protein of murine coronavirus JHMV is not a prerequisite for fusion formation but that it does facilitate fusion formation.
The present study describes the laryngeal and respiratory muscle activity associated with vocalizations in macaque monkeys. During the bark vocalization, a short, aperiodic call, the cricothyroid, thyroarytenoid, rectus abdominis, and intercostals were active while the posterior cricoarytenoid and diaphragm were quiet. During the coo vocalization, a longer, clear call, the cricothyroid, thyroarytenoid, intercostals, rectus abdominis, and diaphragm were active. In one monkey, the posterior cricoarytenoid was also active during the call, while in another monkey it was not. Laryngeal muscle activity was correlated with the amplitude and duration of the coo call. Results suggest that the amplitude and duration differences between calls are determined primarily by laryngeal modification of the airflow, and that the differences in posterior cricoarytenoid activity may be due to differences in voice intensity.
Although early interest in the biomedical relevance of tryptamine has waned in recent years, it is clear from the above discussion that the study of tryptamine is worthy of serious consideration as a factor in neuropsychiatric disorders. The study of [3H]-tryptamine binding sites indicates an adaptive responsiveness characteristic of functional receptors. The question raised by Jones (1982d) on whether tryptamine is acting centrally as a neurotransmitter or a neuromodulator still remains mostly unanswered, although the evidence cited within this review strongly suggests a modulatory role for this neuroactive amine (see also Juorio and Paterson, 1990). The synthesis and degradative pathways of tryptamine, as well as the intricate neurochemical and behavioral consequences of altering these pathways, are now more fully understood. It is not yet clear what the role of tryptamine is under normal physiological [homeostatic] conditions, however, its role during pathological conditions such as mental and physical stress, hepatic dysfunction and other disorders of metabolism (i.e. electrolyte imbalance, increased precursor availability, enzyme induction or alterations in enzyme co-factor availability) may be quite subtle, perhaps accounting for various sequelae hitherto considered idiopathic. The evidence for a primary role for tryptamine in the etiology of mental or neurological diseases is still relatively poor, although the observations that endogenous concentrations of tryptamine are particularly susceptible to pharmacological as well as physiological manipulations serve to reinforce the proposition that this indoleamine is not simply a metabolic accident but rather a neuroactive compound in its own right. Finally, one might wonder what proportion of the data attributed to modifications of 5-HT metabolism might, in fact, involve unrecognized changes in the concentrations of other neuroactive metabolites of tryptophan such as tryptamine.
The objective of this study was to explore the role of 5-HT3 receptors in modulating potassium (K+)-evoked release of [3H]-acetylcholine ([3H]-ACh) from superfused slices of rat entorhinal cortex previously loaded with [3H]-choline. Rat entorhinal cortices were cross-chopped into 300 microns slices, superfused with oxygenated Krebs buffer containing 2.5 mmol/l Ca2+ and stimulated with two consecutive exposures of 20 mmol/l K+ for 4 min (S1 and S2, respectively). Compounds were added 20 min before S2 stimulation and remained in the superfusion buffer for the duration of the experiment. The S2/S1 ratio was then calculated. Stimulated release of [3H]-ACh was dependent on extracellular Ca2+ and K+ concentration. In Sprague Dawley rats, 2-methyl-5-HT (10(-9)-10(-6) mol/l), in the presence of 1 mumol/l ritanserin or 1 mumol/l ondansetron, had no influence on K(+)-evoked release of [3H]-ACh. In slices prepared from Hooded Lister rats, 2 mumol/l 5-HT but not 2-Me-5-HT significantly (P &lt; 0.05) inhibited K(+)-evoked [3H]-ACh release only 17% in the presence of 1 mumol/l ritanserin. However, 2 mumol/l 2-Me-5-HT plus 1 nmol/l ondansetron had no effect. High performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD) was used to monitor endogenous release of ACh in the above conditions to confirm data from the radiolabelled experiments. No significant inhibition or increase in K(+)-evoked ACh release was observed with either 5-HT3 receptor agonists or antagonists.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Association psychology research in psychiatry dates back to Kraepelin, Aschaffenburg and C.G. Jung. Findings of the 1950s and 60s in this field suggest that semantic memory is organized in the form of a network. New results of experimental psychiatric studies indicate that schizophrenic symptoms, in particular formal thought disorders, are in part the result of an unfocussed activation or disinhibition of such associational network structures: The phenomenon of semantic priming is more pronounced in schizophrenic patients than in normals. Moreover, the phenomenon of indirect semantic priming on short stimulus onset asynchrony can be seen only in schizophrenic patients. The study of spontaneous speech further suggests the activation of structures responsible for the storage and processing of meaning. Increase in semantic priming, similar to that observed in schizophrenia, can further be observed in normal subjects on awakening from REM sleep. The findings are discussed in the framework of recent findings on the neurobiological causes of schizophrenia. They can be related structurally to an involvement of the frontal lobe, and functionally to disturbances of dopaminergic transmission. Methods such as the investigation of priming effects in lexical decision tasks, as well as concepts from the domain of cognitive neuroscience such as neural networks and the spreading activation model of lexical access, can help to bridge the gap between phenomenological psychopathology and neurobiology.
Rats received a unilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) by infusion of ibotenic acid. In addition, the dorsal raphe nucleus was lesioned by infusion of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT). The release of acetylcholine (ACh), choline, serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was measured in the frontal neocortex by means of microdialysis. Lesions of the NBM, but not the raphe nucleus, reduced the release of ACh significantly (-47%). The release of 5-HT and 5-HIAA was reduced by raphe lesions (-44% and -79%+), but not by NBM lesions. In no case did the combined lesion affect neurotransmitter release more than a single lesion. These results suggest that serotonergic projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus are not involved in tonic inhibition of ACh release in the neocortex.
Anesthetic doses of ethanol (100 mmol/kg p.o.), chloral hydrate (2 mmol/kg i.p.), and urethane (9 mmol/kg i.p.) induce sharp and sustained (6- to 10-fold) dose-dependent increase in rat brain pregnenolone and progesterone content. In contrast, other general anesthetics such as ketamine (0.7 mmol/kg i.p.) and pentobarbital (0.2 mmol/kg i.p.), and the sedative/hypnotic clonazepam (17 mumol/kg i.p.) decrease brain pregnenolone and progesterone content. The increase in brain pregnenolone and progesterone content fails to occur if ethanol, chloral hydrate, and urethane are administered to hypophysectomized-adrenalectomized rats suggesting that the increase of brain steroids requires the hypophysis and probably originates in peripheral tissues and not in brain. The administration to hypophysectomized rats of 5 IU/kg of ACTH produces a brain pregnenolone and progesterone accumulation by an extent comparable to that elicited by anesthetic doses of ethanol, chloral hydrate, or urethane in intact animals. However, the increase in brain pregnenolone and progesterone content induced by ACTH is devoid of anesthetic or sedative effects and does not appear to change central GABAergic tone. In fact, ACTH, unlike allopregnanolone and allodeoxicorticosterone, failed to delay the onset of isoniazid-induced seizures, to reduce the fear of novelty in the elevated plus maze test as inferred by the increase in the number of entries or the time spent in the open arm. Thus, the data suggest that blood-borne steroids cannot function as precursors of brain neurosteroid modulators acting on GABAA receptor.
Though the nature of the underlying metabolic defect which leads to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains obscure, certain biochemical anomalies have been found, such as, reduced RNA content in ALS motor neurons. Recently, a gene causing the familial form of ALS (FALS) has been assigned to an interval of approximately 10 cM including the locus D21S58 on chromosome 21q22.1. This region includes the GART gene which encodes an enzyme catalyzing three steps in the de novo biosynthesis of purine nucleotides which are precursors for RNA. A defect of this gene might result in reduced RNA production and predispose to premature death of motor neurons. In order to test GART as a candidate we developed two highly informative DNA markers in this region and carried out linkage analyses for FALS. GART is excluded as a candidate for FALS.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is an ether phospholipid that serves as an autacoid in a wide range of biological processes. We found that when PAF was added to hippocampal slices, it induced a stable and concentration-dependent increase in excitatory postsynaptic potential and population spike recordings (long-term potentiation [LTP]). The PAF effect was blocked by the PAF receptor antagonists BN 52021 and WEB 2086 and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists MK 801 and 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. However, these PAF receptor antagonists did not block LTP induced by high frequency stimulation. The facilitation induced by PAF could not be reversed by PAF receptor antagonists. Induction of either PAF-or tetanus-triggered facilitation occluded the subsequent expression of the other, suggesting a common pathway. LTP is a type of synaptic plasticity associated with the formation of memory, and PAF may play an important modulatory role in this process.
Slow inward currents modulate neuronal firing patterns and may generate depolarizing afterpotentials (DAPs). We report a novel, slow Na+ current (INaS) in striatal and hippocampal neurons that can generate DAPs. INaS activated at depolarizations greater than -40 mV, was tetrodotoxin insensitive, and activated and deactivated slowly over hundreds of milliseconds. INaS was dependent upon extracellular Na+, but was not affected by 0 mM extracellular Ca2+ or by Ca2+ channel blockers (Mn2+, Cd2+, or Co2+). A tetrodotoxin-insensitive, Na(+)-dependent plateau potential that was likely generated by INaS was shown to underlie DAPs during intracellular recordings from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Membrane depolarizations and DAPs generated by INaS may contribute to alterations in neuronal firing and epileptiform bursting.
Postsynaptic peripheral membrane proteins at the neuromuscular junction have been proposed to participate in the immobilization of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the synapse. An 87 kd cytoplasmic peripheral membrane protein has been demonstrated to colocalize with the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in the Torpedo electric organ and at the mammalian neuromuscular junction. We have cloned the cDNA encoding the 87K protein from Torpedo electric organ, and the predicted protein sequence is homologous to the C-terminal domains of dystrophin, the protein product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene. The 87K protein displays a restricted pattern of expression detected only in electric organ, brain, and skeletal muscle. Analysis of the in vitro and in vivo phosphorylation of the 87K protein indicates that it is multiply phosphorylated on serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues. The 87K protein is in a complex with other proteins associated with the postsynaptic membrane, including dystrophin and a 58 kd protein. These results suggest that the 87K protein is involved in the formation and stability of synapses and is regulated by protein phosphorylation.
We have identified a gene, hikaru genki (hig), whose mutant phenotype includes abnormal locomotor behavior. Mutant first instar larvae have uncoordinated movements, and both larvae and adults have reduced locomotion. Sequence analyses revealed that this gene encodes a novel type of protein with a signal sequence, but without transmembrane regions. One of its domains has similarities with immunoglobulin domains; three or four regions are similar to a complement-binding domain found in complement-related proteins and selectins. In situ hybridization to embryos revealed that accumulation of the hig transcripts is restricted to subsets of cells in the CNS. Our data suggest that hig has a role in the development of CNS functions involved in locomotor activity.
One of the major mediators of calcium action in neurons is the multifunctional calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaM kinase), an enzyme with the capability of directly regulating its own activity by autophosphorylation. To assess the involvement of CaM kinase in experience-dependent behavior in an intact animal, we have designed a specific peptide inhibitor of CaM kinase and made transgenic Drosophila that express it under control of an inducible promoter. These flies fail to learn normally in two behavioral plasticity paradigms: acoustic priming, a nonassociative measure of sensitization, and courtship conditioning, a measure of associative learning. The magnitude of the learning defect in the associative paradigm appears to be proportional to the level of expression of the peptide gene in the two transgenic lines and can be increased by heat shock induction of gene expression. These results suggest that CaM kinase activity is required for plastic behaviors in an intact animal.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) in CNS has been shown to function as a neuropeptide with potent anti-opioid activity. It hinders opioid analgesia and facilitates opioid tolerance. The present study showed that electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation produced a marked increase of the CCK-8 immunoreactivity (ir) in the perfusate of the rat spinal cord. The increase of CCK-8-ir was most marked in response to EA of 100 Hz and 15 Hz, and less marked in response to EA of 2 Hz. Since CCK-8 has been shown to possess potent anti-opioid activity at the spinal level, blockade of the spinal CCK effect would be expected to potentiate EA-induced analgesia which is known to be opioid-mediated. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of CCK-B antagonist L-365,260 per se did not affect tail flick latency (TFL) to any significant extent, yet it potentiated EA induced analgesia in a dose- and frequency-dependent manner. The potentiation was most marked at a dose range of 2.5-5.0 ng (i.t.) and at a frequency rank order of 100 Hz &gt; 15 Hz &gt; 2 Hz. The results suggest that an increased release of CCK-8 following EA may limit the effect of opioid peptides, and that the CCK-B receptor mediates the anti-opioid effect of CCK-8 in rat spinal cord.
The present studies examined the relative antagonist potencies of the optical isomers of the 5-HT receptor antagonist metitepine at the 5-HT1D binding site labelled by the novel radioligand serotonin-O-carboxymethylglycyl [125]iodotyrosinamide ([125I]GTI), and at the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor in guinea pig frontal cortex, a proposed model of 5-HT1D receptor activation. The pharmacological specificity of the [125I]GTI binding site in guinea pig frontal cortex was similar to previously published studies in the bovine cortical 5-HT1D recognition site labelled with [3H]5-HT. The (+) isomer of metitepine displaced [125I]GTI binding with a lower affinity (64 nM) than did the (-) isomer (18 nM), which was equiactive with the racemic mixture. The (-) isomer of metitepine was more effective than the (+) isomer at attenuating the inhibitory effects of 5-HT and sumatriptan at the guinea pig terminal 5-HT autoreceptor; the apparent pA2 of the (-) isomer was 8.0 (sumatriptan) and 7.7 (5-HT) while the apparent pA2 of the (+) isomer was 7.1 (sumatriptan) and 6.8 (5-HT). The (-) isomer was more effective than the (+) isomer at enhancing stimulated [3H]5-HT release. These findings support the identification of the guinea pig 5-HT terminal autoreceptor as a 5-HT1D receptor and reinforce the species homology between the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors.
The effects of NaCl, KCl and Ca2Cl were determined in a binding assay, using the analog of cocaine [3H]WIN 35,428. The addition of NaCl had no effect upon specific binding; however, Ca2Cl and to a lesser extent, KCl decreased binding. Various Na+, K+, Cl- and Ca2+ channel antagonists were tested for their ability to inhibit specific binding of [3H]WIN 35,428. Most of the Na+ channel blockers tested were of moderate affinity, the exceptions being benzamil and flunarizine. Both of these agents also show activity at the Ca2+ channel. The K+ channel blockers were of low and moderate affinity, while the Cl- channel blockers had no effect. Of the Ca2+ channel blockers tested, only pimozide demonstrated a high affinity. This was postulated to be due to its ability to act upon both L and T-type channels. These results suggest that the Ca2+ channel blockers deserve further study as potential useful therapeutic agents in the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Normal dextrals performed tactilo-kinesthetic bisection tasks in a median position, at three directions of gaze: 30 degrees to the left, 30 degrees to the right, 0 degree. Instead of pseudoneglect phenomenon, a deviation of the subjective middle to the side opposite to the direction of gaze and hand use was found, whichever hand was used. The results are interpreted in terms of displacement of the position of the egocentric reference and are discussed with respect to activation theory. It is argued that pseudoneglect is part of a more general asymmetric perception of space phenomenon which depends on the position of the egocentric reference.
Ibogaine, an indole alkaloid, has been proposed for treatment of drug addiction, yet its mechanism, site of action, and possible neurotoxicity have not been determined. Since neuronal injury is known to activate neurologlial cells, we investigated potential neurotoxic effects of this drug in rats by examining expression of specific glial markers. After treatment with ibogaine (100 mg kg-1 i.p.; 1-3 doses), we observed increased cytochemical markers in both microglia (OX-6, OX-42, W3/25) and astrocytes (GFAP), associated with striking morphologic changes in these cells. Activated glial cells were restricted to longitudinally oriented, parasagittal stripes within the vermis of cerebellar cortex. The ibogaine-induced activation of cerebellar glial cells is highly suggestive of neuronal degeneration, most likely of Purkinje cells.
The effect of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on the production of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide messenger RNA in the myenteric neurones of 8 weeks diabetic rat intestine was examined using in situ hybridization. Total ganglion cell number per length (mm) of tissue section was measured using NADH diaphorase histochemistry. Although ganglion cells were more numerous in the control preparations compared with diabetic samples, a significantly greater number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide messenger RNA-containing cells was detected in the diabetic tissues. These observations suggest that there is either a decrease in the breakdown of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide messenger RNA or an increase in its synthesis in myenteric neurones of diabetic rat intestine.
Some neurons possess dendritic persistent inward current, which is activated during depolarization. Dendrites can be stably depolarized, i.e. they are bi-stable if the net current is inward. A proper method to show the existence of dendritic bi-stability is putting the neuron into the electric field to induce transmembrane potential changes along the dendrites. Here we present analytical and computer simulation of the bi-stable dendrite in the d.c. field. A prominent jump to a depolarization plateau can be seen in the soma upon initial hyperpolarization of its membrane. If a considerable portion of dendrites are parallel to the field it is impossible to switch off the depolarization plateau by changing the direction and the strength of the electric field. There is nothing similar in neurons with ohmic dendrites. The results of the simulation conform to the experimental observations in turtle motoneurons [Hounsgaard J. and Kiehn O. (1993) J. Physiol., Lond. (in press)]; comparison of the theoretical and the experimental results makes semi-quantitative estimation of some electrical parameters of dendrites possible. We propose modifications of the experiment which enable one to measure dendritic length constants and other parameters of stained neurons.
The inhibitory effects of tetanus toxin, botulinum toxin A, their constituent light chains, and botulinum toxin B were compared using streptolysin O-permeabilized rat pheochromocytoma (PC 12) and bovine adrenal chromaffin cells in primary culture. In both types of chromaffin cells exocytosis can be triggered by micromolar amounts of free Ca2+, bovine adrenal chromaffin cells in addition require ATP. In PC 12 cells the isolated tetanus toxin light chain alone blocks exocytosis without any additive. The time-course of the inhibitory action of tetanus toxin light chain in permeabilized PC 12 cells in the absence of ATP is similar to the one obtained with permeabilized bovine adrenal chromaffin cells, in the presence of ATP. Thus, ATP does not seem to be crucial for tetanus toxin (two-chain form) poisoning. Botulinum toxin B (two-chain form), if preactivated by dithiothreitol, also inhibits exocytosis from permeabilized PC 12 cells up to 90% in the absence of ATP. By contrast, botulinum toxin A (two-chain form) or its isolated light chain, which are highly potent in permeabilized bovine adrenal chromaffin cells, causes only a weak inhibition in PC 12 cells. In streptolysin O-permeabilized bovine adrenal chromaffin cells omission of ATP during the incubation with the toxin increases the potency of botulinum toxin A light chain. Under the same conditions the effect of tetanus toxin light chain remains unchanged. Tetanus toxin and botulinum toxin B (two-chain forms) probably block a step which occurs during exocytosis from both PC 12 cells and adrenal chromaffin cells and which could be closely related to the final fusion event.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to determine whether or not neuropeptide Y coexists with GABA or glycine in rat dorsal horn, we have examined 84 neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in laminae I-III with a combined pre- and postembedding immunocytochemical method. All of the neuropeptide Y-immuno-reactive neurons were also GABA-immunoreactive, but they were either non-immunoreactive or weakly immunoreactive with the glycine antiserum. In addition, a double-label immunofluorescence method was used to search for co-localization of neuropeptide Y and [Met]enkephalin in spinal cord. Although the two types of peptide immunoreactivity often coexisted in varicosities around the central canal and in the ventral horn, such coexistence was not seen in the superficial dorsal horn. These results suggest that neuropeptide Y is present in GABAergic neurons in laminae I-III of rat dorsal horn, but that it is largely or completely restricted to those neurons which do not contain glycine. In addition, the cells that contain GABA and neuropeptide Y appear to form a different population from those that contain GABA and [Met]enkephalin. Neuropeptide Y administered by intrathecal injection causes analgesia, and there is evidence that this may involve a presynaptic mechanism. The results of the present study suggest that neuropeptide Y may act in conjunction with GABA to produce presynaptic inhibition of nociceptive primary afferents.
Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography was used to characterize the [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine binding sites which are not sensitive to 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin, mesulergine and serotonin-5-O-carboxy-methyl-glycyl-tyrosinamide, in a non-5-hydroxytryptamine1A/1B/1C/1D receptor population, in rat brain. Displacement of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine [in the presence of 100 nM 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propyl-amino)tetralin and mesulergine, to block 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine1C sites] with (-)pindolol, 5-hydroxy-3(4-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridyl)-4-azaindole, sumatriptan and serotonin-5-O-carboxy-methyl-glycyl-tyrosinamide yielded complex competition curves suggesting the presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B and 5-hydroxytryptamine1D sites and an additional [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine-sensitive component in rat brain. The non-5-hydroxytryptamine1A/1B/1C/1D binding sites were localized in olfactory tubercle, several nuclei of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, caudate-putamen, CA3 field of the hippocampus, the frontoparietal cortex (motor area) and parts of the striate cortex. All the drugs used had low affinity for the unknown recognition site, which therefore might be comparable to the [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine binding site reported to display low affinity for sumatriptan and 5-carboxamidotryptamine in the brains of various species, the so-called 5-hydroxytryptamine1E site. A comparison of the density of sites labelled with [125I]serotonin-5-O-carboxy-methyl-glycyl-tyrosinamide (representing 5-hydroxytryptamine1B and 5-hydroxytryptamine1D sites) and [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine (under the conditions mentioned above) showed the density of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine recognition sites to be higher in some structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunocytochemistry has been used to monitor the expression of the immediate-early gene c-fos in rat brain following administration of the serotonin2/1C receptor agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane. At parenteral doses of 2 or 8 mg/kg the drug caused a highly localized expression of the Fos protein in frontal, parietal, cingulate and piriform cortex as well as in claustrum, mamillary bodies, globus pallidus, amygdala, nucleus accumbens and dorsomedial striatum. In particular, the location of heavy Fos immunoreactivity in the primary somatosensory cortex corresponds precisely to that region (layer Va) shown in other reports to receive a dense input of fine, non-varicose fibres which may arise from the dorsal raphe nucleus. All of the Fos-positive brain regions in the present study have been previously demonstrated to contain serotonin2 receptor ligand binding sites. Interestingly, no Fos-positive cells were found in the hippocampus, another brain region known to contain serotonin2 receptors. Pretreatment of animals with the serotonin2/1C receptor antagonist ritanserin (0.4 mg/kg) markedly attenuated Fos expression in all reactive areas of the brain. Counts of reactive cells indicated that this antagonism of the Fos response was statistically significant in these brain regions. Spiperone (1 mg/kg), a mixed serotonin2 and dopamine D2 antagonist, also attenuated the Fos response in the same regions, but had the effect of inducing Fos expression on its own in other extrapyramidal brain regions. Double labelling of reactive cells with different antisera recognizing Fos and neuron-specific enolase, and lack of double labelling with a glial fibrillary acidic protein antiserum, indicated that the Fos expression was in neurons within the brain nuclei examined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The number of axosomatic synapses on arcuate neurons of the adult rat hypothalamus fluctuates following the sequence of increasing circulatory estradiol during the ovarian cycle. To determine whether estrogen is affecting GABAergic synaptic contacts we studied the number of GABA-immunoreactive axosomatic synapses in adult ovariectomized rats injected either with 17 beta estradiol (100 micrograms/100 g body weight) or with sesame oil vehicle. The number of immunoreactive axosomatic synapses was significantly reduced in estradiol-treated rats (77 +/- 8 vs 56 +/- 6 synapses per 1000 microns of perikaryal membrane in control and estradiol-treated rats, respectively) while the number of non-immunoreactive synapses was not significantly affected by the hormonal treatment (44 +/- 6 vs 35 +/- 5 synapses per 1000 microns of perikaryal membrane in control and estradiol-treated rats, respectively). Estradiol administration also resulted in a significant decrease in the percentage of perikaryal membrane covered by immunoreactive synapses. These results suggest that physiological levels of estradiol may induce a remodeling of GABAergic inhibitory inputs on arcuate neurons.
Secretogranin II (chromogranin C), originally described as tyrosine sulfated protein of the anterior pituitary, is present in large dense core vesicles of several endocrine cells and neurons. We raised antisera in rabbits to conjugates of two synthetic peptides (bovine secretogranin 133-151 and rat secretogranin 154-186) flanked in the primary structure of secretogranin II by pairs of basic residues and used them to investigate the proteolytic processing of this protein by immunoblotting and a newly developed radioimmunoassay. The sensitivity of this assay was 30 fmol for secretogranin 154-186 and 60 fmol for secretogranin 133-151. The highest degree of processing of secretogranin II (&gt; 90%) occurs in brain. One of the peptides (secretogranin 133-151) is not generated to any significant extent. The other peptide, secretogranin 154-186, however, is formed in vivo, and in brain the free peptide apparently represents the predominant form. The highest concentrations of secretogranin 154-186 are found in the hypothalamus, two- to six-fold lower levels are present in the hippocampus, caudate nucleus, thalamus and brainstem. These concentrations are comparable to those of established neuropeptides. In order to indicate the special relevance of secretogranin II and of this peptide for brain we have named this peptide secretoneurin. The newly developed radioimmunoassay for this peptide will be a useful tool to establish its physiologic role in brain.
Antibodies were made to synthetic peptides corresponding to residues 253-367, 757-771 and 877-889 of the published amino acid sequence of the rat brain glutamate receptor GluR1 subunit [Hollmann et al. (1989) Nature 342, 643-648]. The peptides were synthesized both as multiple copies on a branching lysyl matrix (multiple antigenic peptides) and conventional linear peptides using solid-phase synthesis. Rabbits were immunized with these peptides either without conjugation (multiple antigenic peptides) or following coupling to ovalbumin with glutaraldehyde (monomeric peptides). The antibodies from immune sera were then purified by affinity chromatography using reactigel coupled monomeric peptides. All the rabbits produced good antipeptide responses, and were characterized by immunoprecipitation of solubilized alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate and kainate binding activity and by their staining patterns on immunoblots. Antibody to peptide 253-267 specifically immunoprecipitated 12 +/- 3, 50 +/- 3 and 44 +/- 4% of solubilized alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate binding activity from cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum, respectively. Under identical conditions, antibody against the 877-889 peptide removed 23 +/- 4, 9 +/- 4 and 15 +/- 9% of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate binding sites from these areas. On immunoblots of rat brain membrane samples separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, antibodies labelled a 105,000 mol. wt immunoreactive band. GluR1 was immunoaffinity-purified using subunit-specific antibodies against both N-terminal (253-267) and C-terminal (877-889) residues, covalently attached to protein A-agarose. Analysis of the purified product from each column showed a major immunoreactive band, recognized by both sera at 105,000 mol. wt and silver staining identified the same major protein. After exhaustive immunoprecipitation of solubilized membrane samples with antibody against the C-terminal of the subunit, a subpopulation of GluR1 was labelled with antibodies specific for the N-terminal part of the receptor. These observations suggest that the GluR1 subunit consists of at least two isoforms possessing a common N-terminal region but a distinct C-terminus. Immunocytochemistry, using immunoperoxidase staining, was performed for the GluR1 subunit in rat forebrain with antisera raised against the N-terminal (253-267) and the C-terminal parts (877-889) of the molecule. Both antisera gave a similar distribution of immunoreactivity at the light-microscopic level. Immunoreactivity for the GluR1 subunit was selectively distributed throughout the rat forebrain. The hippocampus, septum, amygdala and olfactory bulb exhibited the strongest immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The synthetic hexapeptide growth hormone-releasing peptide selectively releases growth hormone in many species including man. Growth hormone-releasing peptide directly stimulates growth hormone release by an action at the level of the pituitary, at a different receptor site to that for the endogenous 44-amino acid peptide, growth hormone-releasing hormone, and when administered with growth hormone-releasing hormone has a synergistic effect. In addition to this pituitary action, we have suggested that the potent in vivo growth hormone-releasing activity of growth hormone-releasing peptide reflects a hypothalamic action and growth hormone-releasing peptide binding sites have been reported to be present in the hypothalamus. We have now found more direct evidence for a hypothalamic action of growth hormone-releasing peptide in two ways. First, we have found that a sub-population of hypothalamic neurons show strongly increased fos expression in response to systemic growth hormone-releasing peptide administration. Fos is the protein product of the immediate early gene, c-fos, which is induced in many neuronal systems following their activation. Second, extracellular recordings from putative growth hormone-releasing hormone neurons in the arcuate nucleus showed that growth hormone-releasing peptide also stimulates the firing of neurons in this area.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is selectively expressed at relatively high levels in the rat hippocampal formation (for review, see Ref. 12; see also Refs 8, 13, 19, 20, 27) where it is thought to be involved in mechanisms of neurodegeneration and/or neural protection related to the plasticity of hippocampal neurons. Functional responses to brain-derived neurotrophic factor appear to be mediated by a tyrosine receptor kinase B with the possible involvement of the p75 low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor protein. Among the many characteristics of Alzheimer's disease is an upregulation of immune mediators in and around senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease. Recently, interleukin-1 has been shown to be detrimental to the long-term survival of embryonic hippocampal neurons in culture. Thus, if the same occurs in vivo, it is possible that the accumulation of interleukin-1 in Alzheimer's disease hippocampus may be responsible for altered hippocampal neuron synaptic plasticity. This may occur either by a direct action of interleukin-1 on hippocampal neurons or possibly indirectly by stimulating beta-amyloid production. Other indirect mechanisms may involve growth or survival factors such as the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor which is thought to play an important role in the plastic responses of hippocampal neurons. A recent study showed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA is selectively decreased in the dentate gyrus in Alzheimer's disease. The reason(s) for the decrease of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA is not known, but one possibility may be associated with the enhanced expression of interleukin-1 in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
As c-fos expression is generally thought to be linked to neuronal activation, we compared Fos immunoreactivity in identified oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic neurons of female rats under various conditions known to elicit particular patterns of electrophysiological and secretory activity in these neurons. In suckled lactating animals, Fos immunoreactivity was visible only in rare oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic neurons of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, even after interruption of suckling for 18-72 h. On the other hand, many Fos-positive cells were visible in the nuclei of parturient rats; they involved about 25% of supraoptic oxytocinergic elements. Even more Fos-positive elements were visible in the nuclei of lactating rats that had also undergone 24 h water deprivation or haemorrhage. This involved about 75% vasopressinergic neurons and 25% oxytocinergic neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. Fos immunoreactivity was particularly conspicuous in oxytocin neurons of the anterior commissural nucleus after haemorrhage. After water deprivation or haemorrhage, Fos-positive oxytocinergic neurons in the supraoptic nucleus were significantly more numerous in virgin rats than in lactating rats. Our observations show that suckling, although a most potent stimulus for oxytocin neuron activation and oxytocin release, is inefficient in inducing Fos synthesis in magnocellular neurons, even after a period of interruption. On the other hand, parturition, water deprivation and haemorrhage were more potent stimuli for both neurosecretory systems. However, under each type of stimulation, only part of the neuronal populations within each nucleus were Fos-positive, suggesting that different stimulus-specific pathways are involved in these regulations. In so far as electrical activity is one possible mechanism for c-fos expression, comparison of the patterns of c-fos activation with the known electrophysiological behaviour of hypothalamic magnocellular neurons suggests that Fos synthesis in these neurons is linked to the number of action potentials generated over a period of time, more than to the pattern of electrical activity, whatever the physiological impact of this pattern. Furthermore, within a group of neurons, the heterogeneity of the response in terms of Fos synthesis may be correlated to the variability of the electrophysiological response within this group.
The release of the nonapeptides oxytocin and vasopressin within the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei was measured in 30-min microdialysates in conscious female rats in the last three days of pregnancy, during parturition, immediately after parturition and during suckling, all in the same rats, and in virgin controls. Nonapeptide release within the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei was unchanged during late pregnancy compared to virgin rats, but intranuclear oxytocin and not vasopressin release was elevated during parturition (relative to late pregnancy, supraoptic nucleus: to 254%, paraventricular nucleus: to 300%; P &lt; 0.01) and during suckling also on days 8-10 of lactation (relative to pre-suckling, supraoptic nucleus: to 407%, paraventricular nucleus: to 275%; P &lt; 0.02). Suckling-induced release of oxytocin was significantly reduced using Ca(2+)-free, EDTA-containing (10(-4) M) microdialysis fluid and further stimulated by high K(+)- (56 mM), veratridine-containing (50 microM) microdialysis fluid. The opioid antagonist naloxone whether given by subcutaneous injection (5 mg/kg) or directly into the supraoptic nucleus by microdialysis (5 x 10(-6) M) or microinjection (1.5 microliters, 10(-6) M) did not further enhance oxytocin release within either the supraoptic or paraventricular nuclei during parturition. In contrast to the selective release of oxytocin within the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei during parturition and suckling, direct osmotic stimulation of the nuclei by microdialysing hypertonic medium (artificial cerebrospinal fluid; 1 M NaCl) increased intranuclear release of both oxytocin and vasopressin which was further enhanced after replacement of hypertonic with isotonic fluid. This rebound phenomenon served to confirm the precise location of the microdialysis probe ante mortem and the ability of the nuclei to adequately respond to the osmotic stimulus at the end of the experiment. The study has shown that oxytocin is released in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei during parturition as well as in lactation unrestrained by endogenous opioids during parturition. This intranuclear release of oxytocin may act by local positive feedback stimulation of oxytocin neurons to excite further oxytocin release in the brain and into blood during both parturition and lactation.
We studied quantitative electroencephalogram and neuropsychological performance in an aging series of 31 patients with Down's syndrome and compared the findings with those of 36 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and age-matched controls. We found an age-related decline of cortical functions and slowing of the electroencephalogram in Down's syndrome patients aged from 20 to 60 years. Slowing of the electroencephalogram, i.e. the decrease of the peak frequency, was significantly related to Mini-Mental status scores, and visual, praxic and speech functions, as well as memory in the Down patients, similar to the Alzheimer patients. Similar correlations were not demonstrated for young or elderly controls. This study provides neuropsychological and electrophysiological data to suggest that studying Down's syndrome patients of different ages can serve as a model for progression of Alzheimer's disease.
The effects of unilateral devascularizing lesions of the neocortex in primates (Cercopithecus aethiops) on the immunoreactivity of choline acetyltransferase and the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75NGFR) were investigated in cell bodies of the nucleus basalis of Meynert. Choline acetyltransferase enzymatic activity was measured in the dissected ipsi- and contralateral nucleus basalis of Meynert as well as in the remaining cortex adjacent to the lesion. Cortically lesioned animals displayed a shrinkage of p75NGFR-immunoreactive cholinergic cell bodies in only the intermediate portion of the nucleus basalis of Meynert as well as a depletion of choline acetyltransferase activity in this cellular complex. In contrast, cortically lesioned monkeys treated with monosialoganglioside did not reveal a significant loss of choline acetyltransferase activity or shrinkage of nucleus basalis of Meynert cholinergic neurons, but rather a modest hypertrophy. These results are discussed in relation to a possible use of putative trophic agents in the repair of the damaged central nervous system.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein is the precursor of the main component of senile plaques (the beta-amyloid peptide or beta/A4) found in the brain of aged humans and, in higher amounts, in the brain of Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome subjects. Four different forms of beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNAs have been described in humans and rodents: beta-amyloid precursor protein 695, beta-amyloid precursor protein 714, beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 and beta-amyloid precursor protein 770 messenger RNAs (numbers corresponding to the number of encoded amino acids). The two latter forms are characterized by containing in their sequence a region with high homology to the Kunitz family of serine protease inhibitors. We have used oligonucleotide probes to study the distribution of the different messenger RNAs encoding each of the four beta-amyloid precursor proteins by in situ hybridization histochemistry in human, rat and mouse brain. We found that beta-amyloid precursor protein 695, beta-amyloid precursor protein 714 and beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 messenger RNAs were widely distributed in the human, rat and mouse brain and that their distribution was roughly similar in most brain areas in these three species. The distribution of beta-amyloid precursor protein 770 messenger RNA was not so wide and differed among the three species studied. beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 and 770 messenger RNAs were the only forms present at significant levels in rodent choroid plexus and meninges, while beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNA isoforms containing and lacking the Kunitz domain were detected in the human choroid plexus. We also observed that the relative levels of beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 and 770 messenger RNAs in the rat cerebral white matter as well as in the mouse and human striatum were higher than those of the beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNAs lacking the Kunitz domain. While the most abundant beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNAs in the brain of all three species under study were, in descending order, beta-amyloid precursor protein 695 and beta-amyloid precursor protein 751 messenger RNAs, the least abundant form was not the same for all species: in human it was beta-amyloid precursor protein 714 messenger RNA and in rat and mouse brain it was beta-amyloid precursor protein 770 messenger RNA. Our results show differences both inter- and intraspecies of the relative abundance and distribution of four beta-amyloid precursor protein messenger RNAs in rat, mouse and human brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Morphological changes in the neurons of the gerbil hippocampus following 5 min of forebrain ischemia were examined using light and electron microscopy. Although non-pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region of the hippocampus survived through the full length of the observation period, up to six weeks after ischemia, they consistently demonstrated degenerative changes distinct from those of the well-known &quot;delayed neuronal death&quot; of CA1 pyramidal cells. When examined with the light microscope, CA1 non-pyramidal neurons were found to be shrunken and their nuclei and cytoplasm were hyperchromatic between seven days and six weeks after ischemia. When examined with the electron microscope, postischemic non-pyramidal neurons were found to have markedly electron-dense profiles; their cytoplasm contained numerous free ribosomes and heterogeneous smaller granular substances, the latter also filling the nuclei. However, there was no loss of ribosomes from the rough endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondrial cristae were preserved, suggesting that these neurons were viable. CA1 non-pyramidal neurons were studied immunohistochemically using three types of monoclonal antibodies, one each against parvalbumin, a nonphosphorylated epitope on the 168,000 mol. wt and 200,000 mol. wt subunits of neurofilament proteins, and microtubule-associated protein 2. CA1 non-pyramidal neurons lost immunoreactivity to these neuron-specific substances six weeks after ischemia, suggesting that these degenerating cells lacked certain types of normal neuronal activity. We conclude that non-pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 region survive transient ischemia but undergo degenerative changes following complete loss of CA1 pyramidal cells. These changes may be due to depletion of presumptive target-derived trophic factors within the non-pyramidal neurons.
The adult hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system of the rat retains the capacity to express highly polysialylated isoforms of neural cell adhesion molecule normally expressed in developing tissues. Here we report that the expression of these isoforms in neurohypophysial astrocytes (pituicytes) may be regulated by neurosecretory cells. In the intact neurohypophysis a strong and homogeneously distributed immunostaining for the &quot;embryonic&quot;, highly sialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecules was detected by light-microscopic immunocytochemistry. By electron-microscopy, both neurosecretory axons and pituicytes were immunoreactive for this isoform. However, in contrast to the rather uniform staining on nerve fibres, polysialic acid immunolabelling on glial surfaces was uneven: immunostaining could be observed on glial surfaces facing neuronal elements, but not at contact sites between pituicytes. In addition, most glial and neuronal elements were heavily and evenly labelled with the polyclonal antibody recognizing &quot;total&quot; neural cell adhesion molecule. Surgical transection of the hypophysial stalk, a procedure that eliminates descending neurosecretory axons from the neurohypophysis, resulted in the complete disappearance of polysialic immunoreactivity from the neurohypophysis. The electron-microscopic analysis confirmed that cell surfaces of pituicytes lacked this immunoreactivity after the lesion. When residual neurosecretory axons were observed following an incomplete lesion, immunoreactivity on axons and glial processes was maintained. Transection did not affect the distribution of &quot;total&quot; neural cell adhesion molecule. We postulate that the presence of neurosecretory axons in the neurohypophysis is necessary to maintain the capacity of pituicytes to express immunoreactivity for the polysialylated isoforms of neural cell adhesion molecule but not the neural cell adhesion molecule itself since immunoreactivity for &quot;total&quot; neural cell adhesion molecule was unaltered after hypophysial stalk transection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This investigation describes the schedule and regional distribution of astrocytic responses in striatum following deafferentation by unilateral frontal cortex ablation. In the ipsilateral deafferented striatum, glial fibrillary acidic protein and clusterin (sulfated glycoprotein-2) messengerRNA showed peak elevations by 10 days postlesioning (Northern blots). Vimentin messengerRNA responded faster, with a transient elevation by three days postlesioning. The messengerRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein, clusterin and vimentin returned toward control levels by 27 days postlesioning. However, the neuronal marker growth-associated protein messengerRNA, was decreased at all postlesion times. By in situ hybridization, the increased glial fibrillary acidic protein messengerRNA and clusterin messengerRNA signals were localized mainly to the dorsal half of the ipsilateral deafferented striatum and followed the same schedule as found by Northern blots. Glial fibrillary acidic protein messengerRNA was widely diffused in the dorsal striatum and was excluded from fascicles of the internal capsule; a similar distribution was found for glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunopositive astrocytes. While clusterin messengerRNA signal showed a distinct clustering, its immunoreactivity appeared as deposits in the deafferented striatal neuropil; Western blots confirmed the immunocytochemical results. By in situ hybridization, vimentin messengerRNA was mostly localized to the cortical wound cavity dorsal to the deafferented striatum and overlapped the distribution of vimentin-immunopositive cells. These findings suggest a coordination of striatal astrocytic messengerRNA responses with the degeneration of corticostriatal afferents. We also compared these same parameters with those from published reports on the hippocampus after deafferenting lesions. Certain astrocyte molecular responses to deafferentation are detected about five days earlier in the hippocampus than in the striatum. This different schedule in response to decortication may pertain to differences in synaptic remodeling in the hippocampus vs striatum.
This study compares the behavioural efficiency of dopaminergic mesencephalic neurons implanted into the rat neostriatum and/or the nucleus accumbens. The dopaminergic mesotelencephalic pathway was unilaterally destroyed by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle at the level of the lateral hypothalamus. Three weeks later, embryonic dopaminergic mesencephalic neurons were implanted into the denervated neostriatum, or the nucleus accumbens or into both locations (double grafts). All animals were tested over a four month period for amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotation, apomorphine-induced locomotor activity, and on a skilled paw reaching task. The characteristic ipsilateral rotation induced by amphetamine observed in lesioned animals was significantly reduced by neostriatal and double grafts, but persisted in animals with grafts in the nucleus accumbens alone. Four months after grafting, an overcompensation of rotation was observed for the neostriatal and double grafted animals, which now rotated contralaterally, i.e. away from the grafted side. The rotation induced by apomorphine in lesioned rats was decreased by neostriatal and double grafts and to a lesser extent by grafts implanted into the nucleus accumbens. Apomorphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in lesioned animals was ameliorated by the nucleus accumbens and by double grafts. In the paw-reaching task, lesioned animals showed severe impairment in the use of the contralateral limb, which none of the grafts alleviated. Pretreatment with amphetamine had variable effects on the paw-reaching task which persisted in subsequent drug-free trials, suggesting that a conditioning mechanism may be involved. These findings suggest that the simultaneous reinnervation of the neostriatum and the nucleus accumbens by dopaminergic transplants is not sufficient to re-establish normal function in more complex behavioural tasks.
The progressive degeneration of dopamine neurons observed in idiopathic Parkinson's disease was mimicked by injecting low doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to baboons, on a chronic basis. Five Papio papio baboons were treated on two different regimens (chronic intravenous administration at weekly intervals for 20-21 months or, daily MPTP treatment for five days followed five to six months later by chronic weekly injections for 5-21.5 months). All animals were assessed for motor symptoms during and after neurotoxic treatment. Both regimens invariably resulted in the appearance of a progressive and irreversible syndrome characterized by action and resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity, postural impairments, hypokinesia and bradykinesia. In some animals, symptoms of resting tremor and rigidity initially restricted to one side of the body became bilateral within a few months of treatment. Subtle abnormalities that may be found in idiopathic Parkinson's disease such as alterations of the blink reflex response were also noted. Neuropathological examination of caudate nucleus, putamen, substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in brain sections stained for tyrosine hydroxylase showed a typical uneven striatal dopamine fibre loss and a neuronal depletion in the dopaminergic mesencephalic cell groups that reproduce those observed in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Immunocytochemical observations and behavioural data show that chronic rather than acute MPTP injection regimens can replicate most of the neuropathological and the clinical features typical of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, possibly by increasing the ability of this neurotoxin to target specific subpopulations of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons.
The effects of microiontophoretic noradrenaline on the firing rate of neurons located in the vestibular complex have been studied in anaesthetized rats. Eighty-five per cent of the neurons tested in all the vestibular nuclei modified their background firing rate upon noradrenaline application, generally by reducing it (86% of them). In few cases inhibitions were followed by a rebound. Responses were dose-dependent. No significant difference was found between vestibular neurons projecting to the spinal cord and those delivering their fibres to the oculomotor complex. Phentolamine, an alpha-adrenergic antagonist, blocked the noradrenaline-evoked inhibitions, whereas beta-adrenergic antagonist timolol was ineffective or enhanced them. Furthermore, responses were blocked by yohimbine, an alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist, and mimicked by clonidine, an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist, in the majority of neurons. In few cases prazosin, an alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist, was able to antagonize weak inhibitions and phenylephrine, an alpha 1-adrenergic agonist, to evoke an inhibitory effect blocked by prazosin. Isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic agonist was totally ineffective on the neuronal firing rate. It is concluded that noradrenaline can modify the level of neuronal activity in the vestibular complex by acting mostly, but not exclusively, through alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. An influence of noradrenergic systems on the vestibular function by a direct action of noradrenaline inside the vestibular nuclei is proposed.
In anaesthetized rats, the unitary activity from the medial vestibular nucleus had been recorded during horizontal sinusoidal rotation in the absence of visual stimulation. In the first series of experiments, the inferior olivary nuclei were selectively destroyed by means of 3-acetylpyridine. Unitary activity was recorded three to five days or one month after the lesion. A few days after the lesion, the average spontaneous activity, as well as the peak-to-peak amplitude of the modulation of the medial vestibular neurons during sinusoidal rotation, were significantly lower compared to those recorded in intact rats, and to those recorded one month after the lesion. In the second series of experiments, during reversible cooling of the inferior olive region of one side, in the contralateral medial vestibular nuclei 57% of units underwent a clear decrease in firing rate accompanied by a decrease in the amplitude of modulation. In rats whose inferior olivary nuclei had been destroyed by means of 3-acetylpyridine one month before, or whose cerebellum had been removed, there were few units that showed a decrease of the firing rate and modulation amplitude on cooling the same olivary region. Our experiments show that silencing the activity of the inferior olive causes a decrease both in the spontaneous firing rate and in the amplitude of the response of the vestibular neurons to natural labyrinthine stimulation. These results support the hypothesis that the inferior olive, by changing its firing rate, may regulate on-line the gain of reflexes which are under cerebellar control.
In the olfactory bulb, the first relay of the olfactory pathways, GABA, could be largely involved in the information processing since the two main populations of interneurons, periglomerular and granular cells, use it as neurotransmitter through reciprocal synapses with second-order neurons. This study planned to clarify the role of GABAergic inhibition in odor coding and, more precisely, the role of glomerular GABAergic inhibition. To do so, we attempted to specifically block in vivo GABAA receptors with either picrotoxin or bicuculline. The drug was applied at the level of the glomerular layer so that the antagonist could act primarily via periglomerular cells. The analysis of the effects of blocking GABAA on the coding was studied by recording the second-order neuron responses to odor stimuli delivered in a wide concentration range. Under drug treatment, the second-order neuron properties were deeply changed: response thresholds to odors were often lowered and spike bursts were more sustained in frequency and in duration. Thus, the GABAergic control on second-order neurons might be carried out by limiting the neuron excitability. GABAA antagonists applied in this manner could act to suppress the inhibitory effect of either the periglomerular cells or of the granule cells, both of which have been shown to contain enzymes for GABA production. The placement of the drug suggests to us that the action is primarily at the glomerulus. The results are consistent with periglomerular cells exerting a tonic inhibition on second-order neurons, an inhibition whose strength would be modulated by stimulus intensity. As a result, the amplifying role of glomerular convergence might be partly counterbalanced by input inhibition. Nevertheless, due to our procedure of drug application, one cannot rule out the possibility that the effects observed may partly reflect granular cell blocking. It can be concluded that the whole GABAergic inhibition, through GABAA receptors, permits a wide dynamic range of intensity coding.
Spontaneous postsynaptic currents in chick spinal cord neurons cultured for up to three weeks were recorded by using standard whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. Beginning with approximately the 7th to 14th day in vitro, giant postsynaptic currents, mediated presumably by glycine, were single synaptic events (inhibitory postsynaptic currents). After the 14th day in vitro excitatory postsynaptic currents appeared. Both types of currents were predominantly arranged in bursts. This pattern of synaptic activity did not change appreciably during further cultivation. Characteristics of inhibitory postsynaptic currents were studied. Decay of the majority of giant inhibitory postsynaptic currents was two-exponential. Time-constants of the decay (fast and slow) increased with depolarization and decreased with increasing temperature. Decay of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was single exponential and did not depend on the membrane potential. Strychnine at concentrations of 1-2 microM was found not only to reduce the amplitude of giant inhibitory postsynaptic currents but also to prolong their decay. The time-constant of the slow component of the decay was mostly affected during the inhibitor action. Repeated binding of glycine to postsynaptic receptors due to a large presynaptic release is proposed as an explanation for the properties of giant inhibitory postsynaptic currents decay. Correlations between the development of synaptic networks under in vivo and in vitro conditions are discussed.
The postnatal development of the binding sites for an imidazobenzodiazepine, [3H]Ro 15-4513, which labels all presently known GABAA receptor-associated benzodiazepine binding sites, was studied in the cerebellar, cerebrocortical and hippocampal tissues of Wistar rats. The binding sites in the hippocampal membranes were fairly similar at all ages studied (1-2, 7, 14, and 90 days), suggesting early development of the GABAA receptors. The density of the binding sites increased significantly with age in the cerebellar and cerebrocortical membranes, without any changes in the affinity for this ligand. As judged by displacement by a benzodiazepine agonist, diazepam, [3H]Ro 15-4513 seemed to bind to a homogeneous pool of receptors in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in all age groups, whereas in the cerebellum two pharmacologically distinct sites were observed. The benzodiazepine agonist-insensitive (&quot;diazepam-insensitive&quot;) binding first appeared at the time when the cerebellar granule cells started to mature, on the seventh postnatal day. As determined by autoradiography, such binding occurred selectively in the granule cell layer and was absent from the cerebellum of one- to two-day-old rats. The latter finding was confirmed by photoaffinity labelling experiments, in which diazepam inhibited all photolabelling in membrane homogenates from newborn rats. Diazepam-sensitive cerebellar binding, which increased steadily during development, was also localized in the molecular layer and deep nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Levels of messenger RNA for nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, and the tyrosine kinase receptors trkA, trkB and trkC have been studied using in situ hybridization in the rat brain 2 h and four weeks after kindling-induced seizures. Epileptiform activity evoked by hippocampal stimulation and exceeding 70 s lead to a concomitant and transient increase of brain- derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, trkB and trkC messenger RNA expression in dentate granule cells after both focal and generalized seizures. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels were also increased bilaterally in the CA1-CA3 regions, amygdala and the piriform, entorhinal, perirhinal, retrosplenial and temporal cortices after generalized seizures. The magnitude of the increases was similar throughout the development of kindling and in the fully kindled brain. No changes of trkA messenger RNA were observed. In amygdalar kindling, elevated brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels developed more rapidly in the amygdala-piriform cortex than after stimulation in the hippocampus but changes in the hippocampal formation were only seen in few animals. Intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine or a bilateral fimbria-fornix lesion did not alter basal expression or seizure-evoked changes in messenger RNA levels for neurotrophins or trk receptors but increased the number of animals exhibiting elevated levels after the first stimulation, probably due to a prolongation of seizure activity. Both in sham-operated and fimbria-fornix-lesioned rats seizure activity caused a marked reduction of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA levels in dentate granule cells. The results indicate that activation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene, at least in dentate granule cells, is an &quot;all-or-none&quot; type of response and dependent on the duration but not the severity of seizures or the stage of kindling epileptogenesis. Changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3 and trkB and trkC were observed concomitantly in the dentate gyrus, which suggests that seizure activity sets in motion a cascade of genomic events possibly mediated via a common mechanism. Since altered messenger RNA levels outside hippocampus were detected only for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin and trk gene expression in these regions seems to be regulated differently.
Amongst different intrinsic and extrinsic inputs, cholinergic striatal interneurons receive afferents from the dopaminergic nigrostriatal projection and from local collaterals of striatonigral cells containing substance P. The following study demonstrates that both dopamine D2 and substance P (neurokinin-1) receptors are expressed by a large proportion of cholinergic interneurons. Using in situ hybridization on triplet adjacent sections with radioactive probes specific for choline acetyltransferase, substance P receptor, and D2 receptor long-splicing form messenger RNAs, we show that these interneurons can be divided into four subpopulations in terms of substance P and D2 receptor expression. A majority of these neurons coexpress both receptors (76%), while other minor subpopulations express either one (respectively, 16% and 2%) or none of them (6%). Our results also show that substance P receptor is expressed by striatal neurons that are not cholinergic. These findings are in agreement with the concept that striatal cholinergic interneurons are heterogeneous in terms of input-output connections and the type of receptors expressed. Moreover, the presence of substance P and D2 receptors on a majority of these neurons is relevant to a putative role of cholinergic interneurons in several conditions such as various neurodegenerative disorders or antipsychotic drug administration, where substance P and dopamine inputs are modified.
Effects of chronic intraventricular administration of recombinant human nerve growth factor on hippocampal muscarinic receptor densities and muscarinic receptor-linked second messenger systems were determined in adult rats 21 days following partial or full unilateral fimbrial transections. First, autoradiographic analysis of muscarinic receptors was carried out using [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate for total muscarinic receptors, [3H]pirenzepine for M1 receptors and [3H]AF-DX 384 for M2 receptors. Partial fimbrial transections did not significantly alter the density of these muscarinic receptor populations in the dorsal or ventral hippocampus and there was no effect of chronic (1 micrograms every other day, 21 days) recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment. In contrast, in animals receiving full fimbrial transections which by themselves did not alter muscarinic receptor density, recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment increased the density of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding sites, M1 receptors, and M2 receptors by approximately 40% in the CA1 region. Secondly, we determined the effect of chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment on muscarinic receptor-mediated second messenger production in rats with either partial or full unilateral fimbrial transections. In partially fimbriectomized rats, oxotremorine-induced inositol triphosphate production by hippocampal slices was increased by 81% on the lesioned side of animals treated with a control protein. This lesion-induced supersensitivity of M1 muscarinic receptor function was prevented by chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment. In recombinant human nerve growth factor-treated animals, inositol triphosphate production was similar to values on unlesioned control sides. The muscarinic receptor-mediated increase in cyclic GMP levels was not altered by fimbrial transections or recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment. In animals with full unilateral fimbrial transections, oxotremorine-induced inositol triphosphate production was increased by 99% on the lesioned side of animals treated with a control protein and treatment with recombinant human nerve growth factor did not alter this denervation-induced supersensitivity of muscarinic receptor transduction signal. Chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment did not affect the levels of inositol triphosphate on the contralateral unlesioned side of either partial or full fimbriectomized animals. Earlier studies indicate that chronic nerve growth factor treatment increases the presynaptic function of hippocampal cholinergic neurons surviving partial fimbrial transections. The findings of the present study indicate that these presynaptic effects translate into functional changes at the level of postsynaptic muscarinic receptors in the hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To demonstrate the regional, cellular and subcellular distributions of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in rat brain, we generated antipeptide antibodies that recognize the C-terminal domains of individual subunits of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-preferring glutamate receptors (i.e. GluR1, GluR4, and a region highly conserved in GluR2, GluR3 and GluR4c). On immunoblots, antibodies detect distinct proteins with mol. wts ranging from 102,000 to 108,000 in homogenates of rat brain. Immunocytochemistry shows that glutamate receptor subunits are distributed abundantly and differentially within neuronal cell bodies and processes in cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, limbic system, thalamus, cerebellum and brainstem. The precise patterns and cellular localizations of glutamate receptor subunit immunoreactivities are unique for each antibody. In neocortex and hippocampus, pyramidal neurons express GluR1 and GluR2/3/4c immunoreactivities; many non-pyramidal, calcium-binding, protein-enriched neurons in cerebral cortex are selectively immunoreactive for GluR1. In striatum, the cellular localizations of GluR1, GluR2/3/4c and GluR4 immunoreactivities are different; in this region, GluR1 co-localizes with many cholinergic neurons but is only present in a minor proportion of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-positive striatal neurons. GluR1 co-localizes with most dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra. In several brain regions, astrocytes show GluR4 immunoreactivity. Within the cerebellar cortex, cell bodies and processes of Bergmann glia express intense GluR4 and GluR1 immunoreactivities; perikarya and dendrites of Purkinje cells show GluR2/3/4c immunoreactivity but no evidence of GluR1 or GluR4. Ultrastructurally, GluR subunit immunoreactivities are localized within cell bodies, dendrites and dendritic spines of specific subsets of neurons and, in the case of GluR1 and GluR4, in some populations of astrocytes. This investigation demonstrates that individual AMPA-preferring glutamate receptor subunits are distributed differentially in the brain and suggests that specific neurons and glial cells selectively express glutamate receptors composed of different subunit combinations. Thus, the co-expression of all AMPA receptor subunits within individual cells may not be obligatory for the functions of this glutamate receptor in vivo.
The actions of the kappa 1 opioid receptor agonist U-50,488 (trans-(+-)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]-benz ene - acetamide methane sulfonate) on the membrane properties of presynaptic calyciform nerve terminals of the chick ciliary ganglion were examined using intracellular recordings obtained from intact ganglion preparations maintained in vitro. U-50,488 produced a concentration-dependent (30-1000 microM) hyperpolarization with an apparent increase in input resistance. This hyperpolarization resulted from inhibition of the Na(+)-K+ inward rectifier, since it was blocked by 3 mM Cs+ and was not observed when terminals were depolarized beyond resting potential where inward rectification was voltage inactivated. A depolarizing effect on membrane potential with a further rise in input resistance was commonly observed at the highest perfused U-50,488 concentration (1 mM). The depolarizing event appears to result from a decrease in membrane potassium conductance, as the reversal potential for the response was estimated to be between -70 and -90 mV and the potassium channel blocker Ba2+ (1 mM) abolished the response. The kappa 1 opioid receptor agonist also blocked spontaneously occurring miniature hyperpolarizations in the terminals, which are considered to be due to a Ca(2+)-dependent K+ conductance. Most of the responses to U-50,488 were abolished in the presence of the kappa 1 receptor antagonist norbinaltorphimine. In conclusion, the excitability of presynaptic nerve terminals in the chick ciliary ganglion can be modulated by the inhibition of at least three separate ion conductances following activation of kappa 1 opioid receptor sites in the nerve terminal region.
Intracellular recordings from layer V pyramidal neurons in rat somatosensory neocortical slices were used to investigate the effects of electrically stimulating slices known to contain cholinergic and noradrenergic fibers. Repetitive electrical stimulation ventral to the recording site elicited a series of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials followed by an inhibitory postsynaptic potential. These potentials were followed by a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential that lasted up to tens of seconds. The slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was more prominent when neurons were depolarized to 5-10 mV below firing threshold and was associated with increased input resistance and generated action potentials. The slow excitatory postsynaptic potential increased the amplitude of membrane potential oscillations and blocked the slow afterhyperpolarization which followed trains of action potentials. The amplitude of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was sensitive to extracellular potassium concentration. Blockade of postsynaptic action potentials by QX-314 did not block slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Exposure of slices to tetrodotoxin did block slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials, indicating they were dependent on propagated action potentials. Application of antagonists of glutamate and fast GABA responses failed to block slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Exposure to atropine or either propranolol or atenolol partially antagonized slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials, but only when atropine was added in combination with one of the other agents was the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential completely blocked. Exposure of slices to eserine, imipramine, or cocaine enhanced slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials. It is concluded that the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential triggered in neocortical slices is a composite of a cholinergic and a noradrenergic slow excitatory postsynaptic potential, and these potentials are capable of altering the firing properties of neurons for tens of seconds.
Changes in evoked acetylcholine quantal release induced by histamine, FLRFamide and buccalin were investigated at an identified neuro-neuronal synapse in the buccal ganglion of Aplysia californica. Regulation of acetylcholine release by these neuromodulators was correlated with their actions on the presynaptic Ca2+ current. We have previously reported that FLRFamide and histamine, respectively, increase and decrease acetylcholine release from buccal neurons B4/B5. Buccalin, a peptide specific to the buccal ganglion, lowered the number of acetylcholine quanta released. Consistent with the synaptic effects, the presynaptic nifedipine-resistant Ca2+ current that triggers the release of acetylcholine in B4/B5 neurons [Trudeau L.-E. et al. (1993) Neuroscience 53, 571-580] was lowered by buccalin or by histamine and enhanced by FLRFamide. The analysis of tail currents showed that histamine shifts the voltage dependence of the nifedipine-resistant Ca2+ channels towards more positive voltages, whereas FLRFamide has an opposite action. Buccalin did not affect the voltage dependence of the channels but depressed the amplitude of the Ca2+ current, an effect which could be due either to a reduction of the number of available Ca2+ channels, to a decrease of their unitary conductance or to a modification of their gating. Inactivation of presynaptic G proteins prevented the modulatory actions of FLRFamide and histamine on quantal acetylcholine release and also on the voltage dependence of the nifedipine-resistant Ca2+ channels. This procedure, however, failed to prevent the suppressive effects of buccalin. The possibility of relating the voltage dependence shifts of the Ca2+ current induced by FLRFamide and histamine to the phosphorylation state of the Ca2+ channels is discussed. It is concluded that three independent presynaptic pathways initiated by histamine, FLRFamide and buccalin control presynaptic Ca2+ influx, these modulations being apparent within the physiological range of voltages required to activate Ca2+ channels.
The ultrastructural features and synaptic interactions of tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immuno-reactive amacrine cells in the larval tiger salamander retina were examined using routine immunoelectron microscopy. The somas of tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immunoreactive amacrine cells were immunostained evenly throughout their cytoplasm. Their nuclei were generally unstained and possessed indented nuclear membranes. The processes of tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immunoreactive amacrine cells were homogeneously stained with the exception of their mitochondria, whose morphology was often disrupted by the staining procedure. Tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immunoreactive amacrine cell processes were characterized by an occasional dense-cored vesicle(s), in addition to a generally homogeneous population of small, round, agranular synaptic vesicles. They formed conventional synaptic junctions that were characterized by symmetrical synaptic membrane densities. A total of 168 synapses were observed that involved tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immunoreactive amacrine cell processes. A large percentage (79.8%) of these synaptic arrangements were found in sublayer 1 of the inner plexiform layer, while substantially lower percentages were observed in sublayers 3 (9.5%) and 5 (10.7%). They served as pre- and postsynaptic elements 63.1 and 36.9% of the time, respectively. Tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immunoreactive amacrine cell processes were presynaptic to amacrine cell processes (36.9% of total synaptic involvement) and processes that lack synaptic vesicles and whose origin remains uncertain (26.2%). They received synaptic input primarily from amacrine cell processes (31.0%). Tyrosine hydroxylase-like-immunoreactive amacrine cell processes also received a few ribbon synapses from bipolar cells (5.9%). Each of these synaptic relationships were observed in each of sublayers 1, 3 and 5 of the inner plexiform layer, with the majority of each arrangement being found in sublayer 1.
Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were made from substantia gelatinosa neurons in the thick slice of the adult rat spinal cord, which retained an attached dorsal root to study the pharmacological properties of spontaneous and primary afferent fibre-evoked synaptic currents. The majority of substantia gelatinosa neurons tested exhibited miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in the presence of tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM). Stimulation of primary afferent A delta fibres evoked monosynaptic and/or polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents. In Mg(2+)-containing solution, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM) abolished the evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents and the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. 2-Amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50-100 microM) had little effect on the miniature excitatory postsynaptic current. In Mg(2+)-free solution, however, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione reduced but did not abolish the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, leaving the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents with a small amplitude and a slow time course, which were abolished by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. At holding potentials more positive than -60 mV, stimulation of A delta fibres evoked outward postsynaptic currents in 11 out of 28 substantia gelatinosa neurons. The evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents were abolished in seven out of 11 neurons by either strychnine (0.5 microM) or bicuculline (10 microM), and in the remaining four neurons by the combination of both antagonists.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Astrocyte-rich and astrocyte-poor cultures derived from embryonic rat cerebral cortex were compared to determine whether differences in the location of neuronal somas, dendrites, axons, synapses or astrocytes, relative to the bulk culture medium, could help to explain the large difference in neuronal susceptibility to glutamate toxicity between the two culture systems. The cultures were processed for electron microscopy, thin sectioned across their depths, and photomontaged. In astrocyte-rich cultures, most of the dendrites, axons and synapses were sequestered from the medium by a nearly continuous layer of astrocyte cell bodies and processes. In contrast, astrocytes did not cover the synapses or neuronal processes in astrocyte-poor cultures. In neither culture system were neuronal cell somas covered by glia. Since neuronal cell somas are freely exposed to the medium in both culture conditions, it seems unlikely that receptors on the somal membrane mediate the greater susceptibility of neurons in astrocyte-poor cultures to glutamate toxicity. The layer of astrocytes in the astrocyte-rich cultures may provide a physical buffer that could hinder diffusion of substances from the medium to the interstitium of the neuropil. This physical buffer combined with avid glutamate uptake mechanisms might allow astrocytes to maintain a sufficiently low concentration of glutamate in the local extracellular space to protect dendrites and synapses in the astrocyte-rich, but not in the astrocyte-poor cultures, from the excitotoxic effects of glutamate. The results of this study demonstrate that local sequestering of neurites and synapses by a physical buffer of astrocytes may help to explain the relative resistance of neurons cultured with astrocytes to glutamate toxicity. A similar physical sequestering by astrocytes, of sensitive regions of neurons in the brain, may help protect neurons from glutamate toxicity in vivo.
The interpeduncular nucleus of six human fetuses aged 15 (one specimen), 26 (one specimen), 38 (one specimen) and 40 (three specimens) gestation weeks was studied by immunohistochemistry for enkephalin and somatostatin localization and immunohistochemistry coupled with silver staining. Enkephalin-positive and somatostatin-positive cells were detected, the former initially at 15 weeks gestation and the latter at 26 weeks gestation. They appeared to receive long afferents from the habenular region and projected short efferents to adjacent cells devoid of enkephalin and somatostatin positivity. We postulate that these enkephalin- and somatostatin-positive neurons function as modulatory interneurons in the habenulo-interpeduncular and related pathways.
The uptake and release of beta-[3H]alanine were studied in cultured glutamatergic cerebellar granule cells of the rat. The uptake of beta-alanine was saturable and sodium-dependent, comprising one high-affinity transport component. It was inhibited by hypotaurine, taurine, GABA and homotaurine but not by glycine or glutamate. The release was enhanced by homoexchange, veratridine and high K+ concentrations (50 mM). The K(+)-stimulated release was at least partially Ca(2+)-dependent. The release was shown to be subject to regulation by GABAA receptors and glutamate receptors of the kainate type. The results signify that beta-alanine may have a functional role in cerebellar granule cells.
The proto-oncogene c-jun is thought to play a role in the control of growth and differentiation of many cell types. It has been demonstrated previously that damage to axons of peripheral motor or sensory neurons resulted within 24 h in substantially increased levels of the c-jun gene in the parent cell bodies. These increased levels of c-jun protein and messenger RNA are maintained if the damaged nerve is ligated, but return to basal levels if the peripheral nerve is allowed to regenerate. We have examined the expression of immediate early genes in central neurons of the rat and now show that a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced axotomy of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway results in a substantial increase in the levels of c-jun (but not c-fos) messenger RNA and protein within neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta. However, the central neuronal response differs from the peripheral nerve response in that it becomes maximal at four to eight days post-lesion and is transient, declining to control levels in nigral neurons by 14 days post-lesion. These expression patterns may be related to the differential capacity of central and peripheral neurons to regenerate. The precise role of c-jun in these processes, or in the regenerative response, is unclear but it remains possible that c-jun activation following axon damage leads to an increased expression of genes which are essential for the regenerative response. The nature of the mechanism by which c-jun levels are attenuated in central neurons is also unclear, but inhibitory factors, generated by the central environment, may play a role.
This study examined the role of hippocampal dopamine D2 receptors in the genesis of limbic seizures induced by muscarinic agonists in the rat. Pilocarpine, 600 mg/kg, elicited rapid and usually fatal convulsions. These were not affected by focal injections of saline (1 microliter) into both hippocampi. Pretreatment of the dorsal, but not the lateral hippocampus, with the D2 agonist trans-(+)-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-2H-pyrazolo-(3,4-g)quinol ine hydrochloride (LY 171555, 2 micrograms per side), did not alter the frequency of pilocarpine-induced convulsions, but significantly delayed their appearance and reduced their intensity. LY 171555 similarly increased the latency of seizures induced by focal hippocampal injection of carbachol (100 micrograms), without changing the frequency or the severity. The selective D2 antagonist raclopride, injected dorsally into both hippocampi dose-dependently facilitated motor seizures evoked by pilocarpine (100 mg/kg), the cholinomimetic at this dose being ineffective as a convulsant in saline-treated animals. Intrahippocampal administration of the D1 agonist 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SKF 38393, 2 micrograms per side) did not facilitate pilocarpine seizures and did not potentiate the proconvulsant action of raclopride. These data demonstrate that activation of the dopaminergic system, via D2 receptors in the dorsal hippocampus, is capable of protecting the animal against limbic motor seizures arising from excessive muscarinic stimulation of the hippocampus. Since the blockade of D2 receptors in the hippocampus markedly lowered the seizure threshold to pilocarpine, this would suggest that the dopaminergic input to the hippocampus is normally tonically active and functions physiologically to prevent epileptogenesis.
Extracellular levels of GABA, derived from cell suspension transplants of embryonic day 14-15 rat striatal primordia implanted into the previously excitotoxically lesioned striatum, were measured using intracerebral microdialysis in halothane-anaesthetized rats. GABA overflow was monitored using loop type dialysis probes implanted into grafted, age-matched ibotenic acid-lesioned and intact striata, under baseline conditions and after different pharmacological manipulations. Basal and evoked GABA release, which was reduced by 58 and 96%, respectively, in the excitotoxin-lesioned striatum, was restored by the striatal grafts to levels close to or above those observed in normal striata. The graft-derived release of GABA was most likely of neuronal origin, since the K(+)-evoked (100 mM) GABA overflow was reduced by almost 80% when Ca++ was replaced by 20 mM Mg++ in the perfusion medium, and blockade of GABA uptake by nipecotic acid (0.5 mM), induced a greater than six-fold increase in GABA overflow. However, perfusion of the graft with 1 microM tetrodotoxin in combination with K+ (100 mM) resulted in little if any reduction in the K(+)-evoked overflow. Histological analysis demonstrated a dense tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibre network in the grafts, which was removed after a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the ipsilateral nigrostriatal pathway. The dopamine denervating lesion resulted in an increased K(+)-evoked GABA overflow both in the intact (+76%) and the grafted striata (+181%), suggesting that the tonic dopaminergic inhibitory control of GABA release, seen in the intact striatum, is also present in the grafted striata. The glutamate analogue, kainic acid (1 mM added to the perfusion fluid), evoked a 60-74% increase in GABA overflow both in intact striata (with or without dopaminergic denervation) and in the striatal grafts. This effect seemed to be dependent on an intact corticostriatal projection, since knife-cut transections of the frontal cortex at the level of the forceps minor, abolished the response in both the intact and grafted striata. These results demonstrate that grafts of fetal striatal tissue implanted into the excitotoxically lesioned striatum restore striatal GABA overflow in a neuron-dependent manner, close to or above that seen in the normal intact striatum. Furthermore, the graft-derived GABA release appears to be under normal regulatory control from the host dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems. Since the GABAergic striatal output system is critical for the expression of striatum-related behaviours, it is proposed that the graft-induced behavioural recovery in the striatal lesion model, at least in part, may depend on the restoration of striatal GABAergic neurotransmission.
Aged (26-month-old) rats were impaired compared with young (three-month-old) rats in passive avoidance and water maze tasks. In order to study whether changes in inhibitory circuits are involved in these age-related cognitive impairments, the number of two different subpopulations of GABAergic neurons, i.e. somatostatin- and parvalbumin-containing neurons, were counted in the hippocampal formation, septum and neocortex. We found that the number of parvalbumin-containing neurons was decreased in the entorhinal, somatosensory and motor cortex as well as in the medial septum and vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca, but not in the hippocampus of aged rats. Somatostatin-containing neurons were affected in the somatosensory and motor cortex, and in the dorsolateral septum, but not in the hippocampus or in the entorhinal cortex. The decreased number of parvalbumin-containing neurons in the entorhinal cortex of the aged rats correlated with their performance deficits in passive avoidance and spatial learning. We propose that impaired functioning of the entorhinal cortex parvalbumin-containing inhibitory neurons may, to some extent, be responsible for the learning and memory defects found in aged rats.
Somatostatin is considered to be a brain neurotransmitter/neuromodulator; however, there is little concrete information on how this peptide contributes to generation of synaptic potentials in the mammalian central nervous tissue. Recently, a well-defined somatostatin-containing pathway has been traced from the subnucleus centralis of the solitarial complex to the compact formation of the nucleus ambiguus. Moreover, we have demonstrated both in vivo and in vitro that somatostatin enhances glutamate but inhibits acetylcholine excitation of ambigual motoneurons, suggesting involvement of this peptide in central oesophagomotor transmission. The availability of a brainstem slice containing this pathway has allowed us to characterize an excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential in compact formation neurons. This excitatory postsynaptic potential is unusual because its rising phase involves activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Here we report that somatostatin participates in ambigual excitatory postsynaptic potential generation by permitting expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component, thereby regulating fast information transfer in this pathway.
Factors involved in the production of long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices were examined using whole-cell voltage clamp recordings. The pairing of postsynaptic membrane depolarization with tetanic stimulation produced a reliable long-lasting enhancement of synaptic currents provided that the pairing was performed within 15 min after establishing intracellular contact. This time could be extended to 30 min by including adenosine triphosphate and guanosine triphosphate in the recording pipette. Once established, the potentiation persisted for 3 h or more. The washout of long-term potentiation generating ability was not correlated with a rundown in baseline synaptic currents or in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component of synaptic responses, but followed a time course similar to the loss of calcium spikes. Long-term potentiation could be reliably produced by depolarizing the postsynaptic membrane to -40 or -20 mV during the tetanus, but decreased when the membrane was held at membrane potentials greater than 0 mV. At -20 mV, 50 microM 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate blocked the potentiation but this agent was ineffective at +40 mV. In contrast, 50 microM verapamil, a calcium channel blocker, failed to alter long-term potentiation at -20 mV but blocked the enhancement at +40 mV. These results suggest that whole-cell recording causes a washout of postsynaptic factors important in the initiation of long-term potentiation. However, these factors are less important in maintaining the potentiation. Furthermore, depending on the postsynaptic membrane potential during tetanic stimulation, voltage-gated calcium channels contribute to CA1 long-term potentiation.
The mossy fibre-granule cell synapse undergoes major developmental changes during the second and third weeks after birth. We investigated synaptic transmission during postnatal days 10-22 by means of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from granule cells in situ. Parasagittal slices were cut from rat cerebellar vermis, and excitatory postsynaptic currents were evoked in granule cells by mossy fibre stimulation with 1.2 mM Mg++ in the extracellular solution. In the majority of granule cells recorded at postnatal days 16-22, excitatory currents were characterized by a fast initial peak followed by a slower component, while in many of the cells recorded at more immature stages, the fast peak was virtually absent. Pharmacological and kinetic data indicated that the fast and slow components were mediated by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, respectively. The magnitude of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate current increased with developmental age, while the magnitude of the NMDA current did not change markedly. The age-dependent change of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate currents could not be accounted for by changes in recording conditions or granule cell electrotonic properties. Furthermore, from postnatal day 11 to 16 the extent of Mg++ block on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor did not change, and could not explain the increasing non-N-methyl-D-aspartate/N-methyl-D-aspartate current ratio. We concluded therefore that the age-dependent increase of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate current was the main cause of the different postsynaptic current waveforms observed at different ages. The developmental change in the proportion of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate currents may be relevant to the processes regulating granule cell maturation and excitability.
The Ca2+ current recorded in the presynaptic neuron (B4/B5) of an identified Aplysia synapse was characterized in terms of its activation, voltage sensitivity, Ca2+ dependence of inactivation and pharmacology. It was compared to that recorded in left upper quadrant abdominal ganglion neurons which, unlike B4/B5, display Ca2+ action potentials. The two Ca2+ currents could not be distinguished in terms of their activation threshold or voltage sensitivity. The Ca2+ current recorded in left upper quadrant neurons, however, displayed more important Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation. The peak Ca2+ current in B4/B5 neurons was significantly reduced (30-40%) by the dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel antagonist, nifedipine, while it was increased (15-20%) by the dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel agonist, BAY K8644, although none of these agents had any effect on transmitter release from B4/B5. omega-Conotoxin similarly reduced the Ca2+ current by 30-40%, but unlike nifedipine, it also caused a 50-60% reduction in B4/B5 transmitter release. The pharmacological properties of the Ca2+ current present in left upper quadrant neurons were somewhat different, as this current was unaffected by either BAY K8644 or omega-conotoxin and moderately suppressed (20%) by nifedipine.
We have previously shown that neurofilaments in enteric neurons are immunologically distinct from those found in the central nervous system. In particular, one monoclonal antibody to the medium molecular weight neurofilament subunit, called NN18, stained the perikarya of enteric neurons very weakly, if at all, although other medium molecular weight neurofilament subunit antibodies clearly showed the presence of significant amounts of medium molecular weight neurofilament subunit. We have since located the epitope for NN18 in a peptide sequence at the carboxy terminal tail of medium molecular weight neurofilament subunit and have now looked for further neurofilament antibodies that stain the same region. We found two monoclonal antibodies, RMO1 and RMO59, that recognize the same peptide. These antibodies also show much reduced staining in myenteric neurons compared to those in the central nervous system, suggesting that this region of the medium molecular weight neurofilament subunit is specifically modified in certain cells. In the developing enteric nervous system, we found that all the antibodies show strong staining of enteric neurons in the neonatal rat, but that with NN18, RMO1, and RMO59, the staining intensity decreases during further development, and by postnatal day 21 all three demonstrate decreased or absent staining identical to the adult. These results indicate that myenteric neurons, in contrast to the brain, have a developmentally regulated modification in a specific region of the medium molecular weight neurofilament subunit, which may reflect adaptation to structural stress by myenteric neurons.
The localization of nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme responsible for producing the short-acting messenger nitric oxide, has been determined in the digestive tract of the rat using histochemistry for reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity, a specific marker for neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Positively stained neurons were found throughout the entire digestive tract from the esophagus to the rectum. Positive neuronal somata were very common in the myenteric ganglia. Dense positive fibers were distributed in internodal strands, the secondary plexus, the tertiary plexus, and were particularly abundant in the deep muscular plexus, while very few were observed in the submucosal ganglia. The density of these positive structures was higher in the small and large intestine than in the esophagus and stomach. The pattern of distribution suggested that some of these positive cells innervate gut muscles. Double-staining revealed that in these enteric neurons, nitric oxide synthase does not co-localize with acetylcholinesterase. Instead, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide almost always coexists with nitric oxide synthase in the myenteric plexus. Thus, nitric oxide and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide may be co-transmitters in a population of non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neurons in the enteric nervous system.
Facial motoneurons respond to peripheral transection of the facial nerve with a number of molecular changes. In order to obtain insight into the transcriptional mechanisms underlying the changes induced by axotomy, the expression of a number of immediate early genes was investigated after facial nerve lesion in the rat. Some immediate early genes (such as c-fos, c-jun or jun B) are known to encode transcription factors that bind to DNA at sites that regulate gene expression and they could therefore contribute to long-term changes in motoneurons. Northern blot analysis of RNA extracted from the facial nucleus from postoperative intervals covering hours and days revealed that axotomy results in a unique pattern of immediate early gene induction in the facial nucleus. c-Jun, jun B and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced sequence (TIS) 11 messenger RNA, also present in low amounts in the unoperated nucleus, were strongly induced in a long-term fashion after nerve injury. Increased levels of these messenger RNAs were first detectable at 5 h, reaching a maximum (300-500% compared to control) within 24 h followed by a gradual decline during the following week. Elevated levels were maintained at least up to eleven days compared to the unoperated side. On the other hand, c-fos messenger RNA was neither expressed in the unoperated nucleus, nor was c-fos messenger RNA induced by axotomy at any of the time-points studied. Another member of the TIS family of immediate early genes TIS 7 (PC4), however, was detectable at low levels in normal facial nucleus, but its expression was unaffected by lesion. The three axotomy-induced messenger RNAs, c-jun, jun B and TIS 11, were all localized in the facial motoneurons by in situ hybridization histochemistry indicating that their induction occurs as part of the retrograde reaction of the motoneurons in response to lesion. These data suggest that c-jun, jun B and TIS 11 may play a role in triggering the regeneration programme of motoneurons.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 binds insulin-like growth factors I and II with high affinity and modulates the interaction of these ligands with the type I insulin-like growth factor receptor. Previously we have shown that insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 and insulin-like growth factor-I gene expression are spatiotemporally co-ordinated in the developing retina and cerebellum. The present study examined other brain regions and found a similar correlation in insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 and insulin-like growth factor-I gene expression in relay stations of developing sensory and cerebellar networks of the rat. In these sites, as in the cerebellum and retina, insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA is localized in the principal or projection neurons and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 messenger RNA is localized in surrounding astroglia. Outside these sensory relay centers, the relationship of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 to insulin-like growth factor-I gene expression is not so well defined. In the hippocampal formation, insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA is present in large interneurons and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 messenger RNA in regional astrocytes; their timing is co-ordinated, with peak levels seen about postnatal day 12, but their anatomical association is not apparent. The least degree of correlation between local insulin-like growth factor-I and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 gene expression is found in the neocortex, where insulin-like growth factor-I is abundant in scattered large neurons from postnatal days 3 to 20. In contrast, insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 messenger RNA is widely expressed throughout the neocortex from before birth to about postnatal day 12, in a pattern consistent with expression by nascent astroglia. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 gene expression is greatly reduced throughout the brain by the third week after birth; in response to optic nerve transection, however, there is a resurgence of gene expression for this factor by activated astrocytes in affected retinal target regions. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 and insulin-like growth factor-II messenger RNAs are co-localized in the choroid plexus and leptomeninges from the time of birth onward without diminution. In summary, insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 demonstrates complex patterns of gene expression during postnatal brain development--some of which appear to be closely related to local insulin-like growth factor synthesis and some of which appear independent of it.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
There is a spontaneous induction of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) expression in adult rat dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons when grown in culture. The mechanism of this induction may be the same as that responsible for the increased VIP expression in sensory neurons following peripheral axotomy in vivo. This study investigates the effects of depolarization and cyclic AMP on VIP expression (measured by radioimmunoassay) in cultures of newborn and adult rat sensory neurons. Unlike adult neurons, newborn rat sensory neurons, supported in culture with nerve growth factor, did not spontaneously express VIP. However, potassium-evoked depolarization and drugs that increase intracellular cyclic AMP concentrations (forskolin, 8-bromo cyclic AMP, isobutylmethylxanthine) interacted synergistically to stimulate high levels of VIP expression in newborn rat neurons. The contribution of depolarization to this effect could be mimicked by the L-type calcium channel agonist Bay K 8644 and blocked by the channel antagonist nifedipine, implying the involvement of calcium influx through L-type channels. While depolarization and forskolin individually had small effects on VIP content of adult rat sensory neuron cultures, there was no synergism of the kind seen in newborn rat cultures. Immunostaining showed that VIP was localized within approximately 30% of both newborn and adult rat sensory neurons. Thus, a subpopulation of newborn rat sensory neurons exhibit marked plasticity of VIP expression in an integrated response to activation of cyclic AMP- and calcium-dependent signalling pathways. This property is no longer present in mature neurons, however, where VIP expression is regulated by as yet undetermined factors.
Previous experiments have demonstrated that posterior hypothalamic deafferentation, which involved also the medial forebrain bundle, has prevented the rise in serum corticosterone following limbic stimuli. Consequently, the effects of a small medial posterior hypothalamic deafferentation, excluding the medial forebrain bundle, on corticosterone responses following electrical stimulation of the hippocampus, amygdala, septum and reticular formation in the rat were studied. Posterior hypothalamic deafferentation did not change basal corticosterone levels but significantly inhibited the adrenocortical responses following stimulation of the above structures when compared to intact or sham-stimulated rats. Posterior hypothalamic deafferentation did not affect median eminence corticotropin releasing factor-41 content. It is concluded that a medial posterior hypothalamic input is involved in adrenocortical activation following limbic stimulation.
Measurement of turnover of dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin and their metabolites was assessed in striatum and substantia nigra of adult female rats that were fed control or vitamin E-deficient diets over 15 days. The levels and turnover of dopamine increased and the levels of serotonin decreased in both structures whereas serotonin turnover decreased only in striatum. No change was found in the turnover rate of noradrenaline between control and experimental animals. However, the most striking result was the increase of dopamine turnover found in substantia nigra. This dopamine increase was accompanied by an increase in 3-methoxytyramine turnover which seems to indicate an increase in dopamine release after vitamin E deficiency. The present study indicates that the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons are susceptible to the deficiency of vitamin E. Moreover, these data suggest that substantia nigra may be more susceptible to damage from vitamin E deficiency than striatum.
The distribution of NADPH diaphorase staining in the human basal ganglia was compared in five cases who were neurologically normal with five cases who died with Huntington's disease. The normal cases showed an intense staining for NADPH diaphorase throughout all regions of the neuropil in the striatum (caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus accumbens); the staining in the neuropil was largely homogeneous although a heterogeneous distribution was evident at rostral levels of the head of the caudate nucleus and in the nucleus accumbens where patches of reduced staining aligned with acetylcholinesterase-poor regions. The globus pallidus showed a moderately intense homogeneous pattern of staining for NADPH diaphorase. In comparison with control cases, sections of the striatum from the five cases with Huntington's disease showed a dramatic decrease in the intensity of NADPH diaphorase staining in the neuropil, especially in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In cases of early Huntington's disease where no discernible loss of neurons was seen [grade 0 using the grading criteria of Vonsatell et al. (1985) J. Neuropath. exp. Neurol. 44, 559-577], there was a marked heterogeneous pattern of staining in the caudate nucleus and putamen showing a patchy loss of NADPH diaphorase in the neuropil. This resulted in clearly delineated islands of greatly reduced staining surrounded by a matrix of moderately reduced staining; the patches of greatly reduced staining corresponded with acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes. In cases of more advanced neuropathology (grades 1 and 2) the loss of NADPH diaphorase staining in the neuropil was even more marked, affecting both acetylcholinesterase-poor and acetylcholinesterase-rich regions of the caudate nucleus and putamen and resulting in an almost homogeneous loss of staining in these striatal regions. Despite this marked loss of staining in the neuropil, the numbers of NADPH diaphorase-stained neuronal somata in the striatum in Huntington's cases appeared comparable to those in the control cases. In the globus pallidus of one of the advanced Huntington's disease cases there appeared to be a minimal loss of NADPH diaphorase staining; however, staining in the other regions of the brain which were examined was similar to that in the control cases. These findings demonstrate a progressive compartmental loss of NADPH diaphorase in the neuropil of the human striatum in Huntington's disease which correlates with the extent of neurodegeneration; early in the disease the loss of neuropil staining is first evident in the striosome compartment, then followed by an additional loss in the matrix compartment in more advanced cases of the disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
GABAA receptor function was studied in rat cerebellar granule cells in culture, by the whole-cell patch-clamp approach. The data show that GABA activates Cl- currents in these neurons which reverse at the appropriate membrane potential and are blocked by picrotoxin. The GABA-activated currents desensitize with time of application of the neurotransmitter at concentrations &gt; or = 10(-6) M. The dose-response curve for the peak Cl- current gives a Ka value of 2.3 microM with a Hill coefficient of 1.2. The peak Cl- current elicited by GABA decreases with time of cell registration, with a time-constant of 7.3 min. Residual responsiveness though is maintained thereafter. This &quot;run-down&quot; phenomenon can be completely prevented by adding adenosine-5'-triphosphate + Mg2+ in the pipette solution. Treatments which directly (8-bromoadenosine-3',5'-cyclic-monophosphate; adenosine-3', 5'-cyclic-monophosphate) or indirectly (forskolin, isobutylmethylxanthine) increase the adenosine-3',5'-cyclic-monophosphate intracellular content reduce the GABA-induced Cl- current. Conversely, treatment with the protein kinase A and C inhibitor 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulphonyl)-2-methylpiperazine potentiates the effect of GABA. On the whole, the data indicate that different protein kinase activities modulate the functional state of the GABAA receptors on granule cells from the rat cerebellum.
Monoclonal antibodies R4B12 and R1D1 label the same subsets of rabbit primary olfactory axons. In the present study, we characterized the R4B12 antigens using immunohistochemical, immunoelectron-microscopic, and biochemical techniques. The R4B12 antigens are expressed on the surface membrane of a subset of primary olfactory axons. Western blot analysis revealed the existence of two forms (115,000 and 90,000 mol.wt) of the R4B12 antigens with different membrane-anchoring structures. Of the two forms, the smaller antigen (90,000 mol. wt) is anchored to the plasma membrane via a phosphatidylinositol linkage and expressed exclusively by the olfactory system. When the rabbit olfactory epithelium was stimulated by odors for 2-8 h in situ, the R4B12 immunoreactivity disappeared from the primary olfactory axons in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb. These results suggest that the cell surface antigens R4B12 expressed by subsets of primary olfactory axons undergo stimulus-dependent changes by odor stimulation and may be involved in plasticity of olfactory sensory neurons.
Infection by lentiviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus, Maedi-Visna virus and Caprine Arthritis Encephalitis Virus, is associated with a variety of neurological syndromes, but the mechanism by which the damage occurs to the nervous system is not known. The viruses do not infect neurons and so the neurotoxic actions must be mediated indirectly. Here we applied synthetic peptide analogues derived from basic regions of Maedi-Visna virus and human immunodeficiency virus transactivating protein, tat, to rat brain in vivo and found them to be potent neurotoxins. The toxicity of the Maedi-Visna virus peptide was demonstrated to be reduced by blockade of nitric oxide synthase and of N-methyl-D-aspartate channel opening. These experiments suggest that peptides derived from lentiviral tat may share a common neurotoxic action.
A retrospective review of patients who underwent posterior cervical stabilization with Halifax Interlaminar Clamps in four neurosurgical centers in the United Kingdom was performed. Satisfactory bone fusion without complication occurred in all patients in whom lower cervical spinal stabilization (C3-C7) was performed. Complications occurred in 14 of 45 patients undergoing atlantoaxial arthrodesis. In 10 patients, one of the screws loosened, and in 4 patients, one of the clamps disengaged; additional operations to achieve bone fusion were required in 9 patients (20%). The Halifax Interlaminar Clamp is safe and effective for posterior stabilization in the lower cervical spine; there is a significant failure rate associated with its use for atlantoaxial arthrodesis.
The rat isolated spinal cord-tail preparation has been employed to examine the effects of several antinociceptive drugs and excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor antagonists on nociceptive reflexes (recorded in ventral roots) stimulated by peripheral application of capsaicin (CAP). Non-nociceptive monosynaptic and polysynaptic dorsal root-evoked ventral root potentials (DR-VRPs) were also examined. Morphine (0.01-3 microM) and clonidine (0.03-1 microM) inhibited CAP-stimulated activity, but not the non-nociceptive dorsal root-evoked monosynaptic reflex (MSR) or polysynaptic (PSR) activity. These effects were antagonized by naloxone and efaroxan, respectively. The AMPA/KA receptor antagonists CNQX (0.1-100 microM) and DNQX (0.1-30 microM) blocked nociceptive activity and were 4-fold selective for CAP-evoked potentials compared to the monosynaptic reflex. Kynurenate (1-300 microM), DL-AP-4 (3-300 microM), L-AP-4 (3-300 microM), and the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen (0.1-10 microM), inhibited all evoked potentials with relatively little selectivity between nociceptive and non-nociceptive responses. NMDA receptor antagonism by AP-5 (100 microM) reduced nociceptive and non-nociceptive potentials by a maximum of 30-33%. These data indicate that AMPA/KA receptor-mediated synapses are involved in acute spinal nociceptive transmission and suggest that AMPA/KA receptor subtypes could provide novel analgesic targets.
A 4-month-old male infant had a fatal infantile mitochondrial disease associated with cardiomyopathy. He had elevated lactate concentrations in blood and cerebrospinal fluid and an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio. Histochemical analysis of muscle biopsy revealed several ragged-red fibers on modified Gomori trichrome stain and mildly decreased cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV) activity. Complex I and IV activities of the respiratory chain in muscle were decreased to about 35% of normal values biochemically; subunits of the two complexes were decreased nonselectively on immunoblotting. Mitochondrial DNA analysis failed to detect any mutation. Complex I and IV deficiencies should be considered as one of the causes of fatal infantile mitochondrial disease.
This study tested the hypothesis that the receptive fields (RFs) of neurons in the adult sensory cortex are shaped by the recent history of sensory experience. Sensory experience was altered by a brief period of &quot;whisker pairing&quot;: whiskers D2 and either D1 or D3 were left intact, while all other whiskers on the right side of the face were trimmed close to the fur. The animals were anesthetized 64-66 h later and the responses of single neurons in contralateral cortical barrel D2 to stimulation of whisker D2 (the center RF) and the four neighboring whiskers (D1, D3, C2, and E2; the excitatory surround RF) were measured. Data from 79 cells in four rats with whiskers paired were compared to data from 52 cells in four rats with untrimmed whiskers (control cases). During the period of whisker pairing, the RFs of cells in barrel D2 changed in three ways: (i) the response to the center RF, whisker D2, increased by 39%, (ii) the response to the paired surround RF whisker increased by 85-100%, and (iii) the response to all clipped (unpaired) surround RF whiskers decreased by 9-42%. In the control condition, the response of barrel D2 cells to the two neighboring whiskers, D1 and D3, was equal. After whisker pairing, the response to the paired neighbor of D2 was more than twice as large as the response to the cut neighbor of D2. These findings indicate that a brief change in the pattern of sensory activity can alter the configuration of cortical RFs, even in adult animals.
Isolated retinal precursor cells, grown without pigment epithelial or glial cells and in the absence of intercellular contacts, develop a complex set of photoreceptor-specific properties, including polarized structural and molecular organization and opsin immunoreactivity. We report here that these isolated embryonic photoreceptors are also capable of responding to light. Sequential photography showed that 50% of the photoreceptors grown in a light cycle elongate when exposed to light and contract in response to darkness. A smaller population (20%) showed the opposite response. Responses of individual cells could be observed during several sequential light cycles and resemble photomechanical movements in vivo [Ali, M. A. (1971) Vision Res. 11, 1225-1288]. The differentiation program expressed by isolated precursor cells, therefore, includes the capacity for highly complex functional activities that require light sensitivity. These observations raise challenging questions regarding the nature of the chromophore and pigments that mediate light-regulated behaviors of cultured photoreceptors.
Prader-Willi and Angelman syndromes are complex neurobehavioral contiguous gene syndromes whose expression depends on the unmasking of genomic imprinting for different genetic loci in human chromosome 15q11-q13. The homologous chromosomal region in the mouse genome has been fine-mapped by using interspecific (Mus spretus) crosses and overlapping, radiation-induced deletions to evaluate potential animal models for both imprinted and nonimprinted components of these syndromes. Four evolutionarily conserved sequences from human 15q11-q13, including two cDNAs from fetal brain (DN10, D15S12h; DN34, D15S9h-1), a microdissected clone (MN7; D15F37S1h) expressed in mouse brain, and the gene for the beta 3 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (Gabrb3), were mapped in mouse chromosome 7 by analysis of deletions at the pink-eyed dilution (p) locus. Three of these loci are deleted in pre- and postnatally lethal p-locus mutations, which extend up to 5.5 +/- 1.7 centimorgans (cM) proximal to p; D15S9h-1, which maps 1.1 +/- 0.8 cM distal to p and is the mouse homolog of the human gene D15S9 (which shows a DNA methylation imprint), is not deleted in any of the p-locus deletion series. A transcript from the Gabrb3 gene, but not the transcript detected by MN7 at the D15F37S1h locus, is expressed in mice homozygous for the p6H deletion, which have an abnormal neurological phenotype. Furthermore, the Gabrb3 transcript is expressed equally well from the maternal or paternal chromosome 7 and, therefore, its expression is not imprinted in mouse brain. Deletions at the mouse p locus should serve as intermediate genetic reagents and models with which to analyze the genetics and etiology of individual components of human 15q11-q13 disorders.
As new treatments and drug therapies enable the control of opportunistic diseases associated with Aids, its neurological manifestations are becoming more prevalent. This poses new challenges to neuroscience nurses, who must reassess their attitude to and understanding of the disease.
1. Sleep deprivation induced by the platform technique is considered to be a heavy stressful situation in rats. At the end of the sleep deprivation period (72 hrs) the rat displayed particular behavior characterized by wakefulness, a high degree of motor and exploratory activity, increased alertness and reactivity to environmental stimuli. 2. Our results indicate that this behavior is potently antagonized by the administration of D1 antagonist SCH 23390 and by the opioid antagonist naloxone. 3. We also show that concomitantly to this behavior, an increased number of D1 receptors associated with an increased dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity is present in the limbic system but not in the striatum of these animals. On the contrary, a decreased Bmax of mu and delta opioid receptors was found in the same brain areas. 4. These data suggest an active role of limbic dopamine and opioid system in the generation of arousal and insomnia related to sleep deprivation-induced stress.
Thioflavine T (ThT) associates rapidly with aggregated fibrils of the synthetic beta/A4-derived peptides beta(1-28) and beta(1-40), giving rise to a new excitation (ex) (absorption) maximum at 450 nm and enhanced emission (em) at 482 nm, as opposed to the 385 nm (ex) and 445 nm (em) of the free dye. This change is dependent on the aggregated state as monomeric or dimeric peptides do not react, and guanidine dissociation of aggregates destroys the signal. There was no effect of high salt concentrations. Binding to the beta(1-40) is of lower affinity, Kd 2 microM, while it saturates with a Kd of 0.54 microM for beta(1-28). Insulin fibrils converted to a beta-sheet conformation fluoresce intensely with ThT. A variety of polyhydroxy, polyanionic, or polycationic materials fail to interact or impede interaction with the amyloid peptides. This fluorometric technique should allow the kinetic elucidation of the amyloid fibril assembly process as well as the testing of agents that might modulate their assembly or disassembly.
Detoxification from opiate addiction has been a medical problem for as long as opiate drugs have been available. Treatment before the discovery of clonidine involved giving another opioid drug with less dangerous consequences of chronic use, such as the long-acting and orally administered once a day methadone, for another opioid mu agonist like heroin, which must be taken intravenously many times a day, thus making rehabilitation, work, and avoidance of hepatitis, HIV, and other illnesses difficult. Although methadone has proved to be very beneficial, it still has significant abuse potential. Naltrexone, because it blocks the effects of all opiates, has facilitated the transformation from addiction to a drug-free state for many recovering addicts. By alleviating withdrawal symptoms and by lessening the detoxification period, clonidine similarly has improved the prospect of recovery from opiate addiction. Relapse, whether withdrawal is treated with clonidine or other new agents or not, occurs with great regularity because repeated opiate use can induce a new acquired drive state--the drive for opiates. In addition, with powerful withdrawal symptoms during abstinence, opiate relapse is difficult to prevent without an adequate treatment program. The efficacy of clonidine and other medical magic bullets for withdrawal distress needs to be given as part of a long-term recovery program which not only allows the brain to re-establish normal homeostatic changes in the drug-free state but also provides sufficient motivation for new approaches to achieving and sustaining pleasurable existence.
Ensuring effective distribution of guidelines is an important step towards their implementation. To examine the effectiveness of dissemination of a guidelines card on management of head injury and determine its usefulness to senior house officers (SHOs), a questionnaire survey was performed in May 1990, after distribution of the cards in induction packs for new doctors and at postgraduate lectures and displaying the guidelines in accident and emergency departments and wards. A further survey, in March 1992, assessed the impact of modifying the distribution. All (175) SHOs working in general surgery, accident and emergency medicine, orthopaedics, and neurosciences on 1 February 1990 in 19 hospitals including two neurosurgical units in Northern region were sent self completion questionnaires about awareness, receipt, use, and perceived usefulness of the guidelines. 131 of 163(80%) SHOs in post responded (median response from hospitals 83% (range 50%-100%)). Over three quarters (103, 79%) of SHOs were aware of the guidelines and 82(63%) had ever possessed a guidelines card. Only 36(44%) acquired the card in the induction pack. 92%(98/107) found them useful and 81% (89/110) referred to them to some extent. Owning and carrying the card and referring to guidelines were associated with departmental encouragement to use the guidelines. Increasing the displays of guidelines in wards and departments and the supply of cards to consultants in accident and emergency medicine as a result of this survey did not increase the number of SHOs who received cards (52/83, 63%), but more (71/83, 86%) were aware of the guidelines. The guidelines were welcomed by SHOs and used in treating patients with head injury, but their distribution requires improvement. Increased use of the guidelines may be achieved by introducing other distribution methods and as a result of encouragement by senior staff.
A patient with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) showing severe akinesia, postural instability and gait disturbance like frozen gait was treated with amitriptyline (30 mg/day). Four weeks after drug administration, we recognized tendencies for improvement on akinesia, postural instability, frozen gait and vertical gaze palsy. Thereafter, gait disturbance almost disappeared and slow motor response and depression also improved with the amitriptyline for 8 weeks. The changes of cerebral blood flow (CBF) with amitriptyline treatment were evaluated in this case by 123I-IMP single photon emission computed tomography. Before the treatment, clear reduction of CBF was shown in the frontal lobes, especially in the frontal cortices, while this frontal hypoperfusion markedly improved 6 weeks after the treatment. These results, showing marked improvements of frontal hypoperfusion, as well as parkinsonism with amitriptyline treatment, may imply possibilities that these symptoms of PSP result from the frontal hypoperfusion and the improvement of the hypoperfusion with amitriptyline is involved in the improvement of these symptoms.
The authors describe a previously unreported constellation of developmental anomalies of the C2 vertebra, which predisposed to the development of cervical myelopathy in a young patient. The embryology of the vertebral column is reviewed briefly, and the origin of each anomaly of the C2 vertebra is traced to one of the two early stages in development as follows: 1) the formation of the mesenchymal vertebra or 2) its induction to cartilage. This case emphasizes the importance of congenital stenosis in the development of cervical myelopathy in young patients. The outcome is favorable when it is treated aggressively.
Chronic in utero methamphetamine treatment, throughout gestation in rats, resulted in alterations in both behavior and brain monoamine function in the adult offspring. The higher dose of methamphetamine (10 mg/kg/b.i.d.) caused a significant decrease in square crossing and rearing in an open field, as well as a regional increase of serotonin and dopamine uptake sites. In contrast, the lower dose of in utero methamphetamine (2 mg/kg/b.i.d.) resulted in a significant decrease in regional densities of serotonin and dopamine uptake sites, and only decreased rearing behavior. Across treatment groups, there were significant correlations between open-field square crossing activity and the number of uptake sites in specific brain areas. Other measured behaviors, such as the neonate righting reflex and the adult Morris water maze performance, were unaffected by either in utero drug regimen. These results are discussed in terms of the known neurotoxicity of amphetamines and the ability of the immature nervous system to compensate for fetal exposure to methamphetamine.
Potocytosis is an endocytic process for concentrating and taking up small molecules and ions. The vehicle for internalization is the caveolae, a membrane specialization that has previously been implicated in membrane internalization. Within closed caveolae, the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored class of membrane proteins generate high concentrations of small molecules or ions either by releasing receptor-bound species, by enzymatically converting abundant extracellular molecules, or by releasing them from a sequestered, soluble carrier protein. This pathway may also be involved in novel signal-transducing devices.
The first practical demonstration that nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy could be applied to the study of brain biochemistry in vivo came in 1980, with the studies of the rat brain using a surface coil. Since then the technique has been rapidly and extensively developed into a versatile, non-invasive tool for the investigation of various aspects of brain biochemistry, physiology and disease. NMR is non-destructive and can be used to examine a wide variety of samples, ranging from localized regions within the whole brain in humans or animals, through tissue preparations (perfused organ, tissue slices and homogenates), to isolated cells and aqueous solutions, such as tissue extracts. 31P and 1H NMR spectra deriving from endogenous compounds of the brain in situ allow assessment of tissue metabolites and provide information about high-energy phosphates, lactate, certain amino acids, intracellular pH and ionic concentrations. Exogenous substrates or probes labelled with stable isotopes can also be introduced into the brain and used to monitor metabolism. Animal models of brain diseases have given some impetus to rapid progress in clinical NMR spectroscopy and also magnetic imaging techniques. The purpose of this article is to highlight the type of information available from these NMR techniques, and to present this in a neuroscience context, emphasizing the biochemical, physiological and pathological information that can be obtained using these methods.

A light gray square was displayed on a background of dynamic two-dimensional noise. After 10 sec of steady eccentric fixation, the square disappeared completely and the region corresponding to it was &quot;filled in&quot; by dynamic noise from the surround. Furthermore, when the whole display was switched off, a persisting patch of dynamic two-dimensional noise was seen in the region corresponding to the gray square. This persistent patch could be seen for almost 10 sec on some trials, suggesting that a dynamic neural representation of the surrounding &quot;twinkle&quot; is being created in this region. The fading of the square was especially pronounced in peripheral vision. Also, displacing the square by a small distance was usually sufficient to restore its visibility but this distance increased with eccentricity. This may be a consequence of the progressive increase of receptive field size with eccentricity that has been noted in both area 17 and MT. The perceptual fading and &quot;filling in&quot; that we report concurs with the recent physiological observations of Pettet and Gilbert [(1991) Society for Neuroscience Abstracts, 17, 1090] and Gilbert and Wiesel [(1992) Nature, 356, 150-152] in area 17 of cats and primates.



Three monkeys were trained in a precued reaction time (RT) paradigm. An initial preparatory signal (PS) provided complete, partial or no information about direction and extent of a wrist flexion/extension movement which was executed after the second, response signal (RS). A PS providing information about direction shortened the RT much more than a PS indicating movement extent. The activity of 464 task-related neurons was recorded in the primary motor (MI) and premotor (PM) cortex. Not only the timing and amplitude of mean activity changes were analyzed, but also trial-by-trial correlation analyses between RT and discharge frequency during the PS-RS interval were conducted. Correlations were stronger in the condition of information about direction than in conditions of information about extent or no information. Considering directionally selective neurons, correlations were stronger when the neuron's preferred direction than the opposite direction was precued. Correlation distributions were similar for MI and PM. Correlations were negative when preparatory activity increased during the PS-RS interval, and positive when activity decreased. Correlation analyses between behavioral performance and neuronal activity can thus be considered as a powerful tool to obtain a deeper insight into the functional mechanism of motor preparation.
DNase I protection and gel retardation assays have identified two sequences 5' to the rat opsin gene that interact with nuclear proteins from retina but not from a number of neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. These sites, Ret 2 and Ret 3, are over 1200 base pairs apart but seem to interact with the same protein(s). Synthetic oligonucleotides corresponding to each site were able to inhibit complex formation in a gel retardation assay using an oligonucleotide corresponding to the other site. The proteins binding to the Ret 2 and Ret 3 sites co-eluted in both ion exchange and gel filtration chromatography. The protein(s) were also present at adult levels at birth, suggesting that they may represent differentiation products expressed in the proliferating retinal epithelium.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a neurochemical found in high concentrations within hypothalamic neurons, is believed to participate in the control of eating behavior and body energy balance and elicits a powerful eating response when injected into the hypothalamus. To delineate precisely the locus of this effect, NPY (78 pmol) or its artificial cerebrospinal fluid vehicle was injected in the extremely small volume of 10 nl through chronic guide cannulae into an array of 47 different hypothalamic areas in satiated rats and the elicited food intake was measured. To determine the anatomical resolution of this technique, the spread and recovery of [125I]NPY injected in 10 nl was also assessed. Results indicate that as much as 95% of the injected label was recovered within the brain tissue and guide cannulae and that 100% of the tissue label was localized to within 0.8 mm of the injection site. Behavioral results show that the perifornical hypothalamus (PFH), at the level of the caudal paraventricular nucleus, is the most sensitive hypothalamic site for NPY-induced eating. NPY there elicited mean increases in food intake of 12.5 g over baseline at 1 h and 20.0 g at 4 h postinjection. Injections bracketing the PFH in all directions were substantially less effective. Additionally, significant effects were also observed in at least seven other sites that were distributed throughout the hypothalamus. These findings suggest both that the PFH may be the primary hypothalamic site containing feeding-related NPY-sensitive receptors and that other sites distributed within the hypothalamus also can mediate NPY's effects.
(-)-Nicotine (1.2 mg/day) or saline was infused into chick embryos (Gallus domesticus) for 10 days beginning 12 h beyond the eight day of incubation (E8 + 12 h). Twelve h beyond the eighteenth day of incubation (E18 + 12 h), the eggs were opened to access the embryos and subcutaneous skull electrodes placed. Short latency vestibular response thresholds and input/output functions were determined to assess neurophysiological consequences of chronic nicotine administration. Samples of serum and extraembryonic (amniotic and albumen) fluid were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to determine the levels of nicotine and its major metabolite, cotinine. The brains were removed and divided into diencephalon and mesencephalon and the density of (-)-[3H]nicotine binding sites in each brain area was measured. Nicotine and cotinine were found in the serum and extraembryonic fluid, but nicotinic receptors were not up-regulated in the brains of animals infused with nicotine in comparison to controls. Vestibular response thresholds also did not differ between nicotine-treated and control animals.
To clarify the mechanism of long-lasting ceruletide action, an analogue of cholecystokinin, in relieving the dyskinesia induced by the iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), we investigated the changes in dopaminergic neuronal system in the striatum. In the control rats, ceruletide had no significant effect on the concentrations of dopamine (DA), DOPAC or HVA or on the turnover of DA in the striatum. The concentration of DA was decreased and the turnover of DA [(DOPAC + HVA)/DA] was increased in the striatum of IDPN-treated rats. Chronic administration of ceruletide (160 micrograms.kg-1.day-1 x 10 days) increased DA concentration and decreased DA turnover only transiently. Both D1 and D2 receptors and their mRNAs were decreased in the striatum of rats given IDPN. After chronic ceruletide treatment, D1 receptor rose to the control level for 3 days, while the D2 receptor rose to a level 1.5 times the control level for 3 days. Even at the 7 days after chronic ceruletide treatment, D2-R rose significantly as compared with the IDPN-treated rats. Both D1 and D2 receptor mRNAs were significantly increased for 3 days in the IDPN-treated rats. These observations indicate that the synthesis of DA receptors is increased by ceruletide treatment in the striatum of IDPN-treated rats. These changes in DA receptors and their mRNAs closely paralleled the changes in dyskinetic movement of the IDPN-treated rats after repeated daily administration of ceruletide, as previously reported. The parallel changes between the DA receptors and dyskinetic movement suggest that an up-regulation of DA receptors in the striatum corresponds with an improvement of dyskinesia in the IDPN-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mouse trisomy 16 is an animal model for Down's syndrome (human trisomy 21). The whole-cell patch-clamp technique was used to compare passive and active electrical properties of trisomy 16 and diploid mouse 16 fetal hippocampal neurons maintained in culture for 2-5 weeks. There was no significant difference in any mean passive property, including resting potential, membrane resistance, capacitance and time constant. However, in trisomic neurons, the action potential had a 20% significantly slower rising phase and a 20% significantly smaller inward sodium current and inward sodium conductance than did control neurons. The outward conductance was not altered. The ratio of maximum inward conductance to maximum outward conductance was 30% less in the trisomy 16 cells. These results indicate that trisomy 16 hippocampal neurons have abnormal active electrical properties, most likely reflecting reduced sodium channel membrane density. Such subtle differences may influence elaboration of the hippocampus during development.
Autoradiography of inhibitory and excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter binding sites in the cervical spinal cord of M. fascicularis spinal cord revealed inhomogeneous distribution of all binding sites in spinal gray matter. Quisqualate-sensitive [3H]glutamate binding, [3H]MK-801 binding, benzodiazepine binding, kainate binding, and GABAB binding had highest levels in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn (laminae 1 and 2) and substantially lower levels in other laminae. [3H]Strychnine binding was more uniformly distributed throughout all laminae with highest levels in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. These results are similar to those found in other mammals.
We have photolabeled the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor and probed the IP3 ligand binding site using two novel photoaffinity ligands, [125I] (azidosalicyl)aminopropyl-IP3 ([125I]ASA-IP3) and [3H] (benzoyldihydrocinnamyl)aminopropyl-IP3 ([3H]BZDC-IP3). Both ligands have high affinity for the IP3 receptor and, when photoactivated, label the IP3 receptor protein with appropriate inositol phosphate selectivity. The high specific activity of [125I]ASA-IP3 allowed identification of a single photolabeling site within the IP3R by two-dimensional peptide analysis. Substantially higher levels of incorporation into the receptor are achieved with [3H]BZDC-IP3 (50-60% efficiency) than with [125I]ASA-IP3 (3%), facilitating the use of [3H]BZDC-IP3 as a better ligand for the high-efficiency labeling and purification of IP3R-labeled peptides. Peptides were generated from photolabeled IP3 receptor by trypsin digestion and purified by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). A single purified [3H]BZDC-IP3-labeled peptide, corresponding to IP3R amino acids 476-501, was sequenced and shown to match specific sequences in the N-terminal 20% of the IP3 receptor, an area suggested on the basis of mutagenesis studies to contain the IP3 recognition site.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been detected immunocytochemically in cerebral cortex and subcortical white matter of the primate frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes. Because little is known about NPY in the primate insular lobe and because peptides play an important role in normal neuronal functioning and alterations in brain peptides are associated with certain neurological diseases, we studied the presence, distribution, and structural characteristics of NPY-immunostained elements at the light microscopic level in the insula of Macaca fascicularis. We used free-floating sections, rabbit anti-porcine NPY serum, and the avidin and biotinylated peroxidase complex technique. Neuropeptide Y-immunostained neurons were demonstrated in layers II, III, and V/VI, and in the adjoining subcortical white matter. Immunostaining was localized to neuronal somata, neuronal processes, and a delicate plexus in the neuropil. The majority of NPY-immunostained neurons were non-pyramidal, had round somata 10-20 microns in major transverse diameter, and two or three neuronal processes. Computer-aided quantitative analysis of the length, breadth, and area of NPY-stained neurons was performed. Our findings are consistent with observations by others on the presence, laminar distribution, and structural characteristics of NPY-immunostained elements at the light microscopic level in other cerebral lobes of non-human primates.
Immunohistochemical staining for the 75-kDa, low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75NGFR), within the cuneate nucleus (CN) of the adult rat revealed that this receptor is concentrated rostrocaudally in the middle CN (approximately 0.2-0.9 mm caudal to the obex), corresponding to that portion of the CN receiving densest projections of cutaneous primary afferent terminals. Furthermore, dense patches of p75NGFR-like immunoreactivity appear to correspond to the 'blotches' of cytochrome-oxidase activity observed in the middle region of the CN. This close correspondence between the localization pattern of p75NGFR in the CN and its functional organization suggests an important role for trophic factors in the CN's development and/or maintenance.
Glutamate neurotoxicity was examined in cultured cerebellar granule neurons following both prolonged (20-24 h) and brief (45 min) exposure to compounds acting at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. Glutamate neurotoxicity was reduced in a concentration-dependent fashion by brief exposure to the glycine partial agonists 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) and (+-)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone (HA-966) and the competitive antagonist, 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CK) with a rank order efficacy: 7-CK &gt; HA-966 &gt; ACPC. Neither D-cycloserine (D-CS) nor glycine affected neurotoxicity produced by maximum glutamate concentrations, while glycine but not D-CS augmented the effects of submaximum glutamate concentrations. Prolonged exposure of cultures to either full (glycine) or partial agonists (ACPC, D-CS, HA-966) abolished the neuroprotective effects of ACPC and significantly diminished the neuroprotective effects of HA-966. In contrast, the neuroprotective effects of 7-CK were only marginally reduced by prolonged exposure to glycinergic ligands, while the neuroprotection afforded by compounds acting at other loci on the NMDA receptor complex (e.g. 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (APV) and dizocilpine (MK-801)) were unaltered. These effects may represent homologous desensitization of the NMDA receptor complex at its strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor induced by prolonged exposure to glycinergic agonists and partial agonists. Nonetheless, levels of the NMDA receptor subunit zeta 1 mRNA were unaffected by prolonged exposure to ACPC, indicating the apparent desensitization could involve a post-translational modification of the NMDA receptor complex.
Glutamate-gated ion channels mediate most excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system and play crucial roles in synaptic plasticity, neuronal development and some neuropathological conditions. These ionotropic glutamate receptors have been classified according to their preferred agonists as NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate), AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate) and KA (kainate) receptors. On the basis of sequence similarity and pharmacological properties, the recently cloned glutamate receptor subunits have been assigned as components of NMDA (NMDAR1, 2A-D), AMPA (GluR1-4) and KA (GluR5-7, KA1, KA2) receptors. Protein phosphorylation of glutamate receptors by protein kinase C and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) has been suggested to regulate their function, possibly playing a prominent role in certain forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation and long-term depression. Here we report that the GluR6 glutamate receptor, transiently expressed in mammalian cells, is directly phosphorylated by PKA, and that intracellularly applied PKA increases the amplitude of the glutamate response. Site-specific mutagenesis of the serine residue (Ser 684) representing a PKA consensus site completely eliminates PKA-mediated phosphorylation of this site as well as the potentiation of the glutamate response. These results provide evidence that direct phosphorylation of glutamate receptors modulates their function.
Proteins encompassing the two catalytic domains (monooxygenase and lyase) and the COOH-terminal domain of rat peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (rPAM)3 were purified from recombinant Escherichia coli overexpressing each domain and used to raise domain-specific polyclonal antibodies. Four alternatively spliced forms of PAM RNA (PAM-1, -2, -3, and -4) were transcribed in vitro and used to synthesize PAM proteins in a cell-free translation system. The orientation of the proteins in microsomal membrane vesicles was analyzed using trypsin protection assays and immunoprecipitation with the domain-specific antibodies. Only one of the two potential N-glycosylation sites (Asn765-Phe-Ser) in PAM-1 was efficiently utilized by microsomal membranes. PAM-1 and PAM-2 were shown to be type Ia membrane proteins with their two catalytic domains residing within microsomal vesicles and their COOH-terminal domains exposed to the cytosol. In contrast, PAM-3 and PAM-4 were shown to be soluble proteins contained entirely within vesicles. Thus, the COOH-terminal domain underwent topological switching between the cytosolic (PAM-1 and -2) and luminal (PAM-3) compartments as a function of alternative splicing of exons Ba/Bb. Computer analyses of the PAM protein sequence correlated the exons encoding PAM-1 with a model for the structural and functional domains of the PAM protein. The dual topologies of the PAM proteins confer an important means of functional regulation to this secretory granule associated neuropeptide processing enzyme.
There is evidence that bovine adrenal chromaffin cells are provided with both dihydropyridine-sensitive and -resistant voltage-sensitive Ca2+ influx pathways. Although recent electrophysiological work indicates that the dihydropyridine-resistant pathway is partially mediated by omega-conotoxin-sensitive and -insensitive Ca2+ channels, the pharmacological sensitivity of the latter channels remains elusive. We have now found that combined incubations with nitrendipine (1 microM) and neomycin (0.5 mM) reduced high K+ (50 mM)-evoked intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) transients to a larger extent than each drug separately. [Ca2+]i was measured using the fluorescent intracellular Ca2+ indicator fura-2. Neomycin (0.05-2 mM) reduced high K(+)-evoked 45Ca2+ uptake in a dose-dependent manner (IC50 = 0.09 mM). In the presence of nitrendipine (1 microM), the minimal neomycin concentration necessary for total blockade of 45Ca2+ uptake was reduced to 0.3 mM. Moreover, in the absence of nitrendipine the 45Ca2+ uptake remaining in 0.3 mM neomycin (26% of maximum) was similar to the fractional inhibition by nitrendipine alone (29%). Neomycin (0.05-2 mM) inhibited the [Ca2+]i transient induced by the L-type Ca2+ channel agonist Bay K 8644 (1 microM) much more extensively at 2 mM than at 0.3 mM (percent inhibition = 59% and 15%, respectively). Neomycin (0.05-2 mM) blocked high K(+)-evoked noradrenaline and adrenaline release in a dose-dependent fashion (IC50 = 0.8-1.1 mM), the blockade efficiency being enhanced in the presence of 1 microM nitrendipine (IC50 = 0.17-0.19 mM). It is concluded that neomycin (&lt; or = 0.3 mM) blocks preferentially the dihydropyridine-insensitive Ca2+ influx pathway of the chromaffin cell. Moreover, both the dihydropyridine-sensitive and the dihydropyridine-resistant, neomycin-sensitive Ca2+ influx pathways contribute strongly to depolarization-evoked catecholamine secretion.
The autoradiographical distribution of [3H]gabapentin, the tritiated analogue of the novel anticonvulsant gabapentin (1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexaneacetic acid) was measured in rat brain. Binding to sections was uniformly inhibited by non-radioactive gabapentin and 3-isobutyl-gamma-aminobutyric acid (3-isobutyl-GABA). Specific gabapentin binding sites were unevenly distributed throughout the brain with the highest level being found in the outer layers of the cerebral cortex (38 +/- 7 fmol/mm2; n = 3) and the lowest amounts in the white matter. In the hippocampus, the distribution of the binding site paralleled the excitatory neuronal input with the highest levels of binding being measured in the outer layers of the dentate gyrus and in the dendritic regions of the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. The binding site appeared absent from the cell body region of granule and pyramidal cells. Lesions performed unilaterally in the striatum using quinolinic acid resulted in a marked loss of [3H]gabapentin binding sites as compared with sham-lesioned animals, suggesting the binding site was localized on neuronal cell bodies. These data complement and extend the results of experiments using [3H]gabapentin with homogenates of rat brain and show the discrete localization of this novel binding site in regions associated with excitatory amino acid input. The data do not support previous indications of an association of the gabapentin binding site and NMDA/glycine receptor complex.
The binding characteristics of [3H]gabapentin, the radiolabelled analogue of the novel anticonvulsant gabapentin (1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexaneacetic acid) were studied using purified synaptic plasma membranes prepared from rat cerebral cortex. In 10 mM HEPES buffer [3H]gabapentin bound to a single population of sites with high affinity (KD = 38 +/- 2.8 nM) with a maximum binding capacity of 4.6 +/- 0.4 pmol/mg protein, reaching equilibrium after 30 min at 20 degrees C. This novel site was unique to the central nervous system with little or no specific [3H]gabapentin being measurable in a range of peripheral tissues. Binding was potently inhibited by a range of gabapentin analogues and 3-alkyl substituted gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) derivates although GABA itself and the selective GABAB receptor ligand baclofen, were only weakly active. Gabapentin itself (IC50 = 80 nM) and 3-isobutyl GABA (IC50 = 80 nM) which also has anticonvulsant properties, showed the highest affinity for the binding site. Of a wide range of other pharmacologically active compounds only the polyamines spermine and spermidine influenced [3H]gabapentin binding, with both compounds producing a maximum of 50% inhibition of specific binding. Magnesium ions produced a similar pattern of inhibition but the effect of the polyamines and magnesium ions were not additive. The data provide evidence for the existence in brain of a novel binding site that may mediate the anticonvulsant effects of gabapentin and other potential anticonvulsant compounds.
During normal development of the mammalian forebrain, the paired cerebral hemispheres are initially separated midsagittally by the connective tissue-filled longitudinal fissure. During subsequent stages, the hemispheres fuse as basal lamina is remodeled and fibroblasts are eliminated from the fissure to create new central nervous system (CNS) territory in the midline. Two axon pathways, the corpus callosum and dorsal callosal stria, eventually use this region as part of their pathway. In order to assess the possible role of glial cells in the fusion process and in the guidance of axons in this and several other areas of the forebrain, we have analyzed the developing brain in timed cat and mouse embryos with immunohistochemical and morphological techniques. With the use of astroglial-specific antibodies and electron microscopy, we have visualized two distinct, primitive astroglial structures associated with the cerebral midline, and seven more associated with other specific brain regions. The way in which one of these structures moves as a column along the hemispheric midline in synchrony with seam formation suggests the possibility that during morphogenesis of the telencephalon, astrocytes may aid in the fusion process. In addition, the compact assemblage, early appearance and location of this and the other glial structures in relation to well defined neuroanatomical landmarks or axon pathways suggest that they may transiently compartmentalize relatively large regions of the CNS and organize certain developing fiber systems by acting as guides or barriers at critical stages of ontogeny.
Somatic motor neurons begin to express the transmitter synthesizing enzyme, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) during embryonic development. However, as motor neurons mature in postnatal life, they lose immunoreactivity for NGFR and acquire a motor neuron-specific epitope that is recognized by the monoclonal antibody, MO-1. The present study was undertaken to examine the effect of nerve injury in adult rats on these three developmentally regulated markers in two populations of somatic motor neurons. Unilateral transection, ligation, or crushing of the sciatic nerve resulted in a loss of MO-1 binding and a concomitant rise in immunoreactivity for NGFR within axotomized motor neurons in lumbar levels of the spinal cord. These changes, detectable within 5 days following nerve injury, are reversed with reinnervation, but persist if reinnervation is prevented by chronic axotomy. Thus, regulation of the expression of NGFR and the MO-1 epitope appears to be critically dependent upon interactions between motor neurons and target muscles. These observations are also consistent with the idea that during regeneration, neurons may revert to a developmentally immature state; in motor neurons, this state is characterized by the presence of NGFRs and the absence of the MO-1 epitope. Transection of the hypoglossal nerve, a purely motor nerve, resulted in a similar loss of MO-1 binding and a selective rise in NGFR immunoreactivity in neurons within the ipsilateral hypoglossal motor nucleus. In addition, immunoreactivity for ChAT was also lost in axotomized hypoglossal motor neurons. In contrast, injury to the sciatic nerve, which bears both sensory and motor axons, did not result in any detectable change in ChAT immunoreactivity in spinal motor neurons.
In an effort to understand molecular mechanisms by which nerve growth factor (NGF) regulates gene expression, we have isolated a full-length rat cDNA clone encoding ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) and utilized this probe to identify and examine the transcriptionally active, NGF inducible ODC gene in rat PC12 cells. This same gene is also responsive to epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblasts growth factor, and dibutyryl cAMP. Primer extension analysis demonstrates that both basal and NGF induced transcription of the ODC gene utilize the same major transcriptional start site, demonstrating that NGF acts to increase transcriptional activity at the basal start site as opposed to unmasking an alternative, stronger start site. Functional promoter analysis reveals the presence of a constitutive core promoter residing between positions -201 and +390, relative to the start site of transcription. Additional analyses reveal that sequences in the region -7800 to +2257 are insufficient to mediate NGF induced transcriptional activation, demonstrating that at least some of the regulatory sequences necessary for NGF mediated transcriptional induction of the ODC gene must reside at relatively enormous distances from the transcriptional start site. Such a long distance transcriptional regulatory mechanism is unique when compared with other NGF responsive genes that have been similarly analyzed.
We previously reported that microglial conditioned medium (Mic-CM) has a neurotrophic effect on cultured rat neocortical neurons [Nakajima et al. (1989): Biomed Res 10:411-423]. In order to investigate the interaction between microglia and neurons in more detail, we determined the effects of Mic-CM on the primary cultured mesencephalic neurons from 16-day embryonic rats. The addition of Mic-CM to the culture medium significantly enhanced the survivability of neurons and promoted neurite extension in a low cell-density culture condition. In a high cell-density culture condition, Mic-CM markedly increased dopamine uptake, which was quantified by assessing the specific [3H]dopamine uptake, and also increased the dopamine content of cultured cells. Furthermore, the number of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, which was determined by quantitative analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive cells, increased significantly in the presence of Mic-CM. These results suggest that Mic-CM enhances survival or maturation of TH-positive neurons present in cultures of the embryonic mesencephalon and that these neurotrophic effects may be due to a diffusible factor(s) from microglia.
We have identified a functional silencer element (positions -231 to -211) in the human synapsin I gene that selectively represses its transcription in nonneuronal cells. Transfection experiments using synapsin I-luciferase constructs show that site-specific mutations or deletion of this silencer sequence results in expression of the reporter gene in nonneuronal cells. Moreover, the silencer element is capable of conferring repression on a heterologous promoter in nonneuronal cells. Gel-shift assays reveal the presence of a sequence-specific synapsin I silencer-binding protein in nonneuronal cell extracts but not in neuronal cell extracts. Mutagenesis studies of the silencer sequence demonstrate that formation of the specific silencer-protein complex in vitro correlates well with repression of transcription in vivo. These data indicate that the interaction between synapsin I silencer and its binding protein is involved in tissue-specific expression of the synapsin I gene. In addition, our results suggest the existence of at least one additional cis-acting element within the promoter-proximal region (positions -233 to +20) that also contributes to the neuron-specific expression of the synapsin I gene.
Mechanical stimuli applied to the hair bundle of a hair cell are communicated to the transduction channels by gating springs, elastic elements that are stretched when the bundle is displaced toward its tall edge. To quantify the magnitude and time dependence of the forces exerted by gating springs, we have developed a displacement-clamp system that constrains a bundle's motion while measuring the forces that the bundle produces during adaptation to mechanical stimuli, in response to channel blockage, and upon destruction of the gating springs. Our results suggest that each gating spring exerts a tension of approximately 8 pN in the resting bundle and can sustain at least 4-13 pN of additional tension. The experiments provide further evidence that the gating springs account for at least one-third of the hair bundle's dynamic stiffness and that a force of approximately 100 fN is sufficient to open a single transduction channel.
The neurotransmitter dopamine acts through various receptor subtypes that are largely associated with enhancement or inhibition of adenylyl cyclases. These dopamine-sensitive adenylyl cyclases are highly concentrated in the corpus stratum and associated limbic structures of the brain, where their levels exceed by orders of magnitude those in other areas of the brain. Here we use in situ hybridization to show that messenger RNA for three of these adenylyl cyclases is not found in the corpus striatum. We have isolated and expressed a complementary DNA encoding new adenylyl cyclase whose selective concentration in the corpus striatum indicates that it may be responsible for the synaptic actions of dopamine.
The effect of ethanol challenge on the extracellular concentrations of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid was studied in the ventral striatum of rats repeatedly treated with ethanol. Ethanol-treated animals (1 g/kg i.p. twice a day for 12 days) developed marked tolerance to the behavioral signs of ethanol intoxication when challenged with ethanol (2 g/kg i.p.). However, in ethanol-treated animals the increased output of dopamine and metabolites after ethanol challenge (1 or 2 g/kg i.p.) was not statistically different from that observed in saline-treated rats. These results indicate that tolerance does not develop to the ethanol-induced stimulation of dopamine release and support the hypothesis that activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system contributes to the reinforcing properties of ethanol.
A monoclonal antibody (9C4) shows that an [Na(+)+K+]coupled glutamate transporter protein purified from rat brain runs electrophoretically as a wide band and is localized in neuroglial cell bodies and processes, but not in neurons. This confirms the findings with polyclonal antibodies [Neuroscience 51 (1992) 295-310], and shows that the apparent heterogeneity in relative molecular mass is accounted for by a single antigenic epitope. By testing several synthetic peptides derived from the deduced amino acid sequences of two cloned rat brain glutamate transporters, the antigenic epitope was identified as residing within the peptide TQSVYDDTKNHRESNSNQC (residues 518-536) of one of these [Nature 360 (1992) 464-467].
Dynorphin and other kappa opioid agonists are thought to elicit aversive actions and changes in motor activity through direct or indirect modulation of dopamine neurons in ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra (SN), respectively. We comparatively examined the immunoperoxidase localization of anti-dynorphin A antiserum in sections through the VTA and SN of adult rat brain to assess whether there were common or differential distributions of this opioid peptide relative to the dopamine neurons. We also more directly examined the relationship between dynorphin terminals and dopamine neurons in VTA and SN by combining immunoperoxidase labeling of rabbit dynorphin antiserum and immunogold-silver detection of mouse antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in single sections through the VTA and SN. Light microscopy showed dynorphin-like immunoreactivity (DY-LI) in varicose processes. These were relatively sparse in VTA and were unevenly distributed in the SN, with little labeling in the pars compacta (pcSN) and the highest density of DY-LI in the medial and lateral pars reticulata (prSN). Electron microscopy established that the regional differences were attributed to differences in density (number/unit area) of immunoreactive profiles. The profiles containing DY-LI were designated as axon terminals based on having diameters greater than 0.1 micron, few microtubules and many synaptic vesicles. In both the VTA and SN, the dynorphin-labeled terminals contained primarily small (35-40 nm) clear vesicles. These vesicles were rimmed with peroxidase immunoreactivity and were often seen clustered above axodendritic synapses. These synaptic specializations were usually symmetric; however a few asymmetric densities also were formed by immunoreactive terminals in both VTA and SN. Additionally, most of the dynorphin-labeled terminals contained 1-2, but occasionally 7 or more intensely peroxidase positive dense core vesicles (DCVs). Approximately 60% of the DCVs were located near axolemmal surfaces. The axolemmal surfaces contacted by immunoreactive DCVs were more often apposed to dendrites in the VTA; while in the SN other axon terminals were the most commonly apposed neuronal profiles. In both regions, a substantial proportion of the plasmalemmal surface in contact with the labeled DCVs was apposed to astrocytic processes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In the Research News article &quot;Pot, heroin unlock new areas for neuroscience&quot; by Marcia Barinaga (18 Dec., p. 1882), the diagram of the molecule anandamide on page 1883 was incorrect. The correct structure appears on page 1948 of the same issue, in figure 1A of the report &quot;Isolation and structure of a brain constituent that binds to the cannabinoid receptor&quot; by W. A. Devane et al. (p. 1946).
Complex brain functions, such as learning and memory, are believed to involve changes in the efficiency of communication between nerve cells. Therefore, the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms that regulate synaptic transmission, the process of intercellular communication, is an essential step toward understanding nervous system function. Several proteins associated with synaptic vesicles, the organelles that store neurotransmitters, are targets for protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. One of these phosphoproteins, synapsin I, by means of changes in its state of phosphorylation, appears to control the fraction of synaptic vesicles available for release and thereby to regulate the efficiency of neurotransmitter release. This article describes current understanding of the mechanism by which synapsin I modulates communication between nerve cells and reviews the properties and putative functions of other phosphoproteins associated with synaptic vesicles.
beta-Adrenergic receptor kinase (beta ARK) and beta-arrestin function in the homologous or agonist-activated desensitization of G protein-coupled receptors. The isoforms beta ARK-2 and beta-arrestin-2 are highly enriched in and localized to the dendritic knobs and cilia of the olfactory receptor neurons where the initial events of olfactory signal transduction occur. Odorants induce a rapid and transient elevation of adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP), which activates a nonspecific cation channel and produces membrane depolarization. Preincubation of rat olfactory cilia with antibodies raised against beta ARK-2 and beta-arrestin-2 increased the odorant-induced elevation of cAMP and attenuated desensitization. These results suggest that beta ARK-2 and beta-arrestin-2 mediate agonist-dependent desensitization in olfaction.
The neuronal protein neurogranin, also known as RC3, is a selective substrate for protein kinase C (PKC). We synthesized a peptide corresponding to the phosphorylation domain of neurogranin (amino acids 28-43) and characterized its properties as a PKC substrate. Neurogranin(28-43) was phosphorylated by purified PKC with a Km of 150 nM. No significant phosphorylation of the peptide by either cAMP-dependent protein kinase or by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II could be detected. Thus, neurogranin(28-43) is a potent and selective substrate for PKC. We tested several peptide analogues of neurogranin(28-43) for their substrate potency and specificity as kinase substrates, in order to help elucidate the structural determinants involved in the phosphorylation of substrates by PKC. Substituting Arg36 with Ile caused a significant reduction in the affinity for PKC. Replacing Lys30 with Arg enhanced the catalytic efficiency (Vmax/Km) for PKC but diminished the selectivity of the substrate for PKC. These results support the generally held model that basic amino acids on both sides of the phosphorylated Ser are important structural determinants in PKC substrates. However, the data also suggest that the presence of particular basic amino acids (Arg vs Lys) can contribute to the degree of selectivity of a substrate for PKC. Replacement with Ala of Phe35, the amino acid adjacent to the Ser34 phosphorylation site, resulted in a peptide with greatly diminished potency as a PKC substrate. This finding indicates a critical role of Phe35 in modulating binding and phosphorylation of neurogranin-derived peptides by PKC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


Brain lesions in alcoholics are multifactorial in origin. Ethanol neurotoxicity, Wernicke's encephalopathy, hepatocerebral degeneration, head trauma, central pontine myelinolysis, Marchiafava-Bignami syndrome, pellagra, and premorbid pathological conditions, such as fetal alcohol syndrome, may all contribute to cognitive dysfunction in alcoholics. With the exception of ethanol neurotoxicity, all of these conditions are associated with specific neuropathological lesions. Wernicke's encephalopathy, the neurological syndrome of thiamine deficiency, is frequently overlooked during life and may cause global dementia as well as the more familiar Korsakoff's amnestic syndrome. Distinguishing ethanol neurotoxicity from nutritional deficiency can be facilitated by magnetic resonance imaging, which can visualize some of the specific macroscopic lesions of Wernicke's encephalopathy, central pontine myelinolysis, cerebellar degeneration, and Marchiafava-Bignami syndrome. Computerized morphometric studies of alcoholic brains have revealed ventricular enlargement, selective loss of subcortical white matter, and alterations in neuronal size, number, architecture, and synaptic complexity. These lesions tend to be more severe when there is coexisting nutritional deficiency or liver disease, suggesting that ethanol neurotoxicity may not be the sole cause. A search for similar lesions in nonalcoholic Wernicke's encephalopathy and nonalcoholic liver disease will help determine the specificity of these lesions.
In utero ethanol exposure impairs the development of several neurotransmitter systems, including the serotonergic system. However, at present the mechanism by which in utero ethanol exposure damages the developing brain is unknown. This research examined the possibility that ethanol directly impairs the development of serotonergic neurons. This hypothesis was assessed by examining the content of serotonin (5-HT), 5-HT uptake, and 5-HT immunopositive neurons in cultures of fetal rhombencephalic neurons that were exposed to ethanol for 4 days in vitro. In addition, the effects of in vitro ethanol exposure on protein and DNA content of cultured rhombencephalic neurons were determined. These studies demonstrated that a 4-day exposure of cultured rhombencephalic neurons to 50 to 300 mg ethanol/dl did not affect 5-HT content, 5-HT uptake, or the proportion of 5-HT immunopositive neurons. In addition, this ethanol exposure had no significant effect on protein or DNA content. Additional studies, using a 4-day exposure to 450 mg ethanol/dl also did not detect significant differences in 5-HT uptake or in protein or DNA content. The marked differences in the findings of the present in vitro and previous in vivo studies may be due to the fact that the ethanol exposure in vivo was longer than that in vitro, and included the period of early development of serotonergic neurons and their progenitors. Alternatively, the differences may be due to ethanol-associated alterations in maternal or fetal factors (e.g., hormones, amino acids, and growth factors) that are necessary for the normal development of the serotonergic system in vivo. Normal concentrations of such factors in the serum-containing media may have protected the cultured neurons from the damaging effects of ethanol.
We have tested the hypothesis that the cortex may play a role in the development of fever. Male Sprague-Dawley rats equipped with AM transmitters for telemetric measurement of body temperature were given intracerebroventricular prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), or intravenous E. coli endotoxin. Application of cotton pellets soaked with 3.3 M KCl to the frontal cortex (to induce spreading depression) significantly reduced fevers to PGE1 and endotoxin when compared with fever magnitude with 0.9% NaCl application to the cortex. Neither CRH-induced hyperthermia nor normal body temperatures were altered by the spreading depression. Our results reveal a novel action of spreading depression on thermoregulatory function and indicate cortical involvement in the development of fever.
Agarose gel affinity electrophoresis has been used to demonstrate interactions between autologous IgG and specific erythrocyte membrane proteins. These binding phenomena are here further examined by combining affinity electrophoresis with affinity chromatography, absorption experiments, and immunoblotting. It is demonstrated that the interactions are highly dependent on polyreactive IgG binding favored by the low ionic strength conditions of the electrophoretic assay. Thus, about 25% of normal IgG under low ionic strength conditions bound to the purified cytoskeletal protein, spectrin, immobilized on Sepharose. This IgG reacted in affinity electrophoresis in a polyspecific fashion with the same array of membrane proteins as before the low ionic strength-affinity chromatography. Further, the binding seen in affinity electrophoresis, including the interaction with spectrin, was completely abolished by preabsorption of the IgG with spectrin-devoid membranes. The charge characteristics of an IgG subclass might be responsible for the observed binding. However, the observed precipitate formation suggested an interaction involving at least two binding sites on each molecule and the binding appears to require structurally intact IgG because reductive treatment with dithiothreitol diminished the reactivity considerably. Conclusively, under the conditions of affinity electrophoresis with ligand present in the gel, electrostatic interactions are amplified. The degree of binding of IgG to erythrocyte membrane proteins that take place under these conditions does not reflect binding which would occur to the same extent under physiological ionic strength conditions.

Twenty-one patients with an acute complete peripheral facial palsy, Bell's palsy, were examined by medium- and high-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging. Three contrast techniques were used: intravenous gadolinium; oral carbohydrate and intravenous gadolinium; and gadolinium, carbohydrate, and readministration of gadolinium. Three to 22 days after the onset of palsy, 12 of the 21 patients demonstrated ipsilateral facial nerve enhancement, most consistently in the meatal region, which is indicative of an inflammatory reaction. Two to 4.5 months after the onset, the enhancement had disappeared in 10 of the 12 patients. For the individual patient, contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging gave little or no help in predicting the outcome of palsy. It is speculated that the intake of carbohydrate and readministration of gadolinium may improve the sensitivity of medium-high-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging in some cases.
Manual performance asymmetries were examined in 8 baboons (Papio papio). Using a joystick, monkeys had to track and hit with a cursor a randomly moving target on a monitor. The left or right hand was tested first, depending on group assignment, followed by a transfer to the other hand. A transfer effect is reported for the total number of trials to criterion and total number of successful trials. No effect was found for response time. However, for both test and transfer, the group initially tested with the left hand exhibited more controlled movements as demonstrated by shorter cursor's paths. Overall, it appears that the spatial components of the task are more sensitive to laterality effects than response times or learning scores.
Two experiments demonstrated the efficiency of assessing drug reinforcement in humans by using a novel multiple-choice procedure. The distinguishing characteristic of the procedure is that it arranges intermittent reinforcement for choices between pairs of potential reinforcers. The procedure has three key operations: (1) a subject is exposed to the potential reinforcers; (2) a subject then makes two or more choices on a questionnaire; for each choice, the subject is required to choose one of two potential reinforcers (e.g. drug vs. drug choices and/or drug vs. money choices); and (3) subsequently only one of the choices, randomly selected, is reinforced. In the present experiments, two variations of the multiple-choice procedure were evaluated in twelve male drug abusers. Both experiments assessed the reinforcing effects of three drug conditions (200 and 400) mg/70kg pentobarbital and placebo) which were presented no more often than every to other day. The experiments demonstrated dose-related choice of pentobarbital over money as well as choice of a higher dose of pentobarbital over a lower dose or placebo. Orderly data were generated with a single-session exposure to each drug condition. Multiple-choice procedures should have applicability, not only to the investigation of drug reinforcement, but also to the study of non-drug reinforcement in humans.




Mutations within the Steel and Dominant Spotting loci of mice have led to the recent identification of a growth factor/receptor system required for the normal development of germ cells, pigment cells and hematopoietic cells. Interactions between the products of these genes, Steel factor and c-Kit respectively, have now been demonstrated to influence various developmental processes, including survival, proliferation, and/or differentiation of cells in a tissue specific manner. In addition, our current understanding of the molecular basis of various Steel and Dominant Spotting alleles coupled with the emerging information on the expression pattern of steel factor and c-kit transcripts during development, is now beginning to explain the pleiotropic affects of these mutations.
Performance on the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test (RBMT) of 43 residents of Part III homes was compared with performance on Raven's Coloured Progressive matrices and the National Adult Reading Test (NART). Health, medication, selfcare and social activity were also measured. Results show that although Raven's score was the best predictor of memory test performance, it had a high refusal rate. Age was not a significant predictor of overall memory test score but results were complicated by age of entry into Part III, with older people performing better on some items. Medication, in particular drugs acting on the central nervous system, enhanced performance on some items.
1. Increasing concentrations of ATP (0.5 microM-300 microM) produced a biphasic increase in intracellular calcium concentration [Ca]i in rat parotid acinar cells, reflecting two distinct Cai responses to extracellular ATP. 2. In the absence of Mg2+ (with 3 mM CaCl2 in the buffer solution), the more sensitive response was maximal at 3-5 microM and was not further increased by 30 microM ATP. This response to ATP was not well maintained and was blocked by ADP (0.5 mM). A second, much larger increase in Cai was observed on addition of 300 microM ATP. This larger effect, which we have described previously, appears to be mediated by ATP4-, and was selectively reversed by 4,4'-di-isothiocyanato-dihydrostilbene-2,2'-disulphonate as well as by high concentrations of alpha,beta-methylene ATP. 3. Among ATP analogues, only the putative P2Z agonist, 3'-0-(4-benzoyl)benzoyl-ATP distinguished between the two responses. This analogue was at least 10 fold more potent than ATP in stimulating the ATP(4-)-response, but did not evoke the more sensitive response. The agonist potency series for both responses to ATP was identical for other analogues examined (ATP &gt; ATP gamma S = 2-methylthio ATP (a P2y-selective agonist) &gt; ADP, ITP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP (a P2x-selective agonist)). 4. Although the effect of ATP4- could best be characterized as a P2z-type purinoceptor response, this effect was strongly and selectively blocked by reactive blue 2, a putative P2y-purinoceptor antagonist. Reactive blue 2 may bind to and block P2z purinoceptors since [gamma 32P]-ATP binding to parotid cells was inhibited by this compound. 5. In contrast to the response to ATP4-, the more sensitive response to ATP was potentiated by 2+ reactive blue 2 and was less affected by increases in external Mg2+ and Ca2+.6. Parasympathetic denervation selectively increased the more sensitive response, suggesting that it maybe physiologically regulated.
To test the hypothesis that depressed and schizophrenic patients have a common pathophysiological mechanism for hypofunction of the prefrontal cortex ('hypofrontality'), we measured regional cortical blood flow (rCBF) in ten depressed patients, ten patients with schizophrenia, and 20 age- and sex-matched normal controls. Blood flow was measured during three different cognitive conditions: a resting state, a simple number-matching sensorimotor control task, and the Wisconsin Card Sorting test (WCS). The schizophrenic patients had lower prefrontal rCBF during the WCS. There were no differences in global or regional flow between the depressed patients and the normal subjects during any testing condition. Analysis of rCBF lateralisation showed that during the WCS normal subjects had relatively more left parietal blood flow than depressed patients, who had more right parietal blood flow. Since the testing condition that has most consistently revealed hypofrontality in schizophrenia (i.e. the WCS) was not associated with abnormal rCBF in the depressed patients, these data suggest that the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying prefrontal hypofunction in depression and schizophrenia are different.
Neuropathic pain is not well understood. Although central dorsal horn remodelling is likely important in maintaining chronic neuropathic pain, afferent activity from injured nerves or ganglia may initiate these changes. It is suggested, in this review that the peripheral nerve trunk is capable of sustaining a &quot;flare&quot; response as observed in injured skin and other tissues. The injury response may be associated with local vasodilatation, plasma extravasation and the generation of painful local afferent activity sustained by locally originating peptidergic fibers (nervi nervorum). These fibers contain substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and other peptides that have been linked to nociceptive transmission. Manipulation of the local injury response of the nerve trunk by pharmacologic means may provide one strategy in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
This report highlights the clinical features of two patients who presented with severe neuropathic chest wall pain caused by herniated C6-7 disc, and speculates on the pathophysiology of this syndrome. Worsening of symptoms with neck movement helped localize the process as cervical spine rather than plexus in origin. Both patients had herniated C6-7 disc material compressing the spinal cord and C7 nerve root, and neurological symptoms resolved promptly following surgery. Neuropathic chest wall pain should alert the clinician to consider the diagnosis of cervical disc herniation and prompt definitive imaging of the cervical spine by myelography or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
A patient presented with myelopathy due to intramedullary thoracic spinal cord glioblastoma 10 months after treatment for a supratentorial glioblastoma. There was no supratentorial recurrence, and no evidence of gross leptomeningeal dissemination documented by CSF cytology, complete myelography, and MRI imaging. Gross examination of the spinal cord and arachnoid at the time of exploratory thoracic spinal surgery was normal. However, histological review of thoracic arachnoid demonstrated microscopic deposits of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive tumour consistent with malignant astrocytoma. Intramedullary spinal cord metastasis of cerebral glioblastoma rarely occurs, but may develop in association with leptomeningeal tumour dissemination. As local control of primary tumours improves, distant metastasis is likely to become a more common clinical problem. Leptomeningeal gliomatosis may be very difficult to document, even when clinically suspected and GFAP staining of a biopsy of arachnoid tissue can play an important role in confirming the diagnosis. This information can be critical to establish prognosis and develop an appropriate treatment strategy.
A unique 60-kDa surface protein expressed on the thymic epithelial cells was characterized as a potent molecule participating in the interaction between thymic stromal cells (TSC) and immature T cells. Previously, we reported an athymic mouse-derived T cell clone, N-9F, which proliferates on TSC. In the present study, we established a TSC clone, SL10.3, from a BALB/c mouse. SL10.3 has an epithelial cell nature and supports N-9F and fetal thymocytes growth in vitro. The two rat monoclonal antibodies, AS19 and AS32, directed to the SL10.3 cell surface inhibited N-9F and fetal thymocytes growth on SL10.3, suggesting that the reactive molecule may mediate the cellular interaction between TSC and immature T cells. Both antibodies are directed to the same 60-kDa protein with a pI point of 5.4, but to different epitopes on the protein. The 60-kDa protein is distributed on thymic epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and vascular endothelial cells, but not on the hematopoietic cells tested.
The ability to generate visual mental images, to maintain them, and to rotate them was studied in deaf signers of American Sign Language (ASL), hearing signers who have deaf parents, and hearing non-signers. These abilities are hypothesized to be integral to the production and comprehension of ASL. Results indicate that both deaf and hearing ASL signers have an enhanced ability to generate relatively complex images and to detect mirror image reversals. In contrast, there were no group differences in ability to maintain information in images for brief periods or to imagine objects rotating. Signers' enhanced visual imagery abilities may be tied to specific linguistic requirements of ASL (referent visualization, topological classifiers, perspective shift, and reversals during sign perception).

Schizophrenia is the most prevalent of the major psychoses, but the underlying neurobiology of this debilitating disorder remains mysterious. Recent developments in molecular biology, neuroanatomic pathology, neurochemistry, and functional imaging suggest that a number of factors converge to produce schizophrenia. Specifically, an early neurodevelopmental &quot;lesion,&quot; possibly within the mesial temporal lobe, may contribute to later temporolimbic-prefrontal dysfunction as the nervous system matures. Genetic factors appear to facilitate liability to schizophrenia, and dopaminergic and possibly other neurotransmitter systems may mediate clinical expression of the illness through newly recognized receptor subtypes.
Antiplatelet therapy is clearly indicated for long-term secondary prevention after transient ischemic attack and ischemic stroke. In stroke-free patients with atrial fibrillation, oral anticoagulants reduce the risk of stroke, and antiplatelet agents may be a lower risk alternative. For the early treatment of the acute phase of ischemic stroke, the role of antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy is unclear, but is being evaluated in large clinical trials.

Although there is still some disagreement whether developmental reading and language disorders are neurologically based, recent research provides increasing evidence that these disorders may be due to both abnormal cerebral lateralization patterns and neurological pathology at the cellular level. Technological advances in the field of neuroscience have led to increasing knowledge about brain-behavior relationships, particularly in the area of higher cognitive functions. Hypotheses about the underlying causes of the functional deficits characterizing developmental language and reading disorders are now focusing on specific neurological processing mechanisms, the disruption of which may be at the heart of these disorders.
A back-propagation network was trained to recognize high voltage spike-and-wave spindle (HVS) patterns in the rat, a rodent model of human petit mal epilepsy. The spontaneously occurring HVSs were examined in 137 rats of the Fisher 344 and Brown Norway strains and their F1, F2 and backcross hybrids. Neocortical EEG and movement of the rat were recorded for 12 night hours in each animal and analog data were filtered (low cut: 1 Hz; high cut: 50 Hz) and sampled at 100 Hz with 12 bit precision. A training data set was generated by manually marking durations of HVS epochs in 16 representative animals selected from each group. Training data were presented to back-propagation networks with variable numbers of input, hidden and output cells. The performance of different types of networks was first examined with the training samples and then the best configuration was tested on novel sets of the EEG data. FFT transformation of EEG significantly improved the pattern recognition ability of the network. With the most effective configuration (16 input; 19 hidden; 1 output cells) the summed squared error dropped by 80% as compared with that of the initial random weights. When testing the network with new patterns the manual and automatic evaluations were compared quantitatively. HVSs which were detected properly by the network reached 93-99% of the manually marked HVS patterns, while falsely detected events (non-HVS, artifacts) varied between 18% and 40%. These findings demonstrate the utility of back-propagation networks in automatic recognition of EEG patterns.
Extra- and intracellular recordings in slices were used to examine what types of synaptic plasticity can be found in the core of the nucleus accumbens, and how these forms of plasticity may be modulated by dopamine. Stimulus electrodes were placed at the rostral border of the nucleus accumbens in order to excite primarily infralimbic and prelimbic afferents, as was confirmed by injections of the retrograde tracer fluoro-gold. In extracellular recordings, tetanization induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of the population spike in 20 out of 53 slices. The presynaptic compound action potential did not change following LTP induction. For the intracellularly recorded excitatory postsynaptic potentiation, three types of synaptic plasticity were noted: long-term potentiation (16 out of 54 cells), decremental potentiation (eight cells) and long-term depression (LTD; six cells). No correlation was found between the occurrence of potentiation or depression and various parameters of the tetanic depolarization (e.g. peak voltage, integral under the curve). The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (50 microM; D-AP5) reduced, but did not completely prevent, the induction of LTP. The incidence of LTD was not markedly affected by D-AP5. No difference in LTP was found when comparing slices bathed in dopamine (10 microM) and controls. Likewise, slices treated with a mixture of the D1 receptor antagonist Sch 23390 (1 microM) and the D2 antagonist S(-)-sulpiride (1 microM) generated a similar amount of LTP as controls. In conclusion, both LTP and LTD can be induced in a key structure of the limbic-innervated basal ganglia. LTP in the nucleus accumbens strongly depends on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity, but is not significantly affected by dopamine.
We evaluated the effect of antibodies directed against a leukocyte adhesion molecule (ICAM-1) in an embolic model of stroke followed by thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). To test whether reperfusion injury after ischemia was related to white cell adhesion, microclots were injected into carotid circulation. The conditions examined were control, alpha-ICAM 5 min following ischemia, tPA 30 min after ischemia, and the combination of alpha-ICAM and tPA. alpha-ICAM and tPA both increased the amount of clot necessary to produce permanent neurological damage. Combined therapy was no more effective than either substance alone. A similar outcome was obtained when tPA was delayed until 90 min postischemia. When thrombolysis was delayed 3 h following embolism, neither tPA nor the tPA/alpha-ICAM combination reduced neurological damage. Thus, the alpha-ICAM antibody and tPA each effectively reduced neurological damage but the interaction was not significant.
Anxiety in older patients is more often a symptom of an underlying mental or physical disorder than a primary diagnosis. Its various forms include situational anxiety, adjustment disorder, and phobias. A search for underlying organic causes is important, as age-related diseases, drug side effects, and substance abuse/withdrawal may have etiologic significance. Anxiety may also mask primary psychiatric disorders such as depression or delirium. Therapy requires treating any underlying psychiatric illness and seeking psychosocial intervention for functional causes. If medical therapy is indicated, short-acting benzodiazepines are the first choice, but patients should be followed closely for possible side effects.
Adult bullfrog were given single intraotic injections of the aminoglycoside antibiotic gentamicin sulfate and sacrificed at postinjection times ranging from 0.5 to 9 days. The saccular and utricular maculae of normal and injected animals were examined in wholemount and cross-section. Intraotic 200 microM gentamicin concentrations resulted in the uniform destruction of the hair bundles and, at later times, the cell bodies of saccular hair cells. In the utriculus, striolar hair cells were selectively damaged while extrastriolar hair cells were relatively unaffected. Regenerating hair cells, identified in sectioned material by their small cell bodies and short, well-formed hair bundles, were seen in the saccular and utricular maculae as early as 24-48 h postinjection. Immature versions of mature hair cell types in both otolith organs were recognized by the presence or absence of a bulbed kinocilia and the relative lengths of their kinocilia and longest stereocilia. Utricular hair cell types with kinocilia longer than their longest stereocilia were observed at earlier than hair cell types with shorter kinocilia. In the sacculus, the hair bundles of gentamicin-treated animals, even at 9 days postinjection, were significantly smaller than those of normal animals. The hair bundles of utricular hair cells, on the other hand, reached full maturity within the same time period.
Surface glycoconjugates of hair cells and supporting cells in the vestibular endorgans of the bullfrog were identified using biotinylated lectins with different carbohydrate specificities. Lectin binding in hair cells was consistent with the presence of glucose and mannose (CON A), galactose (RCA-I), N-acetylglucosamine (WGA), N-acetylgalactosamine (VVA), but not fucose (UEA-I) residues. Hair cells in the bullfrog sacculus, unlike those in the utriculus and semicircular canals, did not strain for N-acetylglucosamine (WGA) or N-acetylgalactosamine (VVA). By contrast, WGA and, to a lesser extent, VVA, differentially stained utricular and semicircular canal hair cells, labeling hair cells located in peripheral, but not central, regions. In mammals, WGA uniformly labeled Type I hair cells while labeling, as in the bullfrog, Type II hair cells only in peripheral regions. These regional variations were retained after enzymatic digestion. We conclude that vestibular hair cells differ in their surface glycoconjugates and that differences in lectin binding patterns can be used to identify hair cell types and to infer the epithelial origin of isolated vestibular hair cells.
To determine whether sympathetic nerve activity is altered in hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism we microneurographically measured muscle sympathetic nerve activity in patients with these thyroid dysfunctions and compared the results with those of normal controls. Patients with hyperthyroidism tended to have less muscle sympathetic nerve activity than normal controls, and patients with hypothyroidism had significantly greater muscle sympathetic nerve activity than normal controls (P &lt; 0.05). In all subjects, there was a significantly negative-correlation between the serum concentration of free triiodothyronine or free thyroxine and muscle sympathetic nerve activity, and there was a significantly positive correlation between the serum concentration of thyroid-stimulating hormone and the muscle sympathetic nerve activity. These results suggest an inverse relationship between thyroid function and sympathetic nerve activity.
Antisera against the non-selective adenosine receptor agonist 5'-N-ethylcarboxamido-adenosine (NECA) have been raised by immunizing rabbits with NECA-coupled bovine serum albumin. The antisera which bind [3H]NECA with high affinity were purified by affinity chromatography using NECA-coupled Sepharose as the affinity gel without significant changes in [3H]NECA-binding properties. The order of the affinity for various adenosine receptor ligands of the purified or unpurified antisera was 5'-N-cyclopropylcarboxamidoadenosine &gt; or = NECA &gt; 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine &gt; 2-chloroadenosine &gt; theophylline &gt; isobutylmethylxanthine &gt; (R)-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine = N6-cyclohexyl- adenosine. This specificity was found to be similar to that of the non-receptor NECA-binding sites, which had been found in various tissues such as human placentas and mouse P815 mastocytoma cells, rather than to that of adenosine receptors. These anti-NECA antibodies will be useful as immunochemical agents in the search for endogenous ligand(s) to the non-receptor NECA-binding sites.
Mutational studies were previously carried out at the omega site intact cells (Micanovic, R., L. Gerber, J. Berger, K. Kodukula, and S. Udenfriend. 1990. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 87:157-161; Micanovic R., K. Kodukula, L. Gerber, and S. Udenfriend. 1990. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA: 87:7939-7943) and at the omega + 1 and omega + 2 sites in a cell-free system (Gerber, L., K. Kodukula, and S. Udenfriend. 1992. J. Biol. Chem. 267:12168-12173) of nascent proteins destined to be processed to a glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol (GPI)-anchored form. We have now mutated the omega + 1 and omega + 2 sites in placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) cDNA and transfected the wild-type and mutant cDNAs into COS 7 cells. Only glycine at the omega + 2 site yielded enzymatically active GPI membrane-anchored PLAP in amounts comparable to the wild type (alanine). Serine was less active and threonine and valine yielded very low but significant activity. By contrast the omega + 1 site was promiscuous, with only proline being inactive. These and the previous studies indicate that the omega and omega + 2 sites of a nascent protein are key determinants for recognition by COOH-terminal signal transamidase. Comparisons have been made to specific requirements for substitution at the -1, -3 sites of amino terminal signal peptides for recognition by NH2-terminal signal peptidase and the mechanisms of NH2 and COOH-terminal signaling are compared.
1. We are studying the neural basis of consummatory feeding behavior in Aplysia using intact, freely moving animals. 2. Video records show that the timing of radula closure during the radula protraction-retraction cycle constitutes a major difference between ingestion (biting or swallowing) and rejection. During ingestion, the radula is closed as it retracts. During rejection, the radula is closed as it protracts. 3. We observed two patterns of activity in nerves which are likely to mediate these radula movements. Patterns I and II are associated with ingestion and rejection, respectively, and are distinguished by the timing of radula nerve activity with respect to the onset of buccal nerve 2 activity. 4. The association of ingestion with pattern I is maintained when the animal feeds on a polyethylene tube, the same food substrate used to elicit rejection responses. Under these conditions, pattern I is associated with either swallowing or no net tube movement. 5. Most transitions from swallowing to rejection were preceded by one or more occurrences of pattern I in which there was no net tube movement, suggesting that these transitions can be predicted. 6. Our data suggest that these two patterns can be used to distinguish ingestion from rejection.
Grass frogs, Rana pipiens, will detour around a barrier to reach prey on the other side. However, if the distance between prey and barrier is short, frogs attempt to push through the barrier and reach the prey directly. The relationship between the probability of detouring and the distance between prey and barrier is the same whether the frog's starting position is 4 cm or 8 cm from the barrier. This suggests that frogs measure the absolute separation between the two objects. To discover whether the retinal elevation of the bottom of the barrier contributes to measuring this distance, the relationship between the frequency of detouring and barrier-prey distance was examined in several experiments in which the retinal position of the bottom of the barrier was manipulated. No evidence was obtained that the barrier's retinal elevation helps in gauging distance. On the other hand, retinal elevation influences strongly how far a frog lunges to reach its prey. It is suggested that different cues to distance are applied to the two classes of object because, under natural circumstances, it is difficult to judge where a barrier emerges from the ground. A barrier may be hard to detect below the horizon because of the low contrast between it and the ground, or because vegetation and ground litter mask where the barrier meets the ground. In contrast, the prey's movements make it easily detectable against a stationary background and the prey's short height means that partial occlusion will have little effect on its apparent vertical position in the visual field.
The cholinergic agonists acetylcholine (ACh), nicotine, and pilocarpine produced depolarizations and contractions of muscle of the nematode Ascaris suum. Dose-dependent depolarization and contraction by ACh were suppressed by about two orders of magnitude by 100 microM d-tubocurarine (dTC), a nicotinic antagonist, but only about fivefold by 100 microM N-methyl-scopolamine (NMS), a muscarinic antagonist. NMS itself depolarized both normal and synaptically isolated muscle cells. The muscle depolarizing action of pilocarpine was not consistently antagonized by either NMS or dTC. ACh receptors were detected on motorneuron classes DE1, DE2, DI, and VI as ACh-induced reductions in input resistance. These input resistance changes were reversed by washing in drug-free saline or by application of dTC. NMS applied alone lowered input resistance in DE1, but not in DE2, DI, or VI motorneurons. In contrast to the effect of ACh, the action of NMS in DE1 was not reversed by dTC, suggesting that NMS-sensitive sites may not respond to ACh. Excitatory synaptic responses in muscle evoked by depolarizing current injections into DE1 and DE2 motorneurons were antagonized by dTC; however, NMS antagonized the synaptic output of only the DE1 and DE3 classes of motorneurons, an effect that was more likely to have been produced by motorneuron conduction failure than by pharmacological blockade of receptor. The concentration of NMS required to produce these changes in muscle polarization and contraction, ACh antagonism, input resistance reduction, and synaptic antagonism was 100 microM, or more than five orders of magnitude higher than the binding affinity for [3H]NMS in larval Ascaris homogenates and adult Caenorhabditis elegans (Segerberg, M. A. 1989. Ph.D. thesis. University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI). These results describe a nicotinic-like pharmacology, but muscle and motorneurons also have unusual responses to muscarinic agents.
We have established that the monoclonal antibody (MAb) AA21, raised against a crude sarcolemmal fraction prepared from adult chicken anterior latissimus dorsi muscle, recognizes the slow twitch/cardiac isoform of calcium ATPase. This was done using a combination of immunohistochemistry at the light and electron microscopic level, the change in the cell distribution in skeletal muscle during development, the molecular weight of the principal protein recognized in Western transfers, and direct comparison with another MAb of known specificity. The antigen is initially expressed by all myotubes at E10 and with development is gradually lost from all presumptive fast fibers. In addition to its immunoreaction and slow extrafusal skeletal muscle fibers, AA21 displays a highly selective immunoreactivity with a number of other cell types in different tissues. The antibody stains a subset of intrafusal muscle fibers and intestinal and arterial smooth muscle, but not venous smooth muscle. In the nervous system, a subpopulation of neurons is intensely stained, most neurons are faintly stained, and glia are not stained at all.
Multipotent neural crest cells undergo developmental restrictions during embryogenesis and eventually give rise to the neurons and glia of the peripheral nervous system, melanocytes, and pheochromocytes. To understand how neuronal potential is restricted to a subpopulation of crest-derived cells, we have utilized sensitive markers of early neuronal differentiation to assess neurogenesis in crest-derived cell populations subjected to defined experimental conditions in vitro and in vivo. We describe environmental conditions that either (a) result in the irreversible loss of neurogenic potential over a characteristic time course or (b) maintain neurogenic potential among neural crest cells.
The transmitter properties of both developing and mature sympathetic neurons are plastic and can be modulated by a number of environmental cues. Cell culture studies demonstrate that noradrenergic neurons can be induced to become cholinergic and that the expression of neuropeptides can be altered. Similar changes in transmitter phenotype occur in vivo. During development, noradrenergic neurons that innervate eccrine sweat glands acquire cholinergic and peptidergic function. This change is dependent upon interactions with the target tissue. Following injury of sympathetic neurons in developing and adult animals, striking alterations take place in peptide expression. Ciliary neurotrophic factor and cholinergic differentiation factor/leukemia inhibitory factor, members of a family that includes several hematopoietic cytokines, induce cholinergic function and modulate neuropeptide expression in cultured sympathetic neurons. Studies in progress provide evidence that members of this new cytokine family influence the transmitter phenotype of sympathetic neurons not only in vitro but also in vivo.
Recently, a substantial amount of free D-serine has been demonstrated in rat brain, although it has long been presumed that D-amino acids are uncommon in mammals. The anatomical distribution and age-related changes in endogenous D-serine have been examined here to obtain insight into its physiological functions. Free D-serine exclusively occurs in brains, with a persistent high content from birth to at least 86 postnatal weeks. The patterns of the regional variations and the postnatal changes in brain D-serine are closely correlated with those of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type excitatory amino acid receptor. Because D-serine potentiates NMDA receptor-mediated transmission by selective stimulation of the strychnine-insensitive glycine site of the NMDA receptor, it is proposed that D-serine is a novel candidate as an intrinsic ligand for the glycine site in mammalian brain.
The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in the brain striatum has recently been shown to bind at a putatively vesicular site labeled by [3H]tyramine ([3H]TY). Whereas in the rat and mouse striatum MPP+ antagonized TY binding competitively, in the cerebellum there was a mixed-type antagonism, which suggests the simultaneous occupancy of two different sites. Ki values from displacement curves revealed a fourfold difference in the affinity of MPP+ for TY sites in the two brain regions. The degeneration of central noradrenergic terminals induced by an intraperitoneal injection of the toxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2- bromobenzylamine in rats decreased by 80% the maximal number of cerebellar TY binding sites, while not affecting striatal binding. Furthermore, guanethidine, a marker for noradrenaline (NA) vesicles, potently inhibited TY binding in NA-innervated regions, such as the cerebellum and the parietal cortex, and poorly in the striatum. It is concluded (a) that both MPP+ and TY may also label NA vesicles and (b) that the vesicular carriers for dopamine and NA have different characteristics, which may underlie a regional specificity in the rate of endovesicular sequestration of MPP+, with either neurodegenerative or neuroprotective consequences, depending on the brain area involved.
Binding of [3H]LY278584, which has been previously shown to label 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors in rat cortex, was studied in human brain. Saturation experiments revealed a homogeneous population of saturable binding sites in amygdala (KD = 3.08 +/- 0.67 nM, Bmax = 11.86 +/- 1.87 fmol/mg of protein) as well as in hippocampus, caudate, and putamen. Specific binding was also high in nucleus accumbens and entorhinal cortex. Specific binding was negligible in neocortical areas. Kinetic studies conducted in human hippocampus revealed a Kon of 0.025 +/- 0.009 nM-1 min-1 and a Koff of 0.010 +/- 0.002 min-1. The kinetics of [3H]LY278584 binding were similar in the caudate. Pharmacological characterization of [3H]-LY278584 specific binding in caudate and amygdala indicated the compound was binding to 5-HT3 receptors. We conclude that 5-HT3 receptors labeled by [3H]LY278584 are present in both limbic and striatal areas in human brain, suggesting that 5-HT3 receptor antagonists may be able to influence the dopamine system in humans, similarly to their effects in rodent studies.
The phosphorylation of surface proteins by ecto-protein kinase has been proposed to play a role in mechanisms underlying neuronal differentiation and their responsiveness to nerve growth factor (NGF). PC12 clones represent an optimal model for investigating the mode of action of NGF in a homogeneous cell population. In the present study we obtained evidence that PC12 cells possess ecto-protein kinase and characterized the endogenous phosphorylation of its surface protein substrates. PC12 cells maintained in a chemically defined medium exhibited phosphorylation of proteins by [gamma-32P]ATP added to the medium at time points preceding the intracellular phosphorylation of proteins in cells labeled with 32Pi. This activity was abolished by adding apyrase or trypsin to the medium but was not sensitive to addition of an excess of unlabeled Pi. As also expected from ecto-protein kinase activity, PC12 cells catalyzed the phosphorylation of an exogenous protein substrate added to the medium, dephospho-alpha-casein, and this activity competed with the endogenous phosphorylation for extracellular ATP. Based on these criteria, three protein components migrating in sodium dodecyl sulfate gels with apparent molecular weights of 105K, 39K, and 20K were identified as exclusive substrates of ecto-protein kinase in PC12 cells. Of the phosphate incorporated into these proteins from extracellular ATP, 75-87% was found in phosphothreonine. The phosphorylation of the 39K protein by ecto-protein kinase did not require Mg2+, implicating this activity in the previously demonstrated regulation of Ca(2+)-dependent, high-affinity norepinephrine uptake in PC12 cells by extracellular ATP. The protein kinase inhibitor K-252a inhibited both intra- and extracellular protein phosphorylation in intact PC12 cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ability of antidepressant drugs (ADs) to increase the concentration of intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) was examined in primary cultured neurons from rat frontal cortices using the Ca(2+)-sensitive fluorescent indicator fura-2. Amitriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, and mianserin elicited transient increases in [Ca2+]i in a concentration-dependent manner (100 microM to 1 mM). These four AD-induced [Ca2+]i increases were not altered by the absence of external Ca2+ or by the presence of La3+ (30 microM), suggesting that these ADs provoked intracellular Ca2+ mobilization rather than Ca2+ influx. All four ADs increased inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) contents by 20-60% in the cultured cells. The potency of the IP3 production by these ADs closely correlated with the AD-induced [Ca2+]i responses. Pretreatment with neomycin, an inhibitor of IP3 generation, significantly inhibited amitriptyline- and imipramine-induced [Ca2+]i increases. In addition, by initially perfusing with bradykinin (10 microM) or acetylcholine (10 microM), which can stimulate the IP3 generation and mobilize the intracellular Ca2+, the amitriptyline responses were decreased by 76% and 69%, respectively. The amitriptyline-induced [Ca2+]i increases were unaffected by treatment with pertussis toxin. We conclude that high concentrations of amitriptyline and three other ADs mobilize Ca2+ from IP3-sensitive Ca2+ stores and that the responses are pertussis toxin-insensitive. However, it seems unlikely that the effects requiring high concentrations of ADs are related to the therapeutic action.
We have shown that following heat shock (42.5 degree C for 30 min), mouse-derived C1300 N2A neuroblastoma cells contain increased levels of mRNA coding for the inducible form of heat shock protein 70 and for ubiquitin. Incubation of C1300 cells with iron also induces an elevation in content of mRNAs coding for the same two proteins that can be blocked by alpha-tocopherol and desferrioxamine. Iron was shown to increase mitochondrial and lysosomal activities in differentiated C1300 N2A cultures, as shown by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide and neutral red cytotoxicity assays. These responses were not initially associated with any loss of viability, as assessed by the lactate dehydrogenase release assay. These results suggest that there is production of cytoprotective heat shock proteins in response to iron-mediated cell damage, probably involving free radical generation, in neural cells. The apparent stress response of vulnerable neurones in human neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Parkinson's disease, may be induced by iron-mediated free radical production in degenerating neurones, making investigation of the mechanism of free radical-induced responses in neuronal cells of special interest.
We have previously described the synthesis of bisphosphonate-containing inhibitors of inositol monophosphatase. In the present study, a more detailed examination of the in vitro and in vivo properties of one of these compounds, L-690,330, is described. L-690,330 is a competitive inhibitor of inositol monophosphatase with a Ki, depending on the source of IMPase, of between 0.2 and 2 microM. Although approximately 1,000-fold more potent in vitro than lithium, in muscarinic ml receptor-transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells prelabelled with [3H]inositol, L-690,330 only produced 40% of the accumulation of [3H]inositol monophosphates achieved by lithium at the same concentration (10 mM), suggesting that the ability of L-690,330 to cross the cell membrane is limited. Nevertheless, under conditions of cholinergic stimulation (100 mg/kg of pilocarpine s.c.), high doses of L-690,330 were able to increase brain inositol(l)phosphate levels in vivo to three- to fourfold control levels. This effect was dose dependent (ED50 = 0.3 mmol/kg s.c.) and was maximal after 1 h. In peripheral tissues, the effects of L-690,330 on inositol(l)phosphate levels mimicked those of lithium both qualitatively and quantitatively. However, in the brain, the effects of L-690,330 were much less than seen with lithium, consistent with the blood-brain barrier restricting access of the polar L-690,330 into the CNS, thereby further limiting entry of compound into cells in the brain. In the future, it may be possible to develop prodrugs of this compound, which circumvent many of the cell permeability problems inherent in bisphosphonate compounds.
The neuropeptide-inducing activity of neurotrophic factors was tested in cultured cerebral cortical neurons. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) specifically increased contents of the neuropeptides somatostatin (SOM) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), but its effect on contents of cholecystokinin octapeptide and GABA was much less significant. The maximal induction of NPY content (15-fold increase) was achieved by 20 ng/ml of BDNF. These changes were also reproduced at the mRNA level. In contrast, neurotrophin-3 was much less potent at increasing NPY and SOM contents, and nerve growth factor had no effect on them. The expression of mRNA for NPY and SOM was fully dependent on the presence of BDNF in culture but irrelevant to the survival-promoting activity of BDNF, which has been reported previously. Most of the NPY immunoreactivity induced by BDNF was colocalized with glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity in cultured cortical neurons. These results suggest that BDNF regulates the peptidergic expression of GABAergic neurons in the cerebral cortex.
Using immunocytochemical techniques, cells containing estrogen and progestin receptors have been observed in many discrete regions of the guinea-pig forebrain, including the mediobasal hypothalamus and preoptic area. While most reaction product is located within cell nuclei, we have reported abundant reaction product in perikaryal cytoplasm and neuronal processes as well. Ultrastructural analysis has revealed the presence of estrogen and progestin receptors in atypical subcellular sites within the hypothalamus, including dendrites and axon terminals. In order to determine if microtubule-dependent intracellular transport is involved in intraneuronal transport of steroid hormone receptors, ovariectomized guinea-pigs were injected intracerebroventricularly with the microtubule inhibitor, colchicine, and brain sections at the level of the hypothalamus were immunostained for estrogen receptors. This treatment resulted in the appearance of estrogen receptor immunoreactivity in the paraventricular and mediodorsal thalamic region, areas typically devoid of estrogen receptor-immunoreactive cells in guinea-pigs. In a second study on progestin receptors, we observed the colchicine-induced accumulation of progestin receptor immunoreactivity in the paraventricular thalamic, mediodorsal thalamic and lateral dorsal thalamic areas as well as in the medial amygdala, all areas typically devoid of progestin receptor immunoreactivity. While estradiol injection induced progestin receptor immunoreactivity in the hypothalamus and preoptic area as described previously, it had no effect on the colchicine-induced accumulation in the thalamus and amygdala. These results provide evidence that in some neurons, progestin receptors and estrogen receptors are transported intracellularly, apparently at a rapid enough rate that they do not ordinarily accumulate within the perikaryon.
12 patients: (7 males and 5 females) with recurrent brainstem gliomas were treated with the oral topoisomerase inhibitor VP-16 (Etoposide). Patients ranged in age from 3 to 49 years with a median age of 7 years. All patients had been previously treated with radiation therapy (conventional fractionation: 4; hyperfractionation: 8) and 5 had received prior nitrosourea-based chemotherapy at time of tumor recurrence. Tumor recurrence was documented by radiographic tumor enlargement utilizing brain MRI with gadolinium enhancement (12) and clinical neurologic deterioration (9). Two patients underwent biopsy pathologically documenting tumor recurrence. Each cycle of therapy consisted of 21 days of VP-16 (50 mg/m2/day) followed by a 14 day rest followed by an additional 21 days of VP-16 (50 mg/m2 day). Complete blood counts were followed bi-weekly and a neurologic examination and brain MRI scan with contrast were performed prior to initiation of each cycle of therapy. Treatment related complications included: partial alopecia (5); diarrhea (5); weight loss (4); neutropenia (2); and thrombocytopenia (4). No patient required transfusion or antibiotic treatment of neutropenic fever. There were no treatment related deaths. 12 patients were evaluable of whom 6 demonstrated a radiographic response (1 complete; 3 partial; 2 stable disease) with a median duration of response of 8 months. In summary; oral VP-16 is a well tolerated and relatively non-toxic chemotherapeutic agent with apparent activity in this small cohort of patients with recurrent brainstem gliomas.
1. The ability to move the forearm between remembered elbow joint angles immediately after rapid increases or decreases of the background gravitoinertial force (G) level was measured. The movements had been well-practiced in a normal 1G environment before the measurements in high-(1.8G) and low-force (0G) environments. The forearm and upper arm were always unsupported to maximize the influence of altered G-loading and to minimize extraneous cues about arm position. 2. Horizontal and vertical movement planes were studied to measure the effects of varying the G load in the movement plane within a given G background. Rapid and slow movements were studied to assess the role of proprioceptive feedback. 3. G level did not affect the amplitude of rapid movements, indicating that subjects were able to plan and to generate appropriate motor commands for the new G loading of the arm. The amplitude of slow movements was affected by G level, indicating that proprioceptive feedback is influenced by G level. 4. The effects of G level were similar for horizontal and vertical movements, indicating that proprioceptive information from supporting structures, such as the shoulder joint and muscles, had a role in allowing generation of the appropriate motor commands. 5. The incidence and size of dynamic overshoots were greater in 0G and for rapid movements. This G-related change in damping suggests a decrease in muscle spindle activity in 0G. A decrease in muscle spindle activity in 0G and an increase in 1.8G are consistent with the results of our prior studies on the tonic vibration reflex, locomotion, and perception of head movement trajectory in varying force backgrounds.
Injury of the nervous system triggers a complex series of repair mechanisms that include production of neurotrophic and mitogenic factors by cells neighboring the injured area. While trauma of most parts of the brain results in loss of function, lesions of certain regions of the female hypothalamus enhance the secretory activity of a group of specialized neurons that produce luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide that controls sexual development. The increased output of LHRH causes sexual precocity by prematurely activating the neuroendocrine reproductive axis. Recent studies have implicated transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) produced by reactive astrocytes in the process by which lesions hasten sexual maturation, and have suggested that the stimulatory actions of TGF alpha on LHRH neurons require the intermediacy of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs). In the present study, we examined the changes in EGFR gene expression following lesions of the preoptic-anterior hypothalamic area (POA-AHA) of immature female rats, identified the cell types where EGFR synthesis increases, and assessed the biochemical activity of the newly formed EGFR protein. RNase protection assays demonstrated that the lesion significantly increased the levels of a predominant mRNA transcript encoding the full-length, membrane-spanning EGFR, but did not affect those of a much less abundant, alternatively spliced mRNA that encodes a truncated, presumably secreted form of EGFR. Following lesions, antibody-induced EGFR kinase activity increased twofold. Antibodies directed against a peptide sequence contained within the carboxy terminus of EGFR showed intense EGFR immunoreactivity in cells surrounding the lesion site; double immunohistochemistry identified these cells as astrocytes since EGFR immunoreactivity was colocalized with that of glial fibrillary acidic protein, an astrocytic marker. That these changes result from an increase in EGFR gene expression was indicated by the elevated levels of EGFR mRNA detected by in situ hybridization in cells of the same area. Although POA-AHA lesions did not result in appearance of EGFR in LHRH neurons themselves, EGFR-positive cells and processes were seen in close proximity to LHRH neurons and their nerve terminals, particularly in the area surrounding the lesion. Since TGF alpha gene expression is also increased in reactive astrocytes of POA-AHA lesions and blockade of EGFR prevented the advancing effect of the lesion on puberty (Junier et al., 1991b), the present results support the concept that, in lesioned animals, TGF alpha stimulates LHRH secretion indirectly via a paracrine mechanism that involves its interaction with EGFRs located on astroglial cells.
A recent report described the isolation of cDNA clones encoding alpha 7 and alpha 8 subunits of alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive nicotinic ACh receptors (alpha BgtAChRs) from chick brain and demonstrated that they were related to, but distinct from, the alpha subunits of nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) from muscles and neurons. Monoclonal antibodies against the two alpha BgtAChR subunits were used to demonstrate that at least two subtypes are present in embryonic day 18 chicken brain. The predominant brain subtype contains alpha 7 subunits, while a minor subtype contains both alpha 7 and alpha 8 subunits. Both subtypes may also contain other subunits. Here we report the results of immune precipitation studies and immunohistochemical studies of alpha BgtAChRs in the chick retina. In addition to the two subtypes found in brain, a new alpha BgtAChR subtype that contains alpha 8 subunits, but not alpha 7 subunits, was identified and was found to be the major subtype in chick retina. This subtype has a lower affinity for alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha Bgt) than does the subtype containing only alpha 7 subunits. Small amounts of this alpha 8 subtype were also detected in brain by labeling with higher concentrations of 125I-alpha Bgt than had been used previously. The subtype containing only alpha 7 subunits comprised 14% of the alpha BgtAChRs in hatchling chick retina. The subtype containing alpha 8 subunits (but no alpha 7 subunits) accounted for 69%, and the alpha 7 alpha 8 subtype accounted for 17%. Amacrine, bipolar, and ganglion cells displayed alpha 8 subunit immunoreactivity, and a complex pattern of labeling was evident in both the inner and outer plexiform layers. In contrast, only amacrine and ganglion cells exhibited alpha 7 subunit immunoreactivity, and the pattern of alpha 7 subunit labeling in the inner plexiform layer differed from that of alpha 8 subunit labeling. These disparities suggest that the alpha BgtAChR subunits are differentially expressed by different populations of retinal neurons. In addition, the distribution of alpha BgtAChR subunit immunoreactivity was found to differ from that of alpha-Bgt-insensitive nAChR subunits.
In the preoptico-hypothalamic area (POA) of teleost fish, neurons containing gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) regulate reproduction through direct projections to pituitary gonadotropes. Here we show that these GnRH-containing cells change size depending on the reproductive and maturational state in female Haplochromis burtoni. We selected animals prior to, during, and after the reproductive portion of their life history, in both brooding and spawning states. Immunocytochemical staining of GnRH-containing neurons in the POA revealed that these cells are up to twice as large in females that have never spawned or are in the act of spawning than they are in females that are carrying broods. Older, postreproductive females have the largest cell sizes. Previous work on male H. burtoni has shown that soma sizes of the homologous neurons change according to social status, with dominant fish having larger cells than subordinates. Since reproductively active females have no apparent social hierarchy and are all exposed to approximately the same external stimuli, the primary factor(s) controlling GnRH-immunoreactive (irGnRH) neuron size appears to be internal reproductive state. Thus, while irGnRH neurons are pleiomorphic in both males and females, cell size change is differently regulated in each.
To elucidate the functional role of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) in neuronal cells, we studied the phenotypic effects of overexpression of the CaM kinase II wild-type alpha subunit and a mutant enzyme alpha isoform (Ala-286), in which formation of the Ca(2+)-independent form by autophosphorylation is markedly suppressed by replacement of Thr-286 with Ala, using Neuro2a (Nb2a) and NG108-15 neuroblastoma cell lines. The cDNAs inserted into the EcoRI site of pEF321 expression vector were introduced into Nb2a and NG108-15 cells with pEF321-neo (neo). Stable clones were obtained by G418 selection. The specific activities of CaM kinase II in alpha and Ala-286 transfectants were two to four times higher than those in non-transfectants and in cells transfected with neo alone. Indirect immunofluorescence using a monoclonal antibody specific to the CaM kinase II alpha isoform revealed that CaM kinase II was mainly localized in the perikaryal and dendritic cytoplasm of the alpha and Ala-286 transfectants. Immediately after plating, Nb2a and NG108-15 cells transfected with neo, alpha and Ala-286 cDNAs appeared round. Several hours after plating, alpha transfectants showed cell flattening and initiation of neurite outgrowth, and thereafter extended numerous long and branching neurites. Numerous filopodia protruded from flat growth cones, some of which were accompanied by extensive veil formation. Non- and neo transfectants remained round. In Ala-286 transfectants, however, the phenotypic changes were remarkably less than in alpha transfectants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A full-length clone coding for the rat alpha 7 nicotinic receptor subunit was isolated from an adult brain cDNA library and expressed in Xenopus oocytes. A significant proportion of the current through alpha 7-channels is carried by Ca2+. This Ca2+ influx then activates a Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- conductance, which is blocked by the chloride channel blockers niflumic and fluflenamic acid. Increasing the external NaCl concentration caused the reversal potentials for the alpha 7-channels and the Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- channels to be shifted in opposite directions. Under these conditions, agonist application activates a biphasic current with an initial inward current through alpha 7-channels followed by a niflumic acid- and fluflenamic acid-blockable outward current through Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- channels. A relative measure of the Ca2+ permeability was made by measuring the shift in the reversal potential caused by adding 10 mM Ca2+ to the external solution. Measurements made in the absence of Cl-, to avoid artifactual current through Ca(2+)-activated Cl- channels, indicate that alpha 7-homooligomeric channels have a greater relative Ca2+ permeability than the other nicotinic ACh receptors. Furthermore, alpha 7-channels have an even greater relative Ca2+ permeability than the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors. High levels of alpha 7-transcripts were localized by in situ hybridization in the olfactory areas, the hippocampus, the hypothalamus, the amygdala, and the cerebral cortex. These results imply that alpha 7-containing receptors may play a role in activating calcium-dependent mechanisms in specific neuronal populations of the adult rat limbic system.
A flexible visual stimulus system has been developed for neuroscience research that uses low-cost and widely available personal computer hardware. The system has many advantages over those that rely upon traditional optical and mechanical methods, including size, flexibility and spatiotemporal resolution. The system is designed around an IBM-compatible personal computer, equipped with a VGA graphics card and a VGA monitor or projector. A set of assembly language routines has been developed for the setup and control of the graphics hardware so that images are generated and then moved with single pixel/single frame resolution. Two variations of this system are described. One version enables a stimulus on the display monitor to be imaged directly on the retina in vitro during spike recordings; the other variant back-projects an image onto a tangential screen for in vivo testing in the awake animal. Using the latter approach, the image can be positioned on the retina as the eye continues to move.
A tactile stimulator was built for studying motion processing in the somatic sensory system of primates. This stimulator is used for assessing the responses of neurons of the somatic sensory system to stimuli moving in any traverse distance (range: 2-20 mm), with a variety of velocities (range: 4-120 mm/s), forces (range: 0-60 gf), and in any scanning direction. The stimulator is highly automated and can be used in combined psychophysical and neurophysiological studies in humans and in behaving monkeys.
Preparation of nervous tissue as an organotypic culture permits examination of nervous system development and interactions between neurons and with their environment. In order to evaluate the statistical significance of morphological changes, it is necessary to quantify tissue populations and parameters. Recent advances in stereology facilitate the gathering of morphometric data, while eliminating sources of error associated with traditional methods. Unfortunately, the new stereology has been perceived as complex and, therefore, has been slow to gain acceptance within neuroscience investigations in general and in vitro applications in particular. Here, we present a detailed application of the new, unbiased stereology to organotypic hippocampal cultures. These methods allow assessment of neuronal survival and morphological plasticity to culture conditions with increasing culture age. Neuronal number was assessed from point-sampled intercepts of cells sampled without bias by the selector procedure in vertical sections through hippocampal cultures. Surface area was estimated from profile intersects of neuronal processes with a cycloid array. The reference volume was determined by the Cavalieri method; this permitted expression of results as absolute values rather than as component densities. The importance of absolute values to valid interpretation of quantitative data is demonstrated by the results for neuronal number. The methods applied here provide a powerful approach to quantitation of organotypic cultures, and represent an important extension of qualitative studies of cultured nervous tissue.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a potentially fatal syndrome that can occur in patients taking neuroleptics or other psychotropic drugs. It is characterized by muscle rigidity, hyperthermia, altered mentation, autonomic dysfunction, increased CPK and leukocytosis. A primary factor in NMS may be a decrease in functioning of dopaminergic neurons. Treatment usually consists of discontinuation of the neuroleptic drug, drug therapy with bromocriptine and dantrolene and supportive measures. The key to successful medical and nursing management is aggressive supportive care with a focus on preventing complications. With the frequency of administration of neuroleptic drugs, neuroscience nurses should be aware of this potentially lethal complication of neuroleptic therapy.
The development of microcatheters and newer embolytic agents has made it possible to treat persons with arteriovenous malformations, arteriovenous fistulas and aneurysms. Until recently, endovascular embolization was usually performed to devascularize tumors prior to surgical removal. The growing number of neurovascular conditions that can be treated by endovascular embolization has led to the need for neuroscience nurses to be knowledgeable about indications, materials, methods, risks, patient preparation and nursing implications in the care, education and discharge planning for the embolization patient.
The purpose of this study was to describe and compare patients', nurses' and physicians' perceptions of learning needs of persons with epilepsy. The study is based on adult learning theory which states that learning needs dictate receptivity to information and knowledge of learning needs can help structure teaching sessions. Study participants were recruited from patients attending epilepsy clinics, neuroscience nurses employed at study hospitals or working with neurologists or neurosurgeons and neurologists or neurosurgeons practicing in the state. The sample sizes were: 59 patients, 85 nurses and 38 physicians. Data were analyzed using frequencies, percent and analysis of variance. Data analysis revealed that patients, nurses and physicians similarly ranked major areas of learning needs. However, differences in the ranking of individual learning needs were noted between patients and health care providers. An understanding of the differences and similarities among the groups provides useful information for educational programs for epilepsy patients.
Stereotaxis has existed since the early 1900s, originating in Western Europe. Its practice was originally limited to isolation of nerve tracts, drainage of superficial abscesses and early attempts at psychosurgery. Today, with stereotactic-compatible imaging techniques and equipment, many types of intracranial lesions can be precisely localized and resected. Stereotactic approaches to therapy, including aggressive surgical resection, have become the treatments of choice for many types of potentially devastating lesions. A case study illustrates a stereotactic resection procedure, as well as the nursing plan of care and implications for the neuroscience nurse.
Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) stimulates by about fivefold NGF secretion from rat neonatal cortical astrocytes in primary culture. We investigated the possible intracellular second messenger mechanisms involved in the IL-1 induced NGF secretion. Basal NGF secretion did not require extracellular Ca2+, whereas Ca2+ was necessary for the maximal NGF secretion stimulated by IL-1 (10 units/ml). The protein kinase C activator TPA stimulated by sixfold NGF secretion, but in this case, TPA acted synergistically with IL-1 to increase NGF secretion. Treatment of cells with the phospholipase A2 inhibitor mepacrine (30 microM) inhibited basal (by 50%) and IL-1 stimulated (by 80%) NGF secretion. Indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, produced a slight increase in basal NGF secretion at low concentrations, while PGE2 (10 microM) inhibited basal and IL-1 stimulated NGF secretion. In contrast, treatment of cells with nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), a lipoxygenase inhibitor, blocked in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 = 10 microM) IL-1 stimulation of NGF secretion. The leukotriene LTB4 increased basal NGF secretion and this effect was not additive with IL-1 when both agents were added at saturating concentrations, indicating a common mechanism of action for these two agents. Thus, one possible mechanism by which IL-1 stimulates NGF secretion from astrocytes is by activation of the phospholipase A2-lipoxygenase pathway.
The expression of neurotrophin (NGF, BDNF, and NT-3) mRNAs in 24 cell lines derived from human malignant gliomas was studied by Northern analysis. Widespread expression of neurotrophin genes was found with BDNF being the most abundantly expressed. Nearly all cell lines expressed BDNF, and about two-thirds of the cell lines expressed NGF and NT-3. Half of the cell lines analyzed expressed all three neurotrophins. Secretion of NGF into the medium of several cell lines could be detected by ELISA and a PC12 neurite outgrowth assay. Immuno- and bioactive NGF was isolated from conditioned medium of one cell line. No evidence of expression of the neurotrophin receptors trk and trkB by Northern analysis was found. Receptor crosslinking with radiolabeled cognate ligands failed to detect functional receptors in all but one cell line. In this cell line a receptor complex for BDNF was found that corresponded to truncated trkB receptors that lack the signal transducing tyrosine kinase domain. Neurotrophins did not stimulate mitosis of the glioma cultures. The findings suggest that production of neurotrophins by glioma cells is a general phenomenon, although neurotrophins made by gliomas lacking their receptors may not play an autocrine but rather a paracrine role.
Our data demonstrate that approximately 23-29% of standard dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) microcoagulation procedures fail to relieve pain due to inadequate thermal lesions and that approximately 39% fail due to insufficient superior extent of lesions. The remaining failures are related to inadequate lesion placement, improper selection of patients, and, rarely, posttraumatic spinal deafferentation pain resulting from other non-DREZ mechanisms. Computer-assisted DREZ microcoagulation is a satisfactory procedure to treat intractable posttraumatic spinal deafferentation pain, brachial plexus avulsion pain, and lumbosacral nerve root avulsion pain. In all these conditions we have identified areas of abnormal focal hyperactivity in the DREZ area. Perhaps this procedure can be applied to other central pain conditions if, using this technique, abnormal focal hyperactivity is demonstrated to be present.
A review of 156 horseback-riding accidents that occurred in southern Alberta over a 6-year period and resulted in nervous system trauma, including 11 deaths, is presented. The majority (81%) of accidents occurred during recreational activity and 81% were associated with falling or being thrown from a horse. Head injury occurred in 92% of patients and accounted for all of the 11 deaths. Spinal injury occurred in 13% of the patients and was associated with head injury in 40%. One peripheral nerve injury was identified. Helmets were used by only two victims. The 11 deaths that occurred as a consequence of severe head injury accounted for 79% of all deaths associated with horseback riding. This profile of neurologic injuries associated with horse-related accidents supports a need for use of protective headgear.

In an effort to investigate neuromuscular changes with age, the isometric force-time curve of the Achilles tendon-tap reflex (ATR) was measured in 10 college age (M = 20.9 yr) and 10 healthy active old subjects (M = 74.3 yr). In an effort to investigate spinal interneuronal pathways, the tendon-jerk was also conditioned with a tap to the ipsilateral or contralateral patellar tendon. The conditioning stimulus preceded the ATR by 25, 40, 55, 70, 85, 100, 115, 130, or 145 ms. Three trials were elicited at each conditioning interval plus three unilateral trials, for 30 trials per experimental session. Results indicated that the force production of the unilateral Achilles tendon-tap reflex was significantly reduced and the half-relaxation times were significantly lengthened in the old subjects. Moreover, ipsilateral conditioning produced short-latency facilitation and long-latency inhibition to the triceps surae in young subjects, whereas the same conditioning produced only a delayed long-latency inhibition in the old subjects. Similarly, the contralateral conditioning produced short-latency facilitation in the young subjects, with no changes observed in the old subjects. It is concluded that unilateral Achilles tendon-tap responses are different for the two groups, and that the reflex recovery profiles for the two groups are different. Several neurophysiological mechanisms are proposed to contribute to these differences.
How are the axonal projections of olfactory and vomeronasal receptor neurons to the olfactory bulb formed during development? How are the primary olfactory axonal connections functionally organized? With progress in molecular biological techniques and histochemical methods, it became possible to study cellular strategies and molecular mechanisms which guide the primary olfactory axons of the main and accessory olfactory systems to the target glomeruli in the bulb. In addition, new methodologies have begun to elucidate various subsets of the primary olfactory axons with distinctive central connections. The aim of the present paper is to review (1) the characteristic organization of the projection of the primary olfactory axons, (2) projection patterns of histochemically defined subsets of primary olfactory axons, and (3) information on molecules expressed by the surface membrane of the primary olfactory axons. This knowledge gives insight into the functional organization of the primary olfactory axon projection, which is indispensable for understanding signal processing in the olfactory system. This knowledge also underscores the notion that the primary olfactory axon projection provides an excellent model system in which to study axonal guidance and the formation of specific synaptic connections.
We have reported that prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) increases the long-term secretion of [Met(5)]enkephalin (ME) and the expression of proenkephalin A (proENK) mRNA in bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin (BAMC) cells. In order to characterize the underlying mechanisms for the PGE(2)-induced responses, we have now studied the effects of PGE(2) on intracellular free calcium [Ca(2+)](i) levels. The interactions of PGE(2) with several second messenger systems were also studied. Treatment with PGE(2) (10 muM) produced a transient increase followed by a prolonged plateau in the levels of [Ca(2+)](i). Ionomycin (3 x 10(-6)M), which depletes intracellular calcium pools, did not inhibit the PGE(2)-induced responses. Nimodipine (1 x 10(-6)M ), an L-type calcium channel blocker, did not block the initial transient but blocked the plateau phase of the PGE(2)-induced [Ca(2+)](i) response. Long-term (24 h) treatment with PGE(2) (10 muM) increased both the secretion of ME and the expression of proENK mRNA. Pretreatment of BAMC cells with nimodipine but not with omega-conotoxin GVIA inhibited the secretion of ME and the expression of proENK mRNA induced by PGE(2). Calmidazolium, a calmodulin antagonist, also significantly inhibited PGE(2)-induced responses. However, a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, sphingosine (36 muM), was ineffective in blocking PGE(2)-induced responses. In addition, the down-regulation of PKC by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) (0.1 muM) for 48 h did not inhibit the PGE(2)-induced responses. Furthermore, PGE(2) did not affect AP-1 DNA binding activity, while PMA (1 muM) increased AP-1 DNA binding activity. Forskolin (an adenyl cyclase activator) alone increased ME secretion as well as proENK mRNA levels and when coincubated with PGE(2) showed less than an additive effect on the secretion of ME and the levels of the proENK mRNA. The results suggest that the Ca(2+)/ calmodulin pathway, but not the protein kinase A or PKC pathways, appear to be involved in mediating the PGE(2)-induced increases of the long-term secretion of ME and the levels of proENK mRNA.
Expression of the proto-oncogene protein c-Fos was evaluated immunocytochemically in individual brain cells as a marker of treatment-related neuronal activation following pharmacological and physiological treatments that are known to alter food intake and gastric motility in rats. c-Fos expression in response to each treatment was analyzed in the brainstem dorsal vagal complex, the limbic system, and the hypothalamus, representing the areas thought to be involved in coordinating the autonomic, behavioral, and neuroendocrine responses that occur during conditions of stimulated or inhibited food intake. Our results indicate that the patterns of brain c-Fos expression associated with treatments that inhibit food intake differ significantly from the patterns produced by treatments that potentiate food intake. Treatments that inhibited food intake (administration of the anorexigenic agents cholecystokinin, LiCl, and hypertonic saline, and food ingestion following fasting or insulin treatment) were associated with widespread stimulation of c-Fos expression in cells in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), and to a more variable degree the area postrema (AP), but without significant activation of neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMN). In contrast, treatments that potentiated food intake (food deprivation and insulin-induced hypoglycemia) were associated with marked stimulation of c-Fos expression in DMN neurons, but little or no activation in cells in the NTS or the AP. Pharmacological treatments that inhibited food intake and gastric motility also were associated with pronounced c-Fos expression in several forebrain areas, including the parvocellular and magnocellular subdivisions of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). In contrast, more physiological inhibition of food intake resulting from spontaneous food ingestion did not cause significant activation of c-Fos expression in these forebrain regions, nor did treatments that stimulated food intake. Central administration of oxytocin, which also is known to inhibit food intake, was associated with a pattern of c-Fos activation analogous to that produced by spontaneous food ingestion after fasting (c-Fos expression in the NTS and AP, but without significant activation in the DMN or forebrain areas). Finally, acute gastric distension produced complex results, in that it was associated with activation of c-Fos expression in all areas of the brainstem (NTS, AP, and DMN), as well as in multiple forebrain areas (PVN, CeA, and BNST). Our results therefore demonstrate that specific patterns of brain c-Fos expression are associated with treatments that alter food intake in rats, and indicate that assessment of c-Fos immunoreactivity in different brain areas can identify common functional neuroanatomical networks that are activated by diverse treatments which nonetheless produce similar behavioral, autonomic, and neuroendocrine effects in animals.

In order to elucidate the effects of MPTP on enkephalinergic neurons, dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), proenkephalin (PE) mRNA and met-enkephalin (ME) were measured in striatum, olfactory tubercle, and prefrontal cortex of C57/B16 mice 1 day-2 weeks following treatment with 96 mg/kg MPTP HCl (24 mg/kg i.p., twice/day for 2 days). DA and its metabolites were depleted 70% in striatum and 40% in olfactory tubercle within 1 day. In cortex, DA was unchanged, whereas homovanillic acid and NE were depleted 50 and 40% respectively by 3 days. ME increased in all three brain regions at different times whereas PE mRNA showed a different pattern in each region, with an increase in olfactory tubercle, a decrease in cortex, and in striatum, a decrease at 1 day followed by an increase at 3 days. Thus enkephalinergic neurons in each region respond differently to MPTP treatment. In striatum and olfactory tubercle. DA is depleted sufficiently to release its tonic inhibition on the enkephalinergic neurons, thereby leading to increased enkephalin synthesis. In cortex, the change in NE metabolism appears to cause a decrease of ME release and thereby a depression of PE synthesis. The possible relationship between these results and the changes observed in Parkinson's disease are discussed.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzymes were studied in biopsy samples obtained from 100 benign and malignant brain tumors. Diagnosis was confirmed by histopathology. It is observed that all tumors investigated had elevated LDH activity and showed a LDH isoenzyme pattern which is different from that of normal brain. A pronounced cathodal shift was seen in malignant tumors like medulloblastoma, grade 3-4 astrocytomas and neuroblastomas, whereas anodal pattern was seen in benign tumors like grade 1-2 astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas. Some tumors like meningiomas showed a midzone pattern like increased LDH3. It was possible to differentiate certain tumors on the basis of LDH isoenzyme pattern like medulloblastomas into differentiated and undifferentiated; craniopharyngiomas into recurring and non-recurring ones. LDH1/LDH5 ratio was low (&lt; 1.0) in malignant tumors and high (5.0-14.0) in benign tumors and it was useful in differentiating tumors according to the degree of malignancy and biological behavior. It is observed that both LDH isoenzyme pattern and LDH1/LDH5 ratio could be used as an adjuvant to histopathological grading of brain tumors.
We investigated the relative inhibition of purified human mu CANP and mCANP by five cysteine proteinase inhibitors including N-acetyl-Leu-Leu-nor-leucinal (C-I) and N-acetyl-Leu-Leu-methioninal (C-II), calpeptin, E64, and leupeptin. Based on IC50 measurements, calpeptin and C-I were stronger inhibitors by one to two orders of magnitude than C-II, leupeptin or E64. None of the five inhibitors, however, exhibited greater specificity for human mu CANP or mCANP. These results indicate that, although the inhibition of a given cellular event by these compounds may suggest CANP involvement, effects on mu CANP cannot be discriminated from those on mCANP.
The effect of hyposmotic conditions on the concentration of intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i) was studied in cultured cerebellar granule cells and cerebral cortical neurons after loading of the cells with the fluorescent Ca2+ chelator Fluo-3. It was found that in both types of neurons exposure to media with a decrease in osmolarity of 20 to 50% of the osmolarity in the isosmotic medium (320 mOsm) led to a dose dependent increase in [Ca2+]i with a time course showing the highest value at the earliest measured time point, i.e. 40 s after exposure to the hyposmotic media and a subsequent decline towards the basal level during the following 320 s. The response in the cortical neurons was larger than in the granule cells but both types of neurons exhibited a similar increase in [Ca2+]i after exposure to 50 mM K+ which was of the same magnitude as the increase in [Ca2+]i observed in the cortical neurons exposed for 40 s to a medium with a 50% reduction in osmolarity. In both types of neurons the blocker of voltage gated Ca2+ channels verapamil had no effect on the hyposmolarity induced increase in [Ca2+]i. On the contrary, this increase in [Ca2+]i was dependent upon external calcium and could be inhibited partly or completely by the inorganic blockers of Ca2+ channels Mg2+ and La3+. Dantrolene which prevents release of Ca2+ from internal stores had no effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We describe a 66-year-old woman with long-standing HTLV-I-associated myelopathy who developed multiple parenchymal hemorrhages and whose angiogram suggested cerebral vasculitis. After cyclophosphamide and glucocorticoid therapy, both her acute deficits and chronic paraparesis improved. HTLV-I may be an etiologic agent in isolated angiitis of CNS.
Previous psychophysical examinations of the effects of dorsal column (DC) lesions on proprioception of the lower extremity have not revealed disturbances in proprioception, and there have been no similar experiments for the upper extremity. To evaluate the effect of DC lesions on upper extremity proprioception, we tested two monkeys with a variation of the typical clinical test for position sense. This test required the monkeys to detect the direction of a passive displacement of the finger. We identified proprioceptive deficits in one monkey following a DC lesion, but only when the finger was displaced with a small (&lt; 14 degrees), slow (&lt; 7 degrees/sec) movement. When we included displacements of all sizes and velocities in the analysis, performance was unaffected by the DC lesions in either monkey. Since the standard test for proprioception does not specify the speed and size of movements, we conclude that this test is not a valid method for estimating damage to the DCs.
Criteria for the diagnosis of vascular dementia (VaD) that are reliable, valid, and readily applicable in a variety of settings are urgently needed for both clinical and research purposes. To address this need, the Neuroepidemiology Branch of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) convened an International Workshop with support from the Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (AIREN), resulting in research criteria for the diagnosis of VaD. Compared with other current criteria, these guidelines emphasize (1) the heterogeneity of vascular dementia syndromes and pathologic subtypes including ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes, cerebral hypoxic-ischemic events, and senile leukoencephalopathic lesions; (2) the variability in clinical course, which may be static, remitting, or progressive; (3) specific clinical findings early in the course (eg, gait disorder, incontinence, or mood and personality changes) that support a vascular rather than a degenerative cause; (4) the need to establish a temporal relationship between stroke and dementia onset for a secure diagnosis; (5) the importance of brain imaging to support clinical findings; (6) the value of neuropsychological testing to document impairments in multiple cognitive domains; and (7) a protocol for neuropathologic evaluations and correlative studies of clinical, radiologic, and neuropsychological features. These criteria are intended as a guide for case definition in neuroepidemiologic studies, stratified by levels of certainty (definite, probable, and possible). They await testing and validation and will be revised as more information becomes available.
Variation and selection within neural populations play key roles in the development and function of the brain. In this article, I review a population theory of the nervous system aimed at understanding the significance of these processes. Since its original formulation in 1978, considerable evidence has accumulated to support this theory of neuronal group selection. Extensive neural modeling based on the theory has provided useful insights into several outstanding neurobiological problems including those concerned with integration of cortical function, sensorimotor control, and perceptually based behavior.
The evolution of motor nerve degeneration was examined in gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) mutant mice, which develop initial sensory ataxia and subsequent motor paresis. Using the anterior gracilis (AG) muscle, which is innervated at two discrete and well-separated endplate zones, we demonstrated that axonal degeneration occurred first at motor nerve terminals in the distal endplate zone, and then extended gradually from the distal to the more proximal parts of affected axons in the intra-muscular nerve trunk. In contrast to the degeneration in the distal zone, active degeneration was less marked in the proximal endplate zone and, furthermore, most terminal axons had begun to produce regenerating sprouts. Ventral horn cells were histologically normal, even at advanced stages. These results indicate that, as previously observed in sensory nerves, dying back degeneration progresses later in the lower motor neuron system, even within one muscle. The mechanism(s) influencing the activation of axonal regeneration are discussed. This mutant mouse will be a useful model for the study of regenerating phenomena in dying back degeneration of genetically compromised motor neurons, as well as for the study of the pathogenesis of hereditary sensory and motor neuropathies in man.

Effects of the calmodulin inhibitor calmidazolium on stimulation of nitric oxide (NO) release were investigated in neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells. NO release was determined indirectly by measuring cyclic GMP formation. Instead of the expected decrease in NO generation based on the calmodulin dependence of neuronal NO synthase, calmidazoline paradoxically increased cyclic GMP formation. Maximal activation occurred at 3 min and the effects were concentration dependent. This calmidazolium-stimulated NO release was markedly blocked by hemoglobin and N-monomethyl-L-arginine.
Cerebral cortical cells from fetal rats (18 days) were cultured for 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 days in vitro (DIV) and the development of synapses was examined morphologically by electron microscopy. At 3 DIV, no synapses could be recognized. An immature type of synapse was found at 7 DIV which thereafter developed morphologically. The length of the synaptic contact zone (SCZ) increased with DIV from 271 +/- 11.4 nm (mean +/- SEM) at 7 DIV to 410 +/- 11.4 nm at 35 DIV. The number of synaptic vesicles per terminal also increased with DIV: 10.0 +/- 1.2 at 7 DIV, 35.7 +/- 3.4 at 21 DIV, and 53.3 +/- 4.5 at 35 DIV. The time course of numerical density of synapses was examined quantitatively by electron microscopy. Synaptic density was very low at 7 DIV. It was significantly increased at 14 DIV and thereafter showed variable changes. Four culture series showed decreases after 14 DIV, but one series showed a further increase at 21 DIV followed by a decrease at 28 DIV. The mean density of synapses at each DIV was as follows: 1780 +/- 86/10(6) microns3 at 7 DIV, 4244 +/- 595/10(6) microns3 at 14 DIV, 2285 +/- 674/10(6) microns3 at 21 DIV, 2552 +/- 646/10(6) microns3 at 28 DIV, and 2080 +/- 532/10(6) microns3 at 35 DIV. Neuronal cell density was counted in each culture to calculate the relative number of synapses per neuron. The cell density decreased with age from 301 +/- 51/10(6) microns3 at 7 DIV to 39 +/- 9/10(6) microns3 at 35 DIV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied the role of astrocytes in the regulation of ocular dominance plasticity. A small quantity of 10 microM fluorocitrate (0.2 nmol in 20 microliters) was pressure-injected into the visual cortex of 7-9-week-old kittens (subcortical depth: 0-5 mm, 20 microliters/10 min). Immediately after injection, 1 eye contralateral to the injected cortex was closed for 3 days. Single-unit recordings revealed that the proportion of binocular cells was significantly higher in a region close (approximately 1 mm) to the fluorocitrate injection site than that in a remote region (&gt; 4 mm) within the same hemisphere and that in the opposite hemisphere. The results suggest that reduction of glial functions by fluorocitrate retarded the usual process of shift in ocular dominance of visual cells following monocular deprivation.
After labelling with rhodaminated alpha-bungarotoxin, acetylcholine receptors in cutaneous pectoris muscles of normal adult frogs (Rana temporaria) appear as brightly fluorescent straight bars, usually extending over the whole gutter. Here we investigated first whether receptor bars can undergo changes and secondly whether they would provide a structural correlate for the strength of a junction. Bars of low fluorescence intensity, as well as short or discontinuous receptor bars consisting of two or three segments, suggest plasticity at the receptor/active zone level. In order to elucidate this notion, receptor bars were studied at different seasons which have previously been shown to be associated with structural changes. In two groups of frogs kept under laboratory conditions simulating wintertime and summertime, respectively, the length and number of receptor bars and the amount of discontinuous bars were investigated. Synaptic contact length, which is the summed length of labelled synaptic branches, and the number and total length of receptor bars did not differ significantly. A clear difference between Group I (&quot;winter&quot; frogs) and Group II (&quot;summer&quot; frogs) was found in the number of discontinuous bars, which was almost twice as high in Group I compared with Group II (6.4 +/- 3.3% S.D. vs 3.4 +/- 1.3% S.D., n = 8 and 7 muscles, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). In addition, the average length of individual bars was slightly longer in Group I frogs (2.16 +/- 0.7 micron S.D. vs 2.07 +/- 0.12 microns S.D., 0.1 &lt; P &lt; 0.05). Transmitter release has been shown to be different in these two groups--as determined from endplate potential measurements in tubocurarine-containing bathing solutions--although it was equal when measured in low Ca2+/high Mg2+ [Dorlchter M. et al. (1991) Pflgers Arch. 418, Suppl. 1, R31]. We also investigated whether receptor bars would be a reasonable structural correlate of synaptic function by comparing different measures of transmitters release with different structural parameters in 19 identified junctions. The mean quantal content (m) of a junction was positively correlated with the number and total length of receptor bars, but not with synaptic contact area or length. Amplitudes of the first, maximum, and plateau endplate potentials (corrected for a common resting potential and apparent input resistance) at tetanic nerve stimulation (40 Hz for 2 s) in tubocurarine block were strongly correlated with both synaptic contact length and total receptor bar length (r = 0.90 for maximum endplate potential); correlations between m and any structural measure were significantly worse.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Fluorescence imaging of indo-1 loaded cells was used to monitor influx and distribution of Ca2+ in cell bodies, neurites and growth cones of sympathetic neurons cultured from embryonic chick. Similar experiments on release of tritiated noradrenaline were performed to assess the relationship between intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and transmitter release. Effects of Ca2+ channel antagonists on electrically stimulated rise in [Ca2+]i were dependent on the neuronal region examined. Cadmium and verapamil blocked Ca2+ entry in cell bodies but were less effective in neurites and growth cones. Nifedipine partially inhibited Ca2+ entry in cell bodies and was less effective in neurites and growth cones. Combination of cadmium and nifedipine blocked [Ca2+]i rise in all neuronal regions. Omega-conotoxin was an effective Ca2+ channel blocker in all regions. Ca2+ channel blockers had effects on [3H]noradrenaline release which paralleled effects on [Ca2+]i in neurites (and growth cones) but not cell bodies. Cadmium, verapamil and nifedipine each caused a partial, reversible block of the evoked release. Combination of cadmium and nifedipine completely blocked evoked [3H]noradrenaline release. Omega-conotoxin caused complete, irreversible block of electrically evoked release. During prolonged depolarization with 125 mM K+ Krebs solution, elevation of [Ca2+]i was maintained in cell bodies but was transient in neurites and growth cones. The amplitude and time course of [3H]noradrenaline release paralleled [Ca2+]i in neurites and growth cones, but not the cell body under the above conditions. A new method is described to study localized uptake and release of [3H]noradrenaline in cell bodies versus neurites of sympathetic neurons. Incubation of these modified cultures with [3H]noradrenaline showed that cell bodies had very low [3H]noradrenaline uptake (0.23 x 10(-6) c.p.m./mg protein), whereas neurites contained approximately 20 times more radioactivity. Depolarization of neurites by excess K+ and field stimulation caused a large increase in the net release of [3H]noradrenaline. The release was unaffected by removal of cell bodies. Neurites remained functionally viable for more than 2 h after separation from their cell bodies. [3H]Noradrenaline release could be evoked repeatedly over this time. [3H]Noradrenaline release from isolated neurites was partially blocked by nifedipine and fully blocked by combination of cadmium and nifedipine or by omega-conotoxin. The uptake and release of [3H]noradrenaline by neurites alone (expressed per mg protein) accounted for the total [3H]noradrenaline in intact cultures with neurites and cell bodies. Therefore, we conclude that neurites (and growth cones) are the prominent sites of uptake, storage and release of sympathetic transmitter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Microiontophoretic ejection (10-100 nA) of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) into the superior vestibular nucleus induced modifications of the mean firing rate in 87% of the neurons examined. The responses to 5-hydroxytryptamine application were excitatory in 48% of the cells, inhibitory in 29%, and biphasic (inhibitory/excitatory) in the remaining 10%. The excited neurons were scattered throughout the nucleus; the units inhibited or characterized by biphasic responses were distinctly more numerous in the ventrolateral sector of the nucleus. The magnitude of both excitatory and inhibitory effects was dose-dependent. The excitatory responses to 5-hydroxytryptamine were blocked or greatly reduced by two 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonists, methysergide and ketanserin, or even reversed in many cases. Inhibitory responses were enhanced by simultaneous application of 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonists in half of the units studied. In the remaining units, ketanserin left the response unmodified, whereas methysergide reduced but never quite blocked it. The application of 5-methoxy-N,N- dimethyltryptamine, a 5-hydroxytryptamine agonist more effective on 5-hydroxytryptamine1 than on 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors, and of 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propyl-amino) tetralin, a 5-hydroxytryptamine1A-specific agonist, induced a decrease in the firing rate which was unaffected by methysergide. These results support the hypothesis that 5-hydroxytryptamine exerts various functions throughout the superior vestibular nucleus by various receptors and that the inhibitory action is limited to an area of it.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This paper presents results obtained from experiments performed on two behaving monkeys (Macaca mulatta) viewing correlated and uncorrelated dynamic random dot stereograms. Extracellular single unit activity was recorded from areas V1 and V2. We found that cells sensitive to correlated stereograms (38%) were also sensitive to uncorrelated stereograms. Regarding their response to both situations, these cells were grouped into two types. The first type (57%), termed &quot;correlation-sensitive cells&quot;, responded with statistically significant difference to correlated and uncorrelated stereograms. The second type responded equally to both stereograms (43%), and therefore they were termed &quot;correlation-insensitive cells&quot;. Our data suggest that these two types may form two populations with different functions subserving depth perception.
The tuberomammillary nucleus, a cluster of cells in the posterior hypothalamus, is the only known source of brain histamine. Although this nucleus is well described in terms of anatomy and neurochemistry, only little is known about its function. In the present study, the effect of a lesion in the region of this nucleus on intracranial self-stimulation was examined. Rats were implanted bilaterally with stimulating electrodes in the lateral hypothalamus and unilaterally with one lesion electrode in the region of this nucleus. After three days of baseline testing, half of the animals were given an electrolytic lesion. The animals were retested for six consecutive days, and thereafter weekly for another seven weeks. From the second day postlesion on, we unexpectedly found a gradual increase in response rate, which peaked on day 13 in the ipsilateral hemisphere only. Although there was no further increase over subsequent days, response rates remained elevated during the following seven weekly tests. The observed increase in lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation after an electrolytic lesion of the tuberomammillary nucleus is discussed in terms of an inhibitory system, possibly located in the region of this nucleus which, when removed by the lesion, increased reinforcing effects of the electrical brain stimulation. The fact that the effects on self-stimulation were lateralized to one hemisphere rules out an interpretation in terms of unspecific &quot;performance&quot; variables that could influence rate of lever pressing.
Two experiments were conducted to investigate the role of nucleus accumbens dopamine in the performance of a lever press avoidance task in the rat. In this task, 0.5 mA shock was presented for 5 s every 30 s, but the rat could escape shock presentation, or avoid the shock for 30 s, by pressing a lever. In the first experiment, dialysis probes were implanted into the nucleus accumbens of rats previously trained on the avoidance procedure, and also two groups of untrained rats. On the day after dialysis probe implantation, rats trained to press a lever to avoid shock (n = 10) were exposed to a 45 min avoidance test session. Untrained rats were either exposed to periodic shock (n = 9) or the control procedure in which lights were dimmed but no shock was presented (n = 8). Performance of the avoidance task led to significant increases in extracellular dopamine and dopamine metabolites. There was a significant positive correlation between increases in extracellular dopamine and the number of avoidance responses emitted. In the second experiment, groups of rats were trained on the lever press avoidance procedure. After training, rats received intra-accumbens injections of the neurotoxic agent 6-hydroxydopamine or ascorbic acid vehicle. Dopamine depletion produced by 6-hydroxydopamine injection led to a substantial decrease in lever pressing to avoid or escape shock. These results indicate that dopamine in nucleus accumbens is important for operant avoidance responding, and that the involvement of accumbens dopamine in instrumental behavior is not unique to positively reinforced responses.
Binding to adenosine A1 receptors and the status of their coupling to G proteins were studied in the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus of Alzheimer individuals and age-matched controls. The binding to A1 receptors was compared with binding to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex channel-associated sites (labeled with (+)-[3H]5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H- dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate). In vitro quantitative autoradiography demonstrated a similar anatomical distribution of A1 receptors labeled either with an agonist ((-)-[3H]phenylisopropyladenosine) or antagonist ([3H]8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine) in the brains of elderly controls. In Alzheimer patients, significant decreases in the density of both agonist and antagonist binding sites were found in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Decreased A1 agonist binding was also observed in the CA1 stratum oriens and outer layers of the parahippocampal gyrus, while reduced antagonist binding was found in the subiculum and CA3 region. Reduced density of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel sites was found in the CA1 region and parahippocampal gyrus. The reductions in binding to adenosine A1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were due to a decrease in the density of binding sites (Bmax), and not changes in receptor affinity (KD). In both elderly control and Alzheimer subjects, GTP substantially reduced the density of A1 agonist binding sites with a concomitant increase in the KD values, whereas antagonist binding was unaffected by GTP. The results suggest that adenosine A1 receptor agonists and antagonists recognize overlapping populations of binding sites. Reduced density of A1 receptors in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus most probably reflects damage of the perforant path input in Alzheimer's disease, while altered binding in the CA1 and CA3 regions is probably due to loss of intrinsic neurons. Similar effects of GTP on binding to A1 receptors in control and Alzheimer individuals suggest lack of alterations in coupling of A1 receptors to G proteins in Alzheimer's disease, thus supporting the notion of normal receptor coupling to their effector systems in Alzheimer's disease.
Cholinergic neurons in the medial septum/diagonal band complex project to the hippocampus and fascia dentata and establish characteristic types of synapses on a variety of target neurons. At present we do not know the principles that underlie the development of this projection and the formation of the cholinergic synapses. Here we have used co-cultured slices of septum and hippocampus of one- to six-day-old rat pups to study the development of the septohippocampal pathway and the formation of cholinergic synapses on hippocampal target neurons in vitro. Slices of septum and hippocampus were incubated together for 10-46 days applying the roller-tube technique. The fluorescent dye dioctadecyltetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate and histochemical staining for acetylcholinesterase labeled many fibers connecting both explants. Combined light- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry for choline acetyltransferase, the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme, revealed multipolar immunopositive neurons with long aspiny dendrites in the septal culture. Numerous varicose immunoreactive, supposedly cholinergic fibers could be followed from the septal to the hippocampal culture where they ramified and formed a three-dimensional network. As in situ, cholinergic terminals formed characteristic symmetric synapses on cell bodies, spines and, most often, on dendritic shafts of the hippocampal target neurons. No immunoreactive fibers and synapses were observed in single cultures of hippocampus. These results demonstrate that the cholinergic septohippocampal projection develops in vitro and that similar types of cholinergic synapses are established on co-cultured hippocampal target neurons as observed in situ.
Constituent cells of medulloblastoma, the most common brain tumor occurring in childhood, resemble the primitive neuroepithelial cells normally found in the developing nervous system. However, mutational events prevent their further differentiation. We used the human T cell lymphotrophic virus type 1 to activate these deregulated immature cells by means of its transactivating protein Tax. Concomitant with viral infection was a decrease in cell proliferation characterized by inhibition of [3H]thymidine incorporation and in the number of cells in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle. Morphological changes suggested that medulloblastoma cells differentiated along the astrocytic lineage. The glial phenotype was confirmed by the induction of the glial fibrillary acidic protein and the glial enzyme glutamine synthetase. A direct viral effect and/or secondary effects to viral infection via paracrine/autocrine pathways could counterbalance the maturational defect in these medulloblastoma cells.
The potential efficacy of indomethacin (a potent inhibitor of endogenous prostaglandin synthesis) on spinal cord-evoked potentials and edema formation occurring after a focal trauma to the spinal cord was examined in a rat model. The spinal cord evoked potentials were recorded in urethane-anesthetized male rats using monopolar electrodes placed epidurally over the T9 (rostral) and T12 (caudal) segments after stimulation of the ipsilateral right tibial and sural nerves. Reference electrodes were placed in the corresponding paravertebral muscles. The spinal cord evoked potential consisted of a small positive peak followed by a broad and high negative peak. Amplitudes and latencies of the maximal positive peak and the maximal negative peak were measured. The latencies and amplitudes 30 min before injury were used as references (100%). A complete loss was denoted as 0%. All the potentials were quite stable during 30 min of recording before injury. Infliction of trauma to the T10-T11 segments of the spinal cord with a sterile scalpel blade (about 5 mm longitudinal and 2 mm deep incision into the right dorsal horn extending to Rexed's laminae VII) in untreated animals resulted in an immediate depression of the rostral maximal negative peak amplitude (60-100%) which persisted during 5 h of recording. The latencies of the rostral as well as caudal maximal negative and positive peaks increased successively from 2 h post-trauma. In this group of animals, 5 h after injury the spinal cord water content in the traumatized segments was increased by more than 6% as compared with a group of uninjured animals. Pretreatment with indomethacin (10 mg/kg body weight i.p. 30 min before injury) markedly attenuated the immediate decrease in the maximal negative peak amplitude after injury, but did not influence the successive latency increase. However, the increase in the water content of the traumatized cord after 5 h was less pronounced compared with untreated injured rats. Our results show a beneficial effect of indomethacin on trauma-induced spinal cord evoked potential changes and edema formation. Prostaglandins may thus influence early bioelectrical changes occurring in traumatized spinal cord not reported earlier. The findings support the view that early recording of spinal cord evoked potential may be useful to predict the outcome in some forms of spinal cord injuries.
Recent evidence strongly suggests that the hyperalgesia induced by agents acting directly on the primary afferent is mediated by stimulatory G-proteins and the cAMP second messenger system. In this study, we used the Randall-Selitto paw-pressure device to study hyperalgesia that develops in the streptozotocin-diabetic rat. Subcutaneous injection of streptozotocin in male Sprague-Dawley rats induced hyperglycemia and glucosuria detectable within 24 h of injection. A decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold in the hindpaw was detected after one week. Intradermal injection of indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, had no significant effect on nociceptive threshold; and prostaglandin E2, which produces hyperalgesia by a direct action on the primary afferent, decreased nociceptive threshold similarly in streptozotocin-diabetic and control rats. Guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), which blocks stimulatory G-proteins, attenuated the prostaglandin E2-hyperalgesia in both streptozotocin-diabetic and control rats, but had no effect on baseline nociceptive threshold in either group. Intradermal injection of either 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine, an inhibitor of adenylate cyclase, or phosphodiesterase, which degrades cAMP, increased mechanical nociceptive threshold in streptozotocin-diabetic rats whilst not affecting mechanical nociceptive threshold in the control rats. Intradermal injection of 8-bromo cAMP, a membrane-permeable analog of cAMP, produced hyperalgesia of significantly greater magnitude in the streptozotocin-diabetic rats than the control rats. Intradermal injection of N6-cyclopentyl adenosine, an A1-type adenosine agonist, which can activate an inhibitory G-protein and decrease cAMP production, also increased nociceptive thresholds in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. This effect was blocked by pertussis toxin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rat muscle spindles contain one nuclear bag2, one nuclear bag1, and two nuclear chain fibers. The three different types of intrafusal fiber in spindles may be a reflection of concomitant changes in proportions of slow primary, slow/fast secondary, and fast secondary myotubes during the period of spindle development. We examined whether experimentally altering the available muscle substrates would impact the intrafusal fiber type composition of spindles. De novo formation of spindles in muscles devoid of primary myotubes was induced by crushing the nerve to the medial gastrocnemius muscle in newborn rats and administering nerve growth factor for ten days afterwards. Encapsulated fibers of the reinnervated muscles examined one month after nerve crush had myofibrillar adenosine triphosphatase and myosin heavy chain profiles similar to normal bag2, bag1, or chain intrafusal fibers. However, spindles in reinnervated muscles contained fewer fibers than controls. Most experimental spindles contained chain and/or bag1 fibers, the two fiber types which ordinarily arise during secondary myogenesis. In contrast, bag2 fibers, fibers that normally form concomitant with primary myogenesis, were absent from nearly 90% of spindles in reinnervated muscles. The paucity of bag2 fibers may reflect the absence of primary myotubes, whereas the prevalence of chain and/or bag1 fibers may reflect that secondary myotubes or myofibers that descended from the secondary myotubes were the principal muscle substrates available for spindle formation in the nerve-crushed muscles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cytoplasm of the highly polarized nerve cell is permanently segregated into domains with differing organellar composition. The mechanisms maintaining this segregation are largely unknown. In order to elucidate the potential role of cytoskeletal elements in this process we compared the cytoplasmic segregation within the giant electromotoneuron of the electric catfish (Malapterurus electricus) with the distribution of binding sites for antibodies against elements of the cytoskeleton. Most prominent cytoplasmic segregations include the formation of a subplasmalemmal cortical structure free of Nissl bodies and Golgi cisternae, the separation within the soma of domains containing rough endoplasmic reticulum and filament-rich domains, and the soma-axon transition. The cytoplasmic transition at the axon hillock forms a distinct borderline where Nissl bodies, Golgi cisternae and the bulk of lysosomes abruptly terminate and are excluded from the axoplasm. Synaptic vesicles and mitochondria are free to pass compartmental borders. Tropomyosin, spectrin, and alpha-actinin reveal a rather homogeneous immunofluorescence throughout the neuron. In contrast, neurofilament protein and tubulin display a distinctly increased immunofluorescence in the subplasmalemmal cortical layer, in dendrites as well as in the axon. The increase in immunofluorescence at the axon hillock exactly depicts the small transition zone from the somatic cytoplasm rich in Nissl bodies, Golgi cisternae and lysosomes to the differently structured axoplasm. The picture is similar for beta-tubulin, tyrosinylated and detyrosinylated alpha-tubulin. Detyrosinylated tubulin (glu-tubulin, which is contained in microtubules of increased stability) shows the most prominent enrichment in the axon. The distribution of myosin is comparable to that of neurofilament protein but there is less difference in immunofluorescence between the domains. Our results would be compatible with a role of microtubules together with (the closely associated) neurofilaments in the segregation of neuronal cytoplasmic domains. Active transport as well as stable binding to the somatic cytoskeleton might counteract a homogeneous cytoplasmic distribution of the various classes of organelles by diffusion.
We describe two distinct mechanisms for the enhancement of plasma extravasation in the knee joint of the rat. One is activated by bradykinin and is neurogenic; the other is activated by platelet-activating factor and is non-neurogenic. Bradykinin-induced synovial plasma extravasation is known to be dependent on the sympathetic postganglionic neuron terminal, and to involve prostaglandins, ATP, adenosine A2 receptor action, and the attraction and activation of neutrophils. In this study we found that bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation also involves endothelium-derived relaxing factor; specifically we found that bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation was antagonized stereospecifically by the inhibitor of endothelium-derived relaxing factor synthesis, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. Perfused alone, platelet-activating factor produced an increase in synovial plasma extravasation which was markedly reduced by the platelet-activating factor receptor antagonists BN 52021 and WEB 2086 (these antagonists did not affect bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation). Platelet-activating factor-induced plasma extravasation was not affected by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, indomethacin (a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor), phenol 3-(5H-thiozolo[2,3b]quinazolin) (an A2 receptor adenosine antagonist), dextran sulfate (an inhibitor of leukocyte rolling), hydroxyurea (a depletor of leukocytes), chronic sympathectomy or the depletion of unmyelinated afferent fibers. Of note, the magnitude of platelet-activating factor-induced plasma extravasation was increased by co-perfusion with prostaglandin E2 and attenuated by co-perfusion with L-arginine; that is, two of the mediators involved in neurogenic bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation exerted an influence on non-neurogenic plasma extravasation. Separate mechanisms for bradykinin and platelet-activating factor plasma extravasation were further demonstrated in the streptozotocin-treated diabetic rat, in which there is a peripheral neuropathy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Interleukin-1 has been shown to have regulatory effects on glial cell functions. In this study, we examined the capacity of astroglial cells to specifically bind recombinant iodinated human interleukin-1 alpha. This was performed in mouse brain by both in situ and in vitro autoradiography, on areas of gliosis and on astrocytes and microglia primary and secondary cultures respectively. Specific binding was shown in the brain sections over areas of glial proliferation, and in addition, quantitative autoradiography was performed. Analysis of competition experiments by autoradiography led to EC50 values of 5 x 10(-11) M for human interleukin-1 alpha and approximately 10(-9) M for the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. In cultures, iodinated human interleukin-1 alpha bound specifically to astrocytes but was unable to bind to microglial cells. Competition binding experiments in astrocyte cultures led to EC50 values of 8 x 10(-11) M and 1 x 10(-10) M for human interleukin-1 alpha and mouse interleukin-1 beta respectively, and an EC50 higher than 10(-9) M for the antagonist. The presence of interleukin-1 receptors on astroglial cells provides biochemical support for the various effects of interleukin-1 in the central nervous system, particularly those concerning the formation of scar tissue, possibly by astroglia proliferation after brain injury.
The developmental appearance of microglia in the rat olfactory bulb was investigated through the use of selective staining with the B4-isolectin from Griffonia simplicifolia. No changes in the density or distribution of either the spherical, macrophage &quot;ameboid&quot; form or the highly arborized &quot;ramified&quot; variety of microglia were observed in the superficial layers of the bulb between postnatal days 10 and 30. The subependymal zone exhibited the only substantial population of ameboid cells and the only developmental increases in ramified cell density during this time-period. External single naris closure, which enhances cell death in the ipsilateral bulb, did not affect microglia density, presumably due to the unusually high numbers of microglia normally present in the bulb. The olfactory bulb has a dense and relatively uniform population of microglial cells from very early stages of postnatal life, perhaps because of the constant turnover of cells and processes.
The pattern of binding by the isolectin I-B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia to trigeminal ganglion neurons and the trigeminal nucleus caudalis has been investigated at the ultrastructural level in the rat. This lectin bound to small ganglion neurons with two different binding patterns. The majority of the ganglion cells labelled had reaction product throughout their cytoplasm and this was associated with the Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum. In a second group of small ganglion neurons the binding was only found on the surface plasma membrane of the cells. In the trigeminal tract the cytoplasm of many unmyelinated axons and a few small myelinated axons was found to bind this lectin. A very thin band of staining was also found on the inner and outer edges of the myelin sheaths of other myelinated axons. Staining of synapses was found throughout laminae I and II with the highest frequency in the inner part of laminae II. These synapses made both simple and complex connections with one or more dendrites, contained clear round vesicles and had asymmetric synaptic densities. Some of the glomerular synapses stained were observed to receive presynaptic synapses containing small clear flattened vesicles. Synapses containing both clear round and large dense core vesicles were unstained. Some staining was also found in dendrites. In weakly fixed tissue, staining was also found around some glial cells and on the luminal membranes of capillary endothelial cells. This lectin is a valuable tool for studies of the &quot;non-peptide&quot; group of C-fibre primary afferents.
Subcellular localization and in vitro expression of a newly raised monoclonal antibody 374 antigen, which outlines a subset of neurons in various regions of the rat CNS, were studied. Electron microscopy revealed that the immunoreactivity is associated with the outer surfaces of neuronal subsets, the surfaces of glial cell processes facing such neurons and less frequently, with the Golgi apparatus and inner cell surfaces. The monoclonal antibody also stained part of the cytoplasm of a population of dendrites. In order to test whether the antigen originates from neurons, we examined the expression of the antigen in cultured cortical cells. Double immunofluorescence staining with neuron-specific enolase and glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that the antigen is expressed on a subset of neuronal cells and to a lesser extent on glial cells. The antigen is considered to be expressed on the outer surface because the cells were stained by the monoclonal antibody irrespective of whether they were alive or fixed. The monoclonal antibody 374 antigen may be a novel neuronal surface molecule which plays a role in neuron-neuron or glial-neuron interactions in the CNS.
The present work shows that, in rat pial vessels and dura mater, all the nerve fibres observable by confocal fluorescence microscopy belong to the peripheral nervous system. It has been postulated that central nervous structures such as the raphe nuclei and the locus coeruleus could send direct projections to meningeal blood vessels. Mature neurons, whose perikaryons and axons are entirely located within the central nervous system, express the low molecular mass neurofilament protein and not the 57,000 mol. wt intermediate filament protein called &quot;peripherin&quot;. This is the case for both raphe nuclei and locus coeruleus neurons [Leonard et al. (1988) J. Cell Biol. 106, 181-193]. Neurons which send axons outside the central nervous system or ganglionic neurons of the peripheral nervous system systematically express both proteins [Portier et al. (1984) Devl Neurosci. 6, 335-344]. Double labelling of pial vessels and meningeal tissue with antibodies directed against low molecular mass neurofilament and peripherin revealed nerve fibres immunoreactive to both antibodies and no nerve fibres reactive only to the low molecular mass neurofilament antibody. Conversely, cortical nerve fibres were immunoreactive only to the low molecular mass neurofilament antibody. It is thus concluded that the raphe nuclei and the locus coeruleus do not directly innervate meningeal tissues and, therefore, that these nuclei cannot directly intervene in cerebrovascular pathologies such as migraine headache or vasospasm. Secondarily, the present work also allowed for the first time the accurate observation of the spatial organization of the complete cerebrovascular innervation. Three main types of nerves can be defined on a morphological basis. A high proportion of these nerve fibres, either isolated or grouped in bundles, are varicose nerve fibres. Contacts between adjacent varicosities of the same type, which have been occasionally observed by electron microscopy, appear to be a very frequent feature.
Animals were tested for forelimb preference in a grasp or in a force task before microstimulation mapping of the primary motor cortex contralateral to the preferred forelimb. The size and location of the preferred forelimb primary motor cortex representation was determined and ablated. Seven days later, forelimb preference was again evaluated. Reversal of the initial preference after cortical ablation depended on the size of the preferred forelimb primary motor cortex representation. The mean size of the forelimb representation of the animals that immediately reversed forelimb preference after the cortical ablation was significantly smaller than the mean size of the representation of the animals that did not reverse forelimb preference in three consecutive tests seven days after the lesion. In another experiment, the size, location, and threshold currents of the forelimb representations were evaluated bilaterally before the forelimb preference test. The mean size of the preferred representations did not differ from the mean size of the non-preferred representations. However, when the primary motor cortex representation of the preferred forelimb was ablated, reversal of the initial preference depended, as in the previous experiment, on the size of the forelimb representation. In conclusion, reversal of forelimb preference after ablation of the preferred forelimb primary motor cortex representation depends on the size of the forelimb representation. Moreover, forelimb preference in a behavioral task is not associated with a larger forelimb representation in the contralateral primary motor cortex.
To investigate amygdaloid contribution to stimulus-affect association and to emotional behavior, single neuron activity was recorded in the basolateral and corticomedial amygdala of the rat amygdala during discrimination of conditioned cue tones associated with positive (glucose and intracranial self-stimulation) and negative (weak electric footshock) unconditioned stimuli. Amygdaloid neurons that responded to two rewarding unconditioned stimuli responded in the same manner to both. Responses to conditioned cue tones and those to rewards were also significantly related, suggesting that amygdaloid neuronal responses to conditioned stimuli are closely related to the affective nature of the corresponding unconditioned stimulation. These might be neuronal functions that underlie stimulus-affect association in the amygdala. In random repeated trials, including acquisition to conditioned cue tones and extinction after acquisition, response plasticity was more evident in basolateral than in corticomedial neurons. Furthermore, more basolateral than corticomedial neurons differentiated glucose and its cue from intracranial self-stimulation and its cue by responding to one but not the other. More basolateral than corticomedial neurons were excited by intracranial self-stimulation and its cue and inhibited by footshock and its cue. The differences between the two nuclear groups suggest that basolateral neurons are more plastic and discriminative, and corticomedial neurons respond indiscriminately to positive and negative unconditioned or conditioned stimuli. The results indicate amygdaloid neuron involvement in stimulus-affect association. Basolateral neurons may be more involved than corticomedial neurons in discriminating and learning conditioned stimuli.
In our previous work, it has been established that the basolateral amygdala and ventral striatum are part of a neural system that is involved in reward-related processes. However, it is unclear how information processed in this limbic-motor interface may come to affect incentive motivational responses. The present experiments have investigated the involvement of post-striatal elements of the ventral striatopallidal system in the rat. Lesions of the anterior or posterior domains of the ventral pallidum, which receives the major outflow from the ventral striatum, or the nucleus medialis dorsalis of the thalamus, which receives projections from both the ventral pallidum and also the basolateral amygdala, were made by infusing the excitotoxin, ibotenic acid. The effects of the lesions on the acquisition of a place preference conditioned by exposure of hungry rats to sucrose were then measured. Lesions of either the anterior or posterior ventral pallidum significantly attenuated, whereas lesions of the medial dorsal thalamus completely abolished, the acquisition of a conditioned place preference, provided that the latter lesions included the medial-lateral extent of the nucleus. Medial dorsal thalamic lesions did not damage the stria medullaris or medial habenula. Ingestion of sucrose following 23 h deprivation was unaffected by either ventral pallidal or medial dorsal thalamus lesions and thus disruption of place preference acquisition was not secondary to changes in primary motivation. The results indicate that reward-related processes, as measured in the place preference conditioning paradigm, may depend upon ventral striatopallidal outflow that engages medial dorsal thalamus-frontal cortex mechanisms, in addition to the previously highlighted direct outflow to brainstem elements of the motor system.
Marmosets with bilateral ablations of either the lateral or ventral surface of the frontal lobes were found to perseverate on object but not spatial serial reversal. They also perseverated on reversal of a visuospatial task where different stimuli required different spatial responses. No differences were found between the two lesion groups. Since the control animals showed mild perseveration on spatial but not object serial reversal it is argued that frontal ablations do not lead to perseveration of a natural tendency but rather that object and visuospatial perseveration are forms of stimulus-bound behaviour which do not occur when the animal is performing a spatial task in which stimulus position is irrelevant. Perseveration was reduced by pretreatment with a dopamine-blocking drug (haloperidol). It is suggested that information from temporal lobe mechanisms, involved in long-term memory, and from frontal lobe mechanisms, which exert shorter acting influences on behaviour, compete within the basal ganglia to determine stimulus choice. The ascending dopaminergic pathway may modulate the balance between these competing factors.
Normal adult cerebellar Purkinje cells in the rat rarely express low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity. However, intense anti-low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunostaining was observed as early as one day after a lesion of the cerebellar cortex. Low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity was confined to a selected group of Purkinje cells, the number of which reached a maximum at three days postlesion, and, in some neurons, persisted up to 10 days after damage. The intensity of Purkinje cell immunolabeling decayed abruptly with distance from the lesion site. Reactive Purkinje cells exhibited deposition of immunoreaction product in the cell soma, dendrites and axons. Characteristically, most Purkinje cell axons exhibiting intense low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity had beaded, varicose morphology. Varicose fibres with the appearance of recurrent collaterals of Purkinje cell axons were also low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor-positive. Our results indicate that adult rat Purkinje cells increase low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive protein in response to injury, suggesting that, in the cerebellum, low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor or low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor-like molecules may be involved in regulating neuronal plasticity during adulthood.
Quantitative in situ hybridization and northern blot analysis techniques were used to determine the effects of removal of the cholinergic input on levels and topographical distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA in the hippocampus of adult rats. First, the effects of partial and full fimbrial transections, which result in partial and near-total cholinergic deafferentation respectively, were compared. Twenty-one days after partial unilateral fimbrial transections, there were significant decreases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA expression throughout the hippocampal formation. Decreased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA was evident in all areas of localization within the hippocampal formation. The decreases amounted to 22-36% reductions compared with unlesioned control animals. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA levels were decreased to a greater extent (50-69%) following full unilateral fimbrial transections. Quantitative northern blot analysis indicated that hippocampal BDNF mRNA was decreased by 29 and 68%, three weeks after partial or full unilateral fimbrial transections, respectively. The extent of the reductions in brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA levels correlated with reductions in acetylcholinesterase staining density and cholinergic terminal density determined by quantitative autoradiographic analysis of [3H]vesamicol binding sites. Second, we found that chronic treatment with atropine (20 mg/kg per day for 14 days) decreased (by 54%) brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA levels in all areas of localization within the hippocampus. In contrast, chronic treatment with nicotine (1.18 mg/kg per day for 14 days), a treatment known to desensitize nicotinic receptors, did not affect brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA expression in the hippocampal formation. The findings provide evidence for cholinergic muscarinic regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA expression in the adult rat hippocampal formation and they suggest the existence of a tonic stimulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor synthesis by the cholinergic afferents.
We performed experiments in vitro to observe electrophysiological events that may relate to the protective effect of decreased temperature during cerebral ischemia in vivo. Extracellular field potentials were recorded from area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices with reduced oxygen and 2.0 mM D-glucose, producing irreversible changes within c. 10 min (more slowly than with complete deprivation of oxygen and glucose but more rapidly than with hypoxia alone). At 36 degrees C, synaptic potentials rapidly disappeared, followed by a d.c. negative shift similar to spreading depression. Elevated oxygen and glucose were reapplied within 5 min of each negative shift (duration of hypoxia ranged from 15 to 21 min). Application of normal medium for up to 45 min after negative shifts did not allow synaptic potentials to recover. At 33 degrees C negative shifts from reduced oxygen were delayed and excitatory postsynaptic potentials recovered in one experiment. At 31 degrees C negative shifts were usually absent and synaptic potentials always recovered, even with &gt; 50 min of reduced oxygen and glucose. At both 33 degrees C and 31 degrees C, excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude oscillated one or more times, whether or not a negative shift occurred. Our results show that negative shifts and irreversible loss of synaptic activity from hypoxia in vitro are delayed or prevented by decreased temperature.
The messenger RNA expression of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1-4), considered alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid type, was investigated in rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry using oligonucleotide probes specific to each subunit sequence. GluR1-4 subunit messenger RNAs were expressed widely and abundantly throughout the CNS. However, the combination of expression pattern varied notably according to location. GluR2 messenger RNA was expressed most strongly and widely, with most areas except the Bergmann glia containing this messenger RNA. GluR4 messenger RNA was also present widely, although the expression level was low. However, we observed many areas which lacked or expressed very little GluR1 messenger RNA, such as some nuclei in the general motor system and auditory system. In addition, some nuclei in the hypothalamus and general somatosensory system lacked or expressed very little GluR3 messenger RNA. These results suggest that in the rat CNS non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors varied their composition according to the area where they were expressed, and that the combination pattern might be related to the functional role of neurons.
The neurons of the supraoptic nucleus in the rat hypothalamus are reported not to possess receptors for gonadal steroids and sexual dimorphism has not previously been described in this nucleus. We have analysed this nucleus in groups of Sprague-Dawley rats (six males or six females per group), one, two, six, 12 and 18 months after birth. Body and brain weights were recorded, the volume of the nucleus was determined from the right hemisphere and all other quantitative parameters were determined from the left nucleus. In addition, different groups of four male and four female rats aged two and 18 months were analysed after immunocytochemical staining to distinguish between vasopressin and oxytocin neurons. The total number of neurons was constant in all groups studied, despite which the volume of the supraoptic nucleus increased progressively with age in both males and females. The cross-sectional areas and volumes of supraoptic neurons also increased with age. The volume density of the neuropil remained constant in all groups and there was a progressive decrease with age in the numerical density of neurons. Immunocytochemistry revealed that the age-dependent increases in the size of the neurons involved primarily the vasopressin neurons. The age-related changes were much greater in males than in females, resulting in significant differences between the sexes at two, six, 12 and 18 months with respect to the volume of the supraoptic nucleus, the cross-sectional areas of neuronal somata and nuclei, and the volume of supraoptic neurons. Thus the supraoptic nucleus and its vasopressin neurons are larger in adult males than in age-matched females. Since we have also shown that body weight is very closely correlated with changes in the size of supraoptic neurons, and adult male rats are heavier than females of the same age, we suggest that these size changes reflect adaptation of the vasopressin neurons of the supraoptic nucleus to increasing functional demands associated with the regulation of water balance in bodies of increasing size.
Microtubule-associated protein 1B, formerly also known as microtubule-associated protein 5, is the first structural microtubule accessory protein to appear in outgrowing axons. In PC12 pheochromocytoma cells microtubule-associated protein 1B levels increase several-fold after the addition of nerve growth factor and this increase is correlated with the initiation of process formation. To determine whether microtubule-associated protein 1B is essential for neurite outgrowth, we used antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to inhibit its expression in nerve growth factor-treated PC12 cells in the rat. The application of several different antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to the microtubule-associated protein 1B mRNA sequence inhibited both microtubule-associated protein 1B expression and neurite extension. Specificity was shown by the lack of effect of control sense oligonucleotides and by the lack of effect of the microtubule-associated protein 1B antisense oligodeoxynucleotides on the expression of either tubulin or microtubule-associated protein 3, another microtubule-associated protein whose synthesis is stimulated by nerve growth factor treatment of PC12 cells. After removal of the antisense oligodeoxynucleotides, microtubule-associated protein 1B expression recovered to normal levels and the cells grew normal neurites with the timing and morphological characteristics of normal nerve growth factor-induced outgrowth, indicating that the blockade was not because of non-specific toxic effects. These results indicate that microtubule-associated protein 1B is an essential component of the molecular mechanism underlying the formation of neuronal processes.
This study was designed to examine the ability of pertussis toxin to block various responses due to (-)-baclofen in cultured cerebellar granule neurons of the rat. Treatment with pertussis toxin for 3 h markedly reduced the ability of (-)-baclofen to stimulate GTPase in membranes, and its ability to inhibit forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase in intact cells, whereas the ability of (-)-baclofen to inhibit glutamate release was not affected at 3 h, but was abolished after 16 and 48 h treatment with pertussis toxin. The amount of ADP-ribosylation of Gi/Go due to pertussis toxin in intact cells correlated well with the former two effects, but not with the prevention of the ability of baclofen to inhibit glutamate release. Pertussis toxin treatment for up to 48 h did not significantly affect the levels of Gs, Gi and Go in membranes from granule neurons determined by immunoblotting. Pertussis toxin treatment for 16 or 48 h but not 3 h increased the total amount of stimulated release of glutamate by about 40% under normal conditions, and by 84% under depolarizing conditions. In parallel experiments it was observed that pertussis toxin treatment for 16 h increased the number of dihydropyridine binding sites by about 90% on intact granule neurons. Whole-cell calcium channel currents, recorded under several conditions in the cells, were not increased in amplitude by pertussis toxin treatment for up to 48 h, although the ability of baclofen to inhibit calcium channel currents was blocked by pertussis toxin. These results indicate that the pertussis toxin-induced increase in glutamate release may be due to an increase in dihydropyridine binding sites, possibly localized to the presynaptic terminals.
The anteroventral thalamic nucleus is innervated by noradrenergic terminals exclusively originating in the locus coeruleus, a densely packed cell group located in the dorsotegmental part of the pons. In urethane-anaesthetized rats, electrical stimulations of locus coeruleus axons (dorsal noradrenergic bundle; 14 Hz, 20 s) evoked a rapid increase in the signal (catechol oxidation current) measured within the anteroventral thalamic nucleus by the use of carbon fibre electrodes combined with electrochemistry. This effect was reproducible and immediately reversible. Evoked changes in this current were found to be due to oxidation of noradrenaline released from terminals. The amplitude of the evoked noradrenaline release varied non-linearly with the frequency of stimulation. We investigated the influence of locus coeruleus activation on noradrenaline release measured in the anteroventral thalamic nucleus every second by means of differential pulse amperometry: (i) chemical activation of locus coeruleus by local injection of glutamate (0.2-0.8 nmol) immediately and consistently evoked noradrenaline release in a dose-dependent manner; and (ii) peripheral stimulation of the sciatic nerve (20 s)--known to enhance the firing rate of locus coeruleus neurons-evoked a noradrenaline release similar to that produced by a stimulation of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle at 8-10 Hz. Pharmacological and kinetic characteristics of the noradrenaline release were the same for central or peripheral stimulation of locus coeruleus neurons. Our results indicate that in vivo electrochemistry, because of its sensitivity and its high space and time resolution, is well suited for studies of evoked noradrenaline release from locus coeruleus terminals. This approach allowed us to describe the characteristics of central noradrenaline release evoked by central and peripheral stimulations of short duration. In particular, we observed a very close relationship between impulse flow and evoked noradrenaline release.
The effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist quinolinic acid on extracellular levels of striatal amino acids, following its injection directly into the rat striatum, has been investigated using intracerebral dialysis in the attempt to elucidate the cellular mechanisms underlying delayed neurodegeneration. A neurotoxic dose (200 nmol) of quinolinic acid caused an elevation in the levels of aspartate (x 6), glutamate (x 2), asparagine (x 2), serine (x 2.5), glycine (x 3), and threonine (x 2) which peaked in the fractions 20-40 min after the injection and achieved statistical significance for aspartate and asparagine. The dialysate content of these amino acids returned to basal values within 1 h and no further changes were observed in the following 4 h. Injection of an equivalent dose of nicotinic acid did not mimic the effect of quinolinate, indicating that osmotic and/or mechanical damage was not responsible for the observed phenomena. Pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel blocker dizocilpine (MK-801) completely blocked the quinolinate-induced increase of the amino acids, thus confirming that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation is required for this effect to occur. Seven days after the injection of quinolinate, histological analysis showed an extensive loss of neuronal elements in the injected striatum, which was completely prevented in the dizocilpine-treated animals. Sections from striata of animals injected with nicotinic acid showed normal-appearing neurons and no differences were detectable from controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The earliest detection of the proenkephalin gene was on embryonic day 16 in neuronal cell bodies in the ventrolateral portion of the caudal neostriatum. This expression was identified by both immunocytochemistry for synenkephalin, the nonopioid N-terminus of proenkephalin (1-70), and preproenkephalin in situ hybridization with a complementary DNA probe. Two developmental gradients of preproenkephalin expression and synenkephalin immunoreactivity were observed: (i) a ventrolateral to dorsomedial and caudal to rostral gradient in the rostral caudate-putamen; and (ii) a ventromedial to dorsolateral and rostral to caudal gradient in the caudal caudate-putamen. Ventrolateral to dorsomedial and caudal to rostral developmental gradients of synenkephalin fiber immunoreactivity were also identified in the globus pallidus. Methionine enkephalin immunoreactivity was not consistently detectable until postnatal day 10 and 15 in the rostral and caudal globus pallidus, respectively. A transient patchy distribution of increased preproenkephalin expression from embryonic day 20 through postnatal day 5 occurred. These patches and a subcallosal streak were found to overlap partially with areas of increased tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity by adjacent section analyses. The earliest detection of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was found to coincide with that of proenkephalin on embryonic day 16, but in differing regions of the corpus striatum. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the rostral caudate-putamen preceded, while in the caudal caudate-putamen it followed first expression of the proenkephalin gene. Early proenkephalin expression, by both synenkephalin immunocytochemistry and preproenkephalin in situ hybridization, was also detected in the central nucleus of the amygdala on embryonic day 16 immediately ventral to the area of expression in the caudate-putamen. Preproenkephalin expression in the olfactory tubercle and nucleus accumbens first appeared on embryonic day 20 and expression proceeded in a lateral to dorsomedial gradient continuous with the ventral part of the rostral caudal-putamen. Relatively late detection of methionine enkephalin immunoreactivity in comparison to synenkephalin possibly indicates a developmental delay in the complete enzymatic processing of the proenkephalin precursor. Differing gradients in the ontogeny of preproenkephalin expression in the rostral vs the caudal caudate-putamen suggest possible anatomical and developmental differences of these two regions. Also, transient compartmentalization of preproenkephalin expression and differences in dopaminergic innervation as detected by tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity were further support for the existence of two subsets of proenkephalinergic neurons in the caudate-putamen. Contemporaneous development of preproenkephalin expression and synenkephalin immunoreactivity in the central nucleus of the amygdala with the ventral part of the caudal caudate-putamen also suggested developmental homology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Ciliary neurotrophic factor and dopamine were found to enhance the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in cultured neurons from the substantia nigra of 16-day-old rat fetuses. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells decreased progressively to approximately 30% by 96 h. Treatment with 5 microM dopamine maintained the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons at 60% for 48 h, but not for longer. Concurrent treatment with 5 microM dopamine and 20 trophic units/ml ciliary neurotrophic factor had a greater impact on tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells, resulting in the maintenance of 70% of the initial number for up to 72 h, but not beyond that time. When dopamine or dopamine/ciliary neurotrophic factor treatments were applied for 24 h after a 48-h delay, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells was restored to 60 and 80%, respectively, but not restoration was observed with 96-h delayed treatments. These results suggest that dopamine and ciliary neurotrophic factor, alone or in combination, are not able to support the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, but reduce their apparent numerical loss by enhancing the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase. The effects of dopamine, alone or in combination with ciliary neurotrophic factor, were predominantly mediated by D2 receptors, since they were blocked by selective D2 receptor antagonists and since the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole was able to substitute for dopamine. The effects of dopamine and ciliary neurotrophic factor were similar in astroblast-rich and in astroblast-depleted cultures, suggesting that they were not mediated through glial cells. These results extend our previous observations on locus coeruleus cultures, in which the concurrent treatment with ciliary neurotrophic factor and norepinephrine was shown to enhance tyrosine hydroxylase expression (but not survival) of noradrenergic neurons. They also consolidate the view that ciliary neurotrophic factor and the neuron's own transmitter act in convergence and in an autocrine/paracrine mode as regulators of the corresponding neurotransmitter phenotype.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and des(1-3)-insulin-like growth factor-1, a brain specific form of insulin-like growth factor-1, were analysed, in the rat, for their influence on survival, morphological growth, and transmitter-specific differentiation of dopaminergic neurons in vitro. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, des-insulin-like growth factor-1, and basic fibroblast growth factor were found to differentially regulate development of dopaminergic cells. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor stimulated survival, the formation of primary neurites and dopamine uptake activity. des-Insulin-like growth factor-1 was most effective in promoting survival, stimulated dopamine uptake less effectively than brain-derived neurotrophic factor and did not alter the morphology of dopaminergic cells. Basic fibroblast growth factor produced comparatively mild increases in survival and dopamine uptake, and slightly reduced neurite growth of the cells. None of the factors stimulated the expression of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene. These findings suggest that (i) effective growth factors may stimulate different, but partially overlapping, molecular pathways during developmental differentiation, (ii) none of the factors stimulates dopaminergic cell differentiation comparable to the pronounced trophic action of nerve growth factor on peripheral sympathetic or basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, and (iii) localization and effects of none of the factors are compatible with a role as target-derived survival-regulating neurotrophic factor.
Using optical imaging, the effects of excitatory amino acids and their antagonists on the spatial pattern of activity evoked by the stimulation of parallel fibers in the cerebellar cortex of the anesthetized rat were examined. A vermal folium was stained with the stryrl voltage-sensitive dye RH-795 and imaged with a cooled charge-coupled service system during the activation of the parallel fibers with surface stimulation. Stimulation of the cerebellar cortex produced discrete &quot;beams&quot; of optical activity consistent with extracellular field recordings. The signal-to-noise ratio was excellent (&gt; 10:1), reducing the number of stimuli, exposure time, and acquisition time needed to produce images. Extracellular field potential recordings were used to assay neuronal activity as well as the effects of the various excitatory amino acid agonists. Application of several glutamate receptor antagonists reversibly blocked the optical signals as well as the synaptic components of the extracellular field potentials. Neither N-methyl-D-aspartate nor its antagonist, (+/-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid, had any affect on the optical signals or field potentials. These results indicate that the optical signal is not due to the evoked parallel fiber activity, but is generated mainly by postsynaptic targets and the parallel fiber synaptic action is primarily mediated by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Other excitatory amino acid agonists had a differential effect on the optical response. Glutamate and kainate increased the &quot;on beam&quot; optical signal evoked by parallel fiber stimulation, in amplitude and width. In contrast, quisqualate always decreased the amplitude and width of the optical beam. Also, quisqualate produced an increase in fluorescence lateral to the optical beam, possibly due to an increase in &quot;off beam&quot; inhibitory activity. The changes in the extracellular field potentials were in agreement with the effects on the optical signals. Two possible mechanisms are proposed to account for the inhibitory effect of quisqualate. One is that quisqualate desensitizes Purkinje cell receptors, the other is that inhibitory interneurons in the cerebellar cortex are more preferentially excited with quisqualate application which in turn inhibits Purkinje cells both &quot;on beam&quot; and &quot;off beam&quot;. In conclusion, voltage-sensitive dye optical signals evoked by stimulation of the cerebellar surface were imaged at high signal-to-noise levels using a cooled charge-coupled device system. Use of excitatory amino acid agonists and antagonists demonstrated that the optical signal was dependent on postsynaptic activity and confirmed that the parallel fiber postsynaptic action is primarily mediated by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Pharmacological and biochemical evidence implicate the Ca2+ and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C in long-term potentiation. The in vitro hippocampal slice preparation was used to demonstrate redistribution of protein kinase C from cytosol to membrane and protein kinase C-dependent phosphorylation of the presynaptic growth-associated protein-43 substrate following long-term potentiation induction in area CA1. Protein kinase C translocation was assessed using both quantitative immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody recognizing a common epitope in the alpha and beta isoforms of protein kinase C and Ca2+ and phospholipid-dependent phosphorylation of exogenous histone substrate. Slices examined 5 min after tetanus-induced spike potentiation showed no change in protein kinase C redistribution, whereas slices examined at 15-, 30- and 60-min intervals all showed a similar degree of protein kinase C translocation to membrane, although only at 15 min was the effect statistically significant. Additionally, an increase in protein kinase C-dependent growth-associated protein 43 phosphorylation was observed 10 min after high-frequency stimulation. The translocation of protein kinase C and phosphorylation of growth-associated protein 43 were dependent upon high-frequency (repetitive 400 Hz) afferent stimulation, as no effects were observed in slices receiving low-frequency (1 Hz) or no stimulation. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM), inhibited induction of long-term potentiation, redistribution of protein kinase C and phosphorylation of growth-associated protein 43. A significant redistribution of the predominantly presynaptic protein kinase C isoform, protein kinase C-alpha, was also detected 15 min after induction of long-term potentiation using an alpha-isoform-specific monoclonal antibody. These observations support a presynaptic role for protein kinase C and growth-associated protein 43 in the early maintenance phase of LTP, and further suggest that a retrograde messenger produced postsynaptically following N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation mediates these effects.
To examine the mechanisms underlying chronic epileptiform activity, field potentials were first recorded to identify hyperexcitable hippocampal slices from kainic acid-treated rats. Intracellular recordings were then obtained from CA1 pyramidal cells in the hyperexcitable areas. Twenty-two of the 47 cells responded to electrical stimulation of the stratum radiatum with a burst of two or more action potentials and reduced early inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, and were considered hyperexcitable. The remaining 25 cells were not hyperexcitable, displaying a single action potential and biphasic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials after stimulation, like control cells (n = 20). A long duration, voltage-sensitive component was associated with subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the majority of hyperexcitable (12/15) and non-hyperexcitable (3/5) cells examined from kainic acid-treated animals, but not from cells (1/10) of control animals. Stimulation of stratum radiatum during pharmacological blockade of ionotropic excitatory amino acid synaptic transmission elicited biphasic monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in all hyperexcitable (n = 9) and non-hyperexcitable (n = 9) cells tested from kainate-treated animals, as well as in control cells (n = 8). The mean amplitude, latency to peak, equilibrium potential, and conductance changes of early and late monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were not different between cells of kainic acid-treated and control animals. In seven hyperexcitable cells tested, the early component of monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was significantly reduced by the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (100-200 microM). The late component was significantly decreased by the GABAB receptor antagonist 2-hydroxysaclofen (1-2 mM; n = 3). Comparable effects were observed on early and late monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in non-hyperexcitable cells (n = 4) from kainic acid-treated animals and control cells (n = 5). These results suggest that GABAergic synapses on hyperexcitable hippocampal pyramidal cells of kainate-treated rats are intact and functional. Therefore, epileptiform activity in the kainate-lesioned hippocampus may not arise from a disconnection of GABAergic synapses made by inhibitory interneurons on pyramidal cells. The hyperexcitability may be due to underactivation of inhibitory interneurons and/or reorganization of excitatory inputs to pyramidal cells since, in kainate-treated animals, pyramidal cells appear to express additional excitatory mechanisms.
