Jaw muscle spindle afferents (JMSA) in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Vme) project to the parvocellular reticular nucleus (PCRt) and dorsomedial spinal trigeminal nucleus (dm-Vsp). A number of premotor neurons that project to the trigeminal motor nucleus (Vmo), facial nucleus (VII) and hypoglossal nucleus (XII) are also located in the PCRt and dm-Vsp. In this study, we examined whether these premotor neurons serve as common relay pool for relaying JMSA to multiple orofacial motoneurons. JMSA inputs to the PCRt and dm-Vsp neurons were verified by recording extracellular responses to electrical stimulation of the caudal Vme or masseter nerve, mechanical stimulation of jaw muscles and jaw opening. After recording, biocytin in recording electrode was inotophorized into recording sites. Biocytin-Iabeled fibers traveled to the Vmo, VII, XII, and the nucleus ambiguus (Amb). Labeled boutons were seen in close apposition with Nissl-stained motoneurons in the Vmo, VII, XII and Amb. In addition, an anterograde tracer (biotinylated dextran amine) was iontophorized into the caudal Vme, and a retrograde tracer (Cholera toxin B subunit) was delivered into either the VII or Xll to identify VII and XII premotor neurons that receive JMSA input. Contacts between labeled Vme neuronal boutons and premotor neurons were observed in the PCRt and adjacent dm-Vsp. Confocal microscopic observations confirmed close contacts between Vme boutons and VII and XII premotor neurons. This study provides evidence that JMSA may coordinate activities of multiple orofacial motor nuclei, including Vmo, VII, XII and Amb in the brainstem via a common premotor neuron pool.
The current study investigated the time course of the implicit processing of erotic stimuli using event-related potentials (ERPs). ERPs elicited by erotic pictures were compared with those by three other types of pictures: non-erotic positive, negative, and neutral pictures. We observed that erotic pictures evoked enhanced neural responses compared with other pictures at both early (P2/N2) and late (P3/positive slow wave) temporal stages. These results suggested that erotic pictures selectively captured individuals' attention at early stages and evoked deeper processing at late stages. More importantly, the amplitudes of P2, N2, and P3 only discriminated between erotic and non-erotic (i.e., positive, neutral, and negative) pictures. That is, no difference was revealed among non-erotic pictures, although these pictures differed in both valence and arousal. Thus, our results suggest that the erotic picture processing is beyond the valence and arousal.
Speech recognition in a multi-talker situation poses high demands on attentional and other central resources. This study examines the relationship between age, cognition and speech recognition in tasks that require selective or divided attention in a multi-talker setting. Two groups of normal-hearing adults (one younger and one older group) were asked to repeat utterances from either one or two concurrent speakers. Cognitive abilities were then inspected by neuropsychological tests. Speech recognition scores approached its ceiling and did not significantly differ between age groups for tasks that demanded selective attention. However, when divided attention was required, performance in older listeners was reduced as compared to the younger group. When selective attention was required, speech recognition was strongly related to working memory skills, as determined by a regression model. In comparison, speech recognition for tests requiring divided attention could be more strongly determined by neuropsychological probes of fluid intelligence. The findings of this study indicate that - apart from hearing impairment - cognitive aspects account for the typical difficulties of older listeners in a multi-speaker setting. Our results are discussed in the context of evidence showing that frontal lobe functions in terms of working memory and fluid intelligence generally decline with age.
High-mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1) has cytokine activities and mediates systemic inflammation as well as immune responses. The aim of this study was to determine if plasma HMGB1 level can be used as a marker for neuromyelitis optica (NMO) and to differentiate NMO from multiple sclerosis (MS). We measured plasma levels of HMGB1, tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), interferon- (IFN-), and interleukin 17 (IL-17) in 29 patients with NMO and 20 patients with MS at enrollment and at 2years follow-up (at the time of definitive diagnosis) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Plasma HMGB1 level was significantly greater in the NMO group compared to the MS group (P&lt;0.001). Plasma levels of TNF-, IFN-, and IL-17 were significantly greater in the NMO group compared to the MS group, and HMGB1 level was positively correlated with TNF-, IFN-, and IL-17 levels. Univariate logistic regression analysis showed a significant association of HMGB1 level, and IFN- level with NMO diagnosis. Although this study included a limited sample size, we attempted to determine an optimized cutoff point for HMGB1 (2 ng/ml), which provided 89.7% sensitivity and 95.0% specificity for the diagnosis of NMO. These results indicate that plasma HMGB1 level might serve as a surrogate marker for NMO disease activity and aid in the differentiation of NMO from MS at the early disease stage.
Opiates disrupt neural functions in many brain areas, including visual cortex. Previous studies have indicated substantial changes of many neuronal response properties induced by chronic morphine exposure in the visual information processing system. However, it remains unclear whether neuronal contrast coding is also affected. To investigate this issue, we measured the contrast response functions (CRFs) of V1 neurons in chronic morphine-treated and saline-treated cats by using extra-cellular single-unit recording techniques. Our results indicated significantly lower contrast sensitivity in morphine-treated cats than in saline-treated cats and V1 neurons in morphine-treated cats exhibited enhanced maximum visual responses, higher baseline responses and lower signal-to-noise ratios compared with saline-treated cats. These findings provide some neurobiological evidence for the morphine-mediated degenerations of the visual cortex, which could underlie the opiate-induced deficits in visual function.
The present study examined the antihyperalgesic effect of a specific inhibitor of Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 (GSK3), AR-A014418, on the partial ligation of the sciatic nerve (PSNL), a neuropathic pain model in mice and investigated some mechanisms of action. AR-A014418 (0.01-1 mg/kg) administered by intraperitoneal route (i.p.) inhibited mechanical hyperalgesia. This action started 30 min after i.p. administration and remained significant up to 2 h. When administered daily for 5 days, AR-A014418 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced the mechanical hyperalgesia caused by PSNL. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) treatment with AR-A014418 (0.3 mg/kg) also significantly inhibited cold hyperalgesia induced by PSNL. Pre-administration of PCPA (100 mg/kg, i.p., inhibitor of serotonin synthesis) and AMPT (100 mg/kg, i.p., inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase), but not l-arginine (600 mg/kg, i.p., a nitric oxide precursor), significantly reduced the mechanical hyperalgesia elicited by AR-A014418. Furthermore, the administration of AR-A014418 significantly prevented the increase of TNF- (inhibition of 768%) and IL-1 (inhibition of 6210%), but did not alter lumbar spinal cord IL1-ra and IL-10 levels. Finally, intraperitoneal administration of AR-A014418 did not affect locomotor activity in the open-field test. Taken together, these results provide experimental evidence indicating that AR-A014418 produces marked antihyperalgesic effects in neuropathic pain in mice, possibly due to mechanisms that reduce proinflammatory cytokines, as well as increases in serotonergic and catecholaminergic pathways. The present study suggests that GSK3 may be a novel pharmacological target for the treatment of neuropathic pain and AR-A014418 might be a potential molecule of interest for chronic pain relief.
The aim of the present work was to evaluate the potential activity of -lactoalbumin (ALAC), a whey protein rich in tryptophan (TRP), in two rodent models of epileptogenesis and we explored a possible mechanism of action. The effects of ALAC (oral administration) were tested in two standard epileptogenesis protocols, namely the pilocarpine post-status epilepticus model in mice and the WAG/Rij rat model of absence epileptogenesis. The mechanism of action was investigated by assessing the effects of ALAC in two seizure models (N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) -induced seizures) including d-serine co-administration. ALAC showed protecting properties in both models of epileptogenesis, reducing spontaneous seizures development. In acute seizure models, ALAC possessed antiseizure properties at some of the doses tested (PTZ-seizures: &gt;50% seizure-reduction between 250 and 375 mg/kg; NMDA-seizures: &gt;90% reduction at 250 and 500 mg/kg). When a dose of d-serine ineffective per se was co-administered with ALAC, ALAC effects were significantly reversed in both models. ALAC is active in experimental models of seizure and epileptogenesis. Its effects are likely mediated by the inhibition of NMDA receptors at the glycine binding site, possibly secondarily to the in vivo enzymatic conversion of ALAC-generated tryptophan to kynurenic acid. However, other mechanisms of action contributing to ALAC effects cannot be excluded.
Cell proliferation, differentiation and cell death are considered key players for brain plasticity mechanisms that underlie sex specific phenotypes in brain and behavior. Well-documented examples of sex-specific neurogenesis are the avian song system telencephalic areas and the mammalian hippocampus. The present study questioned whether sex difference in cell proliferation represents a conserved feature of adult brain plasticity, using the neurogenetic model organism zebrafish (Danio rerio). For this, active cycling progenitors were determined by means of 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry, in adult male and female zebrafish forebrain proliferation zones. In addition, apoptotic figures were measured using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling method. Short-term survival experiments showed that the medial zone of dorsal telencephalic area (Dm) the ventral part of periventricular pretectal nucleus (PPv) and the periventricular nucleus of posterior tuberculum, exhibited higher levels of cycling cells in females, while the dorsal zone of periventricular hypothalamus displayed higher density of mitotically active cells in males. Apoptotic figures were present in all major proliferation zones, but did not differ between sexes. However, apoptotic figures paralleled the density of dividing cells, suggesting a close relationship of cell birth and cell death. Interestingly, in long-term survival experiments, sex differences were preserved in the long-lasting BrdU cells within the telencephalic Dm (homologous to mammalian amygdala), and the diencephalic PPv, areas that have a role in emotional behavior and endocrine regulation. The present data suggest that sex-specific patterns of proliferating progenitors may represent an important mechanism for the development of sex differences of adult brain.
During and following pregnancy, women are at considerable risk of experiencing depression. For treatment, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor drugs, such as fluoxetine, are commonly prescribed, yet the potential effects of perinatal exposure to these drugs on the brain and behaviour have not been examined in humans beyond childhood. This is despite abundant evidence from studies using rodents indicating that altered serotonin levels early in life affect neurodevelopment and behavioural outcomes. These reported effects on behaviour are inconsistent, however, and the testing of females has often been overlooked. In the present study, the behavioural outcomes of female mice perinatally (embryonic day 15 to postnatal day 12) treated with fluoxetine (25mg/kg/day) via a non-stressful method of maternal administration were assessed using a battery of tests. Maternal treatment resulted in subtle alterations in anxiety-like and depression-like behaviour in early adulthood, with a decrease in both types of behaviour as well as body weight. Though altered anxiety and depression have previously been reported in this area of research, decreased anxiety is a novel finding. While there was little effect of perinatal maternal fluoxetine treatment on many of the behaviours assessed, the capacity to alter &quot;emotional&quot; behaviours in mice has implications with regard to research on human infant fluoxetine exposure.
Axonal organizations with specific patterns underlie the functioning of local intracortical circuitry, but their precise anatomy and development still remain elusive. Here, we selectively visualized layer 2/3 neurons using in utero electroporation and examined their axonal organization in the barrel cortex contralateral to the electroporated side. We found that callosal axons run preferentially in septal regions of layer 4 and showed a whisker-related pattern in the contralateral barrel cortex in rats and mice. In addition, presynaptic marker proteins were found in this whisker-related axonal organization. Although the whisker-related patterns were observed in both the ipsilateral and contralateral barrel cortex, we found a difference in their developmental processes. While the formation of the whisker-related pattern in the ipsilateral cortex consisted of two distinct steps, that in the contralateral cortex did not have the 1st step, in which the axons were diffusely distributed without preference to septal or barrel regions. We also found that these more diffuse axons ran close to radial glial fibers. Together, our results uncovered a whisker-related axonal pattern of callosal axons and two independent developmental processes involved in the formation of the axonal trajectories of layer 2/3 neurons.
Previous studies demonstrated that exendin-4 (Ex-4) may possess neurotrophic and neuroprotective functions in ischemia insults, but its mechanism remained unknown. Here, by using real-time PCR and ELISA, we identified the distribution of active GLP-1Rs in the rat primary cortical neurons. After establishment of an in vitro ischemia model by oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD), neurons were treated with various dosages of Ex-4. The MTT assay showed that the relative survival rate increased with the dosage of Ex-4 ranging from 0.2 to 0.8 g/ml (P&lt;0.001, vs. OGD group). The apoptosis rate was reduced from (49.472.70)% to (14.610.81)% after Ex-4 treatment (0.4 g/ml) 12h after OGD (P&lt;0.001). Moreover, immunofluorescence staining indicated that Ex-4 increased glucose-regulated proteins 78 (GRP78) and reduced C/EBP-homologous protein (CHOP). Western blot analysis demonstrated that, after neurons were treated with Ex-4, GRP78 was up-regulated over time (P&lt;0.01, vs. OGD group), while CHOP levels rose to a peak 8h after OGD and then decreased (P&lt;0.05, vs. OGD group). This effect was changed by both the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89 (P&lt;0.01, P&lt;0.05, respectively, vs. Ex-4 group) and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002 (P&lt;0.01, P&lt;0.01, respectively, vs. Ex-4 group) but not by the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor U0126. Our study also revealed that, compared with the Ex-4 group, inhibition of the PKA signaling pathway significantly decreased the survival rate of neurons, down-regulated the expression of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and up-regulated the Bax expression 3h after ODG (P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01, respectively), while neither PI3K nor MAPK inhibition exerted such effects. Furthermore, Western blotting exhibited that PKA expression was elevated in the presence or absence of OGD insults (P&lt;0.05). This study indicated that Ex-4 protected neurons against OGD by modulating the unfolded protein response (UPR) through the PKA pathway and may serve as a novel therapeutic agent for stroke.
D-Dopachrome tautomerase is an enzyme related by amino acid sequence and catalytic activity to macrophage migration inhibitory factor. Both of these small molecules are pro-inflammatory cytokines mediating broad innate immune responses. Although it is well established that the gene product of D-dopachrome tautomerase is widely expressed in liver and kidney cells, no study has mapped the distribution pattern of this tautomeric enzyme in the mammalian nervous system. Here, we address this void by characterizing the cellular localization of D-dopachrome tautomerase in the adult mouse brain. Two well-characterized polyclonal antibodies were used for Western blotting and immunohistochemical localization of the endogenous tautomeric enzyme. Our results show that D-dopachrome tautomerase is present throughout the brain parenchyma with a large fraction of heterogeneous interneurons harboring a stable and robust expression of the enzyme. These data point to a potential involvement of D-dopachrome tautomerase activity in the mature mouse brain, and suggest some functional and evolutionary relationship between innate immunity and tautomerization of D-dopachrome in mammalian species.
Overexpression of pruritogens and their precursors may contribute to the sensitization of histamine-dependent and -independent itch-signaling pathways in chronic itch. We presently investigated self- and cross-sensitization of scratching behavior elicited by various pruritogens, and their effects on primary sensory neurons. The MrgprC11 agonist BAM8-22 exhibited self- and reciprocal cross-sensitization of scratching evoked by the protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2) agonist SLIGRL. The MrgprA3 agonist chloroquine unidirectionally cross-sensitized BAM8-22-evoked scratching. Histamine unidirectionally cross-sensitized scratching evoked by chloroquine and BAM8-22. SLIGRL unidirectionally cross-sensitized scratching evoked by chloroquine. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells responded to various combinations of pruritogens and algogens. Neither chloroquine, BAM8-22 nor histamine had any effect on responses of DRG cell responses to subsequently applied pruritogens, implying that their behavioral self- and cross-sensitization effects are mediated indirectly. SLIGRL unilaterally cross-sensitized responses of DRG cells to chloroquine and BAM8-22, consistent with the behavioral data. These results indicate that unidirectional cross-sensitization of histamine-independent itch-signaling pathways might occur at a peripheral site through PAR-2. PAR-2 expressed in pruriceptive nerve endings is a potential target to reduce sensitization associated with chronic itch.
The irreversible receptor antagonist N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) has been used to study the ontogeny of dopamine (DA) receptor functioning in young and adult rats. Most notably, systemic administration of EEDQ blocks the DA agonist-induced behaviors of adult rats, while leaving the behavior of preweanling rats unaffected. The purpose of the present study was to: (a) determine whether the age-dependent actions of EEDQ involve receptors located in the dorsal caudate-putamen (CPu) and (b) confirm that EEDQ's behavioral effects result from the inactivation of DA receptors rather than some other receptor type. In Experiment 1, EEDQ or DMSO was bilaterally infused into the CPu on PD 17 or PD 84. After 24h, rats were given bilateral microinjections of the full DA agonist R(-)-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) or vehicle into the dorsal CPu and behavior was assessed for 40 min. In Experiment 2, preweanling rats were treated as just described, except that DA receptors were protected from EEDQ-induced alkylation by administering systemic injections of D1 (SCH23390) and D2 (sulpiride) receptor antagonists. As predicted, microinjecting EEDQ into the dorsal CPu attenuated the NPA-induced locomotor activity and stereotypy of adult rats. In contrast, rats given bilateral EEDQ infusions on PD 17 exhibited a potentiated locomotor response when treated with NPA. Experiment 2 showed that DA receptor inactivation was responsible for NPA's actions. A likely explanation for these results is that EEDQ inactivates a sizable percentage of DA receptors on PD 17, but leaves the remaining receptors in a supersensitive state. This receptor supersensitivity, which probably involves alterations in G protein coupling, could account for NPA-induced locomotor potentiation. It is likely that adult rats to not show a similar EEDQ-induced change in receptor dynamics or DA receptor inactivation was more complete in older animals and effectively eliminated the expression of DA agonist-induced behaviors.
The phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are a superfamily of enzymes that regulate spatio-temporal signaling by the intracellular second messengers cAMP and cGMP. PDE2A is expressed at high levels in the mammalian brain. To advance our understanding of the role of this enzyme in regulation of neuronal signaling, we here describe the distribution of PDE2A in the rat brain. PDE2A mRNA was prominently expressed in glutamatergic pyramidal cells in cortex, and in pyramidal and dentate granule cells in the hippocampus. Protein concentrated in the axons and nerve terminals of these neurons; staining was markedly weaker in the cell bodies and proximal dendrites. In addition, in both hippocampus and cortex, small populations of non-pyramidal cells, presumed to be interneurons, were strongly immunoreactive. PDE2A mRNA was expressed in medium spiny neurons in neostriatum. Little immunoreactivity was observed in cell bodies, whereas dense immunoreactivity was found in the axon tracts of these neurons and their terminal regions in globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata. Immunostaining was dense in the medial habenula, but weak in other diencephalic regions. In midbrain and hindbrain, immunostaining was restricted to discrete regions of the neuropil or clusters of cell bodies. These results suggest that PDE2A may modulate cortical, hippocampal and striatal networks at several levels. Preferential distribution of PDE2A into axons and terminals of the principal neurons suggests roles in regulation of axonal excitability or transmitter release. The enzyme is also in forebrain interneurons, and in mid- and hindbrain neurons that may modulate forebrain networks and circuits.
Hypoxia evokes a regulated decrease in the body core temperature, which response is mediated, at least in part, by noradrenaline (NA) and nitric oxide (NO) in the rostromedial preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus. In the accompanying paper, it was shown that glutamatergic activation of the lateral POA also evokes hypothermic responses. Here, I tested the hypothesis that the glutamatergic transmission in the lateral POA is critically involved in the neural mechanism of hypoxia-induced hypothermia. Hypoxic ventilation (10% O(2)-90% N(2), 5 min) as well as a single microinjection of NA (50 pmol) or the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (8.4 nmol) into the rostromedial POA evoked an increase in the tail skin temperature and a decrease in the colonic temperature in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized, neuromuscularly blocked, artificially ventilated rats. All of these responses were greatly attenuated by pretreatment with multiple microinjections of kynurenic acid (10 nmol, four locations), a nonselective glutamate receptor antagonist, but not by those with saline solution, in the bilateral rostral and central parts of the lateral POA. These results suggest that the NA- and NO-sensitive structure in the rostromedial POA activated the glutamatergic transmission in the lateral POA to mediate hypoxia-induced hypothermia.
In mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) pretreatment with progesterone improves clinical signs and decreases the loss of myelin basic protein (MBP) and proteolipid protein (PLP) measured by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Presently, we analyzed if progesterone effects in the spinal cord of EAE mice involved the decreased transcription of local inflammatory mediators and the increased transcription of myelin proteins and myelin transcription factors. C57Bl/6 female mice were divided into controls, EAE and EAE receiving progesterone (100mg implant) 7 days before EAE induction. Tissues were collected on day 17 post-immunization. Real time PCR technology demonstrated that progesterone blocked the EAE-induced increase of the proinflammatory mediators tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) and its receptor TNFR1, the microglial marker CD11b and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mRNAs, and increased mRNA expression of PLP and MBP, the myelin transcription factors NKx2.2 and Olig1 and enhanced CC1+oligodendrocyte density respect of untreated EAE mice. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated decreased Iba1+microglial cells. Confocal microscopy demonstrated that TNF colocalized with glial-fibrillary acidic protein+astrocytes and OX-42+microglial cells. Therefore, progesterone treatment improved the clinical signs of EAE, decreased inflammatory glial reactivity and increased myelination. Data suggest that progesterone neuroprotection involves the modulation of transcriptional events in the spinal cord of EAE mice.
The fatal neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterised by loss of motoneurons of the brainstem and spinal cord, and corticospinal neurons of the motor cortex. There is also increasing evidence of involvement of glial cells and interneurons, with non-cell autonomous disease mechanisms now thought to contribute to motoneuron degeneration in ALS. Given the apparent involvement of altered motoneuron excitability in ALS and the recent demonstration that motoneuron excitability is controlled by C-boutons, a specific class of synaptic input recently shown to originate from a small cluster of spinal interneurons, we hypothesised that perturbations in C-bouton inputs to motoneurons may contribute to altered excitability and the eventual degeneration of motoneurons in ALS. To begin to assess this we performed a detailed, developmental study of the anatomy of C-boutons in a mouse model of ALS (G93A SOD1 mutant). We found that C-bouton number is unchanged in ALS mice compared to wildtype littermates at any age. In contrast, we found that the size of C-boutons increases in ALS mice between postnatal day (P)8 and P30, with boutons remaining larger throughout symptomatic stages (P120-P140). Interestingly, we found that C-boutons are only enlarged in male mice. We found no evidence of concomitant changes in clusters of postsynaptic proteins known to align with C-boutons (Kv2.1 K(+) channels and m(2)-type muscarinic receptors). In conclusion, these data support the involvement of pre-symptomatic changes in C-bouton anatomy in ALS pathogenesis and in particular mechanisms underlying the male bias of this disease.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS) on hemichannel pannexin-1 (PX1) in cortical neurons and neural plasticity, and explore the optimal time window of TDCS therapy after stroke. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=90) were randomly assigned to sham operation, middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), and TDCS groups, and underwent sham operation, unilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA) electrocoagulation, and unilateral MCA electrocoagulation plus TDCS (daily anodal and cathodal 10 Hz, 0.1 mA TDCS for 30 min beginning day 1 after stroke), respectively. Motor function was assessed using the beam walking test (BWT), and density of dendritic spines (DS) and PX1 mRNA expression were compared among groups on days 3, 7, and 14 after stroke. Effects of PX1 blockage on DS in hippocampal neurons after hypoxia-ischemia were observed. TDCS significantly improved motor function on days 7 and 14 after stroke as indicated by reduced BWT scores compared with the MCAO group. The density of DS was decreased after stroke; the TDCS group had increased DS density compared with the MCAO group on days 3, 7, and 14 (all P&lt;0.0001). Cerebral infarction induced increased PX1 mRNA expression on days 3, 7, and 14 (P&lt;0.0001), and the peak PX1 mRNA expression was observed on day 7. TDCS did not decrease the up-regulated PX1 mRNA expression after stroke on day 3, but did reduce the increased post-stroke PX1 mRNA expression on days 7 and 14 (P&lt;0.0001). TDCS increased the DS density after stroke, indicating that it may promote neural plasticity after stroke. TDCS intervention from day 7 to day 14 after stroke demonstrated motor function improvement and can down-regulate the elevated PX1 mRNA expression after stroke.
Naringenin is a flavone flavonoid possessing antidiabetic, antioxidant and memory improving effects. Therefore, we studied the influence of naringenin against type-2 diabetes-induced memory dysfunction in rats. Type-2 diabetes was induced by high-fat diet and high-fat emulsion for two weeks and a low dose of streptozotocin (35 mg/kg). The memory deficit was assessed by using a novel object recognition paradigm. The changes in oxidative markers and cholinesterase (ChE) levels were evaluated in the hippocampal region. After confirmation of diabetes, naringenin (50mg/kg) treatment was given to animals as a preventive and in another set of experiments naringenin (25 and 50mg/kg) or pioglitazone (5mg/kg) or donepezil (3mg/kg) treatments were started after long-standing diabetes (4 weeks after confirmation). Both the treatment schedules show significant protection and improvement in cognitive behavior against diabetes-induced memory dysfunction and biochemical changes. Also, treatment with pioglitazone and donepezil improved memory performance in rats. Naringenin was found to decrease oxidative stress by depleting elevated lipid peroxide and nitric oxide and elevating reduced glutathione levels. Cholinergic function was improved by naringenin through the inhibition of elevated ChE activity. In conclusion, the present study suggests that naringenin acts as an antioxidant and ChE inhibitor against type-2 diabetes-induced memory dysfunction.
The Reelin-signaling pathway regulates neuronal positioning during embryonic development. Reelin, the extracellular matrix protein missing in reeler mutants, is secreted by neurons in laminae I, II and V, binds to Vldl and Apoer2 receptors on nearby neurons, and tyrosine phosphorylates the adaptor protein Disabled-1 (Dab1), which activates downstream signaling. We previously reported that reeler and dab1 mutants had significantly reduced mechanical and increased heat nociception. Here we extend our analysis to chemical, visceral, and cold pain and importantly, used Fos expression to relate positioning errors in mutant mouse dorsal horn to changes in neuronal activity. We found that noxious mechanical stimulation-induced Fos expression is reduced in reeler and dab1 laminae I-II, compared to wild-type mice. Additionally, mutants had fewer Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the lateral-reticulated area of the deep dorsal horn than wild-type mice, a finding that correlates with a 50% reduction and subsequent mispositioning of the large Dab1-positive cells in the mutant lateral-reticulated area. Furthermore, several of these Dab1 cells expressed Fos in wild-type mice but rarely in reeler mutants. By contrast, paralleling the behavioral observations, noxious heat stimulation evoked significantly greater Fos expression in laminae I-II of reeler and dab1 mutants. We then used the formalin test to show that chemical nociception is reduced in reeler and dab1 mutants and that there is a corresponding decrease in formalin-induced Fos expression. Finally, neither visceral pain nor cold-pain sensitivity differed between wild-type and mutant mice. As differences in the nociceptor distribution within reeler and dab1 mutant dorsal horn were not detected, these differential effects observed on distinct pain modalities suggest that dorsal horn circuits are organized along modality-specific lines.
The development of tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of morphine has been associated with networks within ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) and separately, nitric oxide signaling. Furthermore, it is known that the mechanisms that underlie tolerance differ with age. In this study, we used a rat model of antinociceptive tolerance to morphine at two ages, postnatal day (PD) 7 and adult, to determine if changes in the vlPAG related to nitric oxide signaling produced by chronic morphine exposure were age-dependent. Three pharmacological groups were analyzed: control, acute morphine, and chronic morphine group. Either morphine (10mg/kg) or equal volume of normal saline was given subcutaneously twice daily for 6 days. Animals were analyzed for morphine dose-response using Hot Plate test. The expression of several genes associated with nitric oxide metabolism was evaluated using rtPCR. In addition, the effect of morphine exposure on immunohistochemistry for Fos, and nNOS as well as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) reaction at the vlPAG were measured. In both age groups acute morphine activated Fos in the vlPAG, and this effect was attenuated by chronic morphine, specifically in the vlPAG at the level of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDTg). In adults, but not PD7 rats, chronic morphine administration was associated with activation of nitric oxide function. In contrast, changes in the gene expression of PD7 rats suggested superoxide and peroxide metabolisms may be engaged. These data indicate that there is supraspinal neuroplasticity following morphine administration as early as PD7. Furthermore, oxidative stress pathways associated with chronic morphine exposure appear age-specific.
Spinocerebellar tract neurons are inhibited by various sources of input via pathways activated by descending tracts as well as peripheral afferents. Inhibition may be used to modulate transmission of excitatory information forwarded to the cerebellum. However it may also provide information on the degree of inhibition of motoneurons and on the operation of inhibitory premotor neurons. Our aim was to extend previous comparisons of morphological substrates of excitation of spinocerebellar neurons to inhibitory input. Contacts formed by inhibitory axon terminals were characterised as either GABAergic, glycinergic or both GABAergic/glycinergic by using antibodies against vesicular GABA transporter, glutamic acid decarboxylase and gephyrin. Quantitative analysis revealed the presence of much higher proportions of inhibitory contacts when compared with excitatory contacts on spinal border (SB) neurons. However similar proportions of inhibitory and excitatory contacts were associated with ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) and dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons located in Clarke's column (ccDSCT) and the dorsal horn (dhDSCT). In all of the cells, the majority of inhibitory terminals were glycinergic. The density of contacts was higher on somata and proximal versus distal dendrites of SB and VSCT neurons but more evenly distributed in ccDSCT and dhDSCT neurons. Variations in the density and distribution of inhibitory contacts found in this study may reflect differences in information on inhibitory processes forwarded by subtypes of spinocerebellar tract neurons to the cerebellum.
Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS), synthetic testosterone derivatives that are used for ergogenic purposes, alter neurotransmission and behaviors mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Some of these effects may reflect direct and rapid action of these synthetic steroids at the receptor. The ability of other natural allosteric steroid modulators to alter GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents is dependent upon the phosphorylation state of the receptor complex. Here we show that phosphorylation of the GABA(A) receptor complex immunoprecipitated by (2)/(3) subunit-specific antibodies from the medial preoptic area (mPOA) of the mouse varies across the estrous cycle; with levels being significantly lower in estrus. Acute exposure to the AAS, 17-methyltestosterone (17-MeT), had no effect on the amplitude or kinetics of inhibitory postsynaptic currents in the mPOA of estrous mice when phosphorylation was low, but increased the amplitude of these currents from mice in diestrus, when it was high. Inclusion of the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, calphostin, in the recording pipette eliminated the ability of 17-MeT to enhance currents from diestrous animals, suggesting that PKC-receptor phosphorylation is critical for the allosteric modulation elicited by AAS during this phase. In addition, a single injection of 17-MeT was found to impair an mPOA-mediated behavior (nest building) in diestrus, but not in estrus. PKC is known to target specific serine residues in the (3) subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. Although phosphorylation of these (3) serine residues showed a similar profile across the cycle, as did phosphoserine in mPOA lysates immunoprecipitated with 2/3 antibody (lower in estrus than in diestrus or proestrus), the differences were not significant. These data suggest that the phosphorylation state of the receptor complex regulates both the ability of AAS to modulate receptor function in the mPOA and the expression of a simple mPOA-dependent behavior through a PKC-dependent mechanism that involves the (3) subunit and other sites within the GABA(A) receptor complex.
A growing body of evidence suggests the involvement of L-arginine and its metabolites in the ageing and neurodegenerative processes. The present study assessed behavioural performance in 4- (young), 12- (middle-aged) and 24- (aged) month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats, and investigated age-related changes in the activity of two key arginine metabolic enzymes, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and arginase, and the levels of L-arginine and its downstream metabolites in a number of memory-related brain structures. Aged rats were less anxious and performed poorly in the water maze task relative to the young and middle-aged rats, and both middle-aged and aged rats displayed reduced exploratory activity relative to the young ones. There were significant age-related changes in NOS and arginase activities, and the levels of L-arginine, L-citrulline, L-ornithine, agmatine, putrescine, spermidine, spermine and glutamate, but not -aminobutyric acid, in the CA1, CA2/3 and dentate gyrus sub-regions of the hippocampus and the prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal, postrhinal and temporal (an auditory cortex) cortices in a region-specific manner. Cluster analyses revealed that the nine related neurochemical variables formed distinct groups, which changed as a function of ageing. Multiple regression analyses revealed a number of significant correlations between the neurochemical and behavioural variables. The present study further supports the involvement of arginine metabolism in the ageing process, and provides further evidence of the effects of animals' behavioural experience on arginine metabolism.
The amygdala has a fundamental role in driving affective behaviors in response to sensory cues. To accomplish this, neurons of the lateral nucleus (LAT) must integrate a large number of synaptic inputs. A wide range of factors influence synaptic integration, including membrane potential, voltage-gated ion channels and GABAergic inhibition. However, little is known about how these factors modulate integration of synaptic inputs in LAT neurons in vivo. The purpose of this study was to determine the voltage-dependent factors that modify in vivo integration of synaptic inputs in the soma of LAT neurons. In vivo intracellular recordings from anesthetized rats were used to measure post-synaptic potentials (PSPs) and clusters of PSPs across a range of membrane potentials. These studies found that the relationship between membrane potential and PSP clusters was sublinear, due to a reduction of cluster amplitude and area at depolarized membrane potentials. In combination with intracellular delivery of pharmacological agents, it was found that the voltage-dependent suppression of PSP clusters was sensitive to tetraethylammonium (TEA), but not cesium or a blocker of fast GABAergic inhibition. These findings indicate that integration of PSPs in LAT neurons in vivo is strongly modified by somatic membrane potential, likely through voltage-dependent TEA-sensitive potassium channels. Conditions that lead to a shift in membrane potential, or a modulation of the number or function of these ion channels will lead to a more uniform capacity for integration across voltages, and perhaps greatly facilitate amygdala-dependent behaviors.
Thalamic cell activity is under a significant influence of inhibition from the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) that is composed of domains connected with first and higher order thalamic nuclei, which are thought to subserve transmission of sensory inputs to the cortex and cortico-thalamo-cortical transmission of cortical outputs, respectively. Provided that TRN cells have distinct activities along with their projections to first and higher order thalamic nuclei, TRN cells could shape cell activities of the two thalamic nuclei in different manners for the distinct functions. In anesthetized rats, visual response and spontaneous activity were recorded from TRN cells projecting to the dorsal lateral geniculate (first order) and lateral posterior (higher order) nuclei (TRN-DLG and TRN-LP cells), using juxta-cellular recording and labeling techniques. TRN-DLG cells had a higher propensity for burst spiking and exhibited bursts of larger numbers of spikes with shorter inter-spike intervals as compared to TRN-LP cells in both visual response and spontaneous activity. Sustained effects of visual input on burst spiking were recognized in recurrent activation of TRN-DLG but not of TRN-LP cells. Further, the features of burst spiking were related with the locations of topographically connected cell bodies and terminal fields. The difference in burst spiking contrasts with the difference between thalamic cells in the DLG and LP, which show low and high levels of burst spiking, respectively. The synergy between thalamic and TRN cell activities with their contrasting features of burst spiking may compose distinctive sensory processing and attentional gating functions of geniculate and extra-geniculate systems.
The blood-brain barrier is a restrictive interface between the brain parenchyma and the intravascular compartment. Tight junctions contribute to the integrity of the blood-brain barrier. Hypoxic-ischemic damage to the blood-brain barrier could be an important component of fetal brain injury. We hypothesized that increases in blood-brain barrier permeability after ischemia depend upon the duration of reperfusion and that decreases in tight junction proteins are associated with the ischemia-related impairment in blood-brain barrier function in the fetus. Blood-brain barrier function was quantified with the blood-to-brain transfer constant (K(i)) and tight junction proteins by Western immunoblot in fetal sheep at 127 days of gestation without ischemia, and 4, 24, or 48 h after ischemia. The largest increase in K(i) (P&lt;0.05) was 4 h after ischemia. Occludin and claudin-5 expressions decreased at 4 h, but returned toward control levels 24 and 48 h after ischemia. Zonula occludens-1 and -2 decreased after ischemia. Inverse correlations between K(i) and tight junction proteins suggest that the decreases in tight junction proteins contribute to impaired blood-brain barrier function after ischemia. We conclude that impaired blood-brain barrier function is an important component of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in the fetus, and that increases in quantitatively measured barrier permeability (K(i)) change as a function of the duration of reperfusion after ischemia. The largest increase in permeability occurs 4 h after ischemia and blood-brain barrier function improves early after injury because the blood-brain barrier is less permeable 24 and 48 than 4 h after ischemia. Changes in the tight junction molecular composition are associated with increases in blood-brain barrier permeability after ischemia.
Very recently, we have reported that the modulatory effect of PVN on gastric acid secretion may be mediated through the orexin fibers and/or orexin-responsive neurons. In this study, we address the hypothesis which demonstrates the existence of a putative orexin A - neuropeptide Y Y1/Y5 receptors interaction to increase gastric acid secretion in pyloric-ligated conscious rats. Male Wistar rats were implanted with guide canula directed to the PVN and lateral ventricle. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) microinjections of GR-231118 (Y1 receptor antagonist) and CGP-71683 (Y5 receptor antagonist) on gastric acid secretion were considered. The effect of pretreatment with Y1 receptor antagonist, GR-231118, and Y5 receptor antagonist, CGP-71683, on PVN orexin A-induced acid secretion was assessed. Gastric acid secretion was measured using the pylorus-ligation method, and the amount of gastric acid was determined by titration with 0.01N NaOH to a pH of 7.0. Key results: ICV microinjections of GR-231118 and CGP-71683 decreased acid secretion by 250.05% and 670.02%, respectively. ICV microinjections of GR-231118 and CGP-71683 inhibited effects of PVN-injected orexin-A on acid secretion. We suggest that Y1 and Y5 receptors stimulate gastric acid secretion and the stimulatory effect of PVN orexin receptors on gastric acid secretion may be mediated via interactions, at least in part, through activation of Y1 and Y5 receptors. These neural pathways may play key roles in the orexinergic action of orexins in the cephalic phase of gastric acid secretion.
A salient feature of the developing brain is that spontaneous oscillations (SOs) and waves may influence the emergence of synaptic connections. While GABA produces depolarization and may support SOs in the neurons of developing rodents, it elicits hyperpolarization and diminishes SOs in developing gerbil auditory cortex (ACx). Therefore, we asked whether SOs exist in developing gerbil ACx in vivo and if GABAergic involvement can be manipulated. In vivo extracellular recordings in P3-5 ACx revealed SOs with longer burst durations and shorter inter-event intervals compared to ACx SOs in slices. ACx was then validated by gross anatomical features and lesions created at the in vivo recording site that corresponded with the electrophysiological coordinates of thalamorecipient ACx in slices. Further, NeuroVue Red, a lipophilic dye loaded at the in vivo recording sites, stained anatomically identifiable fiber tracks between the ACx and the auditory thalamus, medial geniculate body (MG). Separately, to chronically perturb GABAergic role in SOs, P2-5 pups were administered daily with GABA(A) receptor blocker, bicuculline (BIC). We then recorded from P14-17 ACx neurons in slices generated after hearing onset. ACx neurons from BIC-administered pups exhibited spontaneous action potentials in contrast to subthreshold synaptic potentials in neurons from sham-injected animals. Finally, to elucidate whether the gap junction blocker mefloquine (MFQ) previously shown to dampen ACx SOs in slices affected GABAergic transmission, MFQ was acutely applied in P3-5 slices while spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) were recorded. Whereas MFQ increased the amplitude and frequency of sIPSCs in ACx neurons, the broad-spectrum gap junction blocker carbenoxolone decreased sIPSC amplitudes only. Together, we show that P2-5 gerbil ACx can endogenously generate SOs in vivo. Persistence of activity in ACx in P14-17 slices from pups administered with BIC at P2-5 implies that inhibitory GABAergic activity linked with gap-junction participates in the maturation of ACx.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a serine/threonine kinase that has been implicated in psychiatric diseases, neurodevelopment, and circadian regulation. Both GSK3 isoforms,  and , exhibit a 24-h variation of inhibitory phosphorylation within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the primary circadian pacemaker. We examined the hypothesis that rhythmic GSK3 activity is critical for robust circadian rhythmicity using GSK3(21A/21A)/(9A/9A) knock-in mice with serine-alanine substitutions at the inhibitory phosphorylation sites, making both forms constitutively active. We monitored wheel-running locomotor activity of GSK3 knock-in mice and used loose-patch electrophysiology to examine the effect of chronic GSK3 activity on circadian behavior and SCN neuronal activity. Double transgenic GSK3/ knock-in mice exhibit disrupted behavioral rhythmicity, including significantly decreased rhythmic amplitude, lengthened active period, and increased activity bouts per day. This behavioral disruption was dependent on chronic activation of both GSK3 isoforms and was not seen in single transgenic GSK3 or GSK3 knock-in mice. Underlying the behavioral changes, SCN neurons from double transgenic GSK3/ knock-in mice exhibited significantly higher spike rates during the subjective night compared to those from wild-type controls, with no differences detected during the subjective day. These results suggest that constitutive activation of GSK3 results in the loss of the typical day/night variation of SCN neuronal activity. Together, these results implicate GSK3 activity as a critical regulator of circadian behavior and neurophysiological rhythms. Because GSK3 has been implicated in numerous pathologies, understanding how GSK3 modulates circadian rhythms and neurophysiological activity may lead to novel therapeutics for pathological disorders and circadian rhythm dysfunction.
Glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity has been purported to underlie many neurodegenerative disorders. A subtype of glutamate receptors, namely N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, has been recognized as potential targets for neuroprotection. To increase our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie this neuroprotection, we employed a mouse model of glutamate receptor-induced excitotoxic injury. Primary cortical neurons derived from postnatal day-0 CD-1 mice were cultured in the presence or absence of neuroprotective molecules and exposed to NMDA. Following a recovery period, whole genome expression was measured by microarray analysis. We used a combination of database and text mining, as well as systems modeling to identify signatures within the differentially expressed genes. While molecules differed in their mechanisms of action, we found significant overlap in the expression of a core group of genes and pathways. Many of these molecules have clear links to neuronal protection and survival, including ion channels, transporters, as well as signaling pathways including the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), the Toll-like receptor (TLR), and the hypoxic inducible factor (HIF). Within the TLR pathway, we also discovered a significant enrichment of interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7)-regulated genes. Knockdown of Irf7 by RNA interference resulted in reduced survival following NMDA treatment. Given the prominent role that IRF7 plays in the transduction of type-I interferons (IFNs), we also tested whether type-I IFNs alone functioned as neuroprotective agents and found that type-I IFNs were sufficient to promote neuronal survival. Our data suggest that the TLR/IRF7/IFN axis plays a significant role in recovery from glutamate-induced excitotoxicity.
Adolescence is a critical developmental stage of life during which the prefrontal cortex (PFC) matures, and binge drinking and alcohol abuse are common. Recent studies have found that ethanol increases neuroinflammation via upregulated high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) signaling through Toll-like receptors (TLRs). HMGB1/TLR 'danger signaling' induces multiple brain innate immune genes that could alter brain function. To determine whether adolescent binge drinking persistently increases innate immune gene expression in the PFC, rats (P25-P55) were exposed to adolescent intermittent ethanol (AIE [5.0 g/kg, 2-day on/2-day off schedule]). On P56, HMGB1/TLR danger signaling was assessed using immunohistochemistry (i.e., +immunoreactivity [+IR]). In a separate group of subjects, spatial and reversal learning on the Barnes maze was assessed in early adulthood (P64-P75), and HMGB1/TLR danger signaling was measured using immunohistochemistry for +IR and RT-PCR for mRNA in adulthood (P80). Immunohistochemical assessment at P56 and 24 days later at P80 revealed increased frontal cortical HMGB1, TLR4, and TLR3 in the AIE-treated rats. Adolescent intermittent ethanol treatment did not alter adult spatial learning on the Barnes maze, but did cause reversal learning deficits and increased perseverative behavior. Barnes maze deficits correlated with the expression of danger signal receptors in the PFC. Taken together, these findings provide evidence that adolescent binge drinking leads to persistent upregulation of innate immune danger signaling in the adult PFC that correlates with adult neurocognitive dysfunction.
Neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are critical in the rewarding and reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse. Desensitization of VTA neurons to moderate extracellular concentrations of dopamine (DA) is dependent on protein kinase C (PKC) and intracellular calcium levels. This desensitization is called DA inhibition reversal, as it requires concurrent activation of D2 and D1-like receptors; activation of D2 receptors alone does not result in desensitization. Activation of other G-protein-linked receptors can substitute for D1 activation. Like D2 receptors, GABA(B) receptors in the VTA are coupled to G-protein-linked potassium channels. In the present study, we examined interactions between a GABA(B) agonist, baclofen, and dopamine agonists, dopamine and quinpirole, to determine whether there was some interaction in the processes of desensitization of GABA(B) and D2 responses. Long-duration administration of baclofen alone produced reversal of the baclofen-induced inhibition indicative of desensitization, and this desensitization persisted for at least 60 min after baclofen washout. Desensitization to baclofen was dependent on PKC. Dopamine inhibition was reduced for 30 min after baclofen-induced desensitization and conversely, the magnitude of baclofen inhibition was reduced for 30 min by long-duration application of dopamine, but not quinpirole. These results indicate that D2 and GABA(B) receptors share some PKC-dependent mechanisms of receptor desensitization.
The anterior and rostral paracapsular intercalated islands (AIC and PIC, respectively) were studied in the context of the amygdaloid modulation of fear/anxiety using horizontal sections. The structural analysis carried out using silver-impregnated specimens revealed that the AIC is composed of tightly packed, medium-sized spiny neurons with distinct dendritic and axonal patterns that send projecting axons to the central nucleus of the amygdala. The AIC occupies a strategic position between the basolateral amygdaloid complex and the caudal limb of the anterior commissure from which it receives fibers en passage and axon terminals. Electron microscopic observation of terminal (i.e., synaptic) degeneration 72 h after the surgical interruption of the anterior commissure, confirms the synaptic interaction between the latter and the AIC neurons. These observations suggest that these islands may gate the activity of neurons from the contralateral basal forebrain and synchronize the anxiogenic output of both amygdalae. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that, within the AIC and rostral PIC, the distance between tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals and the punctate dopamine D(1) receptor immunoreactivity, was in the micrometer range. These results indicate a short distance and a rapid extrasynaptic form of dopamine volume transmission mediated via D(1) receptors in the AIC and PIC which may enhance fear and anxiety by suppressing feed-forward inhibition in the basolateral and central amygdaloid nuclei. The strong suggestion for a commissural axon projection to the AIC documented here, coupled with the previous evidences indicting an isocortical and amygdalar contributions to the anterior commissure, opens the possibility that the AIC may be involved in decoding nerve impulses arising from both the ipsi- and contra-lateral forebrain to, in turn, modulate the homolateral amygdala.
In mammals, neurogenesis and oligodendrogenesis are germinal processes that occur in the adult brain throughout life. The subventricular zone (SVZ) and subgranular zone (SGZ) are the main neurogenic regions in the adult brain. Therein, resides a subpopulation of astrocytes that act as neural stem cells (NSCs). Increasing evidence indicates that pro-inflammatory and other immunological mediators are important regulators of neural precursors into the SVZ and the SGZ. There are a number of inflammatory cytokines that regulate the function of NSCs. Some of the most studied include: interleukin-1, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, insulin-like growth factor-1, growth-regulated oncogene-alpha, leukemia inhibitory factor, cardiotrophin-1, ciliary neurotrophic factor, interferon-gamma, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha. This plethora of immunological mediators can control the migration, proliferation, quiescence, cell-fate choices and survival of NSCs and their progeny. Thus, systemic or local inflammatory processes represent important regulators of germinal niches in the adult brain. In this review, we summarized the current evidence regarding the effects of pro-inflammatory cytokines involved in the regulation of adult NSCs under in vitro and in vivo conditions. Additionally, we described the role of proinflammatory cytokines in neurodegenerative diseases and some therapeutical approaches for the immunomodulation of neural progenitor cells.
Chronic stress is a precipitating factor for affective disorders such as depression and anxiety. This is associated with the effects of chronic stress on the amygdala. Adolescents may be more vulnerable to the effects of chronic stress, which may be related to its impact on amygdala function. However, the stress-induced changes in amygdala neuronal activity, and the age-dependent impact of chronic stress on amygdala neuronal activity have not been studied in depth. In this study, we investigated how repeated restraint impacts basolateral amygdala (BLA) projection neuron activity in both adolescent and adult rats. Using in vivo extracellular recordings from anesthetized rats, we found that repeated restraint increased the number of spontaneously firing neurons in the BLA of adolescent rats, but did not significantly increase the firing rate. In contrast, repeated restraint increased the firing rate of BLA neurons in adult rats, but did not change the number of spontaneously firing neurons. This is the first direct evidence of how stress differently impacts amygdala physiology in adolescent and adult rats. These findings may shed light on the mechanism by which chronic stress may age-dependently precipitate psychiatric disorders.
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by bryostatin-1 affects various functions of the central nervous system. We explored whether bryostatin-1 influenced synaptic plasticity via a process involving PKC. Our purpose was to examine whether bryostatin-1 affected the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in Schaffer-collateral fibers (CA1 fibers) of the hippocampus, and/or influenced the intracellular Ca(2+) level of hippocampal neurons. We also determined the PKC isoforms involved in these processes. We found that bryostatin-1 strongly facilitated LTP induction, in a dose-dependent manner, upon single-theta burst stimulation (TBS). Further, intracellular Ca(2+) levels also increased with increasing concentration of bryostatin-1. The facilitative effects of bryostatin-1 in terms of LTP induction and enhancement of intracellular Ca(2+) levels were blocked by specific inhibitors of PKC and PKC, but not of PKC. Our results suggest that bryostatin-1 is involved in neuronal functioning and facilitates induction of LTP via activation of PKC and/or PKC.
Spreading depolarizations are accompanied by transient changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF). In a post hoc analysis of previously studied control rats we analyzed CBF time courses after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat in order to test whether intra-ischemic flow, reperfusion, and different parameters of peri-infarct flow transients (PIFTs) (amplitude, number) can predict outcome. Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with either halothane (n=23) or isoflurane (n=32) underwent 90-min filament occlusion of the middle cerebral artery followed by 72 h of reperfusion. The infarct size was determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. Relative CBF changes were monitored by laser Doppler flowmetry at 4-5 mm lateral, and 1-2mm posterior to Bregma. An additional filament occlusion study (n=12) was performed to validate that PIFTs were coupled to direct current shifts of spreading depolarization. The PIFT-direct current shift study revealed that every PIFT was associated with a negative direct current shift typical of spreading depolarization. Post-hoc analysis showed that the number of PIFTs, especially with the combination of intra-ischemic level of flow, can predict the development of cortical infarcts. These findings show that PIFTs can serve as an early biomarker in predicting outcome in preclinical animal studies.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the thermoregulatory effects of neuronal activation with sodium L-glutamate (glutamate) in the preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus and to examine its possible interaction with the thermogenic effects of GABA and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)). Unilateral microinjection of glutamate (5 nmol) into the lateral POA or its vicinity elicited a prompt increase in tail skin temperature and simultaneous decreases in the O(2) consumption rate (VO(2)), heart rate, and colonic temperature in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized rats. A central subpopulation of these sites at around the level of bregma was also responsive to the thermogenic and tachycardic effects of GABA (30 nmol). Although the microinjection of GABA into nearby sites elicited no direct effect, it greatly attenuated the hypothermic effects of glutamate subsequently administered to the same site. These results suggest that activation of the lateral POA elicited heat-loss responses and that its central part provided a tonic inhibitory drive toward heat production and tail vasoconstriction. On the other hand, the microinjection of glutamate elicited initial small decreases and subsequent large increases in VO(2) and heart rate in the rostromedial POA. However, no thermoregulatory response was elicited by the microinjection of glutamate at sites where the microinjection of PGE(2) (35 fmol) elicited thermogenic, tachycardic and hyperthermic responses. These results may suggest that the rostromedial POA contained two glutamate-responsive cell groups that had opposite influences on thermoregulation and that the locus that was highly sensitive to the thermogenic effect of PGE(2) was unreactive to glutamate. Collectively, activation of neurons in the lateral POA and rostromedial POA evoked distinct thermoregulatory responses.
S100A6 (calcyclin), an EF-hand calcium binding protein, is considered to exert various functions, e.g., cell proliferation and differentiation, calcium homeostasis, and neuronal degeneration. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether S100A6 might be linked to glutamate toxicity using three animal models and pharmacological interventions. We first examined the age-related changes in S100A6 immunoreactivity in the mouse hippocampus, considering that an important negative aspect of brain aging is linked to increased extracellular glutamate. The surface area of S100A6-positive (+) astrocytes was significantly larger in aged mice than in young mice, while the numbers of S100+ astrocytes did not change with age. In the second experiment, we examined the alterations in S100A6 immunoreactivity in the injured hypoglossal nucleus, because glutamate toxicity is considered to contribute to neuronal death after axotomy. There was no apparent S100A6 immunoreactivity in the hypoglossal nucleus of sham control animals. However, intense labeling for S100A6 in activated astrocytes was observed in the axotomized hypoglossal nucleus of mice. Administration of ceftriaxone, an astrocyte glutamate transporter enhancer, to axotomized mice significantly decreased the immunoreactivity for S100A6. In the third experiment, we tested an animal model of epilepsy using kainic acid (KA), a glutamate analog. In the mouse hippocampus after KA injection, S100A6 immunoreactivity was significantly increased in astrocytes, and pyknotic changes were observed in CA3 pyramidal neurons. Treatment of MK-801, an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, counteracted the KA-induced increase in S100A6 immunoreactivity, and reduced the numbers of pyknotic neurons. Our results indicate that upregulation of astrocytic S100A6 in response to extracellular glutamate may be involved in neuronal damage under pathophysiological conditions.
Exercise can exert beneficial effects on cognitive functions of older subjects and it can also play an important role in the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases. At the same time it is perceivable that limited information is available on the nature of molecular pathways supporting the antioxidant effects of exercise in the brain. In this study 12-month old, middle-aged female Wistar rats were subjected to daily moderate intensity exercise on a rodent treadmill for a period of 15weeks which covered the early aging period unmasking already some aging-related molecular disturbances. The levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), the amount of protein carbonyls, the levels of antioxidant intracellular enzymes superoxide dismutases (SOD-1, SOD-2) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were determined in the hippocampus. In addition, to identify the molecular pathways that may be involved in ROS metabolism and mitochondrial biogenesis, the activation of 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), the protein level of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1) and mitochondrial transcription factor A (mtTFA) were measured. Our results revealed a lower level of ROS associated with a reduced amount of protein carbonyls in the hippocampus of physically trained rats compared to sedentary controls. Furthermore, exercise induced an up-regulation of SOD-1 and GPx enzymes, p-AMPK and PGC-1, that can be related to an improved redox balance in the hippocampus. These results suggest that long-term physical exercise can comprises antioxidant properties and by this way protect neurons against oxidative stress at the early stage of aging.
Regulation of dendritically localized mRNAs offers an important means by which neurons can sculpt precise signals at synapses. Arc is one such dendritically localized mRNA, and it has been shown to contain two exon-junction complexes (EJCs) within its 3'UTR. The EJC has been postulated to regulate cytoplasmic Arc mRNA availability through translation-dependent decay and thus contribute to synaptic plasticity. Core proteins of the EJC include eIF4A3, an RNA helicase, and Magoh, which stabilizes the interaction of eIF4A3 with target mRNAs. Arc mRNA expression is activity-regulated in numerous brain regions, including the dorsal striatum and hippocampus. Therefore in this study, the in vivo expression of these core EJC components was investigated in adult Sprague-Dawley rats to determine whether there are also behaviorally regulated changes in their expression. In the present work, there was no change in the expression of Magoh mRNA following spatial exploration, a paradigm previously reported to robustly and reliably upregulate Arc mRNA expression. Interestingly, however, there were increases in eIF4A3 mRNA levels in the dorsal striatum and hippocampus following spatial exploration, similar to previous reports for Arc mRNA. Furthermore, there were activity-dependent changes in eIF4A3 protein distribution and expression within the striatum following spatial exploration. Importantly, eIF4A3 protein colocalized with Arc mRNA in vivo. Like Arc mRNA expression, eIF4A3 mRNA expression in the dorsomedial striatum, but not dorsolateral striatum or hippocampus, significantly correlated with behavioral performance on a striatally-mediated, response-reversal learning task. This study provides direct evidence that a core EJC component, eIF4A3, shows activity-dependent changes in both mRNA and protein expression in the adult mammalian brain. These findings thus further implicate eIF4A3 as a key mediator of Arc mRNA availability underlying learning and memory processes in vivo.
The functional-neuroanatomical substrates for short-term retrospective versus prospective memory processing were examined in a delay task, in which associative choices were made conditionally based on the presenting discriminative/cue stimulus. Delay-period prospection could be of the intended choice and/or the expected response outcome, whereas delay-period retrospection would be of the just-presented cue stimulus. Previous results have shown that the spontaneous process of unique outcome prospection did not implicate the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) but instead implicated the lateral posterior parietal cortex (LPPC) in a modality-independent fashion (Mok et al., 2009). Spontaneous retrospection was more dependent on the medial temporal lobe (MTL). Nevertheless, it was anticipated that the more explicit process of prospecting an intended choice would implicate the lateral PFC. To verify this, Mok et al.'s data were further analyzed, with new control data. Healthy, young adults performed delayed discriminative choices under procedures that biased them toward different degrees of delay-period prospection: higher-using cue-unique, differential outcomes (DO); versus lower-using a non-unique, common outcome (CO), or unpredictable, non-differential outcomes (NDO). Experimental participants performed the DO versus CO procedures concurrently, while undergoing event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Separately, control participants provided data for: the NDO condition; related comparison tasks, which biased them toward different degrees of delay-period retrospection; and null-event trials. Expectedly, the more explicit process of prospecting an intended associative choice implicated the lateral PFC, as part of and together with other components of the multiple-demand network. Comparisons against null-event trials indicated that the sustained delay activity observed in MTL and LPPC, respectively, was part of default brain activity. These results demonstrated that short-term retrospection and prospection may emerge without necessarily relying on working memory-specific brain networks. Furthermore, attention may not necessarily be recruited to realize working memory. When cognitive processes are spontaneously experienced, they may be facilitated by the default brain network.
Auditory neuropathy disrupts the neural representation of sound and may therefore impair processes contingent upon inter-aural integration. The aims of this study were to investigate binaural auditory processing in individuals with axonal (Friedreich ataxia) and demyelinating (Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A) auditory neuropathy and to evaluate the relationship between the degree of auditory deficit and overall clinical severity in patients with neuropathic disorders. Twenty-three subjects with genetically confirmed Friedreich ataxia and 12 subjects with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A underwent psychophysical evaluation of basic auditory processing (intensity discrimination/temporal resolution) and binaural speech perception assessment using the Listening in Spatialized Noise test. Age, gender and hearing-level-matched controls were also tested. Speech perception in noise for individuals with auditory neuropathy was abnormal for each listening condition, but was particularly affected in circumstances where binaural processing might have improved perception through spatial segregation. Ability to use spatial cues was correlated with temporal resolution suggesting that the binaural-processing deficit was the result of disordered representation of timing cues in the left and right auditory nerves. Spatial processing was also related to overall disease severity (as measured by the Friedreich Ataxia Rating Scale and Charcot-Marie-Tooth Neuropathy Score) suggesting that the degree of neural dysfunction in the auditory system accurately reflects generalized neuropathic changes. Measures of binaural speech processing show promise for application in the neurology clinic. In individuals with auditory neuropathy due to both axonal and demyelinating mechanisms the assessment provides a measure of functional hearing ability, a biomarker capable of tracking the natural history of progressive disease and a potential means of evaluating the effectiveness of interventions.
In the central nervous system, angiotensin II (AngII) binds to angiotensin type 1 receptors (AT(1)Rs) to affect autonomic and endocrine functions as well as learning and memory. However, understanding the function of cells containing AT(1)Rs has been restricted by limited availability of specific antisera, difficulties discriminating AT(1)R-immunoreactive cells in many brain regions and, the identification of AT(1)R-containing neurons for physiological and molecular studies. Here, we demonstrate that an Agtr1a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mouse line that expresses type A AT(1)Rs (AT1aRs) identified by enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) overcomes these shortcomings. Throughout the brain, AT1aR-EGFP was detected in the nuclei and cytoplasm of cells, most of which were neurons. EGFP often extended into dendritic processes and could be identified either natively or with immunolabeling of GFP. The distribution of AT1aR-EGFP cells in brain closely corresponded to that reported for AngII binding and AT1aR protein and mRNA. In particular, AT1aR-EGFP cells were in autonomic regions (e.g., hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, central nucleus of the amygdala, parabrachial nucleus, nuclei of the solitary tract and rostral ventrolateral medulla) and in regions involved in electrolyte and fluid balance (i.e., subfornical organ) and learning and memory (i.e., cerebral cortex and hippocampus). Additionally, dual label electron microscopic studies in select brain areas demonstrate that cells containing AT1aR-EGFP colocalize with AT(1)R-immunoreactivity. Assessment of AngII-induced free radical production in isolated EGFP cells demonstrated feasibility of studies investigating AT1aR signaling ex vivo. These findings support the utility of Agtr1a BAC transgenic reporter mice for future studies understanding the role of AT(1)R-containing cells in brain function.



Peripheral immune cells and brain microglia exhibit an activated phenotype in premanifest Huntington's disease (HD) patients that persists chronically and correlates with clinical measures of neurodegeneration. However, whether activation of the immune system contributes to neurodegeneration in HD, or is a consequence thereof, remains unclear. Signaling through cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB(2)) dampens immune activation. Here, we show that the genetic deletion of CB(2) receptors in a slowly progressing HD mouse model accelerates the onset of motor deficits and increases their severity. Treatment of mice with a CB(2) receptor agonist extends life span and suppresses motor deficits, synapse loss, and CNS inflammation, while a peripherally restricted CB(2) receptor antagonist blocks these effects. CB(2) receptors regulate blood interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels, and IL-6 neutralizing antibodies partially rescue motor deficits and weight loss in HD mice. These findings support a causal link between CB(2) receptor signaling in peripheral immune cells and the onset and severity of neurodegeneration in HD, and they provide a novel therapeutic approach to treat HD.
The 4 allele of the polymorphic apolipoprotein E gene is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), deposition of -amyloid (A), and reduction in cerebral glucose metabolism in asymptomatic people. Although ApoE4 may exert an effect on AD risk through amyloidogenic pathways, whether its effect on glucose metabolism is related to A is unknown. To answer this question, we examined data from 175 cognitively normal older people (mean age, 77; 87 men, 88 women) in the Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative studied concurrently with [(18)F]flurodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography measures of glucose metabolism and the radiotracer [(18)F]florbetapir, an imaging agent which labels fibrillar A in vivo. Based on a threshold value of florbetapir uptake determined in separate samples, subjects were categorized as florbetapir+ or florbetapir-. Glucose metabolism was measured as a continuous variable in a group of regions of interest (ROIs) selected a priori based on their involvement in AD, and also by using a whole-brain voxelwise approach. Among this sample, 29% of subjects were florbetapir+ and 23% were ApoE4 carriers. As expected, there was a significant association between ApoE4 genotype and florbetapir positivity. Florbetapir status, however, was not significantly associated with glucose metabolism, but the ApoE4 genotype was associated with lower metabolism in both voxelwise and ROI approaches. These results show that ApoE genotype, and not aggregated fibrillar forms of A, contributes to reduced glucose metabolism in aging and adds to a growing list of neural consequences of ApoE that do not appear to be related to A.
Theta oscillations (4-12 Hz) in neuronal networks are known to predispose the synapses involved to plastic changes and may underlie their association with learning behaviors. The lowered threshold for synaptic plasticity during theta oscillations is thought to be due to decreased GABAergic inhibition. Interneuronal kainate receptors (KARs) regulate GABAergic transmission and are implicated in theta activity; however, the physiological significance of this regulation is unknown. In rat hippocampus, we show that during theta activity, there is excitatory postsynaptic drive to CA1 interneurons mediated by KARs. This promotes feedforward inhibition of pyramidal neurons, raising the threshold for induction of theta-burst long-term potentiation. These results identify a novel mechanism whereby the activation of postsynaptic KARs in CA1 interneurons gate changes in synaptic efficacy to a physiologically relevant patterned stimulation.
Tar DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) mislocalization and aggregation is a hallmark of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar dementia. Moreover, TDP-43 mRNA was found to be upregulated by 2.5-fold in the spinal cord of sporadic ALS subjects. Here we have examined the effects of nerve injury in new transgenic mouse models overexpressing by approximately threefold wild-type or mutant (G348C) TDP-43 species. Four weeks after axonal crush of sciatic nerve, TDP-43 transgenic mice remained paralyzed at the injured limb unlike control mice, which had regained most of their normal mobility. In contrast to normal mice, TDP-43 transgenic mice exhibited sustained elevation of TDP-43 cytoplasmic levels in motor neurons after nerve crush, and the relocalization of TDP-43 to the nucleus was delayed by several weeks. After crush, peripherin and ubiquitin levels remained also significantly elevated in TDP-43 transgenic mice compared with control mice. Analysis of the sciatic nerve at 11 d after nerve crush showed that the number of regenerating axons in the distal portion of the lesion was considerably reduced in TDP-43 transgenic mice, especially in TDP-43(G348C) mice, which exhibited a reduction of 40%. In addition, markers of neuroinflammation were detected at much higher levels in TDP-43 transgenic mice. These results suggest that a deregulation of TDP-43 expression in ALS is a phenomenon that can affect the regenerative responses to neuronal injury and regrowth potential of axons.
Current models of decision making postulate that action selection entails a competition within motor-related areas. According to this view, during action selection, motor activity should integrate cognitive information (e.g., reward) that drives our decisions. We tested this hypothesis in humans by measuring motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in a left finger muscle during motor preparation in a hand selection task, in which subjects performed left or right key presses according to an imperative signal. This signal was either obvious or ambiguous, but subjects were always asked to react as fast as possible. When the signal was really indistinct, any key press was regarded as correct, so subjects could respond &quot;at random&quot; in those trials. A score based on reaction times was provided after each correct response, and subjects were told they would receive a monetary reward proportional to their final score. Importantly, the scores were either equitable for both hands or favored implicitly left responses (reward(neutral) and reward(biased) blocks, respectively). We found that subjects selected their left hand more often in the reward(biased) than in the reward(neutral) condition, particularly after ambiguous signals. Moreover, left MEPs were larger, as soon as the signal appeared, in the reward(biased) than in the reward(neutral) conditions. During the course of motor preparation, this effect became strongest following ambiguous signals, a condition in which subjects' choices relied strongly on the reward. These results indicate that motor activity is shaped by a cognitive variable that drives our choices, possibly in the context of a competition taking place within motor-related areas.
Human vision uses saccadic eye movements to rapidly shift the sensitive foveal portion of our retina to objects of interest. For vision to function properly amidst these ballistic eye movements, a mechanism is needed to extract discrete percepts on each fixation from the continuous stream of neural activity that spans fixations. The speed of visual parsing is crucial because human behaviors ranging from reading to driving to sports rely on rapid visual analysis. We find that a brain signal associated with moving the eyes appears to play a role in resetting visual analysis on each fixation, a process that may aid in parsing the neural signal. We quantified the degree to which the perception of tilt is influenced by the tilt of a stimulus on a preceding fixation. Two key conditions were compared, one in which a saccade moved the eyes from one stimulus to the next and a second simulated saccade condition in which the stimuli moved in the same manner but the subjects did not move their eyes. We find that there is a brief period of time at the start of each fixation during which the tilt of the previous stimulus influences perception (in a direction opposite to the tilt aftereffect)--perception is not instantaneously reset when a fixation starts. Importantly, the results show that this perceptual bias is much greater, with nearly identical visual input, when saccades are simulated. This finding suggests that, in real-saccade conditions, some signal related to the eye movement may be involved in the reset phenomenon. While proprioceptive information from the extraocular muscles is conceivably a factor, the fast speed of the effect we observe suggests that a more likely mechanism is a corollary discharge signal associated with eye movement.
In the primary visual cortex of non-rodent mammals, neurons are clustered according to their preference for stimulus features such as orientation(1-4), direction(5-7), ocular dominance(8,9) and binocular disparity(9). Orientation selectivity is the most widely studied feature and a continuous map with a quasi-periodic layout for preferred orientation is present across the entire primary visual cortex(10,11). Integrating the synaptic, cellular and network contributions that lead to stimulus selective responses in these functional maps requires the hybridization of imaging techniques that span sub-micron to millimeter spatial scales. With conventional intrinsic signal optical imaging, the overall layout of functional maps across the entire surface of the visual cortex can be determined(12). The development of in vivo two-photon microscopy using calcium sensitive dyes enables one to determine the synaptic input arriving at individual dendritic spines(13) or record activity simultaneously from hundreds of individual neuronal cell bodies(6,14). Consequently, combining intrinsic signal imaging with the sub-micron spatial resolution of two-photon microscopy offers the possibility of determining exactly which dendritic segments and cells contribute to the micro-domain of any functional map in the neocortex. Here we demonstrate a high-yield method for rapidly obtaining a cortical orientation map and targeting a specific micro-domain in this functional map for labeling neurons with fluorescent dyes in a non-rodent mammal. With the same microscope used for two-photon imaging, we first generate an orientation map using intrinsic signal optical imaging. Then we show how to target a micro-domain of interest using a micropipette loaded with dye to either label a population of neuronal cell bodies or label a single neuron such that dendrites, spines and axons are visible in vivo. Our refinements over previous methods facilitate an examination of neuronal structure-function relationships with sub-cellular resolution in the framework of neocortical functional architectures.

Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene are the most common cause of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Although biochemical studies have shown that certain PD mutations confer elevated kinase activity in vitro on LRRK2, there are no methods available to directly monitor LRRK2 kinase activity in vivo. We demonstrate that LRRK2 autophosphorylation on Ser(1292) occurs in vivo and is enhanced by several familial PD mutations including N1437H, R1441G/C, G2019S, and I2020T. Combining two PD mutations together further increases Ser(1292) autophosphorylation. Mutation of Ser(1292) to alanine (S1292A) ameliorates the effects of LRRK2 PD mutations on neurite outgrowth in cultured rat embryonic primary neurons. Using cell-based and pharmacodynamic assays with phosphorylated Ser(1292) as the readout, we developed a brain-penetrating LRRK2 kinase inhibitor that blocks Ser(1292) autophosphorylation in vivo and attenuates the cellular consequences of LRRK2 PD mutations in vitro. These data suggest that Ser(1292) autophosphorylation may be a useful indicator of LRRK2 kinase activity in vivo and may contribute to the cellular effects of certain PD mutations.


Microglia are the primary immune cells in the brain. Under physiological conditions, they typically stay in a &quot;resting&quot; state, with ramified processes continuously extending to and retracting from surrounding neural tissues. Whether and how such highly dynamic resting microglia functionally interact with surrounding neurons are still unclear. Using in vivo time-lapse imaging of both microglial morphology and neuronal activity in the optic tectum of larval zebrafish, we found that neuronal activity steers resting microglial processes and facilitates their contact with highly active neurons. This process requires the activation of pannexin-1 hemichannels on neurons. Reciprocally, such resting microglia-neuron contact reduces both spontaneous and visually evoked activities of contacted neurons. Our findings reveal an instructive role for neuronal activity in resting microglial motility and suggest the function for microglia in homeostatic regulation of neuronal activity in the healthy brain.

BACKGROUND: Comprehensive community care has the potential to improve risk factor management of patients with stroke or transient ischaemic attack. AIM: The primary aim is to determine the effectiveness of an individualized management program on risk factor management for patients discharged from hospital after stroke. DESIGN: Multicentre, cluster-randomized, controlled trial, with clusters by general practice. Participants are randomized to receive intervention or control after a baseline assessment undertaken after discharge from hospital. The general practice they attend is marked as an intervention or control accordingly. All subsequent participants attending those practices are automatically assigned as intervention or control. Baseline and all outcome assessments, including an analysis of risk factors, are undertaken by assessors blinded to patient randomization. INTERVENTION DETAILS: Based on the results of blinded assessments, the individualized management program group will receive targeted advice on how to manage their risk factors using a standardized, evidence-based template to communicate 'ideal' management with their general practitioner. In addition, patients randomized to the individualized management program group will receive counselling and education about stroke risk factor management by an intervention study nurse. Individualized management programs will be reviewed at three-months, six-months, 12 months, and 18 months after stroke, at which times they will be modified if appropriate. Stroke risk management will be evaluated using changes in the Framingham cardiovascular risk score. Analysis will be on an intention-to-treat basis using analysis of covariance or generalized linear model to adjust for baseline risk score and other relevant confounding factors.
Percutaneous vertebroplasty is a minimally invasive procedure for the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral fractures and vertebral tumors. Although considered to be safe and effective, complications can occur following such a treatment. The authors report the case of a 69-year-old man who underwent L-1 percutaneous vertebroplasty that was halted due to cement migration. Postoperative radiological examination confirmed cement spreading into the inferior vena cava and within both superior pulmonary lobes. The patient was asymptomatic and following proper clinical observation was discharged. Although vertebroplasty is becoming a popular spine procedure, surgeons should be alert to potentially life-threatening complications.
RNA interference (RNAi) using short interfering RNA (siRNA) is an attractive therapeutic approach for treatment of dominant-negative mutations. Some rare missense dominant-negative mutations lead to congenital-hearing impairments. A variety of viral vectors have been tested with variable efficacy for modulating gene expression in inner ear. However, there is concern regarding their safety for clinical use. Here, we report a novel cell-penetrating peptide (CPP)-based nonviral approach for delivering siRNA into inner ear tissue using organotypic cultures as model system. PepFect6 (PF6), a variant of stearyl-TP10, was specially designed for improved delivery of siRNA by facilitating endosomal release. We show that PF6 was internalized by all cells without inducing cytotoxicity in cochlear cultures. PF6/siRNA nanoparticles lead to knockdown of target genes, a housekeeping gene and supporting cell-specific connexin 26. Interestingly, application of PF6/connexin 26 siRNA exhibited knockdown of both connexin 26 and 30 mRNA and their absence led to impaired intercellular communication as demonstrated by reduced transfer of calcein among the PF6/connexin 26-siRNA-treated cells. Thus, we conclude that PF6 is an efficient nonviral vector for delivery of siRNA, which can be applied as a tool for the development of siRNA-based therapeutic applications for hearing impairments.Molecular Therapy - Nucleic Acids (2012) 1, e61; doi:10.1038/mtna.2012.50; published online 11 December 2012.
ebrain is a groundbreaking e-learning program.(1) It is an exciting and novel interactive online program in clinical neuroscience aimed at hospital trainees, consultants in neurology, and other neuroscience specialties. ebrain was developed in partnership with the Joint Neuroscience Council (JNC), University College London (UCL), the European Federation of Neurological Societies (EFNS), and the European Neurological Society (ENS). At its core is a program of 550 lectures covering the breadth of clinical neurosciences.
The functional organization of human auditory cortex has not yet been characterized beyond a rudimentary level of detail. Here, we use functional MRI to measure the microstructure of orthogonal tonotopic and periodotopic gradients forming complete auditory field maps (AFMs) in human core and belt auditory cortex. These AFMs show clear homologies to subfields of auditory cortex identified in nonhuman primates and in human cytoarchitectural studies. In addition, we present measurements of the macrostructural organization of these AFMs into &quot;clover leaf&quot; clusters, consistent with the macrostructural organization seen across human visual cortex. As auditory cortex is at the interface between peripheral hearing and central processes, improved understanding of the organization of this system could open the door to a better understanding of the transformation from auditory spectrotemporal signals to higher-order information such as speech categories.
Apparent motion quartet is an ambiguous stimulus that elicits bistable perception, with the perceived motion alternating between two orthogonal paths. In human psychophysical experiments, the probability of perceiving motion in each path is greatly enhanced by a brief exposure to real motion along that path. To examine the neural mechanism underlying this priming effect, we used voltage-sensitive dye (VSD) imaging to measure the spatiotemporal activity in the primary visual cortex (V1) of awake mice. We found that a brief real motion stimulus transiently biased the cortical response to subsequent apparent motion toward the spatiotemporal pattern representing the real motion. Furthermore, intracellular recording from V1 neurons in anesthetized mice showed a similar increase in subthreshold depolarization in the neurons representing the path of real motion. Such short-term plasticity in early visual circuits may contribute to the priming effect in bistable visual perception.
Stressor exposure biases decision-making strategies from those based on the relationship between actions and their consequences to others restricted by stimulus-response associations. Chronic stressor exposure also desensitizes glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and diminishes motivation to acquire food reinforcement, although causal relationships are largely not established. We show that a history of chronic exposure to the GR ligand corticosterone or acute posttraining GR blockade with RU38486 makes rodents less able to perform actions based on their consequences. Thus, optimal GR binding is necessary for the consolidation of new response-outcome learning. In contrast, medial prefrontal (but not striatal) BDNF can account for stress-related amotivation, in that selective medial prefrontal cortical Bdnf knockdown decreases break-point ratios in a progressive-ratio task. Knockdown also increases vulnerability to RU38486. Despite the role of BDNF in dendritic spine reorganization, deep-layer spine remodeling does not obviously parallel progressive-ratio response patterns, but treatment with the Na(+)-channel inhibitor riluzole reverses corticosteroid-induced motivational deficits and restores prefrontal BDNF expression after corticosterone. We argue that when prefrontal neurotrophin systems are compromised, and GR-mediated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis feedback is desensitized (as in the case of chronic stress hormone exposure), amotivation and inflexible maladaptive response strategies that contribute to stress-related mood disorders result.

ABSTRACT: Contributions from the neurosciences to Critical Care in 2011 covered an array of topics. We learned about potential biomarkers for, and the effect of cerebral oxygen metabolism on, delirium, in addition to treatment of the latter. A group of investigators studied surface cooling in healthy awake volunteers, and incidence of infection associated with therapeutic hypothermia. The effects of statin and erythropoietin on stroke were revisited, and the role of adhesion molecule in the inflammatory reaction accompanying intracerebral hemorrhage was scrutinized. Biomarkers in subarachnoid hemorrhage and their relationship to vasospasm and outcome, and effect of daylight on outcome in this patient population, as well as a new meta-analysis of statin therapy were among the research in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Moreover, 2011 witnessed the publication of a multidisciplinary consensus conference's recommendations on the critical care management of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Results of studies regarding the diagnosis and vascular complications of meningitis were reported. Traumatic brain injury received its share of articles addressing therapy with hypertonic saline and surgical decompression, the development of coagulopathy, and biomarkers to help with prognostication. Finally, research on the treatment of Guillain-Barre syndrome in children, prediction of long-term need of ventilatory support, and pathophysiology of critical illness polyneuropathy and myopathy were reported.


Neuronal dense-core vesicles (DCVs) contain diverse cargo crucial for brain development and function, but the mechanisms that control their release are largely unknown. We quantified activity-dependent DCV release in hippocampal neurons at single vesicle resolution. DCVs fused preferentially at synaptic terminals. DCVs also fused at extrasynaptic sites but only after prolonged stimulation. In munc13-1/2-null mutant neurons, synaptic DCV release was reduced but not abolished, and synaptic preference was lost. The remaining fusion required prolonged stimulation, similar to extrasynaptic fusion in wild-type neurons. Conversely, Munc13-1 overexpression (M13OE) promoted extrasynaptic DCV release, also without prolonged stimulation. Thus, Munc13-1/2 facilitate DCV fusion but, unlike for synaptic vesicles, are not essential for DCV release, and M13OE is sufficient to produce efficient DCV release extrasynaptically.
A primary cause of morbidity and mortality following cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) is respiratory compromise, regardless of the level of trauma. In particular, SCI at mid-cervical regions targets degeneration of both descending bulbospinal respiratory axons and cell bodies of phrenic motor neurons, resulting in deficits in the function of the diaphragm, the primary muscle of inspiration. Contusion-type trauma to the cervical spinal cord is one of the most common forms of human SCI; however, few studies have evaluated mid-cervical contusion in animal models or characterized consequent histopathological and functional effects of degeneration of phrenic motor neuron-diaphragm circuitry. We have generated a mouse model of cervical contusion SCI that unilaterally targets both C4 and C5 levels, the location of the phrenic motor neuron pool, and have examined histological and functional outcomes for up to 6 weeks post-injury. We report that phrenic motor neuron loss in cervical spinal cord, phrenic nerve axonal degeneration, and denervation at diaphragm neuromuscular junctions (NMJ) resulted in compromised ipsilateral diaphragm function, as demonstrated by persistent reduction in diaphragm compound muscle action potential amplitudes following phrenic nerve stimulation and abnormalities in spontaneous diaphragm electromyography (EMG) recordings. This injury paradigm is reproducible, does not require ventilatory assistance, and provides proof-of-principle that generation of unilateral cervical contusion is a feasible strategy for modeling diaphragmatic/respiratory deficits in mice. This study and its accompanying analyses pave the way for using transgenic mouse technology to explore the function of specific genes in the pathophysiology of phrenic motor neuron degeneration and respiratory dysfunction following cervical SCI.
The primary goal of this study was to compare clinically relevant doses of progesterone and nicotinamide within the same injury model. Progesterone has been shown to reduce edema and inflammation and improve functional outcomes following brain injury. Nicotinamide has also been shown to be an effective neuroprotective agent in a variety of neurological injury models. In the current study, nicotinamide was administered beginning 4 h post-cortical contusion injury (CCI) with a loading dose (75 mg/kg, i.p.) combined with continuous infusion (12 mg/h/kg, s.c.) for 72 h post-injury. Progesterone was administered beginning 4 h post-CCI at a dose of 10 or 20 mg/kg, i.p. every 12 h for 72 h. This resulted in the following groups: Injured-nicotinamide treated, Injured-progesterone-10 treated, Injured-progesterone-20 treated, Injured-vehicle treated, and Sham. Functional recovery was assessed with two spatial memory tasks in the Morris water maze (MWM) the acquisition of a reference memory task and a reversal learning task. Neuropathological assessments were conducted in the cortex and hippocampus. It was found that both progesterone (10 mg/kg) and nicotinamide improved reference memory acquisition and reversal learning in the MWM compared with vehicle treatment. The lower dose of progesterone and nicotinamide also reduced tissue loss in the injured cortex and ipsilateral hippocampus compared with vehicle. The beneficial effects of progesterone appear to be dose dependent with the lower 10 mg/kg dose producing significant effects that were not observed at the higher dose. Direct comparison between nicotinamide and low dose progesterone appears to suggest that both are equally effective. The general findings of this study suggest that both nicotinamide and progesterone produce significant improvements in recovery of function following CCI.


The onset of action of antidepressants (ADs) usually takes several weeks, but first molecular responses to these drugs may appear already after acute administration. The Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinase/Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (ERK/MAPK) signaling pathway is a target of ADs and an important pathway involved in cellular plasticity. In major depressive disorder (MDD), especially the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus (Hip) are most likely affected in depressive patients and recent work revealed a hyperactivated ERK signaling in the rat PFC after chronic stress, a precipitating factor for MDD. Strong evidences support that not only neurons but also astrocytes participate in neuronal activity and may therefore additionally be a substrate of AD action. In this study, we show by Western blot that neither fluoxetine (FLX) nor desipramine (DMI) preferentially affects the activation of one of the two ERK isoforms, ERK1 and ERK2, with respect to the other. Further immunohistochemical analysis in the PFC revealed that basal levels of phospho-activated ERK (pERK) are mostly found in neurons in contrast to very few astrocytes. Both ADs can inhibit neuronal pERK as early as 15min after drug administration with peculiar regional and layer specificities. Contrarily, at this time point none of the two ADs shows a clear modulation of astrocytic pERK. We propose that this mechanism of action of ADs may be protective against an exacerbated cortical ERK activity that may exert detrimental effects on susceptible neuronal populations. Our findings on acute effects of AD treatment in the adult mouse PFC encourage to examine further how this treatment might influence pERK in animal models of depression to identify early targets of AD action.
The CARMEN platform allows neuroscientists to share data, metadata, services and workflows, and to execute these services and workflows remotely via a Web portal. This paper describes how we implemented a service-based infrastructure into the CARMEN Virtual Laboratory. A Software as a Service framework was developed to allow generic new and legacy code to be deployed as services on a heterogeneous execution framework. Users can submit analysis code typically written in Matlab, Python, C/C++ and R as non-interactive standalone command-line applications and wrap them as services in a form suitable for deployment on the platform. The CARMEN Service Builder tool enables neuroscientists to quickly wrap their analysis software for deployment to the CARMEN platform, as a service without knowledge of the service framework or the CARMEN system. A metadata schema describes each service in terms of both system and user requirements. The search functionality allows services to be quickly discovered from the many services available. Within the platform, services may be combined into more complicated analyses using the workflow tool. CARMEN and the service infrastructure are targeted towards the neuroscience community; however, it is a generic platform, and can be targeted towards any discipline.
OBJECTIVE: To explore gray (GM) and white matter (WM) abnormalities and the relationships with neuropsychopathology in first-episode schizophrenia (FES). METHOD: Nineteen patients with first episode of non-affective psychosis and 18 controls underwent a magnetic resonance voxel-based morphometry. Additionally, WM fractional anisotropy (FA) was calculated. For correlative analysis, symptoms and neuropsychological performances were scored by PANSS and by a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment respectively. RESULTS: Patients showed significantly decreased volume of left temporal lobe and disarray of all major WM tracts. Disorganized PANSS factor was inversely related to left cerebellar GM volume (corrected P=0.03) and to WM FA of the left cerebellum, inferior fronto-occipital fasciculi (IFOF), and inferior longitudinal fasciculi (corrected P&lt;0.05). PANSS negative factor was inversely related to FA in the IFOF and superior longitudinal fasciculi (corrected P&lt;0.05). Impairment in facial emotion identification showed associations with temporo-occipital GM volume decrease (corrected P=0.003) and WM disarray of superior and middle temporal gyri, anterior thalamic radiation, and superior longitudinal fasciculi (corrected P&lt;0.05). Speed of processing and visual memory correlated with WM abnormalities in fronto-temporal tracts. CONCLUSION: These results confirm how the structural development of key brain regions is related to neuropsychopathological dysfunction in FES, consistently with a neurodevelopmentally derived misconnection syndrome.
Previously we showed that 1-(4'-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylene-dioxy-2,3-benzodiazepine (GYKI-52466), an ionotropic AMPA receptor antagonist, can trigger strong, presumably metabotropic, protection against seizures and stroke at very low doses. To date, no study has determined brain and plasma concentrations of GYKI-52466 following subcutaneous administration in animals with or without brain damage. Here we developed and validated a rapid method of high-performance liquid chromatography with diode array detection. Chromatographic separation was achieved by a Luna C(18) column using a mixture of 25mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0)-methanol-acetonitrile (40:37.5:22.5, v/v/v) as the mobile phase at a flow rate of 1.2mL/min. The method showed acceptable precision and accuracy and allowed a precise quantification of 25ng/mL GYKI-52466 in the plasma and brain. Recovery of GYKI-52466 from the plasma and brain was &gt;87%, and GYKI was stable at room temperature and during prolonged storage at -20C. The method was successfully applied in measuring levels of GYKI-52466 following administration of 3 and 20mg/kg of GYKI-52466 in control and brain damaged rats. A low brain concentration of 0.56M GYKI-52466 was observed with 3mg/kg compared to 10.7M with 20mg/kg at 90min post drug administration. Severe ataxia was observed with the 20mg/kg dose for up to 90min. Furthermore, in ischaemic animals, there was no evidence of a 'surge' in brain GYKI concentrations at the injury site, confirming the integrity of the blood-brain barrier in the region of infarct. Taken together, our findings support a metabotropic mode of action underlying the low-dose neuroprotective efficacy of GYKI-52466.
Thrombin plays important roles in the pathology of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The recruitment of activated microglia, accompanied by thrombin-induced phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family, contributes to ICH-associated neuron loss. Here we investigated the possibility that sesamin, a lignan of sesame seed oil, is a natural candidate as an inhibitor of microglial activation and MAPK pathways under ICH insults. Sesamin (30-100M) suppressed thrombin-induced nitric oxide (NO) production by primary-cultured rat microglia via inhibition of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) protein expression, independently of the antioxidative effect. Sesamin selectively inhibited p44/42 MAPK phosphorylation in the MAPK family (p38 and p44/42) involved in iNOS protein expression in primary-cultured rat microglia. An in vivo rat ICH model was prepared by intrastriatal injection of 0.20U collagenase type IV unilaterally. ICH evoked the phosphorylation of p44/42 MAPK, microglial proliferation with morphological change into the activated ameboid form, and neuron loss. The phosphorylation of p44/42 MAPK was inhibited by intracerebroventricular administration of 30-nmol sesamin. Sesamin prevented ICH-induced increase of microglial cells in the perihematomal area. Notably, ramified microglia, the resting morphology, were observed in brain sections of the animals administrated sesamin. Sesamin furthermore achieved neuroprotection in the perihematomal area but not in the hematomal center. These results suggest that sesamin is a promising natural product as a novel therapeutic strategy based on the regulation of microglial activities accompanied by the activated p44/42 MAPK pathway in ICH.
In this study, we combined linkage analysis with whole-exome sequencing of two individuals to identify candidate causal variants in a moderately-sized UK kindred exhibiting autosomal-dominant inheritance of craniocervical dystonia. Subsequent screening of these candidate causal variants in a large number of familial and sporadic cases of cervical dystonia led to the identification of a total of six putatively pathogenic mutations in ANO3, a gene encoding a predicted Ca(2+)-gated chloride channel that we show to be highly expressed in the striatum. Functional studies using Ca(2+) imaging in case and control fibroblasts demonstrated clear abnormalities in endoplasmic-reticulum-dependent Ca(2+) signaling. We conclude that mutations in ANO3 are a cause of autosomal-dominant craniocervical dystonia. The locus DYT23 has been reserved as a synonym for this gene. The implication of an ion channel in the pathogenesis of dystonia provides insights into an alternative mechanism that opens fresh avenues for further research.



Recent evidence suggests that the primary visual cortex (V1) of rodents expresses surprisingly high levels of plasticity into adulthood. For example, long-term potentiation (LTP) is readily induced in the mature V1 of adult rodents in vivo. Here, adult, urethane-anesthetized rats were used for a detailed characterization of LTP in the pathway between the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) and ipsilateral V1. Strong theta-burst stimulation (TBS) of the LGN resulted in LTP of field postsynaptic potentials (fPSPs) recorded in the lateral (binocular) aspects of V1 (l-V1), but failed to do so in the medial (monocular) V1 (m-V1). Administration of MK 801 (1mg/kg, i.p.) blocked LTP in l-V1, indicative of a critical role of NMDA receptors in this effect. Interestingly, weaker TBS induction protocols resulted in synaptic depression in both l-V1 and m-V1, an effect that was blocked by MK 801 only in m-V1. Finally, dLGN stimulation also elicited long-latency fPSPs in the V1 contralateral to the stimulation site, likely reflecting polysynaptic activity crossing the midline via callosal fibers. Relative to ipsilateral recordings, contralateral fPSPs showed greater LTP in both V1 segments, which could not be blocked by MK 801 administration. Together, these data reveal clear differences in the expression of LTP at synapses in l-V1 and m-V1, with greater plasticity in the lateral V1 segment. Further, we confirm that NMDA receptors mediate some, but not all forms of synaptic plasticity in the V1 of adult rodents.
Hair cells are mechanosensors for the perception of sound, acceleration, and fluid motion. Mechanotransduction channels in hair cells are gated by tip links, which connect the stereocilia of a hair cell in the direction of their mechanical sensitivity. The molecular constituents of the mechanotransduction channels of hair cells are not known. Here, we show that mechanotransduction is impaired in mice lacking the tetraspan TMHS. TMHS binds to the tip-link component PCDH15 and regulates tip-link assembly, a process that is disrupted by deafness-causing Tmhs mutations. TMHS also regulates transducer channel conductance and is required for fast channel adaptation. TMHS therefore resembles other ion channel regulatory subunits such as the transmembrane alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) of AMPA receptors that facilitate channel transport and regulate the properties of pore-forming channel subunits. We conclude that TMHS is an integral component of the hair cell's mechanotransduction machinery that functionally couples PCDH15 to the transduction channel.
The gustatory system detects tastants and transmits signals to the brain regarding ingested substances and nutrients. Although tastant receptors and taste signaling pathways have been identified, little is known about their regulation. Because bitter, sweet, and umami taste receptors are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), we hypothesized that regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins may be involved. The recent cloning of RGS21 from taste bud cells has implicated this protein in the regulation of taste signaling; however, the exact role of RGS21 has not been precisely defined. Here, we sought to determine the role of RGS21 in tastant responsiveness. Biochemical analyses confirmed in silico predictions that RGS21 acts as a GTPase-accelerating protein (GAP) for multiple G protein  subunits, including adenylyl cyclase-inhibitory (G(i)) subunits and those thought to be involved in tastant signal transduction. Using a combination of in situ hybridization, RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence, we demonstrate that RGS21 is not only endogenously expressed in mouse taste buds but also in lung airway epithelial cells, which have previously been shown to express components of the taste signaling cascade. Furthermore, as shown by reverse transcription-PCR, the immortalized human airway cell line 16HBE was found to express transcripts for tastant receptors, RGS21, and downstream taste signaling components. Over- and underexpression of RGS21 in 16HBE cells confirmed that RGS21 acts to oppose bitter tastant signaling to cAMP and calcium second messenger changes. Our data collectively suggests that RGS21 modulates bitter taste signal transduction.
The microtubule-associated protein targeting protein for Xenopus kinesin-like protein 2 (TPX2) plays a key role in spindle assembly and is required for mitosis in human cells. In interphase, TPX2 is actively imported into the nucleus to prevent its premature activity in microtubule organization. To date, no function has been assigned to nuclear TPX2. We now report that TPX2 plays a role in the cellular response to DNA double strand breaks induced by ionizing radiation. Loss of TPX2 leads to inordinately strong and transient accumulation of ionizing radiation-dependent Ser-139-phosphorylated Histone 2AX (-H2AX) at G(0) and G(1) phases of the cell cycle. This is accompanied by the formation of increased numbers of high intensity -H2AX ionizing radiation-induced foci. Conversely, cells overexpressing TPX2 have reduced levels of -H2AX after ionizing radiation. Consistent with a role for TPX2 in the DNA damage response, we found that the protein accumulates at DNA double strand breaks and associates with the mediator of DNA damage checkpoint 1 (MDC1) and the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase, both key regulators of -H2AX amplification. Pharmacologic inhibition or depletion of ATM or MDC1, but not of DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK), antagonizes the -H2AX phenotype caused by TPX2 depletion. Importantly, the regulation of -H2AX signals by TPX2 is not associated with apoptosis or the mitotic functions of TPX2. In sum, our study identifies a novel and the first nuclear function for TPX2 in the cellular responses to DNA damage.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are a group of biological disorders with associated metabolic derangement. This study aimed to identify a pattern of metabolic perturbance in ASD using metabolomics in urinary specimens from 48 children with ASD and 53 age matched controls. Using a combination of liquid- and gas-chromatography-based mass spectrometry, we detected the levels of 82 metabolites (53 of which were increased) that were significantly altered between the ASD and the control groups using osmolality normalized data. Pattern analysis showed that the levels of several amino acids such as glycine, serine, threonine, alanine, histidine, glutamyl amino acids and the organic acid, taurine were significantly (p0.05) lower in ASD children. The levels of antioxidants such as carnosine were also reduced in ASD (p=0.054). Furthermore, several gut bacterial metabolites were significantly altered in ASD children who had gastrointestinal dysfunction. Overall, this study detected abnormal amino acid metabolism, increased oxidative stress, and altered gut microbiomes in ASD. The relationship of altered gut microbial co-metabolism and the disrupted metabolisms requires further investigation.
The bacterial human pathogen Neisseria gonorrhoeae expresses a general O-linked protein glycosylation (Pgl) system known to target at least 12 membrane-associated proteins. To facilitate a better understanding of the mechanisms, significance and function of this glycosylation system, we sought to further delineate the target proteome of the Pgl system. To this end, we employed immunoaffinity enrichment of glycoproteins using a monoclonal antibody against the glycan moiety. Enzymatically generated peptides were subsequently analyzed by MS to identify glycopeptides and glycosylation sites. In this way, we increase the total number of known glycoproteins in N. gonorrhoeae to 19. These new glycoproteins are involved in a wide variety of extracytoplasmic functions. By employing collision fragmentation, we mapped nine new glycosylation sites, all of which were serine. No target sequon was readily apparent, although attachment sites were most often localized with regions of low sequence complexity. Moreover, we found that 5 of the proteins were modified with more than one glycan. This work thus confirms and extends earlier observations on the structural features of Neisseria glycoproteins.
The ability to distinguish posed from genuine facial displays of emotion and to act accordingly is a fundamental social skill. To investigate the neural correlates underpinning this sensitivity, we compared changes in brain activity associated with judging posed and genuine facial displays of happiness and sadness using fMRI. Photographs of displays were presented to 7 right-handed females who judged whether the person was feeling the target emotion and made yes/no responses. Results showed activity increases during the observation of genuine compared to posed happy displays in the left medial superior frontal gyrus (BA 9) and the middle cingulate cortex bilaterally (BAs 24 and 31). The same comparison for sad displays showed increased activity in the left medial superior frontal gyrus (BA 8), and in the right middle and triangular inferior frontal gyri (both BA 46). Participants who exhibited higher sensitivity to sad displays showed larger activity difference in the left medial superior frontal gyrus (BA 8). The present study provides evidence of differential neural activity when judging posed versus genuine facial displays of emotions. Further research is required to elucidate how this might impact social affective neuroscience and in what ways genuine facial displays can enhance our understanding of emotion perception.
The cognitive deficits observed in schizophrenia are considered a core feature of the disease. Neuregulin-1 is a risk gene for schizophrenia that is involved in many neurodevelopmental and synaptic plasticity-related processes relevant to schizophrenia. Here, we have utilized a rat model (Nrg1(Tn)), which is hypomorphic for the neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) gene, to test whether reduced Type II NRG1 in the rat brain leads to cognitive deficits relevant to schizophrenia. Wild-type and homozygous Nrg1(Tn) male rats were tested in memory tasks that evaluated spatial memory (Morris water maze) and visuospatial working and reference memory (Can Test). Nrg1(Tn) rats were not impaired on the Morris water maze, but did show a deficit in the appetitive visuospatial discrimination test. Nrg1(Tn) rats committed more reference and working memory errors in this test. These results indicate that decreased Type II NRG1 in the brain may lead to deficits in visuospatial learning and memory.
Estimating another person's subjective confidence is crucial for social interaction, but how this inference is achieved is unknown. Previous research has demonstrated that the speed at which people make decisions is correlated with their confidence in their decision. Here, we show that (i) subjects are able to infer the subjective confidence of another person simply through the observation of their actions and (ii) this inference is dependent upon the performance of each subject when executing the action. Crucially, the latter result supports a model in which motor simulation of an observed action mediates the successful understanding of other minds. We conclude that kinematic understanding allows access to the higher-order cognitive processes of others, and that this access plays a central role in social interactions.
How neural circuits associated with sexually dimorphic organs are differentially assembled during development is unclear. Here, we report a sexually dimorphic pattern of mouse mammary gland sensory innervation and the mechanism of its formation. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), emanating from mammary mesenchyme and signaling through its receptor TrkB on sensory axons, is required for establishing mammary gland sensory innervation of both sexes at early developmental stages. Subsequently, in males, androgens promote mammary mesenchymal expression of a truncated form of TrkB, which prevents BDNF-TrkB signaling in sensory axons and leads to a rapid loss of mammary gland innervation independent of neuronal apoptosis. Thus, sex hormone regulation of a neurotrophic factor signal directs sexually dimorphic axonal growth and maintenance, resulting in generation of a sex-specific neural circuit.


Reproductive function is highly dynamic during postnatal developmental. Here, we performed molecular profiling of gene expression patterns in the hypothalamus of developing male and female rats to identify which genes are sexually dimorphic, to gain insight into a more complex network of hypothalamic genes, and to ascertain dynamic changes in their relationships with one another and with sex steroid hormones during development. Using a low-density PCR platform, we quantified mRNA levels in the preoptic area (POA) and medial basal hypothalamus (MBH), and assayed circulating estradiol, testosterone, and progesterone at six ages from birth through adulthood. Numerous genes underwent developmental change, particularly postnatal increases, decreases, or peaks/plateaus at puberty. Surprisingly, there were few sex differences; only Esr1, Kiss1, and Tac2 were dimorphic (higher in females). Cluster analysis of gene expression revealed sexually dimorphic correlations in the POA but not the MBH from P30 (Postnatal Day 30) to P60. Hormone measurements showed few sex differences in developmental profiles of estradiol; higher levels of progesterone in females only after P30; and a developmental pattern of testosterone with a nadir at P30 followed by a dramatic increase through P60 (males). Furthermore, bionetwork analysis revealed that hypothalamic gene expression profiles and their relationships to hormones undergo dynamic developmental changes that differ considerably from adults. These data underscore the importance of developmental stage in considering the effects of hormones on the regulation of neuroendocrine genes in the hypothalamus. Moreover, the finding that few neuroendocrine genes are sexually dimorphic highlights the need to consider postnatal development from a network approach that allows assessment of interactions and patterns of expression.
The medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) is part of the brain's circuit for dynamic representation of self-location. The metric of this representation is provided by grid cells, cells with spatial firing fields that tile environments in a periodic hexagonal pattern. Limited anatomical sampling has obscured whether the grid system operates as a unified system or a conglomerate of independent modules. Here we show with recordings from up to 186 grid cells in individual rats that grid cells cluster into a small number of layer-spanning anatomically overlapping modules with distinct scale, orientation, asymmetry and theta-frequency modulation. These modules can respond independently to changes in the geometry of the environment. The discrete topography of the grid-map, and the apparent autonomy of the modules, differ from the graded topography of maps for continuous variables in several sensory systems, raising the possibility that the modularity of the grid map is a product of local self-organizing network dynamics.
Brain networks are commonly defined using correlations between blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signals in different brain areas. Although evidence suggests that gamma-band (30-100Hz) neural activity contributes to local BOLD signals, the neural basis of interareal BOLD correlations is unclear. We first defined a visual network in monkeys based on converging evidence from interareal BOLD correlations during a fixation task, task-free state, and anesthesia, and then simultaneously recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from the same four network areas in the task-free state. Low-frequency oscillations (&lt;20Hz), and not gamma activity, predominantly contributed to interareal BOLD correlations. The low-frequency oscillations also influenced local processing by modulating gamma activity within individual areas. We suggest that such cross-frequency coupling links local BOLD signals to BOLD correlations across distributed networks.
Sensorineural hearing loss, which stems primarily from the failure of mechanosensory hair cells, changes the traveling waves that transmit acoustic signals along the cochlea. However, the connection between cochlear mechanics and the amplificatory function of hair cells remains unclear. Using an optical technique that permits the targeted inactivation of prestin, a protein of outer hair cells that generates forces on the basilar membrane, we demonstrate that these forces interact locally with cochlear traveling waves to achieve enormous mechanical amplification. By perturbing amplification in narrow segments of the basilar membrane, we further show that a cochlear traveling wave accumulates gain as it approaches its peak. Analysis of these results indicates that cochlear amplification produces negative damping that counters the viscous drag impeding traveling waves; targeted photoinactivation locally interrupts this compensation. These results reveal the locus of amplification in cochlear traveling waves and connect the characteristics of normal hearing to molecular forces.
How are sensory representations in the brain influenced by the state of an animal? Here we use chronic two-photon calcium imaging to explore how wakefulness and experience shape odor representations in the mouse olfactory bulb. Comparing the awake and anesthetized state, we show that wakefulness greatly enhances the activity of inhibitory granule cells and makes principal mitral cell odor responses more sparse and temporally dynamic. In awake mice, brief repeated odor experience leads to a gradual and long-lasting (months) weakening of mitral cell odor representations. This mitral cell plasticity is odor specific, recovers gradually over months, and can be repeated with different odors. Furthermore, the expression of this experience-dependent plasticity is prevented by anesthesia. Together, our results demonstrate the dynamic nature of mitral cell odor representations in awake animals, which is constantly shaped by recent odor experience.
Precise patterning of axon guidance cue distribution is critical for nervous system development. Using a murine forward genetic screen for novel determinants of axon guidance, we identified B3gnt1 and ISPD as required for the glycosylation of dystroglycan invivo. Analysis of B3gnt1, ISPD, and dystroglycan mutant mice revealed a critical role for glycosylated dystroglycan in the development of several longitudinal axon tracts. Remarkably, the axonal guidance defects observed in B3gnt1, ISPD, and dystroglycan mutants resemble several of the axon guidance defects found in mice lacking the axon guidance cue Slit and its receptor Robo. This similarity is explained by our observations that dystroglycan binds directly to Slit and is required for proper Slit localization within the basement membrane and floor plate invivo. These findings establish a novel role for glycosylated dystroglycan as a key determinant of axon guidance cue distribution and function in the mammalian nervous system.
The acute and long-term consequences of traumatic brain injury (TBI) have received increased attention in recent years. In this Review, we discuss the neuropathology and neural mechanisms associated with TBI, drawing on findings from sports-induced TBI in athletes, in whom acute TBI damages axons and elicits both regenerative and degenerative tissue responses in the brain and in whom repeated concussions may initiate a long-term neurodegenerative process called dementia pugilistica or chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). We also consider how the neuropathology and neurobiology of CTE in many ways resembles other neurodegenerative illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease, particularly with respect to mismetabolism and aggregation of tau, -amyloid, and TDP-43. Finally, we explore how translational research in animal models of acceleration/deceleration types of injury relevant for concussion together with clinical studies employing imaging and biochemical markers may further elucidate the neurobiology of TBI and CTE.
In large cells like neurons, how is microtubule polymerization initiated at large distances from the cell body and the main microtubule-organizing center? In this issue of Neuron, Ori-McKenney etal. (2012) demonstrate that Golgi outposts mediate acentrosomal microtubule nucleation and reveal it is crucial for dendrite morphogenesis.
In adult rat striatum the dopamine D1-D2 receptor heteromer is expressed selectively in a subset of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) that coexpress the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors (D1R and D2R) as well as dynorphin (DYN) and enkephalin (ENK), with higher coexpression in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and much lower in the caudate putamen (CP). In the present study we showed that in neonatal striatal cultured neurons &gt;90% exhibited the D1R/D2R-DYN/ENK phenotype. Similarly, in the striatum of juvenile rats (age 26-28 days) coexpression of D1R and D2R was also coincident with the expression of both DYN and ENK. Quantification of the number of striatal MSNs exhibiting coexpression of D1R and D2R in juvenile rats revealed significantly lower coexpression in NAc shell, but not core, and CP than in adult rats. However, within MSNs that coexpressed D1R and D2R, the propensity to form the D1-D2 receptor heteromer did not differ between age groups. Consistent with reduced coexpression of the D1R and D2R, juvenile rats exhibited subsensitivity to D1-D2 receptor heteromer-induced grooming following activation by SKF 83959. Given the proposed role of D1R/D2R-coexpressing MSNs in the regulation of thalamic output, and the recent discovery that these MSNs exhibit both inhibitory and excitatory capabilities, these findings suggest that the functional regulation of neurotransmission by the dopamine D1-D2 receptor heteromer within the juvenile striatum may be significantly different than in the adult.
Chronic exposure to nicotine during the first postnatal week in rats, a developmental period that corresponds to the third trimester of human gestation, results in sexually dimorphic long-term functional defects in the adult hippocampus. One potential cause could be the sex-specific differences in the maturation of GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses from excitatory to inhibitory, which depends on the expression of the Na(2+)/K(+)/Cl(-) co-transporter 1 (NKCC1) and the K(+)/Cl(-) co-transporter 2 (KCC2). In the rat hippocampus, this switch occurs during the first and second postnatal week in females and males, respectively, and is regulated by nicotinic receptor activation. Excitatory GABAergic signaling can increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression, which might exacerbate sex differences by impacting synaptogenesis. We hypothesized that chronic neonatal nicotine (CNN) exposure differentially regulates the expression of these co-transporters and BDNF in males and females. We use quantitative isotopic in situ hybridization to examine the expression of mRNAs for NKCC1, KCC2, BDNF, and NMDA receptor subunit 2A (NR2A) and NMDA receptor subunit 2B (NR2B) in the postnatal day (P) 5 and 8 rat hippocampi in both sexes that were either control-treated or with 6mg/kg/day nicotine in milk formula (CNN) via gastric intubation starting at P1. In line with prolonged GABAergic excitation, we found that at P5 males had significantly higher mRNA expression of NKCC1 and BDNF than females. CNN treatment resulted in a significant increase in KCC2 and BDNF mRNA expression in male but not female hippocampus (p&lt;0.05). Males also had higher expression of NR2A and lower expression of NR2B at P5 compared to females (p&lt;0.05). At P8, there were neither sex nor treatment effects on mRNA expression, indicating the end of a critical period for sensitivity to nicotine. These results suggest that differential maturation of GABA(A)R-mediated responses result in sex-specific sensitivity to nicotine during early postnatal development, potentially explaining the differential long-term effects of CNN on hippocampal function.

Protocadherin 9 (Pcdh9) is a member of the protocadherin family, which includes many members involved in various phenomena, such as cell-cell adhesion, neural projection, and synapse formation. Here, we identified Pcdh9 protein in the mouse brain and examined its distribution during neural development. Pcdh9, with a molecular weight of approximately 180 kDa, was localized at cell-cell contact sites in COS-1 cells transfected with Pcdh9 cDNA. In cultured neurons, it was detected at the growth cone and at adhesion sites along neurites. In the E13.5 brain, prominent Pcdh9 immunoreactivity was detected in the dorsal thalamus along with other regions including the vestibulocochlear nerve. As development proceeded (E15.5-P1), Pcdh9 immunoreactivity became observable in various brain regions but was restricted to certain fiber tracts and brain nuclei. Interestingly, many Pcdh9-positive brain nuclei and fascicles belonged to the vestibular (e.g. vestibulocochlear nerve, vestibular nuclei, and the vestibulocerebellum) and oculomotor systems (medial longitudinal fascicles, oculomotor nucleus, trochlear nucleus, and interstitial nucleus of Cajal). In addition, we examined the distribution of Pcdh9 protein in the olfactory bulb, retina, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglion. In these regions, Pcdh9 and OL-protocadherin proteins were differentially distributed, with the difference highlighted in the olfactory bulb, where they were enriched in different subsets of glomeruli. In the mature retina, Pcdh9 immunoreactivity was detected in distinct sublaminae of the inner and outer plexiform layers. In the dorsal root ganglion, only certain subsets of neurons showed Pcdh9 immunoreactivity. These results suggest that Pcdh9 might be involved in formation of specific neural circuits during neural development.
The Mller glial cells exhibit stem cell properties and express neuronal markers following experimentally induced retinal injury. However, it is not known whether Mller glia respond similarly to degenerative neuronal loss caused by genetic mutation. Here, we asked whether Mller cells dedifferentiate and express neuronal proteins in rd1 mouse, a naturally occurring mutant model of inherited retinal degeneration. Using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting, we studied expression patterns of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), nestin, rhodopsin, protein kinase C alpha (PKC), -III-tubulin and recoverin in Mller glia. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was carried out to detect any rhodopsin mRNA in the rd1 mouse retina. We found that Mller cell processes in rd1 mouse hypertrophied and overexpressed GFAP as early as postnatal day (P)-14, features that were maintained throughout development and in the adult stage. Furthermore, Mller cells continued to express nestin, a progenitor cell marker, up to 6 months of age, raising the possibility that they remain undifferentiated for several months in rd1 mouse. We did not find nestin expression in Mller cells in 1-year-old rd1 mouse. Interestingly, Mller cell processes in rd1 mouse also expressed rhodopsin, a rod-specific protein. The rhodopsin expression in Mller cells was evident at P-21, and remained so up to at least 1 year of age. The expression of rhodopsin by Mller cells was further supported by our finding of the rhodopsin transcript in the 9-month-old rd1 mouse retina. We did not find the expression of PKC, -III-tubulin or recoverin in Mller cells in adult rd1 mouse. These results suggested that Mller cells in rd1 mouse express proteins specific to retinal neurons that are the primary targets of the mutation in this mouse. Although the functional significance of rhodopsin expression by Mller cells is unclear, these results have implications for novel therapeutic strategies for retinal degeneration.
Optical imaging of intrinsic signals across the primary visual cortex in mammals has shown that neurons tuned to the same stimulus orientation are clustered together to form orientation domains, which converge on singularities called pinwheel centres. We used a combination of two gratings in different mutual relationships as in a plaid to study how visual cortical neurons differ in integrating these signals. Neurons in the centres of orientation domains responded to a smaller range of such composite stimuli than cells near pinwheel centres, even though orientation tuning for a single bar or grating did not differ significantly between the two locations. We believe that this difference between the two locations is related to the way local intracortical interactions generate a full complement of orientation preferences from a limited number of preferred stimulus orientations represented in the geniculate afferents to the striate cortex.
Calcium accumulation induces the breakdown of cytoskeleton and axonal fragmentation in the late stages of Wallerian degeneration. In the early stages there is no evidence for any long-lasting, extensive increase in intra-axonal calcium but there does appear to be some redistribution. We hypothesized that changes in calcium distribution could have an early regulatory role in axonal degeneration in addition to the late executionary role of calcium. Schmidt-Lanterman clefts (SLCs), which allow exchange of metabolites and ions between the periaxonal and extracellular space, are likely to have an increased role when axon segments are separated from the cell body, so we used the oxalate-pyroantimonate method to study calcium at SLCs in distal stumps of transected wild-type and slow Wallerian degeneration (Wld(S)) mutant sciatic nerves, in which Wallerian degeneration is greatly delayed. In wild-type nerves most SLCs show a step gradient of calcium distribution, which is lost at around 20% of SLCs within 3mm of the lesion site by 4-24h after nerve transection. To investigate further the association with Wallerian degeneration, we studied nerves from Wld(S) rats. The step gradient of calcium distribution in Wld(S) is absent in around 20% of the intact nerves beneath SLCs but 4-24h following injury, calcium distribution in transected axons remained similar to that in uninjured nerves. We then used calcium indicators to study influx and buffering of calcium in injured neurites in primary culture. Calcium penetration and the early calcium increase in this system were indistinguishable between Wld(S) and wild-type axons. However, a significant difference was observed during the following hours, when calcium increased in wild-type neurites but not in Wld(S) neurites. We conclude that there is little relationship between calcium distribution and the early stages of Wallerian degeneration at the time points studied in vivo or in vitro but that Wld(S) neurites fail to show a later calcium rise that could be a cause or consequence of the later stages of Wallerian degeneration.
Synaptotagmins are required for Ca(2+)-dependent membrane-trafficking in either neuronal synaptic vesicles or cellular membranes. Previous reports suggested that the synaptotagmin 11 (syt11) gene is involved in the development of schizophrenia based on the genomic analysis of patients. Parkin protein binds to the C2 domains of Syt11 which leads to the polyubiquitination of Syt11. However, where and how Syt11 performs its role in the brain is largely unknown. Here, we report that Syt11 is expressed mainly in the brain. In addition, exogenously expressed Syt11 in HEK293 cells can form higher molecular weight complex via its transmembrane domain. Also, Syt11 is targeted to both dendrite and axon compartments. Immunocytochemistry showed that Syt11 is juxtaposed to postsynaptic markers in both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Both neuroligin 1 and 2, which are postsynaptic cell adhesion molecules and differentially induce excitatory and inhibitory presynapses, respectively, recruit Syt11 in neuron coculture. Immunogold electron microscopy analysis revealed that Syt11 exists mainly in presynaptic neurotransmitter vesicles and plasma membrane, and rarely in postsynaptic sites. These results suggest that Syt11 may contribute to the regulation of neurotransmitter release in the excitatory and inhibitory presynapses, and postsynapse-targeted membrane trafficking in dendrites.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative aging disorder characterized by extracellular A plaques and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles. We conducted longitudinal studies to examine the effects of A on brain amino acid metabolism in lentiviral A(1-42) gene transfer animals and transgenic AD mice. We also performed lentiviral parkin gene delivery to determine the effects of A clearance in AD models. A(1-42) activated mTOR signaling, and increased 4E-BP phosphorylation. A(1-42) increased the synthesis of glutamate and aspartate, but not glutamine, leucine and isoleucine, but an increase in leucine and isoleucine levels was concurrent with diminution of neurotransmitters. Additionally, A(1-42) attenuated mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity and decreased synthesis of its by-products. Glutamate levels increased prior to lactate accumulation, suggesting oxidative stress. Importantly, parkin reversed the effects of A(1-42) on amino acid levels, prevented TCA cycle impairment and protected against glutamate toxicity. Cortical atrophy was observed in aged 3xTg-AD mice, while parkin expression was associated with reduced atrophy. Similarly, A(1-42) resulted in significant cell loss, pronounced astrogliosis and cortical atrophy and parkin reduced astrogliosis and reversed A(1-42) effects on cell loss and cortical atrophy. Taken together these data suggest that parkin prevents amyloid-induced alteration of brain metabolism and may be used as a therapeutic target to limit neuronal loss in AD.
Valproic acid (VPA), a branched short-chain fatty acid, is generally used as an antiepileptic drug and a mood stabilizer. VPA is a relatively safe drug, but its use in higher concentrations is associated with idiosyncratic neurotoxicity. Investigations involving cerebral cortex and cerebellum can shed light on whether neurotoxicity induced by branched chain fatty acids like VPA is mediated by oxidative stress. The aim of our investigation was to evaluate the neurotoxic potential of VPA by using preparation of cerebral cortex and cerebellum of young rats as an in vitro model. Oxidative stress indexes such as lipid peroxidation (LPO) and protein carbonyl (PC) formation were evaluated to visualize whether the first line of defence was breached. The levels of oxidative stress markers, LPO and PC were significantly elevated. Non-enzymatic antioxidants' effect was also demonstrated as a significant depletion in reduced glutathione (GSH) and non-protein thiol activity (NP-SH), but there was no significant increase or decrease in the concentrations of total thiol (T-SH) and protein thiol (P-SH). VPA also showed significant reduction in the activities of glutathione metabolizing enzymes such as glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and other antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) in cerebellum and cerebral cortex. A significant elevation was also observed in the activity of xanthine oxidase (XO). Some neurotoxicity biomarkers were investigated in which the activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and sodium-potassium ATPase (Na(+), K(+)-ATPase) was decreased and monoamine oxidase (MAO) was increased. These results indicate that VPA induces oxidative stress by compromising the antioxidant status of the neuronal tissue. Further studies are required to decipher the cellular and molecular mechanisms of branched chain fatty acid-induced neurotoxicity.
Postnatal treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) has been found to affect brain development and the regulation of reproduction in rodent models. The normal masculinization process in the brain requires a transient decrease in serotonin (5-HT) levels in the brain during the second postnatal week. Strict regulation of androgen receptor (AR) and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) expression is important to control male reproductive activity. Therefore, this study was designed to examine the effects of a potent SSRI (citalopram) on male sexual behavior and expression levels of AR and GnRH in adult male mice receiving either vehicle or citalopram (10mg/kg) daily during postnatal days 8-21. The citalopram-treated male mice showed altered sexual behavior, specifically a significant reduction in the number of intromissions preceding ejaculation compared with the vehicle-treated mice. The citalopram-treated male mice displayed elevated anxiety-like behavior in an open field test and lower locomotor activity in their home cage during the subjective night. Although there was no change in GnRH and AR mRNA levels in the preoptic area (POA), quantified by real-time polymerase chain reaction, immunostained AR cell numbers in the medial POA were decreased in the citalopram-treated male mice. These results suggest that the early-life inhibition of 5-HT transporters alters the regulation of AR expression in the medial POA, likely causing decreased sexual behavior and altered home cage activity in the subjective night.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) survivors experience long-term post-traumatic morbidities. In diffuse brain-injured rats, a chronic sensory sensitivity to whisker stimulation models the agitation of TBI survivors and provides anatomical landmarks across the whisker-barrel circuit to evaluate post-traumatic neuropathology. As a consequence of TBI, acute and chronic microglial activation can contribute to degenerative and reparative events underlying post-traumatic morbidity. Here we hypothesize that a temporal sequence of microglial activation states contributes to the circuit pathology responsible for post-traumatic morbidity, and test the hypothesis by examining microglial morphological activation and neuroinflammatory markers for activation states through gene expression and receptor-binding affinity. Adult male, Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a single moderate midline fluid percussion injury (FPI) or sham injury. Microglial activation was determined by immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR and receptor autoradiography in the primary somatosensory barrel field (S1BF) and ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM) of the thalamus at 7 and 28 days following FPI. Morphological changes indicative of microglial activation, including swollen cell body with thicker, shrunken processes, were evident in S1BF and VPM at 7 and 28 days post-injury. Principally at 7 days post-injury in VPM, general inflammatory gene expression (major histocompatibility complex I, major histocompatibility complex II, translocator protein 18 kDa [TSPO]) is increased above sham level and TSPO gene expression confirmed by receptor autoradiography. Further, CD45, a marker of classical activation, and TGF-I, an acquired deactivation marker, were elevated significantly above sham at 7 days post-injury. Daily administration of the anti-inflammatory ibuprofen (20mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced the expression of these genes. Evidence for alternative activation (arginase 1) was not observed. Thus, these data demonstrate concomitant classical activation and acquired deactivation phenotypes of microglia in diffuse TBI in the absence of overt contusion or cavitation. Anti-inflammatory treatment may further alleviate the neuropathological burden of post-traumatic inflammation.
Goal of this manuscript is to investigate whether changes that exist in epileptic brain generating spontaneous seizures are reflected in the pattern of the UP-Down state (UDS) recorded from the neocortex and dentate gyrus. Experiments were carried out on naive and epileptic mice under urethane anesthesia. Local field potentials were recorded with chronically implanted microelectrodes and single unit activity was recorded with glass microelectrodes. Recorded neurons were labeled by neurobiotin and identified later as granular cells or interneurons in histological sections. The following major features differentiate the pattern of UDS in epilepsy from normal. (1) The duration of UP and Down phases is significantly longer. (2) Recovery of network excitability after termination of the UP phase is longer. (3) UP-spikes occur during the UP phase, which transiently interrupt the development of the normal electrographic pattern of UP phase. Our data provide evidence that UP-spikes result from gigantic EPSPs generated in response to afferent activity. UP-spikes in the neocortex and dentate gyrus occur in close temporal relationship indicating the existence of direct or indirect pathological functional connections between these areas. Changes in the duration of UP and Down phases as well increased time of recovery of excitability of epileptic brain after termination of UP phase suggest alterations in the homeostatic properties of neuronal network in epileptic brain. We suggest that the existence of UP-spikes in epileptic brain may be an additional electrographic pattern indicating epileptogenicity. Unraveling the neuronal substrates of UP-spikes may further improve our understanding of the mechanisms of epilepsy.
The frontal eye field (FEF) has a strong influence on saccadic eye movements with the head restrained. With the head unrestrained, eye saccades combine with head movements to produce large gaze shifts, and microstimulation of the FEF evokes both eye and head movements. To test whether the dorsomedial FEF provides commands for the entire gaze shift or its separate eye and head components, we recorded extracellular single-unit activity in monkeys trained to make large head-unrestrained gaze shifts. We recorded 80 units active during gaze shifts, and closely examined 26 of these that discharged a burst of action potentials that preceded horizontal gaze movements. These units were movement or visuomovement related and most exhibited open movement fields with respect to amplitude. To reveal the relations of burst parameters to gaze, eye, and/or head movement metrics, we used behavioral dissociations of gaze, eye, and head movements and linear regression analyses. The burst number of spikes (NOS) was strongly correlated with movement amplitude and burst temporal parameters were strongly correlated with movement temporal metrics for eight gaze-related burst neurons and five saccade-related burst neurons. For the remaining 13 neurons, the NOS was strongly correlated with the head movement amplitude, but burst temporal parameters were most strongly correlated with eye movement temporal metrics (head-eye-related burst neurons, HEBNs). These results suggest that FEF units do not encode a command for the unified gaze shift only; instead, different units may carry signals related to the overall gaze shift or its eye and/or head components. Moreover, the HEBNs exhibit bursts whose magnitude and timing may encode a head displacement signal and a signal that influences the timing of the eye saccade, thereby serving as a mechanism for coordinating the eye and head movements of a gaze shift.
Enteric viscerofugal neurons are interneurons with cell bodies in the gut wall; they project to prevertebral ganglia where they provide excitatory synaptic drive to sympathetic neurons which control intestinal motility and secretion. Here, we studied the mechanosensitivity and firing of single, identified viscerofugal neurons in guinea-pig distal colon. Flat sheet preparations of gut were set up in vitro and conventional extracellular recordings made from colonic nerve trunks. The nicotinic agonist, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide (DMPP) (1mM), was locally pressure ejected onto individual myenteric ganglia. In a few ganglia, DMPP promptly evoked firing in colonic nerves. Biotinamide filling of colonic nerves revealed that DMPP-responsive sites corresponded to viscerofugal nerve cell bodies. This provides a robust means to positively identify viscerofugal neuron firing. Of 15 single units identified in this way, none responded to locally-applied capsaicin (1 M). Probing with von Frey hairs at DMPP-responsive sites reliably evoked firing in all identified viscerofugal neurons (18/18 units tested; 0.8-5 mN). Circumferential stretch of the preparation increased firing in all 14/14 units (1-5 g, p&lt;0.05). Both stretch and von Frey hair responses persisted in Ca(2+)-free solution (6 mM Mg(2+), 1mM EDTA), indicating that viscerofugal neurons are directly mechanosensitive. To investigate their adequate stimulus, circular muscle tension and length were independently modulated (BAY K8644, 1 M and 10 M, respectively). Increases in intramural tension without changes in length did not affect firing. However, contraction-evoked shortening, under constant load, significantly decreased firing (p&lt;0.001). In conclusion, viscerofugal neuron action potentials contribute to recordings from colonic nerve trunks, in vitro. They provide a significant primary afferent output from the colon, encoding circumferential length, largely independent of muscle tension. All viscerofugal neurons are directly mechanosensitive, although they have been reported to receive synaptic inputs. In short, viscerofugal neurons combine interneuronal function with length-sensitive mechanosensitivity.
The reserve pool (RP) and readily releasable pool (RRP) of synaptic vesicles within presynaptic nerve terminals, at crayfish and larval Drosophila neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), were examined for physiological differentiation into distinctly separate functional groups. These NMJs are glutamatergic and produce graded excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The packaging of glutamate was perturbed by blocking the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGlut) with bafilomycin A1. Various frequencies of motor nerve stimulation, exposure time, and concentration of bafilomycin A1 were examined. The low-output tonic opener NMJs in crayfish exposed to 4 M bafilomycin A1 and 20-Hz continuous stimulation decreased the EPSP amplitude to 50% in 30 min with controls lasting 3h. After activity and bafilomycin A1-induced synaptic depression, the EPSPs were rapidly revitalized by serotonin (5-HT, 1 M) in the crayfish preparations. The 5-HT action can be blocked with a PLC inhibitor. We postulate 5-HT recruits unused vesicles from the RP. The perception is the RRP is selectively activated during rapid electrical stimulation (20 Hz) sparing the RP. When stimulation frequency is high (40 Hz) the RP is recruited to the RRP and dampens subsequent recruitment with 5-HT. The higher output synapses of the larval Drosophila NMJ when stimulated at 1 Hz or 5 Hz and exposed to 4 M of bafilomycin A1 showed a depression rate of 50% within 10 min with controls lasting 40 min. After low frequency depression and/or exposure to bafilomycin A1 a burst of higher frequency (10 Hz) can recruit vesicles from the RP to the RRP.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) plays a critical role in regulating the behavioral response to stress. Stressors that activate the BNST also activate serotonergic (5-HT) systems. Hence, maladaptive changes of 5-HT receptor expression may contribute to stress-induced anxiety disorders. The BNST contains three neuronal types, Type I-III neurons. However, little is known about 5-HT receptor subtypes mRNA expression in these neurons, or whether it can be modulated by stress. Whole-cell patch clamp recording from Type I-III neurons was used in conjunction with single cell reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to characterize 5-HT receptor mRNA expression, and examine the effects of stress on this expression. We report that Type I neurons expressed mRNA transcripts predominantly for 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) receptors. Type II neurons expressed transcripts for every 5-HT receptor except the 5-HT(2C) receptor. Type II neurons were divided into three sub-populations: Type IIA in which transcripts for 5-HT(3) and 5-HT(7) receptors predominate, Type IIB that mainly express 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(4) receptor transcripts, and Type IIC in which transcripts for 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptors predominate. Type III neurons were also subdivided into two sub-populations; one that predominantly expressed transcripts for 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, and another that mainly expressed transcripts for 5-HT(2C) receptor. Unpredictable shock stress (USS) caused a long-lasting increase in anxiety-like behavior, and a concomitant decrease in 5-HT(1A) transcript expression in Type I-III neurons, as well as an up-regulation of a transcriptional repressor of 5-HT(1A) gene expression, deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor 1 (Deaf-1). Significantly USS decreased 5-HT(1A) protein level, and increased the level of Deaf-1. USS also increased 5-HT(1B) transcript expression in Type III neurons, as well as 5-HT(7) expression in Type I and II neurons. These data suggest that cell type-specific disruption of 5-HT receptor expression in BNST(ALG) neurons may contribute to stress-induced anxiety disorders.
While chronic pain is a main symptom in endometriosis, the underlying mechanisms and effective therapy remain elusive. We developed an animal model enabling the exploration of ectopic endometrium as a source of endometriosis pain. Rats were surgically implanted with autologous uterus in the gastrocnemius muscle. Within two weeks, visual inspection revealed the presence of a reddish-brown fluid-filled cystic structure at the implant site. Histology demonstrated cystic glandular structures with stromal invasion of the muscle. Immunohistochemical studies of these lesions revealed the presence of markers for nociceptor nerve fibers and neuronal sprouting. Fourteen days after surgery rats exhibited persistent mechanical hyperalgesia at the site of the ectopic endometrial lesion. Intralesional, but not contralateral, injection of progesterone was dose-dependently antihyperalgesic. Systemic administration of leuprolide also produced antihyperalgesia. In vivo electrophysiological recordings from sensory neurons innervating the lesion revealed a significant increase in their response to sustained mechanical stimulation. These results are consistent with clinical and pathological findings observed in patients with endometriosis, compatible with the ectopic endometrium as a source of pain. This model of endometriosis allows mechanistic exploration at the lesion site facilitating our understanding of endometriosis pain.
Immunological activation may result in the development of depressive-like symptoms in a large percentage of patients treated with cytokine-based therapies. The mechanisms underlying susceptibility to cytokine-induced depression are currently unknown; however activation of the tryptophan catabolising enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) is associated with the induction of cytokine-induced depression. Peripheral administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is one of the most commonly used immunological challenges in animal models of cytokine-induced depression. Inbred mouse strains are useful tools in the investigation of the neurobiology of psychiatric illnesses. In this study we hypothesised that two strains which differ in stress susceptibility, namely the BALB/c and C57BL/6J mice, would respond differentially to LPS and swim-stress in cytokine profile, corticosterone concentrations and mRNA expression of genes coding for the tryptophan metabolising enzymes, IDO1, IDO2, Tph1 and Tph2. The stress-sensitive BALB/c strain exhibited increased depressive-like behaviour and enhanced corticosterone concentrations in response to LPS. Furthermore, swim-stress attenuated the LPS-induced corticosterone response in BALB/c mice only. LPS significantly increased plasma interleukin (IL)-1 and tumour necrosis factor  (TNF) concentrations to a greater extent in BALB/c mice. The LPS-induced increase in IL-1 mRNA expression was significantly attenuated by swim-stress in the hippocampus of C57BL/6J but not in BALB/c mice. TNF mRNA expression was significantly increased in BALB/c mice only; this increase was attenuated by swim-stress. Tph1 mRNA expression was upregulated in the brainstem of C57BL/6J mice post-LPS and following the combination of swim-stress and LPS in BALB/c mice. In the hippocampus Tph1 and Tph2 mRNA expression was increased in C57BL/6J but not BALB/c mice in response to LPS challenge and swim-stress. Conversely, IDO2 but not IDO1 mRNA expression was significantly altered following swim-stress and LPS, particularly in the hippocampus of BALB/c mice. These data indicate altered central mRNA expression of tryptophan metabolising enzymes and immune activation in BALB/c mice compared to the normo-sensitive C57BL/6J strain.
In a (simulated) reverberant environment, both human listeners and laboratory rats are able to perceptually integrate the direct wave of a sound source with the reflections of the source, leading to a fused image as coming from the location around the source (the precedence effect). This perceptual grouping effect produces perceived spatial separation between sound sources and facilitates selective attention to the target source. However, the neural correlates of the unmasking effects of perceived spatial separation have not been reported in the literature. The lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) is critical for processing ecologically salient sensory signals (e.g., threatening sounds) and mediating auditory fear conditioning. LA neuronal responses to a sound increase if the sound is fear conditioned. This study investigated whether in awake rats the perceptual fusion-induced separation between a fear-conditioned target sound and a noise masker enhances LA responses to the target. The results show that frequency-following responses (FFRs, i.e., sustained potentials based on phase-locked firing of neuron populations to periodical sound waveforms) recorded in the LA to a tone-complex, which was masked by a wideband noise, were enhanced after the tone-complex became fear conditioned. More importantly, the fear-conditioned tone-complex, but not the pseudo-conditioned tone-complex, elicited further larger LA FFRs when it was perceived as separated from the masker than when it was perceived as co-located with the masker. The results suggest that in the LA there exists a neural correlate of selective attention to ecologically significant sounds with a high degree of stimulus specificity.
The input synapses of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) have been extensively studied and much has been learned about their dynamics, plasticity and functionality. In contrast there is limited information available about PC output synapses. This study uses dual cell recording methods to investigate synaptic dynamics and plasticity at individual PC synapses onto neighboring PCs in in vitro preparations of the mormyrid cerebellum. This synaptic connectivity may be strong or weak. For strong connections, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) or currents (IPSCs) are synchronized with the action potentials of the presynaptic cell. For weak connections, however, the pre- and postsynaptic potentials are no longer synchronized, and presynaptic burst firing at intraburst rates of 50 Hz or higher is required to reliably induce the postsynaptic inhibition. A depression of this postsynaptic inhibition was observed for both types of connectivity following repeated presynaptic bursts, which was subsequently largely reversed following pairings of the presynaptic burst-induced IPSPs/IPSCs with evoked burst firing of the postsynaptic cell. Moreover, the original postsynaptic depression was found to be either augmented or reversed depending on the temporal order of each pair of additional pre- and postsynaptic cell activations, hence demonstrating a reversible and spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) at this synapse.
STriatal-Enriched protein tyrosine Phosphatase (STEP; PTPN5) is expressed in brain regions displaying adult neuroplasticity. STEP modulates neurotransmission by dephosphorylating regulatory tyrosine residues on its substrates. In this way, STEP inactivates extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), limiting the duration and spatial distribution of ERK signaling. Two additional substrates, the tyrosine kinase Fyn and the NR2B subunit of the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor, link STEP to glutamate receptor internalization in the synapse. Thus, STEP may act through parallel pathways to oppose the development of experience-dependent synaptic plasticity. We examined the hypothesis that the absence of STEP facilitates amygdala-dependent behavioral and synaptic plasticity (i.e., fear conditioning and long-term potentiation) using STEP-deficient mice (STEP KO). These mice show no detectable expression of STEP in the brain along with increases in Tyr phosphorylation of STEP substrates. Here we demonstrate that STEP KO mice also display augmented fear conditioning as measured by an enhancement in conditioned suppression of instrumental response when a fear-associated conditioned stimulus was presented. Deletion of STEP also increases long-term potentiation and ERK phosphorylation in the lateral amygdala. The current experiments demonstrate that deletion of STEP can enhance experience-induced neuroplasticity and memory formation and identifies STEP as a target for pharmacological treatment aimed at improving the formation of long-term memories.
Recently it has become apparent that microglia play a role not only in responding to insults within the central nervous system but also in responding to changes in synaptic activity and potentially modulating synaptic function. This has led to an enormous expansion of interest in how microglia respond to both pathological and nonpathological challenges, with activities that are associated with unique morphological transformations. Examining changes in microglial morphology can provide direct insight into the cells' functional activities, as morphological status is recognized to be tightly coupled with function. Despite these advances in knowledge, many of the image-based morphometric procedures used to investigate changes in microglial morphology have not kept pace. This has created a situation in which morphometric approaches that have been extensively employed in the past can no longer provide accurate information on the complex transformations that microglia can undergo, particularly under non-pathological conditions. This review critically examines the strengths and weaknesses of existing morphometric analysis procedures. This review further examines efforts to improve the utility of existing approaches and discusses new developments, such as digital reconstruction, that yield more accurate and specific information on how microglia remodel themselves. Ultimately, an improved understanding of the strengths and limitations of existing, and emerging, morphometric approaches will greatly facilitate efforts to understand how microglia remodel themselves in response to the full spectrum of challenges that they are known to encounter.
Serial MRI facilitates the in vivo analysis of the intra- and intersubject evolution of traumatic brain injury lesions. Despite the availability of MRI, the natural history of experimental focal contusion lesions in the controlled cortical impact (CCI) rat model has not been well described. We performed CCI on rats and MRI during the acute to chronic stages of cerebral injury to investigate the time course of changes in the brain. Female Wistar rats underwent CCI of their left motor cortex with a flat impact tip driven by an electromagnetic piston. In vivo MRI was performed at 7T serially over 6weeks post-CCI. The appearances of CCI-induced lesions and lesion-associated cortical volumes were variable on MRI, with the percentage change in cortical volume of the CCI ipsilateral side relative to the contralateral side ranging from 18% within 2h of injury on day 0 to a peak of 35% on day 1, and a trough of -28% by week 5/6, with an average standard deviation of 14% at any given time point. In contrast, the percentage change in cortical volume of the ipsilateral side relative to the contralateral side in control rats was not significant (12%). Hemorrhagic conversion within and surrounding the CCI lesion occurred between days 2 and 9 in 45% of rats, with no hemorrhage noted on the initial scan. Furthermore, hemorrhage and hemosiderin within the lesion were positive for Prussian blue and highly autofluorescent on histological examination. Although some variation in injuries may be technique related, the divergence of similar lesions between initial and final scans demonstrates the inherent biological variability of the CCI rat model. Published 2012. This article is a US Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.

Forward genetic screens in Drosophila melanogaster using ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis are a powerful approach for identifying genes that modulate specific biological processes in an in vivo setting. The mapping of genes that contain randomly-induced point mutations has become more efficient in Drosophila thanks to the maturation and availability of many types of genetic tools. However, classic approaches to gene mapping are relatively slow and ultimately require extensive Sanger sequencing of candidate chromosomal loci. With the advent of new high-throughput sequencing techniques, it is increasingly efficient to directly re-sequence the whole genome of model organisms. This approach, in combination with traditional chromosomal mapping, has the potential to greatly simplify and accelerate mutation identification in mutants generated in EMS screens. Here we show that next-generation sequencing (NGS) is an accurate and efficient tool for high-throughput sequencing and mutation discovery in Drosophila melanogaster. As a test case, mutant strains of Drosophila that exhibited long-term survival of severed peripheral axons were identified in a forward EMS mutagenesis. All mutants were recessive and fell into a single lethal complementation group, which suggested that a single gene was responsible for the protective axon degenerative phenotype. Whole genome sequencing of these genomes identified the underlying gene ect4. To improve the process of genome wide mutation identification, we developed Genomes Management Application (GEM.app, https://genomics.med.miami.edu), a graphical online user interface to a custom query framework. Using a custom GEM.app query, we were able to identify that each mutant carried a unique non-sense mutation in the gene ect4 (dSarm), which was recently shown by Osterloh et al. to be essential for the activation of axonal degeneration. Our results demonstrate the current advantages and limitations of NGS in Drosophila and we introduce GEM.app as a simple yet powerful genomics analysis tool for the Drosophila community. At a current cost of &lt;$1,000 per genome, NGS should thus become a standard gene discovery tool in EMS induced genetic forward screens.
Evolution favored individuals with superior cognitive and physical abilities under conditions of limited food sources, and brain function can therefore be optimized by intermittent dietary energy restriction (ER) and exercise. Such energetic challenges engage adaptive cellular stress-response signaling pathways in neurons involving neurotrophic factors, protein chaperones, DNA-repair proteins, autophagy, and mitochondrial biogenesis. By suppressing adaptive cellular stress responses, overeating and a sedentary lifestyle may increase the risk of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, stroke, and depression. Intense concerted efforts of governments, families, schools, and physicians will be required to successfully implement brain-healthy lifestyles that incorporate ER and exercise.
The incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus is rising at alarming proportions. Central nervous system plays an important part in orchestrating glucose metabolism, with accumulating evidence linking dysregulated central nervous system circuits to the failure of normal glucoregulatory mechanisms. Pyridoxine is a water soluble vitamin and it has important role in brain function. This study aims to evaluate the role of pyridoxine in striatal glucose regulation through dopaminergic receptor expressions in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Radio receptor binding assays for dopamine D(1), D(2) receptors were done using [(3)H] 7-chloro-3-methyl-1-phenyl-1,2,4,5-tetrahydro-3-benzazepin-8-ol and [(3)H] 5-chloro-2-methoxy-4-methylamino-N-[-2-methyl-1-(phenylmethyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl]benzamide. Gene expressions were done using fluorescently labeled Taqman probes of dopamine D(1), D(2) receptor, Insulin receptor, Insulin like growth factor-1(IGF-1) and Glucose transporter-3 (GLUT-3). Bmax of dopamine D(1) receptor is decreased and B(max) of dopamine D(2) was increased in diabetic rats compared to control. Gene expression of dopamine D(1) receptor was down regulated and dopamine D(2) receptor was up regulated in diabetic rats. Our results showed decreased gene expression of Insulin receptor, IGF-1 and increased gene expression of GLUT-3 in diabetic rats compared to control. Pyridoxine treatment restored diabetes induced alterations in dopamine D(1), D(2) receptors, Insulin receptor, IGF-1, GLUT-3 gene expressions in striatum compared to diabetic rats. Insulin treatment reversed dopamine D(1), D(2) receptor, GLUT-3 mRNA expression, D(2) receptor binding parameters in the striatum compared to diabetic group. Our results suggest the potential role of pyridoxine supplementation in ameliorating diabetes mediated dysfunctions in striatal dopaminergic receptor expressions and insulin signaling. Thus pyridoxine has therapeutic significance in diabetes management.
The grik2 gene, coding for the kainate receptor subunit GluK2 (formerly GluR6), is associated with autism spectrum disorders and intellectual disability. Here, we tested the hypothesis that GluK2 could play a role in the appropriate maturation of synaptic circuits involved in learning and memory. We show that both the functional and morphological maturation of hippocampal mossy fiber to CA3 pyramidal cell (mf-CA3) synapses is delayed in mice deficient for the GluK2 subunit (GluK2/). In GluK2/ mice this deficit is manifested by a transient reduction in the amplitude of AMPA-EPSCs at a critical time point of postnatal development, whereas the NMDA component is spared. By combining multiple probability peak fluctuation analysis and immunohistochemistry, we have provided evidence that the decreased amplitude reflects a decrease in the quantal size per mf-CA3 synapse and in the number of active synaptic sites. Furthermore, we analyzed the time course of structural maturation of CA3 synapses by confocal imaging of YFP-expressing cells followed by tridimensional (3D) anatomical reconstruction of thorny excrescences and presynaptic boutons. We show that major changes in synaptic structures occur subsequently to the sharp increase in synaptic transmission, and more importantly that the course of structural maturation of synaptic elements is impaired in GluK2/ mice. This study highlights how a mutation in a gene linked to intellectual disability in the human may lead to a transient reduction of synaptic strength during postnatal development, impacting on the proper formation of neural circuits linked to memory.
Memory stabilization following encoding (synaptic consolidation) or memory reactivation (reconsolidation) requires gene expression and protein synthesis (Dudai and Eisenberg, 2004; Tronson and Taylor, 2007; Nader and Einarsson, 2010; Alberini, 2011). Although consolidation and reconsolidation may be mediated by distinct molecular mechanisms (Lee et al., 2004), disrupting the function of the transcription factor CREB impairs both processes (Kida et al., 2002; Mamiya et al., 2009). Phosphorylation of CREB at Ser133 recruits CREB binding protein (CBP)/p300 coactivators to activate transcription (Chrivia et al., 1993; Parker et al., 1996). In addition to this well known mechanism, CREB regulated transcription coactivators (CRTCs), previously called transducers of regulated CREB (TORC) activity, stimulate CREB-mediated transcription, even in the absence of CREB phosphorylation. Recently, CRTC1 has been shown to undergo activity-dependent trafficking from synapses and dendrites to the nucleus in excitatory hippocampal neurons (Ch'ng et al., 2012). Despite being a powerful and specific coactivator of CREB, the role of CRTC in memory is virtually unexplored. To examine the effects of increasing CRTC levels, we used viral vectors to locally and acutely increase CRTC1 in the dorsal hippocampus dentate gyrus region of mice before training or memory reactivation in context fear conditioning. Overexpressing CRTC1 enhanced both memory consolidation and reconsolidation; CRTC1-mediated memory facilitation was context specific (did not generalize to nontrained context) and long lasting (observed after virally expressed CRTC1 dissipated). CREB overexpression produced strikingly similar effects. Therefore, increasing CRTC1 or CREB function is sufficient to enhance the strength of new, as well as established reactivated, memories without compromising memory quality.
Perception depends on the interplay of ongoing spontaneous activity and stimulus-evoked activity in sensory cortices. This raises the possibility that training ongoing spontaneous activity alone might be sufficient for enhancing perceptual sensitivity. To test this, we trained human participants to control ongoing spontaneous activity in circumscribed regions of retinotopic visual cortex using real-time functional MRI-based neurofeedback. After training, we tested participants using a new and previously untrained visual detection task that was presented at the visual field location corresponding to the trained region of visual cortex. Perceptual sensitivity was significantly enhanced only when participants who had previously learned control over ongoing activity were now exercising control and only for that region of visual cortex. Our new approach allows us to non-invasively and non-pharmacologically manipulate regionally specific brain activity and thus provide &quot;brain training&quot; to deliver particular perceptual enhancements.
Neuroinflammation plays a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), resulting in the extensive activation of microglial and astroglial cells. Here we describe the role of myeloid-related protein Mrp14, a recently described amplifier of inflammation, in Alzheimer's disease and in the related amyloid precursor protein/presenilin1 (APP/PS1) mouse model. Detection of Mrp14 in control, mildly cognitive impaired, and AD patients revealed a strong induction of Mrp14 in protein extracts as well as in the cerebrospinal fluid, but not in blood plasma. In APP/PS1 mice, Mrp14 and its heterodimeric partner Mrp8 was found to be upregulated in microglial cells surrounding amyloid plaques. Functionally, loss of Mrp14 led to increased phagocytosis of fibrillar amyloid  (A) in microglia cells in vitro and in vivo. Generating APP/PS1-transgenic mice deficient for Mrp14, we observed a decrease of key cytokines involved in APP processing, a reduction of BACE1 expression and activity, and consequently overall A deposition. We therefore conclude that Mrp14 promotes APP processing and A accumulation under neuroinflammatory conditions.
Knowledge of thalamocortical (TC) processing comes mainly from studying core thalamic systems that project to middle layers of primary sensory cortices. However, most thalamic relay neurons comprise a matrix of cells that are densest in the &quot;nonspecific&quot; thalamic nuclei and usually target layer 1 (L1) of multiple cortical areas. A longstanding hypothesis is that matrix TC systems are crucial for regulating neocortical excitability during changing behavioral states, yet we know almost nothing about the mechanisms of such regulation. It is also unclear whether synaptic and circuit mechanisms that are well established for core sensory TC systems apply to matrix TC systems. Here we describe studies of thalamic matrix influences on mouse prefrontal cortex using optogenetic and in vitro electrophysiology techniques. Channelrhodopsin-2 was expressed in midline and paralaminar (matrix) thalamic neurons, and their L1-projecting TC axons were activated optically. Contrary to conventional views, we found that matrix TC projections to L1 could transmit relatively strong, fast, high-fidelity synaptic signals. L1 TC projections preferentially drove inhibitory interneurons of L1, especially those of the late-spiking subtype, and often triggered feedforward inhibition in both L1 interneurons and pyramidal cells of L2/L3. Responses during repetitive stimulation were far more sustained for matrix than for core sensory TC pathways. Thus, matrix TC circuits appear to be specialized for robust transmission over relatively extended periods, consistent with the sort of persistent activation observed during working memory and potentially applicable to state-dependent regulation of excitability.
In the adult mammalian subventricular zone (SVZ), GFAP-positive neural stem cells (NSCs) generate neuroblasts that migrate tangentially along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) toward the olfactory bulb (OB). In the mouse brain, we found that the plasticity inhibitors Nogo-A and Nogo receptor 1 (NgR1) are differentially expressed in the SVZ-OB system, in which Nogo-A identifies immature neuroblasts and NgR1 germinal astrocytes. We therefore examined the role of Nogo-A and NgR1 in the regulation of neurogenesis. Pharmacological experiments show that Nogo-66/NgR1 interaction reduces the proliferation of NSCs. This is consistent with a negative-feedback loop, in which newly generated neurons modulate cell division of SVZ stem cells. Moreover, the Nogo-A-20 domain promotes neuroblast migration toward the OB through activation of the Rho/ROCK (Rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase) pathway, without the participation of NgR1. Our findings reveal a new unprecedented function for Nogo-A and NgR1 in the homeostatic regulation of the pace of neurogenesis in the adult mouse SVZ and in the migration of neuroblasts along the RMS.
The ability to detect unexpected sounds within the environment is an important function of the auditory system, as a rapid response may be required for the organism to survive. Previous studies found a decreased response to repetitive stimuli (standard), but an increased response to rare or less frequent sounds (deviant) in individual neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) and at higher levels. This phenomenon, known as stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) has been suggested to underpin change detection. Currently, it is not known how SSA varies within a single neuron receptive field, i.e., it is unclear whether SSA is a unique property of the neuron or a feature that is frequency and/or intensity dependent. In the present experiments, we used the common SSA index (CSI) to quantify and compare the degree of SSA under different stimulation conditions in the IC of the rat. We calculated the CSI at different intensities and frequencies for each individual IC neuron to map the neuronal CSI within the receptive field. Our data show that high SSA is biased toward the high-frequency and low-intensity regions of the receptive field. We also find that SSA is better represented in the earliest portions of the response, and there is a positive correlation between the width of the frequency response area of the neuron and the maximum level of SSA. The present data suggest that SSA in the IC is not mediated by the intrinsic membrane properties of the neurons and instead might be related to an excitatory and/or inhibitory input segregation.
Behavior is a product of both the stimuli encountered and the current internal state. At the level of the nervous system, the internal state alters the biophysical properties of, and connections between, neurons establishing a &quot;network state.&quot; To establish a network state, the nervous system must be altered from an initial default/resting state, but what remains unclear is the extent to which this process represents induction from a passive default state or the removal of suppression by an active default state. We use repetition priming (a history-dependent improvement of behavioral responses to repeatedly encountered stimuli) to determine the cellular mechanisms underlying the transition from the default to the primed network state. We demonstrate that both removal of active suppression and induction of neuron excitability changes each contribute separately to the production of a primed state. The feeding system of Aplysia californica displays repetition priming via an increase in the activity of the radula closure neuron B8, which results in increased bite strength with each motor program. We found that during priming, B8 received progressively less inhibitory input from the multifunctional neurons B4/5. Additionally, priming enhanced the excitability of B8, but the rate at which B8 activity increased as a result of these changes was regulated by the progressive removal of inhibitory input. Thus, the establishment of the network state involves the induction of processes from a rested state, yet the consequences of these processes are conditional upon critical gating mechanisms actively enforced by the default state.
Alcohol use disorders affect millions of individuals. However, the genes and signaling pathways involved in behavioral ethanol responses and addiction are poorly understood. Here we identify a conserved biochemical pathway that underlies the sedating effects of ethanol in Drosophila. Mutations in the Arf6 small GTPase signaling pathway cause hypersensitivity to ethanol-induced sedation. We show that Arf6 functions in the adult nervous system to control ethanol-induced behavior. We also find that the Drosophila Arfaptin protein directly binds to the activated forms of Arf6 and Rac1 GTPases, and mutants in Arfaptin also display ethanol sensitivity. Arf6 acts downstream of Rac1 and Arfaptin to regulate ethanol-induced behaviors, and we thus demonstrate that this conserved Rac1/Arfaptin/Arf6 pathway is a major mediator of ethanol-induced behavioral responses.
Although previous work identified transcription factors crucial for the specification and migration of parvalbumin (PV)-expressing and somatostatin (SST)-expressing interneurons, the intrinsic factors required for the terminal differentiation, connectivity, and survival of these cell types remain uncharacterized. Here we demonstrate that, within subpopulations of cortical interneurons, Satb1 (special AT-rich binding protein) promotes terminal differentiation, connectivity, and survival in interneurons that express PV and SST. We find that conditional removal of Satb1 in mouse interneurons results in the loss of a majority of SST-expressing cells across all cortical layers, as well as some PV-expressing cells in layers IV and VI, by postnatal day 21. SST-expressing cells initially migrate to the cortex in Satb1 mutant mice, but receive reduced levels of afferent input and begin to die during the first postnatal week. Electrophysiological characterization indicates that loss of Satb1 function in interneurons results in a loss of functional inhibition of excitatory principal cells. These data suggest that Satb1 is required for medial ganglionic eminence-derived interneuron differentiation, connectivity, and survival.
In this report we posed the overarching question: What multiple contributions can a single neuron have on controlling the behavior of an animal, especially within a given context? To address this timely question, we studied the neuron R3b-1 in the medicinal leech. This bilaterally paired neuron descends from the cephalic ganglion and projects uninterrupted through the segmental ganglia comprising the nerve cord; its terminal arbors invade each hemi-ganglion. We discovered that a single R3b-1 neuron functions as a command neuron in the strictest sense, as it was both necessary and sufficient for fictive crawling behavior. Aside from these command-related properties, we determined that R3b-1 modulates the cycle period of crawl motor activity. R3b-1 has previously been shown to activate swimming behavior, but when the CNS was exposed to dopamine (DA), crawling became the exclusive locomotor pattern produced by R3b-1. DA exposure also led to bursting in R3b-1 that matched periods observed during fictive crawling, even when potential ascending inputs from crawl oscillators were removed. Although the above attributes render R3b-1 an intriguing cell, it is its ability to permit the coordination of the segmentally distributed crawl oscillators that makes this multifunctional neuron so notable. To our knowledge, this cell provides the first biological example of a single command neuron that is also vital for the intersegmental coordination of a locomotor behavior. Furthermore, our study highlights the importance of DA as an internal contextual cue that can integrate functional layers of the nervous system for adaptive behavior.
Sensory-motor behavior results from a complex interaction of noisy sensory data with priors based on recent experience. By varying the stimulus form and contrast for the initiation of smooth pursuit eye movements in monkeys, we show that visual motion inputs compete with two independent priors: one prior biases eye speed toward zero; the other prior attracts eye direction according to the past several days' history of target directions. The priors bias the speed and direction of the initiation of pursuit for the weak sensory data provided by the motion of a low-contrast sine wave grating. However, the priors have relatively little effect on pursuit speed and direction when the visual stimulus arises from the coherent motion of a high-contrast patch of dots. For any given stimulus form, the mean and variance of eye speed covary in the initiation of pursuit, as expected for signal-dependent noise. This relationship suggests that pursuit implements a trade-off between movement accuracy and variation, reducing both when the sensory signals are noisy. The tradeoff is implemented as a competition of sensory data and priors that follows the rules of Bayesian estimation. Computer simulations show that the priors can be understood as direction-specific control of the strength of visual-motor transmission, and can be implemented in a neural-network model that makes testable predictions about the population response in the smooth eye movement region of the frontal eye fields.
The medial entorhinal cortex (MEC), presubiculum (PrS), and parasubiculum (PaS) are interconnected components of the hippocampal-parahippocampal spatial-representation system. Principal cells in all layers of MEC show signs of directional tuning, overt in head direction cells present in all layers except for layer II, and covert in grid cells, which are the major spatially modulated cell type in layer II. Directional information likely originates in the head direction-vestibular system and PrS and PaS are thought to provide this information to MEC. Efferents from PaS and PrS show a selective laminar terminal distribution in MEC superficial layers II and III, respectively. We hypothesized that this anatomically determined laminar distribution does not preclude monosynaptic interaction with neurons located in deeper layers of MEC in view of the extensive apical dendrites from deeper cells reaching layers II and III. This hypothesis was tested in the rat using tilted in vitro slices in which origins and terminations of PrS and PaS fibers were maintained, as assessed using anterograde anatomical tracing. Based on voltage-sensitive dye imaging, multipatch single-cell recordings, and scanning photostimulation of caged glutamate, we report first that principal neurons in all layers of MEC receive convergent monosynaptic inputs from PrS and PaS and second, that elicited responses show layer-specific decay times and frequency-dependent facilitation. These results indicate that regardless of their selective laminar terminal distribution, PrS and PaS inputs may monosynaptically convey directional information to principal neurons in all layers of MEC through synapses on their extensive dendritic arbors.
Cognitive control, an important facet of human cognition, provides flexibility in response to varying behavioral demands. Previous work has focused on the role of prefrontal cortex, notably the anterior cingulate cortex. However, it is now clear that this is one node of a distributed cognitive network. In this emerging network view, structural connections are inherent elements, but their role has not been emphasized. Furthermore, lesion and functional imaging studies have contributed little knowledge about anatomical segregation, functional specialization, and behavioral importance of white matter connections. The relationship between cognitive control and microstructure of connections within the cingulum, a major white matter tract and conduit of projections to prefrontal sites, was probed in vivo in humans with diffusion MRI. Twenty healthy controls and 25 individuals with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), an early stage of age-associated cognitive deterioration, underwent cognitive testing, including several measures of cognitive control. For each individual, the anterior, middle, posterior, and parahippocampal portions of the cingulum bundle were reconstructed separately using deterministic tractography and anatomical landmarks. Microstructural variation in the left anterior cingulum was closely related to interindividual control based on verbal or symbolic rules. Errors in a task that involved maintenance of spatial rules were largely restricted to patients with MCI and were related, additionally, to right anterior cingulum microstructure. Cognitive control in MCI was also independently related to posterior parahippocampal connections. These results show how specific subpopulations of connections are critical in cognitive control and illustrate fine-grained anatomical specializations in the white matter infrastructure of this network.
Fundamental to the experience of music, beat and meter perception refers to the perception of periodicities while listening to music occurring within the frequency range of musical tempo. Here, we explored the spontaneous building of beat and meter hypothesized to emerge from the selective entrainment of neuronal populations at beat and meter frequencies. The electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded while human participants listened to rhythms consisting of short sounds alternating with silences to induce a spontaneous perception of beat and meter. We found that the rhythmic stimuli elicited multiple steady state-evoked potentials (SS-EPs) observed in the EEG spectrum at frequencies corresponding to the rhythmic pattern envelope. Most importantly, the amplitude of the SS-EPs obtained at beat and meter frequencies were selectively enhanced even though the acoustic energy was not necessarily predominant at these frequencies. Furthermore, accelerating the tempo of the rhythmic stimuli so as to move away from the range of frequencies at which beats are usually perceived impaired the selective enhancement of SS-EPs at these frequencies. The observation that beat- and meter-related SS-EPs are selectively enhanced at frequencies compatible with beat and meter perception indicates that these responses do not merely reflect the physical structure of the sound envelope but, instead, reflect the spontaneous emergence of an internal representation of beat, possibly through a mechanism of selective neuronal entrainment within a resonance frequency range. Taken together, these results suggest that musical rhythms constitute a unique context to gain insight on general mechanisms of entrainment, from the neuronal level to individual level.
As you might experience it while reading this sentence, silent reading often involves an imagery speech component: we can hear our own &quot;inner voice&quot; pronouncing words mentally. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have associated that component with increased metabolic activity in the auditory cortex, including voice-selective areas. It remains to be determined, however, whether this activation arises automatically from early bottom-up visual inputs or whether it depends on late top-down control processes modulated by task demands. To answer this question, we collaborated with four epileptic human patients recorded with intracranial electrodes in the auditory cortex for therapeutic purposes, and measured high-frequency (50-150 Hz) &quot;gamma&quot; activity as a proxy of population level spiking activity. Temporal voice-selective areas (TVAs) were identified with an auditory localizer task and monitored as participants viewed words flashed on screen. We compared neural responses depending on whether words were attended or ignored and found a significant increase of neural activity in response to words, strongly enhanced by attention. In one of the patients, we could record that response at 800 ms in TVAs, but also at 700 ms in the primary auditory cortex and at 300 ms in the ventral occipital temporal cortex. Furthermore, single-trial analysis revealed a considerable jitter between activation peaks in visual and auditory cortices. Altogether, our results demonstrate that the multimodal mental experience of reading is in fact a heterogeneous complex of asynchronous neural responses, and that auditory and visual modalities often process distinct temporal frames of our environment at the same time.
Picrotoxin is a pore blocker that can differentiate ligand-gated inhibitory chloride channels. Even within one receptor type, such as the glycine receptor, picrotoxin block differs between subunits. The effect of subunit gating properties on block of the inhibitory glycine receptor (GlyR) was explored using heteromeric  subunit expression in voltage-clamped HEK293 cells. The 2 GlyR is more sensitive to picrotin block than the 1 GlyR, and this difference was used to explore whether mutations that interfered with gating of the 2 subunit would also interfere with picrotin block. Two mutations were used: one that decreased the glycine sensitivity of 2 by almost two log units and the other that was unresponsive to glycine. In both cases, the sensitivity to picrotin was essentially unaltered. The results indicated that 2 subunits can determine the picrotin sensitivity of 12-heteromeric receptors and that direct gating of the 2 subunit is not required for this picrotin inhibition.
Recent findings have shown that aspirin, taken for several years, reduces the long-term risk of some cancers, particularly colorectal cancer. The result that aspirin benefit is detectable at daily low-doses (at least 75mg), the same used for the prevention of cardiovascular disease, positions the antiplatelet action of aspirin at the center of its antitumor efficacy. At low-doses given every 24 h, aspirin is acting by a complete and persistent inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 in platelets (in the pre-systemic circulation) while causing a limited and rapidly reversible inhibitory effect on COX-2 and/or COX-1 expressed in nucleated cells. Aspirin has a short half-life in human circulation (approximately 20 min); nucleated cells have the ability to resynthesize the acetylated COX-isozymes within a few hours, while platelets do not. COX-independent mechanisms of aspirin, such as the inhibition of Wnt/ b-catenin and NF-kB signaling and the acetylation of extra-COX proteins, have been suggested to play a role in its chemo-preventive effects, but their relevance remains to be demonstrated in vivo at clinical doses. In conclusion, the results of clinical pharmacology and the analysis of randomized and epidemiological studies suggest that colorectal cancer and atherothrombosis share a common mechanism of disease, i.e. enhanced platelet activation in response to injury at distinct sites.
The last decade has provided a wealth of experimental data on the role played by lipids belonging to the endocannabinoid family in several facets of physiopathology of dopamine neurons. We currently suggest that these molecules, being intimately connected with diverse metabolic and signalling pathways, might differently affect various functions of dopamine neurons through activation not only of surface receptors, but also of nuclear receptors. It is now emerging how dopamine neurons can regulate their constituent biomolecules to compensate for changes in either internal functions or external conditions. Consequently, dopamine neurons use these lipid molecules as metabolic and homeostatic signal detectors, which can dynamically impact cell function and fitness. Because dysfunctions of the dopamine system underlie diverse neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and drug addiction, the importance of better understanding the correlation between an unbalanced endocannabinoid signal and the dopamine system is even greater. Particularly, because dopamine neurons are critical in controlling incentive-motivated behaviours, the involvement of endocannabinoid molecules in fine-tuning dopamine cell activity opened new avenues in both understanding and treating drug addiction. Here, we review recent advances that have shed new light on the understanding of differential roles of endocannabinoids and their cognate molecules in the regulation of the reward circuit, and discuss their anti-addicting properties, particularly with a focus on their potential engagement in the prevention of relapse.
CB(1)- and CB(2)-type cannabinoid receptors mediate effects of the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide in mammals. In canonical endocannabinoid-mediated synaptic plasticity, 2-AG is generated postsynaptically by diacylglycerol lipase alpha and acts via presynaptic CB(1)-type cannabinoid receptors to inhibit neurotransmitter release. Electrophysiological studies on lampreys indicate that this retrograde signalling mechanism occurs throughout the vertebrates, whereas system-level studies point to conserved roles for endocannabinoid signalling in neural mechanisms of learning and control of locomotor activity and feeding. CB(1)/CB(2)-type receptors originated in a common ancestor of extant chordates, and in the sea squirt Ciona intestinalis a CB(1)/CB(2)-type receptor is targeted to axons, indicative of an ancient role for cannabinoid receptors as axonal regulators of neuronal signalling. Although CB(1)/CB(2)-type receptors are unique to chordates, enzymes involved in biosynthesis/inactivation of endocannabinoids occur throughout the animal kingdom. Accordingly, non-CB(1)/CB(2)-mediated mechanisms of endocannabinoid signalling have been postulated. For example, there is evidence that 2-AG mediates retrograde signalling at synapses in the nervous system of the leech Hirudo medicinalis by activating presynaptic transient receptor potential vanilloid-type ion channels. Thus, postsynaptic synthesis of 2-AG or anandamide may be a phylogenetically widespread phenomenon, and a variety of proteins may have evolved as presynaptic (or postsynaptic) receptors for endocannabinoids.

The early development of novel nicotinic drugs for Tourette's and depression was a very long journey in discovery, which began with basic behavioral neuroscience studies aimed at understanding how cholinergic and dopaminergic systems interact in the basal ganglia to control goal directed movement. These early rodent studies with nicotine and dopamine antagonists formed the basis for investigating a potentially improved treatment for children suffering from Tourette's syndrome (TS). Clinically, the research trajectory first focused on studies employing the use of nicotine gum to potentiate the therapeutic effect of the dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol, in patients with TS. These projects led to the discovery of a new use for a decades-old blood pressure medication, mecamylamine, a nicotine antagonist, which also appeared to provide symptomatic relief in some TS patients when used clinically and was found to reduce symptoms of mood instability and depression. This unexpected discovery led to a new hypothesis regarding the mechanism of action of antidepressants as well as a series of successful independent trials employing mecamylamine, and its active enantiomer, TC5214, as an augmenting agent in the treatment of major depression. This article is a chronological mini review of these basic and clinical translational studies on nicotinic therapeutics for Tourette's syndrome and depression over the past 25 years.
The hypothalamic neuropeptide orexin (ORX) has been implicated in anxiety, and anxiety-like behaviors. The purpose of these studies was to determine the role of ORX, specifically orexin-A (ORX-A) in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) on anxiety-like behaviors in rats. Rats injected with ORX-A into the BNST displayed greater anxiety-like measures in the social interaction and elevated plus maze tests compared to vehicle treated controls. Such anxiety-like behaviors were not observed when the ORX-A injections were adjacent to the BNST, in the medial septum. The anxiety-inducing effects of direct infusions of ORX-A into the BNST may be a consequence of increased activation of BNST neurons. In BNST slice preparations using patch-clamp techniques, ORX-A induced membrane depolarization and generation of action potentials in a subset of BNST neurons. The anxiety-inducing effects of ORX-A in the BNST also appear to be dependent on NMDA-type glutamate receptor activity, as pre-injecting the NMDA antagonist AP5 into the BNST blocked anxiogenic effects of local ORX-A injections. Injections of AMPA-type receptor antagonists into the BNST prior to ORX-A resulted in only a partial attenuation of anxiety-like behaviors.
Previous studies have found that adolescent social isolation of rats can lead to an increased anxiety state during adulthood, while chronic anxiety states are associated with dysregulated local GABAergic inhibition within the basolateral amygdala (BL). Therefore, we investigated the effects of post-weaning social isolation of female rats, in combination with a challenge with the anxiogenic drug, N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142), on a subset of GABAergic interneurons in the BL in adulthood using dual immunohistochemical staining for c-Fos and parvalbumin. Juvenile female rats were reared in isolation or in groups of three for a 3-week period from weaning to mid-adolescence, after which all rats were group-housed for an additional 2 weeks. Group-reared rats and isolation-reared rats injected with FG-7142 had increased c-Fos expression in GABAergic interneurons in the anterior part of the BL compared to group-reared rats and isolation-reared rats, respectively, injected with vehicle. Isolation rearing had a main effect to decrease c-Fos expression in GABAergic interneurons in the anterior part of the BL compared to group-reared rats. These data suggest that post-weaning social isolation of female rats leads to dysregulation of a parvalbumin-containing subset of local GABAergic interneurons in the anterior part of the BL, which have previously been implicated in the pathophysiology of chronic anxiety states. These cellular changes may lead to an increased vulnerability to stress- and anxiety-related responses in adulthood.
To provide assurance that accurate summaries of behavioral neuroscience findings are presented in mainstream news sources, it is important for scientists to cooperate with science journalists and, on occasion, write informative articles for lay audiences or contribute scientific knowledge in other relevant venues. Accordingly, three influential science journalists were invited to a special Presidential Symposium at the 2011 IBNS annual meeting to discuss (1) the importance of public dissemination of scientific knowledge, (2) insightful recommendations for effective science writing for mainstream audiences and (3) the potential impact of science blogs on the communication of science information.
The neural circuitry of fear likely underlies anxiety and fear-related disorders such as specific and social phobia, panic disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder. The primary pharmacological treatments currently utilized for these disorders include benzodiazepines, which act on the GABAergic receptor system, and antidepressants, which modulate the monamine systems. However, recent work on the regulation of fear neural circuitry suggests that specific neuropeptide modulation of this system is of critical importance. Recent reviews have examined the roles of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis neuropeptides as well as the roles of neurotrophic factors in regulating fear. The present review, instead, will focus on three neuropeptide systems which have received less attention in recent years but which are clearly involved in regulating fear and its extinction. The endogenous opioid system, particularly activating the  opioid receptors, has been demonstrated to regulate fear expression and extinction, possibly through functioning as an error signal within the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray to mark unreinforced conditioned stimuli. The cholecystokinin (CCK) system initially led to much excitement through its potential role in panic disorder. More recent work in the CCK neuropeptide pathway suggests that it may act in concordance with the endogenous cannabinoid system in the modulation of fear inhibition and extinction. Finally, older as well as very recent data suggests that neuropeptide Y (NPY) may play a very interesting role in counteracting stress effects, enhancing extinction, and enhancing resilience in fear and stress preclinical models. Future work in understanding the mechanisms of neuropeptide functioning, particularly within well-known behavioral circuits, are likely to provide fascinating new clues into the understanding of fear behavior as well as suggesting novel therapeutics for treating disorders of anxiety and fear dysregulation.
Inbred mouse strains differ greatly in social behaviors, making them a valuable resource to study genetic and non-genetic mechanisms underlying social deficits relevant to autism spectrum disorders. A hallmark symptom of autism is a lack of ability to understand other people's thoughts and intentions, which leads to impairments in adjusting behaviors in response to ever-changing social situations in daily life. We compared the ability of BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR), a strain with low sociability, and C57BL/6J (B6), a strain with high sociability, for their abilities to modulate responses to social cues from different partners in the reciprocal social interaction test. Results indicate that BTBR exhibited low sociability toward different partners and displayed minimal ability to modify behaviors toward different partners. In contrast, B6 showed high sociability toward different partners and was able to modify social behaviors toward different partners. Consistent results were found in two independent cohorts of different ages, and in both sexes. In the three-chambered test, high sociability in B6 and low sociability in BTBR were independent of strain of the novel mouse. Since social deficits in BTBR could potentially be caused by physical disabilities in detecting social olfactory cues, or in cognitive abilities, we tested BTBR and B6 mice on measures of olfaction and cognition. BTBR mice displayed more sniffing of social odors emitted by soiled bedding than of an odorless novel object, but failed to show a preference for a live novel mouse over a novel object. On olfactory habituation/dishabituation to a sequence of odors, BTBR displayed discrimination abilities across three non-social and two social odors. However, as compared to B6, BTBR displayed less sniff time for both non-social and social odors, and no significant dishabituation between cage odors from two different novel mouse strains, findings that will be important to investigate further. BTBR was generally normal in spatial acquisition on the Morris water maze test, but showed deficits in reversal learning. Time spent freezing on contextual and cued fear conditioning was lower in BTBR than in B6. Our findings suggest that BTBR has poor abilities to modulate its responses to different social partners, which may be analogous to social cognition deficits in autism, adding to the value of this strain as a mouse model of autism.
This commentary summarizes the research presented during the symposium &quot;Examining the genetic and neural components of cognitive flexibility using mice&quot; at the annual meeting of the International Behavioral Neuroscience Society 2011. Research presented includes examining: 1) Corticostriatal networks underlying reversal learning using GluN2B knockout mice, cFos expression, and in vivo electrophysiological recording; 2) Cerebellar contribution to reversal learning using mutants with Purkinje cell loss and in vivo electrochemical recording; 3) Parvalbumin contribution to reversal learning and set-shifting using PLAUR mutants and in vitro recording to examine fast-spiking interneurones; and 4) Alpha 7 nAChR contribution to reversal learning, set-shifting, motivation, and the 'eureka moment' of rule acquisition. It is proposed that these studies revealed more about the neurobiology underlying these behaviors than could be discovered using pharmacological techniques alone. Together, the research presented stressed the importance of exploring the genetic contribution to neuropsychiatric disease and the important role that the mouse, coupled with robust behavioral measures, can play in understanding neurobiology underlying cognitive flexibility.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and its close relative neurturin are currently in clinical trials for neuroprotection in patients with Parkinson disease (PD). However, in animal models of PD, GDNF fails to protect nigral dopamine (DA) neurons against -synuclein-induced neurodegeneration. Using viral vector delivery of human wild-type -synuclein to nigral DA neurons in rats, we show that the intracellular response to GDNF is blocked in DA neurons that overexpress -synuclein. This block is accompanied by reduced expression of the transcription factor Nurr1 and its downstream target, the GDNF receptor Ret. We found that Ret expression was also reduced in nigral DA neurons in PD patients. Conditional knockout of Nurr1 in mice resulted in reduced Ret expression and blockade of the response to GDNF, whereas overexpression of Nurr1 restored signaling, providing protection of nigral DA neurons against -synuclein toxicity. These results suggest that Nurr1 is a regulator of neurotrophic factor signaling and a key player in the cellular defense against -synuclein toxicity.
Information relevant for social interactions is thought to be processed in specific neural circuits. Recent studies shed new light on how that social information is encoded and processed by different brain areas.

Cyclin-dependent kinase 5(CDK5) in complex with its activator, p35 (protein of 35 kDa), is essential for early neurodevelopment in mammals. However, endogenous cleavage of p35 to p25 is associated with neuron death and neurodegenerative disease. Here we show that a peptide (p10') encoding the N-terminal domain of p35 protects against CDK5/p25-induced toxicity in neurons. p10' also prevented the death of neurons treated with the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), which induces conversion of endogenous p35 to p25, and Parkinson disease (PD)-like symptoms in animals. MPP(+) induces CDK5/p25-dependent phosphorylation of peroxiredoxin 2 (Prx2), resulting in inhibition of its peroxireductase activity and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We found that p10' expression inhibited both Prx2 phosphorylation and ROS accumulation in neurons. In addition, p10' inhibited the p25-induced appearance of antigen of the Ki67 antibody (Ki67) and phosphohistone H2AX (H2AX), classic markers of cell cycle activity and DNA double-strand breakage, respectively, associated with neuron death. Our results suggest that p10 (protein of 10 kDa) is a unique prosurvival domain in p35, essential for normal CDK5/p35 function in neurons. Loss of the p10 domain results in CDK5/p25 toxicity and neurodegeneration in vivo.

Humans are adept at switching between goal-directed behaviors quickly and effectively. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is thought to play a critical role by encoding, updating, and maintaining internal representations of task context in working memory. It has also been hypothesized that the encoding of context representations in PFC is regulated by phasic dopamine gating signals. Here we use multimodal methods to test these hypotheses. First we used functional MRI (fMRI) to identify regions of PFC associated with the representation of context in a working memory task. Next we used single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), guided spatially by our fMRI findings and temporally by previous event-related EEG recordings, to disrupt context encoding while participants performed the same working memory task. We found that TMS pulses to the right dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC) immediately after context presentation, and well in advance of the response, adversely impacted context-dependent relative to context-independent responses. This finding causally implicates right DLPFC function in context encoding. Finally, using the same paradigm, we conducted high-resolution fMRI measurements in brainstem dopaminergic nuclei (ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra) and found phasic responses after presentation of context stimuli relative to other stimuli, consistent with the timing of a gating signal that regulates the encoding of representations in PFC. Furthermore, these responses were positively correlated with behavior, as well as with responses in the same region of right DLPFC targeted in the TMS experiment, lending support to the hypothesis that dopamine phasic signals regulate encoding, and thereby the updating, of context representations in PFC.
There is compelling clinical literature implicating a role for cytokines in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pleiotropic inflammatory cytokines that have been reported to be elevated in patients with MDD. The present studies were undertaken to investigate the relationship between IL-6 and IL-1 in animal models of depressive-like behavior. Analysis of brain tissue homogenates in the cortex of rats subjected to chronic stress paradigms revealed elevated levels of IL-6 protein in the absence of elevations in IL-1. Central administration of recombinant mouse IL-6 produced depressive-like phenotypes in mice, which were not accompanied by IL-1-induced increases in the brain tissue or IL-1-related sickness behavior typical of a general central nervous system inflammatory response. Systemic administration of fluoxetine in the presence of centrally administered IL-6 failed to produce the expected antidepressant-like response in mice relative to sham-infused controls. Further, administration of fluoxetine to mice with endogenous overexpression of brain IL-6 (MRL/MpJ-Fas(LPR/LPR) (LPR mice)) failed to produce the expected antidepressant-like effect relative to fluoxetine-treated control mice (MRL/MpJ(+/+)). Interestingly, blockade of IL-6 trans-signaling by coadministration of a gp130/Fc monomer or an anti-mouse IL-6 antibody with IL-6 prevented the IL-6-induced increases in immobility time as well as attenuated IL-6-induced increases of protein in the cortex. Taken together, these data indicate that elevations in IL-6 may have a pathophysiological role underlying depression and more specifically resistance to current classes of antidepressant medications and suggest that modulation of the IL-6 signaling pathway may have therapeutic potential for treatment-resistant depression.
PMP22 (peripheral myelin protein 22), also known as GAS 3 (growth-arrest-specific protein 3), is a disease-linked tetraspan glycoprotein of peripheral nerve myelin and constituent of intercellular junctions in epithelia. To date, our knowledge of the post-translational modification of PMP22 is limited. Using the CSS-Palm 2.0 software we predicted that C85 (cysteine 85), a highly conserved amino acid located between the second and third transmembrane domains, is a potential site for palmitoylation. To test this, we mutated C85S (C85 to serine) and established stable cells lines expressing the WT (wild-type) or the C85S-PMP22. In Schwann and MDCK (Madin-Darby canine kidney) cells mutating C85 blocked the palmitoylation of PMP22, which we monitored using 17-ODYA (17-octadecynoic acid). While palmitoylation was not necessary for processing the newly synthesized PMP22 through the secretory pathway, overexpression of C85S-PMP22 led to pronounced cell spreading and uneven monolayer thinning. To further investigate the functional significance of palmitoylated PMP22, we evaluated MDCK cell migration in a wound-healing assay. While WT-PMP22 expressing cells were resistant to migration, C85S cells displayed lamellipodial protrusions and migrated at a similar rate to vector control. These findings indicate that palmitoylation of PMP22 at C85 is critical for the role of the protein in modulating epithelial cell shape and motility.
Mammals express 20 different connexins, the main gap junction forming proteins in mammals, and 3 pannexins, homologs of innexins, the main gap junction forming proteins in invertebrates. In both classes of gap junction, each channel is formed by two hemichannels, one contributed by each of the coupled cells. There is now general, if not universal, agreement that hemichannels of both classes can open in response to various physiological and pathological stimuli when they are not apposed to another hemichannels and face the external milieu. Connexin (and likely pannexin) hemichannel permeability is consistent with that of the cell-cell channels and open hemichannels can be a release site for relatively large molecules such as ATP and glutamate, which can serve as transmitters between cells. Here we describe three experimental paradigms in which connexin and pannexin hemichannel signaling occurs. (1) In cultures of spinal astrocytes FGF-1 causes the release of ATP, and ATP causes opening of pannexin hemichannels, which then release further ATP. Subsequently, several hours later, connexin hemichannels are also opened by an unknown mechanism. Release of ATP appears to become self sustaining through action of P2X7 receptors to open pannexin hemichannels and then connexin hemichannels, both of which are ATP permeable. (2) Spinal cord injury by dropping a small weight on the exposed cord is followed by release of ATP in the region surrounding the primary lesion. This release is greatly reduced in a mouse in which Cx43 is knocked down in the astrocytes. Application of FGF-1 causes a similar release of ATP in the uninjured spinal cord, and an inhibitor of the FGF-1 receptor, PD173074, inhibits both FGF-1 and injury-induced release. Reduction in ATP release is associated with reduced inflammation and less secondary expansion of the lesion. (3) Cortical astrocytes in culture are permeabilized by hypoxia, and this effect is increased by high or zero glucose. The mechanism of permeabilization is opening of Cx43 hemichannels, which can lead to cell death. Activated microglia secrete TNF- and IL-1, which open connexin hemichannels in astrocytes. Astrocytes release ATP and glutamate which can kill neurons in co-culture through activation of neuronal pannexin hemichannels. These studies implicate two kinds of gap junction hemichannel in inflammatory responses and cell death. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Electrical Synapses.
The major neuronal gap junction protein connexin36 (Cx36) exhibits the remarkable property of &quot;run-up&quot;, in which junctional conductance typically increases by 10-fold or more within 5-10min following cell break-in with patch pipettes. Such conductance &quot;run-up&quot; is a unique property of Cx36, as it has not been seen in cell pairs expressing other connexins. Because of the recent observation describing CaMKII binding and phosphorylation sites in Cx36 and evidence that calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) may potentiate electrical coupling in neurons of teleosts, we have explored whether CaMKII activates mammalian Cx36. Consistent with this hypothesis, certain Cx36 mutants lacking the CaMKII binding and phosphorylation sites or wild type Cx36 treated with certain cognate peptides corresponding to binding or phosphorylation sites blocked or strongly attenuated run-up of junctional conductance. Likewise, KN-93, an inhibitor of CaMKII, blocked run-up, as did a membrane permeable peptide corresponding to the CaMKII autoinhibitory domain. Furthermore, run-up was blocked by phosphatase delivered within the pipette and not affected by treatment with the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. These results imply that phosphorylation by CaMKII strengthens junctional currents of Cx36 channels, thereby conferring functional plasticity on electrical synapses formed of this protein.
Connexins are the building blocks of gap-junctions; sign conserving electrical synapses. Recently it has been shown that connexins can also function as hemichannels and can mediate a sign inverting inhibitory synaptic signal from horizontal cells to cones via an ephaptic mechanism. In this review we will discuss the critical requirements for such an ephaptic interaction and relate these to the available experimental evidence. The highly conserved morphological structure of the cone synapse together with a number of specific connexin proteins and proteoglycans present in the synaptic complex of the cones creates a synaptic environment that allows ephaptic interactions. The connexins involved are members of a special group of connexins, encoded by the GJA9 and GJA10 genes. Surprisingly, in contrast to many other vertebrates, mouse and other rodents seem to lack a GJA9 encoded connexin. The specific combination of substances that block feedback and the highly specific modification of feedback in a zebrafish lacking Cx55.5 hemichannels all point to an ephaptic feedback mechanism from horizontal cells to cones. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Electrical Synapses.
This review gives an overview of the current knowledge on connexin-mediated communication in astrocytes, covering gap junction and hemichannel functions mediated by connexins. Astroglia is the main brain cell type that expresses the largest amount of connexin and exhibits high level of gap junctional communication compared to neurons and oligodendrocytes. However, in certain developmental and regional situations, astrocytes are also coupled with oligodendrocytes and neurons. This heterotypic coupling is infrequent and minor in terms of extent of the coupling area, which does not mean that it is not important in terms of cell interaction. Here, we present an update on heterogeneity of connexin expression and function at the molecular, subcellular, cellular and networking levels. Interestingly, while astrocytes were initially considered as a homogenous population, there is now increasing evidence for morphological, developmental, molecular and physiological heterogeneity of astrocytes. Consequently, the specificity of gap junction channel- and hemichannel-mediated communication, which tends to synchronize cell populations, is also a parameter to take into account when neuroglial interactions are investigated. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Electrical Synapses.
Mixed (electrical and chemical) synaptic contacts on the Mauthner cells, known as Club endings, constitute a valuable model for the study of vertebrate electrical transmission. While electrical synapses are still perceived by many as passive intercellular channels that lack modifiability, a wealth of experimental evidence shows that gap junctions at Club endings are subject to dynamic regulatory control by two independent activity-dependent mechanisms that lead to potentiation of electrical transmission. One of those mechanisms relies on activation of NMDA receptors and postsynaptic CaMKII. A second mechanism relies on mGluR activation and endocannabinoid production and is indirectly mediated via the release of dopamine from nearby varicosities, which in turn leads to potentiation of the synaptic response via a PKA-mediated postsynaptic mechanism. We review here these two forms of potentiation and their signaling mechanisms, which include the activation of two kinases with well-established roles as regulators of synaptic strength, as well as the functional implications of these two forms of potentiation. Special Issue entitled Electrical Synapses.
Use of null mutant mice is a powerful way to evaluate the role of specific proteins in brain function. Studies performed on knockout mice have revealed some unexpected roles of the gap junction proteins (connexins). Thus, analyses of gene expression in connexin43 (Cx43) null brains indicated that deletion of a single gene (Gja1) induced expression level change of numerous other genes located on all chromosomes and involved in a wide diversity of functional pathways. The significant overlap between alterations in gene expression level, control and coordination in Cx43 knockout and knockdown astrocytes raised the possibility that Gja1 represents a transcriptomic node of gene regulatory networks. However, conditional deletion of Gja1 in astrocytes of two mouse strains resulted in remarkably different phenotypes. In order to evaluate the influence of the genetic background on the transcriptome, we performed microarray studies on brains of GFAP-Cre:Cx43(f/f) C57Bl/6 and 129/SvEv mice. The surprisingly low number of Cx43 core genes (regulated in all Cx43 nulls regardless of strain) and the high number of differently regulated genes in the two Cx43 conditional knockouts indicate high influence of mouse strain on brain transcriptome. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Electrical Synapses.
The X-linked form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT1X) is the second most common form of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy. The clinical phenotype is characterized by progressive weakness, atrophy, and sensory abnormalities that are most pronounced in the distal extremities. Some patients have CNS manifestations. Affected males have moderate to severe symptoms, whereas heterozygous females are usually less affected. Neurophysiology shows intermediate slowing of conduction and length-dependent axonal loss. Nerve biopsies show more prominent axonal degeneration than de/remyelination. Mutations in GJB1, the gene that encodes the gap junction (GJ) protein connexin32 (Cx32) cause CMT1X; more than 400 different mutations have been described. Many Cx32 mutants fail to form functional GJs, or form GJs with abnormal biophysical properties. Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes express Cx32, and the GJs formed by Cx32 play an important role in the homeostasis of myelinated axons. Animal models of CMT1X demonstrate that loss of Cx32 in myelinating Schwann cells causes a demyelinating neuropathy. Effective therapies remain to be developed. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Electrical Synapses.
8-Oxoguanine (8-oxoG), a common DNA lesion caused by reactive oxygen species, is associated with carcinogenesis and neurodegeneration. Although the mechanism by which 8-oxoG causes carcinogenesis is well understood, the mechanism by which it causes neurodegeneration is unknown. Here, we report that neurodegeneration is triggered by MUTYH-mediated excision repair of 8-oxoG-paired adenine. Mutant mice lacking 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine triphosphate-depleting (8-oxo-dGTP-depleting) MTH1 and/or 8-oxoG-excising OGG1 exhibited severe striatal neurodegeneration, whereas mutant mice lacking MUTYH or OGG1/MUTYH were resistant to neurodegeneration under conditions of oxidative stress. These results indicate that OGG1 and MTH1 are protective, while MUTYH promotes neurodegeneration. We observed that 8-oxoG accumulated in the mitochondrial DNA of neurons and caused calpain-dependent neuronal loss, while delayed nuclear accumulation of 8-oxoG in microglia resulted in PARP-dependent activation of apoptosis-inducing factor and exacerbated microgliosis. These results revealed that neurodegeneration is a complex process caused by 8-oxoG accumulation in the genomes of neurons and microglia. Different signaling pathways were triggered by the accumulation of single-strand breaks in each type of DNA generated during base excision repair initiated by MUTYH, suggesting that suppression of MUTYH may protect the brain under conditions of oxidative stress.
The role of 5-HT(2A/2B/2C) receptors in formalin-induced secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia in rats was assessed. Formalin produced acute nociceptive behaviors (flinching and licking/lifting) followed by long-term secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia. Pre-treatment for five consecutive days with compound 48/80 (1, 3, 10, 10, and 10g/paw) prevented formalin-induced secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia. Ipsilateral, but not contralateral, peripheral pre-treatment (nmol/paw) with the 5-HT(2) receptor agonist DOI (3-30), 5-HT (10-100) or fluoxetine (0.3-3) significantly increased 0.5% formalin-induced secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia in both paws. The pronociceptive effect of DOI (10nmol/paw), 5-HT (100nmol/paw) and fluoxetine (1nmol/paw) was blocked by selective 5-HT(2A) (ketanserin), 5-HT(2B) (RS-127445), and 5-HT(2C) (RS-102221) receptor antagonists. Furthermore, ipsilateral pre-treatment (nmol/paw) with ketanserin (1, 10, and 100), RS-127445 (0.01, 0.1 and 1) or RS-102221 (1, 10 and 100) prevented while post-treatment reversed 1% formalin-induced secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia in both paws. In marked contrast, contralateral injection of the greatest tested dose of 5-HT(2A/2B/2C) receptor antagonists did not modify long-lasting secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia. These results suggest that 5-HT released from mast cells after formalin injection sensitizes primary afferent neurons via 5-HT(2A/2B/2C) receptors leading to the development and maintenance of secondary allodynia and hyperalgesia.
Schizophrenic patients have cognitive impairments, but gender differences in these cognitive deficits have had limited study. This study assessed cognitive functioning in 471 subjects including 122 male and 78 female schizophrenic patients and 141 male and 130 female healthy controls. We found that immediate memory, language, delayed memory and total RBANS scores were significantly decreased in schizophrenia compared with healthy controls for both genders. Male patients had significant lower immediate memory, delayed memory and total RBANS scores than female patients, and healthy controls showed a similar gender difference. The RBANS showed modest correlations with PANSS scores, duration of illness and antipsychotic dose (chlorpromazine equivalents). Almost all RBANS scores in the schizophrenics and healthy controls showed significant positive correlations with education. Thus, patients of both sexes with schizophrenia experienced more deteriorated performance than healthy controls on cognitive domains of immediate memory, language and delayed memory. Furthermore, male schizophrenic patients had more serious cognitive deficits than female patients in immediate and delayed memory, but not in language, visuospatial and attention indices.
Many studies have found high levels of compulsory admission (CA) among non-affective psychoses. Aims of the present study were to investigate whether there was a mere association between diagnosis and CA in a cohort of 848 patients referring to a Psychiatric Emergency Service in a catchment area in Turin during a 2-year period, independent of socio-demographic features, psychiatric history, and clinical status. Diagnosis as a risk factor for CA was assessed constructing a logistic regression model, using the following steps: first, assessing the association between diagnoses and CA, without controlling for confounding factors; second, entering socio-demographic factors; third, entering socio-demographic factors and psychiatric history; and fourth, entering socio-demographic, psychiatric history, and aspects of clinical presentation into the model. At step 1 patients with Non Affective Psychoses, Mania and Personality Disorders had a significantly higher CA risk, compared to patients with Depressive Disorders. At step 4 diagnosis was no longer associated with CA. History of CAs within past 5years and Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) hostile-suspiciousness were positively associated with CA. Length of illness, history of previous suicidal attempts and BPRS anxiety-depression were negatively associated with CA. Overall, the percentage of correctly predicted cases was 39.8%. The remaining 60% can be explained by inherent variability or unknown, lurking variables. Finally, the study was carried out at a single facility. Much of the increased CA likelihood in diagnostic categories might be attributable to specific symptom patterns, not to patients' severity of illness or diagnosis per se.
Middle-aged Americans have higher obesity rates than any other age group, yet little is known about age-related changes in central taste function during this critical time. Research on taste and aging has primarily focused on psychophysical responses, and on older adults. Central taste processing in middle-age has not been investigated. In the current study, we compared functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activation of young and middle-aged adults during hedonic evaluation of a sweet and a bitter taste. A 2 (age group) by 2 (tastant) analysis of variance (ANOVA) on fMRI activation revealed: (1) a main effect of age (young adults&gt;middle-aged adults) in the bilateral anterior cingulate, lentiform nucleus, putamen, caudate, and right precentral gyrus; (2) a main effect of taste (sweet&gt;bitter) in the bilateral pre- and postcentral gyri, anterior cingulate and right middle frontal gyrus; qualified by (3) an age-by-taste interaction. Further inspection of the age-by-taste interaction revealed that there was a significant effect of age (greater activation in young adults) in sensory (insula) and reward (lentiform nucleus) regions during hedonic evaluation of the sweet taste; however, there was no age effect in the bitter taste condition. Further, young adults had greater responses during hedonic evaluation of sucrose than of caffeine in several sensory and motor processing regions (pre- and postcentral gyri, insula), but there were no taste-related differences in activation in the middle-aged adults. We speculate that these results might reflect early age-related differences in central taste processing that occur prior to deficits in gustatory function observed in old age, and this might have important implications for weight changes that occur during middle-age.
The term limbic encephalitis (LE) was first introduced in 1968. While this disease was initially considered rare and is often fatal with very few treatment options, several reports published in the last decade provide a better description of this condition as well as possible causes and some cases of successful treatment. The clinical manifestation of LE is primarily defined by the subacute onset of short-term memory loss, seizures, confusion and psychiatric symptoms suggesting the involvement of the limbic system. In addition, EEG often shows focal or generalized slow wave or epileptiform activity, and MRI findings reveal hyperintense signals of the medial temporal lobes in T2-weighted or FLAIR images. The current literature suggests that LE is not a single disorder but is comprised of a group of autoimmune disorders predominantly affecting the limbic system. Before the diagnosis of LE can be determined, other causes of subacute encephalopathy must be excluded, especially those resulting from infectious aetiologies. LE has previously been regarded as a paraneoplastic phenomenon associated with the classical onconeuronal antibodies that are primarily directed against intracellular antigens. However, recent literature suggests that LE is also associated with antibodies that are directed against cell surface antigens, and these cases of LE display a much weaker association to the neoplasm. The treatment options for LE largely depend on the aetiology of the disease and involve the removal of the primary neoplasm. Therefore, a search for the underlying tumour is mandatory. In addition, immunotherapy has been successful in a significant number of patients where LE is not associated with cancer.

The use of an appropriate reference gene to ensure accurate normalisation is crucial for the correct quantification of gene expression using qPCR assays and RNA arrays. The main criterion for a gene to qualify as a reference gene is a stable expression across various cell types and experimental settings. Several reference genes are commonly in use but more and more evidence reveals variations in their expression due to the presence of on-going neuropathological disease processes, raising doubts concerning their use. We conducted an analysis of genome-wide changes of gene expression in the human central nervous system (CNS) covering several neurological disorders and regions, including the spinal cord, and were able to identify a number of novel stable reference genes. We tested the stability of expression of eight novel (ATP5E, AARS, GAPVD1, CSNK2B, XPNPEP1, OSBP, NAT5 and DCTN2) and four more commonly used (BECN1, GAPDH, QARS and TUBB) reference genes in a smaller cohort using RT-qPCR. The most stable genes out of the 12 reference genes were tested as normaliser to validate increased levels of a target gene in CNS disease. We found that in human post-mortem tissue the novel reference genes, XPNPEP1 and AARS, were efficient in replicating microarray target gene expression levels and that XPNPEP1 was more efficient as a normaliser than BECN1, which has been shown to change in expression as a consequence of neuronal cell loss. We provide herein one more suitable novel reference gene, XPNPEP1, with no current neuroinflammatory or neurodegenerative associations that can be used for gene quantitative gene expression studies with human CNS post-mortem tissue and also suggest a list of potential other candidates. These data also emphasise the importance of organ/tissue-specific stably expressed genes as reference genes for RNA studies.

Noise-induced hearing loss (NHIL) is a significant source of hearing loss in industrialized countries. Recent research on the cellular bases of NIHL has led to new avenues for protection through prophylactic drugs. Although in experimental animal models several compounds have shown a protective effect in NIHL, limited data are available in humans. Many authors are focusing their attention on the role of antioxidant on hearing protection. Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), an essential cofactor in mitochondrial enzymes, is a novel biological antioxidant and a potent free radical scavenger and, in animal models, it has been shown to protect from age-induced and cisplatin-induced hearing loss. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effect of alpha-lipoic acid on temporary threshold shift measured 2 minutes after the end of exposure (TTS(2)) induced by a 3 kHz tone in young normally hearing subjects. Thirty young normal hearing volunteers served as control subjects. Individuals were randomly assigned to three groups. Group A (10 subjects) subjects were exposed to a 90 dB HL 3 kHz pure tone for 10 min. Group B (10 subjects) subjects were exposed to a 90 dB HL 3 kHz pure tone one hour after oral ingestion of 600 mg of ALA. Group C (10 subjects) were exposed to a 90 dB HL 3 kHz pure tone after 10 days of oral ingestion of 600 mg of ALA. Statistical analysis showed that prior to the exposure the hearing thresholds did not differ significantly among the three groups. TTS(2) of group C was significantly lower that TTS2 of Groups A and B at 6 kHz (p 0.03), and TEOAEs amplitude change after noise exposure was lower for group C compared to Groups A (p = 0.089) and B (p = 0.03). ALA is a powerful lipophilic antioxidant and free radical scavenger currently used in clinical practice. A single dose of 600 mg of dose ALA did not induce any protection on the TTS(2) induced by a 90 dB HL 3 kHz tone, while 10 days of therapeutic dosage assumption of ALA was associated with significant protection at 6 kHz. The results of this study show that a short course of ALA protects from TTS(2) in humans, and therefore further studies are needed to better define the role of ALA in the prevention of noise induced hearing loss.
Hearing loss is one of the most common disabilities and has lifelong consequences for affected children and their families. Both conductive and sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) may be caused by a wide variety of congenital and acquired factors. Its early detection, together with appropriate intervention, is critical to speech, language and cognitive development in hearing-impaired children. In the last two decades, the application of universal neonatal hearing screening has improved identification of hearing loss early in life and facilitates early intervention. Developments in molecular medicine, genetics and neuroscience have improved the aetiological classification of hearing loss. Once deafness is established, a systematic approach to determining the cause is best undertaken within a dedicated multidisciplinary setting. This review addresses the innovative evidences on aetiology and management of deafness in children, including universal neonatal screening, advances in genetic diagnosis and the contribution of neuroimaging. Finally, therapy remains a major challenge in management of paediatric SNHL. Current approaches are represented by hearing aids and cochlear implants. However, recent advances in basic medicine which are identifying the mechanisms of cochlear damage and defective genes causing deafness, may represent the basis for novel therapeutic targets including implantable devices, auditory brainstem implants and cell therapy.







Behavioral analysis is a high-end read-out of aging impact on an organism, and here, we have analyzed behaviors in 4-, 22-, and 28-month-old male C57BL/6J with a broad range of tests. For comparison, a group of 28-month-old males maintained on dietary restriction (DR) was included. The most conspicuous alteration was the decline in exploration activity with advancing age. Aging also affected other behaviors such as motor skill acquisition and grip strength, in contrast to latency to thermal stimuli and visual placement which were unchanged. Object recognition tests revealed intact working memory at 28 months while memory recollection was impaired already at 22 months. Comparison with female C57BL/6J (Fahlstrm et al., Neurobiol Aging 32:1868-1880, 2011) revealed that alterations in aged males and females are similar and that several of the behavioral indices correlate with age in both sexes. Moreover, we examined if behavioral indices in 22-month-old males could predict remaining life span as suggested in the study by Ingram and Reynolds (Exp Aging Res 12(3):155-162, 1986) and found that exploratory activity and motor skills accounted for up to 65% of the variance. Consistent with that a high level of exploratory activity and preserved motor capacity indicated a long post-test survival, 28-month-old males maintained on DR were more successful in such tests than ad libitum fed age-matched males. In summary, aged C57BL/6J males are marked by a reduced exploratory activity, an alteration that DR impedes. In light of recently published data, we discuss if a diminishing drive to explore may associate with aging-related impairment of central aminergic pathways.





The purpose of the study was to investigate the prevalence of velopharyngeal impairment, compensatory articulation, reduced intelligibility, and to rate the general impression of speech in adults with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. The second purpose was to study the prevalence and type of hearing impairment in these adults. A referred, consecutive series of 24 adults with confirmed 22q11.2 deletion, 16 female and 8 males, with a mean age of 25 years (19-38 years) was included in the study. A blind assessment of speech by three experienced speech-language pathologists was performed. Sixteen (66%) patients had a mild to severe velopharyngeal impairment. The most prevalent symptoms of velopharygeal impairment were hypernasality and audible nasal airflow. The mean nasalance score was 33% (6-66%). Only two patients had disordered articulation; one of these had glottal articulation. A mean of 96% (88-100%) of single words were rated to be intelligible. To achieve these results half of the patients previously had velopharyngeal flap surgery. Forty-one percent (9/22) had mild-moderate hearing impairment; three had sensorineural type, four conductive and two had a mixed type. In conclusion the majority of the patients had no articulation errors and good intelligibility; while one-third still had moderate to severe problems with velopharyngeal impairment. Around 40% still had some hearing impairment, in most cases with a mild to moderate conductive component. Thus, a high prevalence of speech and hearing problems seems to be a part of the phenotype in adults with 22q11.2DS.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is an enzyme involved in metabolic pathways of importance for nucleotide synthesis and methylation of DNA, membranes, proteins and lipids. The MTHFR gene includes a common polymorphism (rs1801133 or C677T), which is associated with enzyme activity. The T-allele of the C677T polymorphism has been associated with earlier age at onset of schizophrenia in a Scandinavian population, although no association was found in replication attempts in other populations. Extending the study to five Nordic samples consisting of 2,198 patients with schizophrenia, including the original Scandinavian samples, there was no significant association between MTHFR C677T polymorphism and age at onset in schizophrenia. The present results do not suggest that the investigated MTHFR polymorphism has any significant influence on age at onset of schizophrenia in the Nordic population.
WWC1 was first implicated in human cognition through a genome wide association study in 2006 that reported an association of the intronic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs17070145 with episodic memory performance. WWC1 encodes the protein KIBRA, which is almost ubiquitously expressed. Together with its binding partners, KIBRA is assumed to play a role in synaptic plasticity. T-allele carriers of SNP rs17070145 have been reported to outperform individuals that are homozygous for the C-allele in episodic memory tasks. Here we report two random effects meta-analyses testing the association of rs17070145 with episodic and working memory. All currently available population-based association studies that investigated effects of rs17070145 on episodic or working memory were included in the analyses. Where performance measures for multiple domain-specific tasks were available for a given study population, averaged effect size estimates were calculated. The performed meta-analyses relied on 17 samples that were tested for episodic memory performance (N=8,909) and 9 samples that had performed working memory tasks (N=4,696). We report a significant association of rs17070145 with both episodic (r=0.068, P=0.001) and working memory (r=0.035, P=0.018). In summary, our findings indicate that SNP rs17070145 located within KIBRA explains 0.5% of the variance for episodic memory tasks and 0.1% of the variance for working memory tasks in samples of primarily Caucasian background.
We report significantly decreased white matter protein levels in the nucleus accumbens in an adult mouse model of chronic cocaine abuse. Previous studies from human cocaine abuse patients show disruption of white matter and myelin loss, thus supporting our observations. Understanding the neuropathological mechanisms for white matter disruption in cocaine abuse patients is complicated by polydrug use and other comorbid factors, hindering the development of effective therapeutic strategies to ameliorate damage or compliment rehabilitation programs. In this context, our data further demonstrate that cocaine-induced loss of white matter proteins is absent in mice treated with the -lactam antibiotic, ceftriaxone, during cocaine withdrawal. Other studies report that ceftriaxone, a glutamate transporter subtype-1 activator, is neuroprotective in murine models of multiple sclerosis, thereby demonstrating potential therapeutic properties for diseases with white matter loss. Cocaine-induced white matter abnormalities likely contribute to the cognitive, motor, and psychological deficits commonly afflicting cocaine abusers, yet the underlying mechanisms responsible for these changes remain unknown. Our observations describe an adult animal model for the study of cocaine-induced myelin loss for the first time, and highlight a potential pharmacological intervention to ameliorate cocaine-induced white matter loss.
Whether nonhuman primates show population-level handedness is a topic of much scientific debate. A previous study of handedness for termite fishing reported population-level left handedness in the chimpanzees from Gombe National Park, Tanzania. In the current study, we examined whether similar hand preferences were evident in a savanna-dwelling chimpanzee population with regards to termite fishing. Hand preference data were collected for 27 chimpanzees from February 2007 through July 2008 and November 2011 through January 2012 in southeastern Senegal. Overall, the Fongoli chimpanzees demonstrate a trend toward population-level handedness, though the results did not reach conventional levels of statistical significance likely due to the limited sample size. Fongoli chimpanzees showed the same pattern of left hand preference as reported at Gombe and the two populations did not differ significantly. When the data were combined across all studies, wild chimpanzees showed a population-level left hand preference for termite fishing.
Here, we tested the hypothesis that excess maternal androgen in late pregnancy reduces placental and fetal growth, increases placental steroidogenesis, and adversely affects glucose and lipid metabolism in adult female offspring. Pregnant Wistar rats were randomly assigned to treatment with testosterone (daily injections of 5 mg of free testosterone from gestational days 16 to 19) or vehicle alone. In experiment 1, fetal and placental weights, circulating maternal testosterone, estradiol, and corticosterone levels, and placental protein expression and distribution of estrogen receptor- and -, androgen receptor, and 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 were determined. In experiment 2, birth weights, postnatal growth rates, circulating testosterone, estradiol, and corticosterone levels, insulin sensitivity, adipocyte size, lipid profiles, and the presence of nonalcoholic fatty liver were assessed in female adult offspring. Treatment with testosterone reduced placental and fetal weights and increased placental expression of all four proteins. The offspring of testosterone-treated dams were born with intrauterine growth restriction; however, at 6 wk of age there was no difference in body weight between the offspring of testosterone- and control-treated rats. At 10-11 wk of age, the offspring of the testosterone-treated dams had less fat mass and smaller adipocyte size than those born to control rats and had no difference in insulin sensitivity. Circulating triglyceride levels were higher in the offspring of testosterone-treated dams, and they developed nonalcoholic fatty liver as adults. We demonstrate for the first time that prenatal testosterone exposure alters placental steroidogenesis and leads to dysregulation of lipid metabolism in their adult female offspring.
Patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with diarrhea (IBS-D) carrying human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DQ2/8 genotypes benefit from gluten withdrawal. Our objective was to compare gastrointestinal barrier function, mucosal inflammation, and transit in nonceliac IBS-D patients and assess association with HLA-DQ2/8 status. In 45 IBS-D patients who were naive to prior exclusion of dietary gluten, we measured small bowel (SB) and colonic mucosal permeability by cumulative urinary lactulose and mannitol excretion (0-2 h for SB and 8-24 h for colon), inflammation on duodenal and rectosigmoid mucosal biopsies (obtained in 28 of 45 patients), tight junction (TJ) protein mRNA and protein expression in SB and rectosigmoid mucosa, and gastrointestinal and colonic transit by validated scintigraphy. SB mucosal biopsies were stained with hematoxylin-eosin to assess villi and intraepithelial lymphocytes, and immunohistochemistry was used to assess CD3, CD8, tryptase, and zonula occludens 1 (ZO-1); colonic biopsy intraepithelial lymphocytes were quantitated. Associations of HLA-DQ were assessed using Wilcoxon's rank-sum test. Relative to healthy control data, we observed a significant increase in SB permeability (P &lt; 0.001), a borderline increase in colonic permeability (P = 0.10), and a decrease in TJ mRNA expression in rectosigmoid mucosa in IBS-D. In HLA-DQ2/8-positive patients, ZO-1 protein expression in the rectosigmoid mucosa was reduced compared with that in HLA-DQ2/8-negative patients and colonic transit was slower than in HLA-DQ2/8-negative patients. No other associations with HLA genotype were identified. There is abnormal barrier function (increased SB permeability and reduced mRNA expression of TJ proteins) in IBS-D relative to health that may be, in part, related to immunogenotype, given reduced ZO-1 protein expression in rectosigmoid mucosa in HLA-DQ2/8-positive relative to HLA-DQ2/8-negative patients.
In rodents, at least two transduction mechanisms are involved in salt taste: 1) the sodium-selective epithelial sodium channel, blocked by topical amiloride administration, and 2) one or more amiloride-insensitive cation-nonselective pathways. Whereas electrophysiological evidence from the chorda tympani nerve (CT) has implicated the transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) channel as a major component of amiloride-insensitive salt taste transduction, behavioral results have provided only equivocal support. Using a brief-access taste test, we examined generalization profiles of water-deprived C57BL/6J (WT) and TRPV1 knockout (KO) mice conditioned (via LiCl injection) to avoid 100 M amiloride-prepared 0.25 M NaCl and tested with 0.25 M NaCl, sodium gluconate, KCl, NH(4)Cl, 6.625 mM citric acid, 0.15 mM quinine, and 0.5 M sucrose. Both LiCl-injected WT and TRPV1 KO groups learned to avoid NaCl+amiloride relative to controls, but their generalization profiles did not differ; LiCl-injected mice avoided the nonsodium salts and quinine suggesting that a TRPV1-independent pathway contributes to the taste quality of the amiloride-insensitive portion of the NaCl signal. Repeating the experiment but doubling all stimulus concentrations revealed a difference in generalization profiles between genotypes. While both LiCl-injected groups avoided the nonsodium salts and quinine, only WT mice avoided the sodium salts and citric acid. CT responses to these stimuli and a concentration series of NaCl and KCl with and without amiloride did not differ between genotypes. Thus, in our study, TRPV1 did not appear to contribute to sodium salt perception based on gustatory signals, at least in the CT, but may have contributed to the oral somatosensory features of sodium.



Amino acids are known to elicit complex taste, but most human psychophysical studies on the taste of amino acids have focused on a single basic taste, such as umami (savory) taste, sweetness, or bitterness. In this study, we addressed the potential relationship between the structure and the taste properties of amino acids by measuring the human gustatory intensity and quality in response to aqueous solutions of proteogenic amino acids in comparison to D-enantiomers. Trained subjects tasted aqueous solution of each amino acid and evaluated the intensities of total taste and each basic taste using a category-ratio scale. Each basic taste of amino acids showed the dependency on its hydrophobicity, size, charge, functional groups on the side chain, and chirality of the alpha carbon. In addition, the overall taste of amino acid was found to be the combination of basic tastes according to the partial structure. For example, hydrophilic non-charged middle-sized amino acids elicited sweetness, and L-enantiomeric hydrophilic middle-sized structure was necessary for umami taste. For example, L-serine had mainly sweet and minor umami taste, and D-serine was sweet. We further applied Stevens' psychophysical function to relate the total-taste intensity and the concentration, and found that the slope values depended on the major quality of taste (e.g., bitter large, sour small).
Gonococcal growth inhibitor 1 (GGI-1) is a 44-residue peptide with potent anti-Legionella activity. It has been isolated from Staphylococcus haemolyticus but, to date, its chemical synthesis has not been reported. Acquisition of this peptide via this means would enable a more detailed examination of its antimicrobial properties. However, its synthesis represents a significant challenge because of two predicted &quot;difficult sequences&quot; within the peptide. Its successful solid-phase assembly is reported in this paper, and was accomplished by use of simple palliative measures including the introduction of a single pseudo-proline isostere in order to counteract on-resin aggregation. The peptide had moderate antimicrobial activity against Escherichia coli but was inactive against another Gram-negative bacterium and two Gram-positive bacteria (Bacillus species). It had significant haemolytic activity, with a H(50) (concentration of peptide that causes 50 % haemolysis) of 20 and 125 M for two blood samples from different donors. An alternative therapeutic index to that proposed for GGI-1 in a recent publication is proposed.


Around 80% of myasthenia gravis patients have antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor, and 0-60% of the remaining patients have antibodies against the muscle-specific tyrosine kinase, MuSK. Another recently identified antigen is low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (Lrp4). To improve the existing assays and widen the search for new antigenic targets, we have employed cell-based assays in which candidate target proteins are expressed on the cell surface of transfected cells and probed with patient sera. These assays, combined with use of myotube cultures to explore the effects of the antibodies, enable us to begin to identify new antigenic targets and test antibody pathogenicity in vitro.
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) causes neuromuscular weakness as a result of an autoimmune attack on the calcium channels that normally regulate chemical transmitter release at the neuromuscular junction. Currently there are limited treatment options for patients with this and other forms of neuromuscular weakness. A novel, first-in-class calcium channel agonist that is selective for the types of voltage-gated calcium channels that regulate transmitter release at neuromuscular synapses has recently been developed. This compound (GV-58) slows deactivation (closing) of the channel, resulting in a large increase in total calcium entry during motor nerve action potential activity. This new calcium channel agonist is currently being evaluated for the treatment of neuromuscular weakness. Potential applications include development as single therapeutics, or for combination treatments.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are a group of inherited disorders that arise from impaired signal transmission at the neuromuscular synapse. They are characterized by fatigable muscle weakness. This is a heterogenous group of disorders with 15 different genes implicated in the development of the disease. Using whole-exome sequencing we identified DPAGT1 as a new gene associated with CMS. DPAGT1 catalyses the first step of N-linked protein glycosylation. DPAGT1 patients are characterized by weakness of limb muscles, response to treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors, and the presence of tubular aggregates on muscle biopsy. We showed that DPAGT1 is required for glycosylation of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits and efficient export of AChR to the cell surface. We suggest that the primary pathogenic mechanism of DPAGT1-associated CMS is reduced levels of AChRs at the endplate region. This finding demonstrates that impairment of the N-linked glycosylation pathway can lead to the development of CMS.
We present further developments in the study of the antisense oligonucleotide EN101. Ongoing in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that EN101 is a TLR9-specific ligand that can suppress pro-inflammatory functions and shift nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) from the pro-inflammatory canonical pathway to the anti-inflammatory alternative pathway, which results in decreases acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. Preliminary results of a double-blinded phase II cross-over study compared 10, 20, and 40 mg EN101 administered to patients with myasthenia gravis. Patients were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups in weeks 1, 3, and 5 and received their pretreatment dose of pyridostigmine in weeks 2 and 4. Thus far, all doses show a decrease in QMG scores, with a greater response to higher doses.
Antimuscle-specific kinase (anti-MuSK) myasthenia (AMM) differs from antiacetylcholine receptor myasthenia gravis in exhibiting more focal muscle involvement (neck, shoulder, facial, and bulbar muscles) with wasting of the involved, primarily axial, muscles. AMM is not associated with thymic hyperplasia and responds poorly to anticholinesterase treatment. Animal models of AMM have been induced in rabbits, mice, and rats by immunization with purified xenogeneic MuSK ectodomain, and by passive transfer of large quantities of purified serum IgG from AMM patients into mice. The models have confirmed the pathogenic role of the MuSK antibodies in AMM and have demonstrated the involvement of both the presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the neuromuscular junction. The observations in this human disease and its animal models demonstrate the role of MuSK not only in the formation of this synapse but also in its maintenance.
We have established cell-based assays for the improved detection of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) antibodies in myasthenia gravis. This approach has enabled us to demonstrate antibodies to &quot;clustered&quot; AChRs in patients who were previously AChR antibody negative and can also be used to distinguish between adult and fetal AChR antibodies in mothers of babies with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. We summarize our recent evidence for the pathogenicity of MuSK and clustered AChR antibodies using in vivo models. Cell-based assays are now also being used for the detection of other antibodies, such as those directed to components of the VGKC/CASPR2/LGI1 complex in Morvan's syndrome, and to AQP4 antibodies in neuromyelitis optica; both of these diseases can be associated with MG and sometimes thymoma. The cell-based method is time consuming but has many advantages and may provide a gold standard for the future in the detection of pathogenic autoantibodies in patients with immune-mediated diseases.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is treated primarily with broad-spectrum immuno-suppressants such as prednisone or azathioprine, which normally require several months to reduce autoantibody titers significantly. This delay may be caused by the resistance of the main antibody-producing cells, the plasma cells, to these drugs. In particular, long-lived plasma cells are resistant to immunosuppressive treatments and can produce (auto-) antibodies for months. Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor approved for treating patients with multiple myeloma, a plasma cell malignancy. Recent preclinical studies in cell cultures and animal models, and clinical studies in organ-transplant recipients, have demonstrated that bortezomib can kill non-neoplastic plasma cells within hours. This suggests that proteasome inhibitors could also be used for rapidly reducing autoantibody production in autoimmune diseases. We have begun to assess their potential in MG.
In myasthenia gravis (MG) and experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG), many pathologically significant autoantibodies are directed to the main immunogenic region (MIR) of muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), a conformation-dependent region at the extracellular tip of 1 subunits of AChRs. Human muscle AChR 1 MIR sequences were integrated into Aplesia ACh-binding protein (AChBP). The chimera potently induced EAMG, while AChBP induced EAMG much less potently. AChBP is a water-soluble protein resembling the extracellular domain of AChRs; yet, rats immunized with chimeras developed autoantibodies to both extracellular and cytoplasmic domains of muscle AChRs. We propose that an initial autoimmune response directed at the MIR leads to an autoimmune response sustained by muscle AChRs. Autoimmune stimulation sustained by endogenous muscle AChR may be a target for specific immunosuppression. These studies show that the 1 MIR is highly myasthenogenic, and that AChR-like proteins distantly related to muscle AChR can induce EAMG and, potentially, MG.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) comprise an expanded superfamily of receptors in the human genome. Adhesion class G protein-coupled receptors (adhesion-GPCRs) form the second largest class of GPCRs. Despite the abundance, size, molecular structure, and functions in facilitating cell and matrix contacts in a variety of organ systems, adhesion-GPCRs are by far the most poorly understood GPCR class. Adhesion-GPCRs possess a unique molecular structure, with extended N-termini containing various adhesion domains. In addition, many adhesion-GPCRs are autoproteolytically cleaved into an N-terminal fragment (NTF, NT, -subunit) and C-terminal fragment (CTF, CT, -subunit) at a conserved GPCR autoproteolysis-inducing (GAIN) domain that contains a GPCR proteolysis site (GPS). These two features distinguish adhesion-GPCRs from other GPCR classes. Though active research on adhesion-GPCRs in diverse areas, such as immunity, neuroscience, and development and tumor biology has been intensified in the recent years, the general biological and pharmacological properties of adhesion-GPCRs are not well known, and they have not yet been used for biomedical purposes. The &quot;6th International Adhesion-GPCR Workshop,&quot; held at the Institute of Physiology of the University of Wrzburg on September 6-8, 2012, assembled a majority of the investigators currently actively pursuing research on adhesion-GPCRs, including scientists from laboratories in Europe, the United States, and Asia. The meeting featured the nascent mechanistic understanding of the molecular events driving the signal transduction of adhesion-GPCRs, novel models to evaluate their functions, and evidence for their involvement in human disease.

Molecular chaperones, many of which are heat-shock proteins (HSPs), are an important class of molecules with various functions. Pathological conditions in which chaperones become etiological and/or pathogenic factors are called chaperonopathies, and are classified into by defect, by excess, and by 'mistake'. In the latter case, the chaperone is structurally and functionally normal but participates in pathways that favor disease, although in some cases the chaperone may have post-translational modifications that may lead it to change its location and function and, thus, to become pathogenic. For example, HSP-chaperones are involved in carcinogenesis in various ways, so that some forms of cancer may be considered 'chaperonopathies by mistake'. This concept suggests new strategies for anticancer therapy (chaperonotherapy), in which the primary targets or therapeutic agents are chaperones. Chaperonotherapy consists of the utilization of HSP-chaperones for treating chaperonopathies, including cancer. Negative chaperonotherapy is aimed at eliminating or blocking the action of chaperones that favor carcinogenesis or other diseases, whereas positive chaperonotherapy uses chaperones, genes or proteins, to fight against diseases, such as cancer, by stimulating the immune system or the cellular defenses against stress.

The neurobiology of obesity is poorly understood. Here we report findings of a study designed to examine the differences in brain regional gray matter volume in adults recruited as either Obese Prone or Obese Resistant based on self-identification, body mass index, and personal/family weight history. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 28 Obese Prone (14 male, 14 female) and 25 Obese Resistant (13 male, 12 female) healthy adults. Voxel-based morphometry was used to identify gray matter volume differences between groups. Gray matter volume was found to be lower in the insula, medial orbitofrontal cortex and cerebellum in Obese Prone, as compared to Obese Resistant individuals. Adjusting for body fat mass did not impact these results. Insula gray matter volume was negatively correlated with leptin concentration and measures of hunger. These findings suggest that individuals at risk for weight gain have structural differences in brain regions known to be important in energy intake regulation, and that these differences, particularly in the insula, may be related to leptin.
The Trail Making Test (TMT) comprises two psychomotor tasks that measure a wide range of visual-perceptual and executive functions. The purpose of this study was to provide Czech normative data and to examine the relationship between derived TMT indices and demographic variables. The TMT was administered to 421 healthy adults. Two clinical groups (n = 126) were evaluated to investigate the clinical utility of the TMT-derived scores: amnestic mild cognitive impairment (n = 90) and Alzheimer's disease (n = 36). Statistical analyses showed that age and education, but not gender, were significantly associated with TMT completion times and derived scores. Of all the indices, only the TMT ratio score was insensitive to age. We present normative values for the Czech version of the TMT, providing a reference for measuring individual performance in native Czech speakers. Moreover, we found that accuracy on the TMT was improved with the attenuation of age.
The epilepsies of childhood are a heterogeneous group of disorders with different causes, treatments and outcomes. The choice of anti-epileptic drug is largely determined by its effectiveness in a specific epilepsy syndrome, or seizure type(s) if a syndrome cannot be readily identified, and the drug's safety profile. There are minimal randomised controlled trial data to help inform this decision. In January 2012, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) published its partially revised and updated clinical guideline on the pharmacological treatment of the epilepsies in children and adults. This partial update provides additional data and also specific recommendations that improve the evidence base for the use of specific anti-epileptic drugs in treating the epilepsies of childhood.
Recent studies suggest that a night of sleep may play a similar functional role following motor imagery (MI) practice. Here we examined whether offline gains following MI of a finger tapping sequence depends on the degree of complexity of the motor sequence, and whether this improvement differentially affects the individual transitions of the motor-sequence pattern being learned. The data revealed greater delayed performance gains in motor skill procedures that were most difficult, with larger sleep-dependent overnight improvement for movements involving bimanual coordination. The analyses of single transitions between sequence elements further revealed greatest overnight improvement in speed for the slowest (i.e., most difficult) transitions at the re-test. These findings suggest that sleep-related performance gains for imagined movements depend on motor skill complexity, and that difficult transition movements are most effectively enhanced after a night of sleep.

Sexual desire is typically higher in men than in women, with testosterone (T) thought to account for this difference as well as within-sex variation in desire in both women and men. However, few studies have incorporated both hormonal and social or psychological factors in studies of sexual desire. The present study addressed how three psychological domains (sexual-relational, stress-mood, body-embodiment) were related to links between T and sexual desire in healthy adults and whether dyadic and solitary desire showed associations with T. Participants (n = 196) were recruited as part of the Partnering, Physiology, and Health study, which had 105 men and 91 women who completed questionnaires and provided saliva for cortisol and T assays. T was positively linked to solitary desire in women, with masturbation frequency influencing this link. In contrast, T was negatively correlated with dyadic desire in women, but only when cortisol and perceived social stress were controlled. Replicating past findings, no significant correlations between T and desire in men were apparent, but these analyses showed that the null association remained even when psychological and confound variables were controlled. Men showed higher desire than women, but masturbation frequency rather than T influenced this difference. Results were discussed in terms of challenges to assumptions of clear links between T and desire, gendered approaches to T, and the unitarity of desire.
Anxiety disorders during pregnancy are highly prevalent and associated with serious and enduring consequences for both mother and child. Exposure-based cognitive behavioral (CBT) and behavioral therapies (BT) represent the most empirically supported psychosocial treatments for anxiety disorders in general adult samples. Pregnant women, however, generally have been excluded from this body of research. Evidence that pregnant women inhabit a unique biological context combined with untested assumptions that exposure would unduly stress or harm the fetus have likely prohibited inquiry. This paper seeks to remedy this gap by integrating findings from obstetric, psychiatric, and psychological research to inform central questions regarding exposure-based treatment of anxiety disorders during pregnancy. Based on available evidence, we consider the potential risks and benefits of CBT/BT for anxiety disorders during pregnancy relative to other currently available treatment options. From a multidisciplinary research perspective, we argue that exposure-based therapies are likely to be safe during pregnancy, particularly relative to the alternatives. However, we also highlight critical questions for future research to directly test the biopsychological impact of exposure-based therapies among pregnant women.
The goal of this study was to investigate whether hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier (HBOC) attenuated ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced kidney injury. Male SD rats were randomly divided into a sham group, I/R group, and HBOC group (injection of 0.1 gHb/kg PolyPHb). The ischemia was induced by bilateral renal pedicle cross-clamping for 45min. Then the clamp was released to allow 24h reperfusion. Without increasing blood pressure, PolyPHb reduced the blood urea nitrogen and creatinine in plasma and attenuated the tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-8 in kidney tissue. Therefore, our findings suggest that PolyPHb could reduce kidney injury after I/R injury, and this effect was probably associated with the depressed inflammatory response.
The National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) in Bangalore, India began as the lunatic asylum, in 1848, when a separate asylum to care for the mentally ill was approved by Sir Mark Cubbon, Commissioner of Mysore in the Pettah area of Bangalore. After the transfer of power from the British to the Kingdom of Mysore in 1881, it became, for a while, the only asylum to be supported by a native kingdom. A larger mental hospital, in the light of the expanding population of Mysore, was thought essential by the 1920's, when the Maharaja of Mysore approved the decision to build a new asylum. This was finally completed in 1937, and by then had been renamed as the Mysore State Mental Hospital. The hospital, and its staff, was recommended as the first institution to begin training specialists in psychiatry and related mental health fields, after Independence, in 1953, when it was renamed the All-India Institute of Mental Health. It now houses the Department of Psychiatry at NIMHANS. The asylum architecture, horticultural layout, high standards of mental health care and emphasis on scientific training initiated in the early part of the last century continue to date and many of its alumni hold distinguished positions all over the world.
The aim of the study was to examine quality of life, functioning, disability, work and social adjustment, depression, anxiety and dysfunctional cognitions in patients with anxiety disorders. One hundred patients with anxiety disorders and 98 non-clinical participants were recruited for the study. A cross sectional design was adopted. The participants were assessed on the WHOQoL-BREF, Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS), the Work and Social Adjustment Scale (WSAS) and Dysfunctional Attitudes Scale (DAS). Data was analyzed using descriptive statistics, Mann-Whitney test, Spearman's Rho and regression analysis. Patients with anxiety disorders reported significantly lower quality of life than the community sample (df=98, p&lt;.001). A shorter duration of illness was associated with lower quality of life. QoL was significantly correlated with severity of anxiety, depression and stress as well as with measures of disability and adjustment. Partial correlations indicated that depression did not significantly impact the relationship between work and social adjustment and QoL. Work and social adjustment, depression and dysfunctional cognitions emerged as significant predictors of QoL. The findings of the study are discussed in the light of existing research and the implications for future interventions are highlighted.

Ca(V)2.2 (N-type) calcium channels are key regulators of neurotransmission. Evidence from knockout animals and localization studies suggest that Ca(V)2.2 channels play a critical role in nociceptive transmission. Additionally, ziconotide, a selective peptide inhibitor of Ca(V)2.2 channels, is clinically used to treat refractory pain. However, the use of ziconotide is limited by its low therapeutic index, which is believed, at least in part, to be a consequence of ziconotide inhibiting Ca(V)2.2 channels regardless of the channel state. Subsequent efforts have focused on the discovery of state-dependent inhibitors that preferentially bind to the inactivated state of Ca(V)2.2 channels in order to achieve an improved safety profile relative to ziconotide. Much less attention has been paid to understanding the binding kinetics of these state-dependent inhibitors. Here, we describe a novel electrophysiology-based assay on an automated patch platform designed to differentiate Ca(V)2.2 inhibitors based on their combined state dependence and kinetics. More specifically, this assay assesses inactivated state block, closed state block, and monitors the kinetics of recovery from block when channels move between states. Additionally, a use-dependent assay is described that uses a train of depolarizing pulses to drive channels to a similar level of inactivation for comparison. This use-dependent protocol also provides information on the kinetics of block development. Data are provided to show how these assays can be utilized to screen for kinetic diversity within and across chemical classes.


Velo-cardio-facial syndrome (VCFS; 22q11.2 deletion syndrome) results from a genetic mutation that increases risk for Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). We compared Theory of Mind (ToM) skills in 63 individuals with VCFS (25% with an ASD diagnosis) and 43 typically developing controls, and investigated the relationship of ToM to reciprocal social behavior. We administered a video-based task to assess mentalizing at two sites University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and State University of New York (SUNY) Upstate Medical University. The videos depicted interactions representing complex mental states (ToM condition), or simple movements (Random condition). Verbal descriptions of the videos were rated for Intentionality (i.e. mentalizing) and Appropriateness. Using Repeated Measures analysis of variance (ANOVA), we assessed the effects of VCFS and ASD on Intentionality and Appropriateness, and the relationship of mentalizing to Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) scores. Results indicated that individuals with VCFS overall had lower Intentionality and Appropriateness scores than controls for ToM but not for Random scenes. In the SUNY sample, individuals with VCFS, both with and without ASD, performed more poorly than controls on the ToM condition; however, in the UCLA sample, only individuals with VCFS without ASD performed significantly worse than controls on the ToM condition. Controlling for site and age, performance on the ToM condition was significantly correlated with SRS scores. Individuals with VCFS, regardless of an ASD diagnosis, showed impairments in the spontaneous attribution of mental states to abstract visual stimuli, which may underlie real-life problems with social interactions. A better understanding of the social deficits in VCFS is essential for the development of targeted behavioral interventions.
The hepatitis B virus (HBV) is an important international cause of infectious acute and chronic liver diseases. HBV vaccines were developed to combat the potential life-threatening effects of HBV infection. Published case histories, retrospective reviews and analyses of epidemiological data report on the onset of immune-mediated myelitis after recombinant HBV vaccination, mostly in adults with a presumed genetic/immunologic predisposition. However, HBV vaccination has not borne out to be a significant trigger of serious autoimmune events, including acute myelitis, in populations at large over prolonged observation periods after immunization. Published study methods lack the sensitivity to categorically establish a causal relationship between exposure to HBV vaccine components and immune mediated myelitis, but in practice the faint possibility of such a link should not be totally rejected.
Activation of the PI3K-AKT1-FOXO module by growth factors increases survival and stress resistance. We identified the gene encoding glutamine synthetase (GLUL, glutamate-ammonia ligase) as a novel transcriptional target of this signaling cascade. Growth factor removal increases glutamine synthetase expression and activity through activation of FOXO transcription factors. Surprisingly, increased levels of glutamine synthetase inhibit MTOR signaling by blocking its lysosomal translocation. Furthermore, FOXO activation induces autophagosome formation and autophagic flux in a glutamine synthetase-dependent manner. This may be important for maintaining cell survival during conditions of growth factor and nutrient deprivation since inhibition of autophagy induces cell death. These studies reveal that glutamine metabolism can play an important regulatory role in the regulation of autophagy by growth factor signaling. In addition, the induction of autophagy by FOXO-mediated glutamine synthetase expression might contribute to the tumor suppressive function of FOXOs.
Huntington disease (HD) results from CAG repeats that encode expanded polyglutamine tracts in the HTT/huntingtin protein. HD belongs to a large category of inherited and sporadic neurodegenerative disorders in which production of a misfolded protein initiates the pathogenic cascade. Previous studies have shown that misfolded proteins become resistant to cellular protein turnover pathways by eluding and disabling the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy-lysosome pathway. Based upon earlier work implicating impaired PPARGC1A function in HD, we derived inducible PPARGC1A mice and crossed them with HD mice. We found that PPARGC1A overexpression can rescue HD neurological phenotypes and neurodegeneration. An unexpected outcome of the rescue was the virtual elimination of huntingtin aggregates, and we found that PPARGC1A-mediated aggregate elimination required the autophagy pathway. Moreover, we observed decreased expression of transcription factor EB (TFEB), a master regulator of the autophagy-lysosome pathway, in HD cells and mice, and documented PPARGC1A co-activation of TFEB in these model systems, noting that PPARGC1A is upstream of TFEB in promoting proteostasis. These findings underscore the importance of bioenergetics and autophagy in neurodegeneration, and indicate that PPARGC1A promotes mitochondrial quality control to support high-energy production states in cells, such as neurons. As impaired energy production and altered protein-organelle quality control appear inextricably linked in disorders such as HD, Parkinson disease, and Alzheimer disease, efforts directed at enhancing PPARGC1A and TFEB action may represent viable strategies for therapy development in neurodegeneration.
Aberrant repetitive behaviors are commonly observed in a variety of neurodevelopmental, neurological, and neuropsychiatric disorders. Little is known about the specific neurobiological mechanisms that underlie such behaviors, however, and effective treatments are lacking. Valid animal models can aid substantially in identifying pathophysiological factors mediating aberrant repetitive behavior and aid in treatment development. The C58 inbred mouse strain is a particularly promising model, and we have further characterized its repetitive behavior phenotype. Compared to C57BL/6 mice, C58 mice exhibit high rates of spontaneous hindlimb jumping and backward somersaulting reaching adult frequencies by 5 weeks post-weaning and adult temporal organization by 2 weeks post-weaning. The development of repetitive behavior in C58 mice was markedly attenuated by rearing these mice in larger, more complex environments. In addition to characterizing repetitive motor behavior, we also assessed related forms of inflexible behavior that reflect restricted and perseverative responding. Contrary to our hypothesis, C58 mice did not exhibit increased marble burying nor did they display reduced exploratory behavior in the holeboard task. The C58 strain appears to be a very useful model for the repetitive motor behavior characteristic of a number of clinical disorders. As an inbred mouse strain, studies using the C58 model can take full advantage of the tool kit of modern genetics and molecular neuroscience. This technical advantage makes the model a compelling choice for use in studies designed to elucidate the etiology and pathophysiology of aberrant repetitive behavior. Such findings should, in turn, translate into effective new treatments.
The present study explored the possibility that cholinergic and GABAergic systems of medial septum (MS) might influence acquisition of memory by regulation of acetylcholine (Ach) and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors function in hippocampus and vice versa. The step-through passive avoidance (PA) task was used. The results showed that pre-training intra-MS/CA1 administration of nonselective muscarinic Ach antagonist, scopolamine (0.5, 1 and 2 g/rat) and GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol (0.01 and 0.02 g/rat) impaired, while acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine (0.5 and 1 g/rat) and GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline (0.25 g/rat) improved memory acquisition. Moreover, intra-CA1/MS administration of a subthreshold dose of muscimol or bicuculline increased and reversed the impairment induced by scopolamine in MS/CA1 respectively (cross injection). Also, the result revealed that, intra-CA1/MS administration subthreshold dose of muscimol reduced improvement of memory induced by physostigmine in the MS/CA1, respectively (cross injection). On the other hand, subthreshold dose of bicuculline in CA1/MS did not alter memory improvement induced by physostigmine in the other site (MS/CA1). In conclusion, both cholinergic and GABAergic systems not only seem to play a role in the modulation of memory in the MS and CA1 but also to have a complex interaction.

Immediate early genes (IEG) are presumed to be activated in response to stress, novelty, and learning. Evidence supports the involvement of prefrontal and hippocampal areas in stress and learning, but also in the detection of novel events. This study examined whether a previous experience with shocks changes the pattern of Fos and Egr-1 expression in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), the hippocampal cornus ammonis 1 (CA1), and dentate gyrus (DG) of adult male Wistar rats that learned to escape in an operant aversive test. Subjects previously exposed to inescapable footshocks that learned to escape from shocks were assigned to the treated group (EXP). Subjects from Group Novelty (NOV) rested undisturbed during treatment and also learned to escape in the test. The nonshock group (NSH) rested undisturbed in both sessions. Standard immunohistochemistry procedures were used to detect the proteins in brain sections. The results show that a previous experience with shocks changed the pattern of IEG expression, then demonstrating c-fos and egr-1 induction as experience-dependent events. Compared with NSH and EXP an enhanced Fos expression was detected in the mPFC and CA1 subfield of Group NOV, which also exhibited increased Egr-1 expression in the mPFC and DG in comparison to NSH. No differences were found in the DG for Fos, or in the CA1 for Egr-1. Novelty, and not the operant aversive escape learning, seems to have generated IEG induction. The results suggest novel stimuli as a possible confounding factor in studies on Fos and/or Egr-1 expression in aversive conditions.
Animal models of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are based on fear conditioning where innocuous cues elicit reactions that originally occur to traumatic events--a core feature of PTSD. Another core feature is hyperarousal--exaggerated reactions to stressful events. One limitation of animal models of PTSD is that group effects do not model the sporadic incidence of PTSD. We developed an animal model of PTSD in which rabbit nictitating membrane responses become exaggerated as a function of classical conditioning to a tone conditioned stimulus (CS) paired with a shock unconditioned stimulus (US). Exaggerated responses to the US are a form of hyperarousal termed conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) and occur in the absence of the CS. Inspecting data across several experiments, we determined 25% of our rabbits exhibit strong CRM despite all subjects having high levels of conditioning. To determine how prone rabbits were to CRM (susceptibility) or how resistant (resilience), we examined data from 135 rabbits analyzing for factors during CS-US pairings and during US prescreening that would predict CRM. We found the magnitude of CRM was correlated with the onset latency and area of conditioned responding during CS-US pairings and with the peak latency of a response during US pretesting. In an animal model of PTSD that more accurately reflects clinical prevalence, we can begin to predict susceptibility not only during responding to a stressful conditioning situation but also during a screening process before the stressful situation takes place. The results suggest relatively innocuous testing may help detect PTSD after trauma and screen for it before trauma occurs.
Multiple phases of protein synthesis are necessary for the synaptic modifications that consolidate long-term memory. The reconsolidation hypothesis supposes that information in long-term memory becomes labile and subject to change when retrieved and must be reconsolidated into long-term memory. The current study used the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin to examine memory consolidation in birds and to test the reconsolidation hypothesis. Black-capped chickadees store food and usually remember which of their caches they have emptied and which they have left full. In Experiment 1, anisomycin was injected either immediately and 2 hr after food caching, or 4 and 6 hr after food caching. Inhibition of protein synthesis impaired memory for cache sites 24 and 48 hr later. In Experiment 2, it was hypothesized that long-term memory for food caches becomes labile as predicted by the reconsolidation hypothesis when birds search for caches. Anisomycin was administered immediately after chickadees had searched for their caches. Inhibition of protein synthesis should disrupt memory for caches left full if these sites are retrieved from long-term memory and require reconsolidation. Control birds were later more likely to revisit full caches than caches they had emptied. Birds given anisomycin revisited both kinds of caches and did not distinguish between them. This result shows that reconsolidation of full caches into long-term memory is not necessary following search for cache sites, but also shows that protein synthesis-dependent consolidation is required for updating the status of emptied caches.
In a series of experiments, Kusev et al. (Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 37:1874-1886, 2011) studied relative-frequency judgments of items drawn from two distinct categories. The experiments showed that the judged frequencies of categories of sequentially encountered stimuli are affected by the properties of the experienced sequences. Specifically, a first-run effect was observed, whereby people overestimated the frequency of a given category when that category was the first repeated category to occur in the sequence. Here, we (1) interpret these findings as reflecting the operation of a judgment heuristic sensitive to sequential patterns, (2) present mathematical definitions of the sequences used in Kusev et al. (Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 37:1874-1886, 2011), and (3) present a mathematical formalization of the first-run effect-the judgments-relative-to-patterns model-to account for the judged frequencies of sequentially encountered stimuli. The model parameter w accounts for the effect of the length of the first run on frequency estimates, given the total sequence length. We fitted data from Kusev et al. (Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 37:1874-1886, 2011) to the model parameters, so that with increasing values of w, subsequent items in the first run have less influence on judgments. We see the role of the model as essential for advancing knowledge in the psychology of judgments, as well as in other disciplines, such as computer science, cognitive neuroscience, artificial intelligence, and human-computer interaction.
The present study examined the psychometric properties of the Disgust Emotion Scale for Children (DES-C). Principal components analysis of the DES-C data revealed five factors reflecting disgust toward (a) rotting foods, (b) injection and blood, (c) odors, (d) mutilation and death, and (e) animals, which were largely in keeping with the intended subscales. The DES-C showed good reliability, excellent convergent validity (as established by correlations with an alternative self-report index of disgust), fairly good predictive validity (as assessed by correlations with measures of fear/anxiety and a behavioral index of disgust), and acceptable parent-child agreement (in particular with the mothers). Importantly, the DES-C proved to perform better on some psychometric indicators than an age-downward version of the Disgust Scale. These findings indicate that the DES-C should be regarded as the preferred scale for measuring disgust sensitivity and its role in the etiology and maintenance of anxiety problems in children.
The symptoms of bipolar disorder affect and are affected by the functioning of family environments. Little is known, however, about the stability of family functioning among youth with bipolar disorder as they cycle in and out of mood episodes. This study examined family functioning and its relationship to symptoms of adolescent bipolar disorder, using longitudinal measures of family cohesion, adaptability, and conflict. Parent- and adolescent-reported symptom and family functioning data were collected from 58 families of adolescents with bipolar disorder (mean age =14.481.60; 33 female, 25 male) who participated in a 2-year randomized trial of family-focused treatment for adolescents (FFT-A). Cohesion and adaptability scores did not significantly change over the course of the study. Parent-reported conflict prior to psychosocial treatment moderated the treatment responses of families, such that high-conflict families participating in FFT-A demonstrated greater reductions in conflict over time than low-conflict families. Moreover, adolescent mania symptoms improved more rapidly in low-conflict than in high-conflict families. For all respondents, cohesion, adaptability, and conflict were longitudinally correlated with adolescents' depression scores. Finally, decreases in parent-reported conflict also predicted decreases in adolescents' manic symptoms over the 2-year study. Findings suggest that family cohesion, adaptability, and conflict may be useful predictors of the course of adolescent mood symptoms. Family conflict may be an important target for family intervention in early onset bipolar disorder.
Agonist potency at some neurotransmitter receptors has been shown to be regulated by voltage, a mechanism which has been suggested to play a crucial role in the regulation of neurotransmitter release by inhibitory autoreceptors. Likewise, receptor deactivation rates upon agonist removal have been implicated in autoreceptor function. Using G protein-coupled potassium (GIRK) channel activation in Xenopus oocytes as readout of receptor activity, we have investigated the voltage sensitivities and signaling kinetics of the hH(3)(445) and hH(3)(365) isoforms of the human histamine H receptor, which functions as an inhibitory auto- and heteroreceptor in the nervous system. We have also investigated both the human and the mouse homologues of the related histamine H receptor, which is expressed mainly on hematopoietic cells. We found that the hH(3)(445) receptor is the most sensitive to voltage, whereas the hH(3)(365) and H(4) receptors are less affected. We further observed a marked difference in response deactivation kinetics between the hH(3)(445) and hH(3)(365) isoforms, with the hH(3)(365) isoform being five to six-fold slower than the hH(3)(445) receptor. Finally, using synthetic agonists, we found evidence for agonist-specific voltage sensitivity at the hH receptor. The differences in voltage sensitivities and deactivation kinetics between the hH(3)(445), hH(3)(365), and H receptors might be relevant to their respective physiological roles.

Although estrogens are widely considered circulating &quot;sex steroid hormones&quot; typically associated with female reproduction, recent evidence suggests that estrogens can act as local modulators of brain circuits in both males and females. The functional implications of this newly characterized estrogen signaling system have begun to emerge. This essay summarizes evidence in support of the hypothesis that the rapid production of estrogens in brain circuits can drive acute changes in both the production and perception of acoustic communication behaviors. These studies have revealed two fundamental neurobiological concepts: (1) estrogens can be locally produced in brain circuits, independent of levels in nearby circuits and in the circulation and (2) estrogens can have very rapid effects within these brain circuits to modulate social vocalizations, acoustic processing, and sensorimotor integration. This vertebrate-wide span of research, including vocalizing fishes, amphibians, and birds, emphasizes the importance of comparative model systems in understanding principles of neurobiology.
After only about 10 days would the storage capacity of our nervous system be reached if we stored every bit of input. The nervous system relies on at least two mechanisms that counteract this capacity limit: compression and forgetting. But the latter mechanism needs to know how long an entity should be stored: some memories are relevant only for the next few minutes, some are important even after the passage of several years. Psychology and physiology have found and described many different memory mechanisms, and these mechanisms indeed use different time scales. In this prospect we review these mechanisms with respect to their time scale and propose relations between mechanisms in learning and memory and their underlying physiological basis.
With the mechanosensory lateral line fish perceive water motions relative to their body surface and local pressure gradients. The lateral line plays an important role in many fish behaviors including the detection and localization of dipole sources and the tracking of prey fish. The sensory units of the lateral line are the neuromasts which are distributed across the surface of the animal. Water motions are received and transduced into neuronal signals by the neuromasts. These signals are conveyed by afferent nerve fibers to the fish brain and processed by lateral line neurons in parts of the brainstem, cerebellum, midbrain, and forebrain. In the cerebellum, midbrain, and forebrain, lateral line information is integrated with sensory information from other modalities. The present review introduces the peripheral morphology of the lateral line, and describes our understanding of lateral line physiology and behavior. It focuses on recent studies that have investigated: how fish behave in unsteady flow; what kind of sensory information is provided by flow; and how fish use and process this information. Finally, it reports new theoretical and biomimetic approaches to understand lateral line function.
Neglect is a neurological disorder of spatial attention with reduced awareness of visual stimuli in the hemifield contralateral to an acute temporo-parietal lesion mainly of the right hemisphere. There is a close association of multisensory orientation centers (MSO) and vestibular tonus imbalance. A lesion of the dominant right MSO causes a left-sided neglect due to a lack of ipsilateral activation of the visual cortex, which is further enhanced by increasing inhibition from the contralateral visual cortex. The nondominant MSO in the left hemisphere might be involved in the manifestation of the less frequent and more transient right-sided neglect and in the plastic mechanisms of gradual recovery from left-sided neglect or extinction. There is evidence that a vestibular tonus inbalance due to peripheral or central vestibular pathway lesions may also induce a neglect. In a first model approach using an attractor network and assuming that there is only one MSO in the right hemisphere, it is possible to simulate attentional shifts into a visual hemifield and to induce a neglect. The neural network model consists of four layers of neurons: retina, MSO, visual cortex V1, and superior colliculus. The superior colliculus layer is modeled as a recurrent attractor network with one inhibitory interneuron and synaptic weights chosen to implement a winner-take-all network that centers the hill of activity on the strongest input. We are well aware of the simplifications used in the conceptual drawings and the computational model, but nevertheless hope that they will serve as an inspiration for further modeling and clinical studies.

Although executive functions have been associated with autonomic regulatory capacity in healthy adults, there appear to be no reports of these relations in adults with schizophrenia to date. We tested whether baseline autonomic regulation was associated with performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) in a group of 42 stable community outpatients with schizophrenia. Patients exhibited faster resting heart rates and lower respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) than age-matched controls, consistent with previous research. Patients also completed relatively few WCST categories and made many perseverative errors, replicating prior studies. Within the patient group, relatively better WCST performance was associated with slower resting heart rate and higher RSA, suggesting that inefficient executive and autonomic functioning in schizophrenia may be linked. WCST performance and autonomic regulatory capacity were further reduced in a subset of patients receiving clozapine, but relations between WCST performance and autonomic regulatory parameters did not differ from those of other patients. Findings extend the neurovisceral integration model of autonomic regulation to adults with schizophrenia and attest to the reliability of the model.
A processing scheme for the investigation of neonatal electroencephalographic burst oscillations that is composed of time-variant methods for linear and nonlinear phase analysis is introduced. Starting from a time-frequency analysis of oscillations' amplitudes, time-variant approaches for quantification of phase locking, n:m phase synchronization, and quadratic phase coupling are applied. Trac discontinue patterns from premature newborns and trac alternant patterns from full-term newborns were investigated using bipolar EEG recordings. Maturation-related differences between the burst generation mechanisms can be shown, which are reflected in group-specific patterns of augmentation, timing, and grouping of time-varying phase characteristics of the EEG burst oscillations. We demonstrate for both groups (premature and full-term newborns) that phase-locked low-frequency oscillations are pronounced in the frequency range of 0.5-1.5 Hz. Phase-locked oscillations also occur in a frequency range of &gt;3 Hz. The amplitude of a phase-locked 2-Hz oscillation is higher in full-term than in premature newborns. After onset, n:m synchronization and an increase in bicoherence occur earlier in the premature group (between 0.5-1.5 Hz and 3.0-6.0 Hz). It can be suggested that during the maturation process, the driving force of thalamic structures decreases and that cortical activity plays an increasingly important role in the process of burst generation.
Neurorehabilitation is an emerging field driven by developments in neuroscience and biomedical engineering. Most patients that require neurorehabilitation have had a stroke, but other diseases of the brain, spinal cord, or nerves can also be alleviated. Modern therapies in neurorehabilitation focus on reducing impairment and improving function in daily life. As compared with acute care medicine, the clinical evidence for most neurorehabilitative treatments (modern or conventional) is sparse. Clinical trials support constraint-induced movement therapy for the arm and aerobic treadmill training for walking, both high-intensity interventions requiring therapist time (i.e., cost) and patient motivation. Promising approaches for the future include robotic training, telerehabilitation at the patients home, and supportive therapies that promote motivation and compliance. It is argued that a better understanding of the neuroscience of recovery together with results from small-scale and well-focused clinical experiments are necessary to design optimal interventions for specific target groups of patients.


Traumatic extradural haematoma following a severe head injury is well documented in neurosurgical literature. We report a case of traumatic extradural haematoma which initially was concealed by the high intracranial pressure (ICP) and revealed after the contralateral decompressive craniectomy. A 21-year-old roofer sustained severe head injury from a fall. The CT brain showed right sided fronto-temporal contusions with small acute subdural haematoma and left orbital roof fracture extending into the temporal bone. ICP was above 45 mmHg even after maximal medical therapy. Decompressive craniectomy was performed on the right side along with contusionectomy. Within an hour, ICP spiked and the CT brain showed left side extradural haematoma. The second surgery demonstrated a bleeding middle meningeal artery associated with the left temporal bone fracture. The clinical sequence of events, radiological and operative findings revealed this to be a traumatic extradural haematoma sustained at the initial trauma. This was revealed after the tamponade effect was released from the initial decompressive craniectomy on the contralateral side.



A series of editorials in this Journal have argued that psychiatry is in the midst of a crisis. The various solutions proposed would all involve a strengthening of psychiatry's identity as essentially 'applied neuroscience'. Although not discounting the importance of the brain sciences and psychopharmacology, we argue that psychiatry needs to move beyond the dominance of the current, technological paradigm. This would be more in keeping with the evidence about how positive outcomes are achieved and could also serve to foster more meaningful collaboration with the growing service user movement.
The core clinical feature of semantic dementia is a progressive yet selective degradation of conceptual knowledge. Understanding the cognitive and neuroanatomical basis for this deficit is a key challenge for both clinical and basic science. Some researchers attribute the deficit to damage to pan-modal conceptual representations that are independent of any particular sensory-motor modality and are represented in the ventrolateral anterior temporal lobes. Others claim that damage to modality-specific visual feature representations in the occipitotemporal 'ventral stream' is responsible. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that concept degradation in semantic dementia involves a combination of these pan-modal and modality-specific elements. We investigated factors influencing knowledge of object concepts by analysing 43 sets of picture-naming data from patients with semantic dementia. We found a strong influence of two pan-modal factors: highly familiar and typical items were named more accurately than less familiar/atypical items at all stages of the disorder. Items associated with rich sensory-motor information were also named more successfully at all stages, and this effect was present for sound/motion knowledge and tactile/action knowledge when these modalities were studied separately. However, there was no advantage for items rich in visual colour/form characteristics; instead, this factor had an increasingly negative impact in the later stages of the disorder. We propose that these results are best explained by a combination of (i) degradation of modality-independent conceptual representations, which is present throughout the disorder and is a consequence of atrophy focused on the ventrolateral anterior temporal lobes; and (ii) a later additional deficit for concepts that depend heavily on visual colour/form information, caused by the spreading of atrophy to posterior ventral temporal regions specialized for representing this information. This explanation is consistent with a graded hub-and-spoke model of conceptual knowledge, in which there is a gradual convergence of information along the temporal lobes, with visual attributes represented in the posterior cortex giving way to pan-modal representations in the anterior areas.
Dominant optic atrophy is a rare inherited optic nerve degeneration caused by mutations in the mitochondrial fusion gene OPA1. Recently, the clinical spectrum of dominant optic atrophy has been extended to frequent syndromic forms, exhibiting various degrees of neurological and muscle impairments frequently found in mitochondrial diseases. Although characterized by a specific loss of retinal ganglion cells, the pathophysiology of dominant optic atrophy is still poorly understood. We generated an Opa1 mouse model carrying the recurrent Opa1(delTTAG) mutation, which is found in 30% of all patients with dominant optic atrophy. We show that this mouse displays a multi-systemic poly-degenerative phenotype, with a presentation associating signs of visual failure, deafness, encephalomyopathy, peripheral neuropathy, ataxia and cardiomyopathy. Moreover, we found premature age-related axonal and myelin degenerations, increased autophagy and mitophagy and mitochondrial supercomplex instability preceding degeneration and cell death. Thus, these results support the concept that Opa1 protects against neuronal degeneration and opens new perspectives for the exploration and the treatment of mitochondrial diseases.

Alzheimer's disease is a devastating cureless neurodegenerative disorder affecting &gt;35 million people worldwide. The disease is caused by toxic oligomers and aggregates of amyloid  protein and the microtubule-associated protein tau. Recently, the Lys-specific molecular tweezer CLR01 has been shown to inhibit aggregation and toxicity of multiple amyloidogenic proteins, including amyloid  protein and tau, by disrupting key interactions involved in the assembly process. Following up on these encouraging findings, here, we asked whether CLR01 could protect primary neurons from Alzheimer's disease-associated synaptotoxicity and reduce Alzheimer's disease-like pathology invivo. Using cell culture and brain slices, we found that CLR01 effectively inhibited synaptotoxicity induced by the 42-residue isoform of amyloid  protein, including 80% inhibition of changes in dendritic spines density and long-term potentiation and complete inhibition of changes in basal synaptic activity. Using a radiolabelled version of the compound, we found that CLR01 crossed the mouse blood-brain barrier at 2% of blood levels. Treatment of 15-month-old triple-transgenic mice for 1 month with CLR01 resulted in a decrease in brain amyloid  protein aggregates, hyperphosphorylated tau and microglia load as observed by immunohistochemistry. Importantly, no signs of toxicity were observed in the treated mice, and CLR01 treatment did not affect the amyloidogenic processing of amyloid  protein precursor. Examining induction or inhibition of the cytochrome P450 metabolism system by CLR01 revealed minimal interaction. Together, these data suggest that CLR01 is safe for use at concentrations well above those showing efficacy in mice. The efficacy and toxicity results support a process-specific mechanism of action of molecular tweezers and suggest that these are promising compounds for developing disease-modifying therapy for Alzheimer's disease and related disorders.
Although language difficulties are common in children born prematurely, robust neuroanatomical correlates of these impairments remain to be established. This study investigated whether the greater prevalence of language problems in preterm (versus term-born) children might reflect injury to major intra- or interhemispheric white matter pathways connecting frontal and temporal language regions. To investigate this, we performed a comprehensive assessment of language and academic abilities in a group of adolescents born prematurely, some of whom had evidence of brain injury at birth (n = 50, mean age: 16 years, mean gestational age: 27 weeks) and compared them to a term-born control group (n = 30). Detailed structural magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion-tractography analyses of intrahemispheric and interhemispheric white matter bundles were performed. Analysis of intrahemispheric pathways included the arcuate fasciculus (dorsal language pathway) and uncinate fasciculus/extreme capsule (ventral language pathway). Analysis of interhemispheric pathways (in particular, connections between the temporal lobes) included the two major commissural bundles: the corpus callosum and anterior commissure. We found language impairment in 38% of adolescents born preterm. Language impairment was not related to abnormalities of the arcuate fasciculus (or its subsegments), but was associated with bilateral volume reductions in the ventral language pathway. However, the most significant volume reduction was detected in the posterior corpus callosum (splenium), which contains interhemispheric connections between the occipital, parietal and temporal lobes. Diffusion tractography showed that of the three groups of interhemispheric fibres within the splenium, only those connecting the temporal lobes were reduced. Crucially, we found that language impairment was only detectable if the anterior commissure (a second temporal lobe commissural pathway) was also small. Regression analyses showed that a combination of anatomical measures of temporal interhemispheric connectivity (through the splenium of the corpus callosum and anterior commissure) explained 57% of the variance in language abilities. This supports recent theories emphasizing the importance of interhemispheric connections for language, particularly in the developing brain.
Even simple behaviour requires us to make decisions based on combining multiple pieces of learned and new information. Making such decisions requires both learning the optimal response to each given stimulus as well as combining probabilistic information from multiple stimuli before selecting a response. Computational theories of decision making predict that learning individual stimulus-response associations and rapid combination of information from multiple stimuli are dependent on different components of basal ganglia circuitry. In particular, learning and retention of memory, required for optimal response choice, are significantly reliant on dopamine, whereas integrating information probabilistically is critically dependent upon functioning of the glutamatergic subthalamic nucleus (computing the 'normalization term' in Bayes' theorem). Here, we test these theories by investigating 22 patients with Parkinson's disease either treated with deep brain stimulation to the subthalamic nucleus and dopaminergic therapy or managed with dopaminergic therapy alone. We use computerized tasks that probe three cognitive functions-information acquisition (learning), memory over a delay and information integration when multiple pieces of sequentially presented information have to be combined. Patients performed the tasks ON or OFF deep brain stimulation and/or ON or OFF dopaminergic therapy. Consistent with the computational theories, we show that stopping dopaminergic therapy impairs memory for probabilistic information over a delay, whereas deep brain stimulation to the region of the subthalamic nucleus disrupts decision making when multiple pieces of acquired information must be combined. Furthermore, we found that when participants needed to update their decision on the basis of the last piece of information presented in the decision-making task, patients with deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus region did not slow down appropriately to revise their plan, a pattern of behaviour that mirrors the impulsivity described clinically in some patients with subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation. Thus, we demonstrate distinct mechanisms for two important facets of human decision making: first, a role for dopamine in memory consolidation, and second, the critical importance of the subthalamic nucleus in successful decision making when multiple pieces of information must be combined.
Differences in brain metabolism as measured by FDG-PET in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been consistently observed, with a characteristic parietotemporal hypometabolic pattern. However, exploration of brain metabolic correlates of more nuanced measures of cognitive function has been rare, particularly in larger samples. We analyzed the relationship between resting brain metabolism and memory and executive functioning within diagnostic group on a voxel-wise basis in 86 people with AD, 185 people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 86 healthy controls (HC) from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). We found positive associations within AD and MCI but not in HC. For MCI and AD, impaired executive functioning was associated with reduced parietotemporal metabolism, suggesting a pattern consistent with known AD-related hypometabolism. These associations suggest that decreased metabolic activity in the parietal and temporal lobes may underlie the executive function deficits in AD and MCI. For memory, hypometabolism in similar regions of the parietal and temporal lobes were significantly associated with reduced performance in the MCI group. However, for the AD group, memory performance was significantly associated with metabolism in frontal and orbitofrontal areas, suggesting the possibility of compensatory metabolic activity in these areas. Overall, the associations between brain metabolism and cognition in this study suggest the importance of parietal and temporal lobar regions in memory and executive function in the early stages of disease and an increased importance of frontal regions for memory with increasing impairment.
For children, learning often occurs in the presence of background noise. As such, there is growing desire to improve a child's access to a target signal in noise. Given adult musicians' perceptual and neural speech-in-noise enhancements, we asked whether similar effects are present in musically-trained children. We assessed the perception and subcortical processing of speech in noise and related cognitive abilities in musician and nonmusician children that were matched for a variety of overarching factors. Outcomes reveal that musicians' advantages for processing speech in noise are present during pivotal developmental years. Supported by correlations between auditory working memory and attention and auditory brainstem response properties, we propose that musicians' perceptual and neural enhancements are driven in a top-down manner by strengthened cognitive abilities with training. Our results may be considered by professionals involved in the remediation of language-based learning deficits, which are often characterized by poor speech perception in noise.
Discourse cohesion and coherence give communication its continuity providing the grammatical and lexical links that hold an utterance or text together and give it meaning. Researchers often link cohesion and coherence deficits to the frontal lobes by drawing attention to frontal lobe dysfunction in populations where discourse cohesion and coherence deficits are reported and through attribution of these deficits to underlying cognitive impairments putatively associated with the frontal lobes. We examined the distinct contribution of a region of the frontal lobes, the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), to discourse cohesion and coherence across a range of discourse tasks. We found that bilateral vmPFC damage does not impair cohesion and coherence in spoken discourse. This study provides insights into the contribution of the major anatomical subdivisions of the frontal lobes to language use and furthers our understanding of the neural and cognitive underpinnings of discourse cohesion and coherence.
Orthographic influences in spoken word recognition have been previously examined in alphabetic languages. However, it is unknown whether orthographic information affects spoken word recognition in Chinese, which has a clean dissociation between orthography (O) and phonology (P). The present study investigated orthographic effects using event related potentials (ERPs) and an auditory lexical decision task. We manipulated the relationship between the phonology and orthography of the first syllable in each prime-target pair using the following four conditions: P+O+, P+O-, P-O+, P-O-. Importantly, we found significantly reduced N400 amplitudes when an item was preceded by an orthographically similar prime. In addition, these reduced N400 amplitudes were positively correlated with participants' reading skill. The findings indicate that orthographic information is activated automatically during Chinese spoken word recognition, supporting the theory that there is a reciprocal connection between speech and print.
Parkinson's disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disease, has been traditionally defined by its characteristic motor symptoms. Non-motor symptoms, including mood disorder, psychosis, sleep disturbance, autonomic dysfunction, and cognitive impairment, have being recently recognized as symptoms of PD. Cognitive impairment or dementia is one of the critical symptoms during the advanced stages of PD and is associated with increased disability and reduced quality of life of both patients and caregivers. The point prevalence of dementia in PD is about 30%, and its incidence rate in PD patients is 4-6 times higher than that in age-matched controls. The term mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has been adopted to describe the potential prodromal stage of dementia in PD, which has been gaining increasing attention. Several studies have reported the clinical features, epidemiology, biomarkers, and neuropathology of MCI in PD; however, neither the precise definitions nor the employed criteria were consistent across these studies. Recently, the Movement Disorder Society Task Force proposed new diagnostic criteria for MCI in PD to allow clinicians to identify PD patients with increased risk of dementia. Further studies are needed to validate the proposed criteria in daily clinical practice.
Histaminergic fibers are present in the molecular and granular layers of the cerebellum and have high density in the vermis and flocculus. Evidence indicates that the cerebellar vermis is involved in memory consolidation. Recently, we demonstrated that when histamine is microinjected into the cerebellar vermis it results in impaired emotional memory consolidation in mice that are submitted to the elevated plus maze (EPM). This study investigated whether histamine impairment was mediated by the H(1) or H(2) receptors. The cerebellar vermis of male mice (Swiss Albino) were implanted using a guide cannula. Three days after recovery, behavioral tests were performed in the EPM on two consecutive days (Trial 1 and Trial 2). Immediately after exposure to the EPM (Trial 1), animals received a microinjection of histaminergic drugs. In Experiment 1, saline (SAL) or histamine (HA, 4.07 nmol/0.1 l) was microinjected 5 min after pretreatment with the H(1) antagonist chlorpheniramine (CPA, 0.16 nmol/0.1l) or SAL. In Experiment 2, SAL or HA was microinjected into the mice 5 min after pretreatment with the H(2) antagonist ranitidine (RA, 2.85 nmol/0.1 l) or SAL. Twenty-four hours later, the mice were re-exposed to the EPM (Trial 2) under the same experimental conditions but did not receive an injection. On both days, the test sessions were recorded to enable analysis of the behavioral measures. The decrease in open arm exploration (% entries and % time spent in the open arms) in Trial 2 relative to Trial 1 was used as a measure of learning and memory. The data were analyzed using the two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Duncan's tests. In Experiment 1, the Duncan's test indicated that the mice entered the open arms less often (%OAE) and spent less time in the open arms (%OAT) in Trial 2 after being microinjected with SAL+SAL, SAL+CPA and CPA+HA. However, the animals that received SAL+HA did not enter the open arms less frequently or spend less time in them, which was significantly different from the CPA+HA group. The results of Experiment 2 demonstrated that the %OAE and %OAT in Trial 2 were different from Trial 1 for the groups that were microinjected with SAL+SAL and SAL+RA. The animals that were microinjected with RA+HA or with SAL+HA did not show a reduction in %OAE. These results demonstrate that the animals treated with HA did not avoid the open arms less on retesting and indicated that CPA did not alter the behavior parameters but did revert the histamine-induced impairment of memory consolidation. Furthermore, the H(2) antagonist RA, at the dose used in this study, did not affect memory consolidation and failed to revert histamine-induced impairment.
Serotonin transporter (SERT) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are key modulators of molecular signaling, cognition and behavior. Although SERT and BDNF mutant mouse phenotypes have been extensively characterized, little is known about their self-grooming behavior. Grooming represents an important behavioral domain sensitive to environmental stimuli and is increasingly used as a model for repetitive behavioral syndromes, such as autism and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder. The present study used heterozygous ((+/-)) SERT and BDNF male mutant mice on a C57BL/6J background and assessed their spontaneous self-grooming behavior applying both manual and automated techniques. Overall, SERT(+/-) mice displayed a general increase in grooming behavior, as indicated by more grooming bouts and more transitions between specific grooming stages. SERT(+/-) mice also aborted more grooming bouts, but showed generally unaltered activity levels in the observation chamber. In contrast, BDNF(+/-) mice displayed a global reduction in grooming activity, with fewer bouts and transitions between specific grooming stages, altered grooming syntax, as well as hypolocomotion and increased turning behavior. Finally, grooming data collected by manual and automated methods (HomeCageScan) significantly correlated in our experiments, confirming the utility of automated high-throughput quantification of grooming behaviors in various genetic mouse models with increased or decreased grooming phenotypes. Taken together, these findings indicate that mouse self-grooming behavior is a reliable behavioral biomarker of genetic deficits in SERT and BDNF pathways, and can be reliably measured using automated behavior-recognition technology.
Breast cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer death and morbidity among women in the western world. Pomegranate juice (PJ) and three of its specific components have been shown to inhibit processes involved in prostate cancer metastasis. If this also proves to be true for breast cancer, these natural treatments will be promising agents against breast cancer that can serve as potentially effective and nontoxic alternatives or adjuncts to the use of conventional selective estrogen receptor modulators for breast cancer prevention and treatment. To test this possibility, we have used two breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 cells (ER(-)) and MCF7 (ER(+)), and the non-neoplastic cell line MCF10A. We show that, in addition to inhibiting growth of the breast cancer cells, PJ or a combination of its components luteolin (L) + ellagic acid (E) + punicic acid (P) increase cancer cell adhesion and decrease cancer cell migration but do not affect normal cells. These treatments also inhibit chemotaxis of the cancer cells to SDF1, a chemokine that attracts breast cancer cells to the bone. We hypothesized that PJ and L + E + P stimulate expression of genes that increase adhesion and inhibit genes that stimulate cell migration and inhibit chemotaxis to SDF1. Using qPCR, we confirmed these proposed effects on gene expression and in addition we found that a gene important in epithelial-to-meshenchymal transitions is decreased. We also found that pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines are significantly reduced by these treatments, thereby having the potential to decrease inflammation and its impact on cancer progression. Discovery that PJ and L + E + P are inhibitory of metastatic processes in breast cancer cells in addition to prostate cancer cells indicate that they are potentially a very effective treatment to prevent cancer progression in general.
We cannot test animals for insight's distinctive phenomenology, the &quot;aha&quot; experience, but we can study the processes underlying insightful behaviour, classically described by Khler as sudden solution of a problem after an impasse. The central question in the study of insightful behaviour in any species is whether it is the product of a distinctive cognitive process, insight. Although some claims for insight in animals confuse it with other problem-solving processes, contemporary research on string pulling and other physical problems, primarily with birds, has uncovered new examples of insightful behaviour and shed light on the role of experience in producing it. New research suggests insightful behaviour can be captured in common laboratory tasks while brain activity is monitored, opening the way to better integration of research on animals with the cognitive neuroscience of human insight.


A characteristic component of the anti-neoplastic doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiac toxicity is the delayed and persistent toxicity, with cancer childhood survivors developing cardiac failure later in life. The mechanisms behind this persistent toxicity are unknown, although one of the consequences of early childhood treatment with DOX is a specific removal of cardiac progenitor cells. DOX treatment may be more toxic to undifferentiated muscle cells, contributing to impaired cardiac development and toxicity persistence. H9c2 myoblasts, a rat embryonic cell line, which has the ability to differentiate into a skeletal or cardiac muscle phenotype, can be instrumental in understanding DOX cytotoxicity in different differentiation stages. H9c2 cell differentiation results in decreased cell proliferation and increased expression of a differentiated muscle marker. Differentiated H9c2 cells accumulated more DOX and were more susceptible to DOX-induced cytotoxicity. Differentiated cells had increased levels of mitochondrial superoxide dismutase and Bcl-xL, an anti-apoptotic protein. Of critical importance for the mechanisms of DOX toxicity, p53 appeared to be equally activated regardless of the differentiation state. We suggest that although more differentiated H9c2 muscle cells appear to have more basal mechanisms that would predict higher protection, DOX toxicity is higher in the differentiated population. The results are instrumental in the understanding of stress responses of this specific cell line in different differentiation stages to the cardiotoxicity caused by anthracyclines.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by a CAG trinucleotide expansion in the Huntingtin (Htt) gene. When the number of CAG repeats exceeds 36, the translated polyglutamine-expanded Htt protein interferes with the normal functions of many types of cellular machinery and causes cytotoxicity. Clinical symptoms include progressive involuntary movement disorders, psychiatric signs, cognitive decline, dementia, and a shortened lifespan. The most severe brain atrophy is observed in the striatum and cortex. Besides the well-characterized neuronal defects, recent studies showed that the functions of mitochondria and several key players in energy homeostasis are abnormally regulated during HD progression. Energy dysregulation thus is now recognized as an important pathogenic pathway of HD. This review focuses on the importance of three key molecular determinants (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- coactivator-1, AMP-activated protein kinase, and creatine kinase B) of cellular energy homeostasis and their possible involvement in HD pathogenesis.

Animal research and human postmortem evidence highlight the importance of brain dopamine D3 receptor (D3R) function in multiple neuropsychiatric disorders, including addiction. Separate anatomical and functional neuroimaging findings implicate disrupted frontal cortical connectivity with distributed brain networks in processes relevant for these diseases. This potential conjunction between molecular and functional markers has not, however, been tested directly. Here, we used a novel combination of [(11)C]-(+)-PHNO positron emission tomography and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging in the same healthy individuals to investigate whether differences in midbrain D3R availability are associated with functional interactions between large-scale networks and regions involved in reward processing and cognition. High midbrain D3R availability was associated with reduced functional connectivity between orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and networks implicated in cognitive control and salience processing. The opposite pattern was observed in subcortical reward circuitry and the &quot;default mode&quot; network, which showed greater connectivity with OFC in individuals with high D3R availability. These findings demonstrate that differential interactions between OFC and networks implicated in cognitive control and reward are associated with midbrain D3R availability, consistent with the hypothesis that dopamine D3R signaling is an important molecular pathway underlying goal-directed behavior.
Music evokes complex emotions beyond pleasant/unpleasant or happy/sad dichotomies usually investigated in neuroscience. Here, we used functional neuroimaging with parametric analyses based on the intensity of felt emotions to explore a wider spectrum of affective responses reported during music listening. Positive emotions correlated with activation of left striatum and insula when high-arousing (Wonder, Joy) but right striatum and orbitofrontal cortex when low-arousing (Nostalgia, Tenderness). Irrespective of their positive/negative valence, high-arousal emotions (Tension, Power, and Joy) also correlated with activations in sensory and motor areas, whereas low-arousal categories (Peacefulness, Nostalgia, and Sadness) selectively engaged ventromedial prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. The right parahippocampal cortex activated in all but positive high-arousal conditions. Results also suggested some blends between activation patterns associated with different classes of emotions, particularly for feelings of Wonder or Transcendence. These data reveal a differentiated recruitment across emotions of networks involved in reward, memory, self-reflective, and sensorimotor processes, which may account for the unique richness of musical emotions.
Transcription factor COUP-TFII in rodents is important for migration of cortical interneurons from caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE) to the neocortex. Since in human, unlike in rodents, cortical interneurons have both ganglionic eminence (GE) and dorsal cortical origin, we studied the distribution of COUP-TFII in the human developing neocortex from 9 to 22 gestational weeks. COUP-TFII is expressed at all stages studied in the GE and in various cortical zones, from the proliferative ventricular/subventricular zone (VZ/SVZ) to layer I. Gradients of COUP-TFII expression are present in the GE, with peak expression in the CGE, and in the neocortex, from high expression in the temporal and occipital cortex to moderate in the frontal and dorsal cortex. Double immunofluorescence with -aminobutyric acid (GABA), calretinin, or calbindin, established that subpopulations of interneurons express COUP-TFII. A small fraction of COUP-TFII(+) cells are progenitor cells that proliferate in the CGE (3.4  0.3%) and in the cortical VZ/SVZ (1.7  0.1%). In summary, COUP-TFII is expressed in the human fetal forebrain in GABAergic cells, according to its possible role in migration of cortical interneurons. The source of these cells seems to be the CGE and, to a smaller extent, the cortical VZ/SVZ.
White matter (WM) tract damage was assessed in patients with the behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) and the 3 primary progressive aphasia (PPA) variants and compared with the corresponding brain atrophy patterns. Thirteen bvFTD and 20 PPA patients were studied. Tract-based spatial statistics and voxel-based morphometry were used. Patients with bvFTD showed widespread diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT MRI) abnormalities affecting most of the WM bilaterally. In PPA patients, WM damage was more focal and varied across the 3 syndromes: left frontotemporoparietal in nonfluent, left frontotemporal in semantic, and left frontoparietal in logopenic patients. In each syndrome, DT MRI changes extended beyond the topography of gray matter loss. Left uncinate damage was the best predictor of frontotemporal lobar degeneration diagnosis versus controls. DT MRI measures of the anterior corpus callosum and left superior longitudinal fasciculus differentiated bvFTD from nonfluent cases. The best predictors of semantic PPA compared with both bvFTD and nonfluent cases were diffusivity abnormalities of the left uncinate and inferior longitudinal fasciculus. This study provides insights into the similarities and differences of WM damage in bvFTD and PPA variants. DT MRI metrics hold promise to serve as early markers of WM integrity loss that only at a later stage may be detectable by volumetric measures.
Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder which is, at present, incurable. Oxidative damage and inhibition of mitochondrial function are key determinants of cellular damage in FRDA, since there is greater sensitivity to oxidative stress in cells with frataxin deficiency. In addition, frataxin-deficient cells have an impaired ability to recruit antioxidant defences against endogenous oxidative stress. We have recently shown that factors derived from bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) increase hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzymes and offer protection against hydrogen peroxide-mediated injury in cells derived from patients with FRDA. Here we extend these studies and have performed a series of experiments showing that expression of superoxide dismutase (1 and 2) enzymes is reduced in FRDA cells but can be restored by treatment with conditioned medium from human MSCs. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that exposure to factors secreted by MSCs increases resistance to nitric oxide-induced oxidative stress in FRDA fibroblasts through, at least in part, restoring the expression of the superoxide dismuting enzymes and via modulation of PI(3) kinase/Akt pathways. These findings suggest that MSCs secrete factors that improve the cellular homeostasis of cells derived from FRDA patients and provide suitable support for their enhanced survival. This study further suggests the potential therapeutic use of MSCs in patients with FRDA.
We previously reported motor and non-motor enhancements in a mouse mutant with an inactivated Purkinje cell-specific gene, Pcp2(L7), that encodes a GoLoco domain-containing modulator of Gi/o protein-coupled receptors. Effects included elevated learning asymptote with repeated rotarod training, increased acquisition rate in tone-cued fear conditioning (FC), and subtle male-specific changes in both acoustic startle habituation and pre-pulse inhibition. We have further analyzed this mutant strain this time with a focus on male-female differences, and here we report a sex-dependent anxiety-like phenotype: male mutants are less anxious, and female mutants are more anxious, than same-sex wild types. Similarly, the fear responses measured during the tone in FC acquisition are decreased in male mutants and increased in female mutants relative to same-sex wild types. Overall, the dynamics of both acquisition and extinction of FC is affected in mutants but memory was not affected. In the social realm, compositional analysis of sociability and preference for social novelty data supports that both L7 genotype and sex contribute to these behaviors. These results provide direct evidence of emotional functions of the cerebellum due to the unambiguous cerebellar specificity of Pcp2(L7) expression and the lack of any confounding motor defects in the mutant. We attempt to synthesize these new data with what is previously known both about Pcp2(L7) and about the effects of sex and sex hormones on anxiety and fear behaviors: specifically, L7 is a bidirectional and sex-dependent damper that regulates the amplitude and/or rate of sensorimotor responses, potentially acting as a mood stabilizer.



The central circadian clock of the mammalian brain resides in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. At the molecular level, the circadian clockwork of the SCN constitutes a self-sustained autoregulatory feedback mechanism reflected by the rhythmic expression of clock genes. However, recent studies have shown the presence of extrahypothalamic oscillators in other areas of the brain including the cerebellum. In the present study, the authors unravel the cerebellar molecular clock by analyzing clock gene expression in the cerebellum of the rat by use of radiochemical in situ hybridization and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The authors here show that all core clock genes, i.e., Per1, Per2, Per3, Cry1, Cry2, Clock, Arntl, and Nr1d1, as well as the clock-controlled gene Dbp, are expressed in the granular and Purkinje cell layers of the cerebellar cortex. Among these genes, Per1, Per2, Per3, Cry1, Arntl, Nr1d1, and Dbp were found to exhibit circadian rhythms in a sequential temporal manner similar to that of the SCN, but with several hours of delay. The results of lesion studies indicate that the molecular oscillatory profiles of Per1, Per2, and Cry1 in the cerebellum are controlled, though possibly indirectly, by the central clock of the SCN. These data support the presence of a circadian oscillator in the cortex of the rat cerebellum.
Circadian rhythm interactions of hemostatic factors can modify tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) effects. We assess the relationship of the time frame of intravenous tPA administration with the outcome of patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). We studied 135 consecutive patients with AIS and transcranial duplex documented middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion treated with intravenous tPA. Complete recanalization was defined as total improvement on thrombolysis in brain ischemia (TIBI) grades 2h after tPA infusion. Clinical response was evaluated by the modified Rankin scale at 90 days. We determined plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels in 33 patients with available plasma samples before treatment. Our results are follows: 92 (68.1%) patients were treated in the diurnal (9:00-21:00) and 43 (31.8%) in the nocturnal period (21:00-9:00). Complete recanalization was recorded in 52/135 (38.5%) patients. Both the rate of complete recanalization (45.6% vs. 23.2%; p=.01) and good clinical outcome (64.1% vs. 44.2%; p=.02) were significantly higher in the group of diurnal tPA administration compared with those treated in the nocturnal period. The adjusted odds ratio (OR) of diurnal tPA treatment for complete MCA recanalization was 2.37 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.02-5.52; p=.045). Diurnal tPA infusion significantly improved the overall distribution of scores on the modified Rankin scale, as compared with nocturnal treatment (OR, 2.07; 95% CI, 1.16-4.64 by ordinal regression analysis). Low PAI-1 levels were associated with complete recanalization but did not significantly differ between the two time frames. In conclusion, diurnal administration of tPA is associated with complete MCA recanalization and better functional outcome at 90 days in patients with AIS.






The topographic ambiguity and reference-dependency that has plagued EEG/ERP research throughout its history are largely attributable to volume conduction, which may be concisely described by a vector form of Ohm's Law. This biophysical relationship is common to popular algorithms that infer neuronal generators via inverse solutions. It may be further simplified as Poisson's source equation, which identifies underlying current generators from estimates of the second spatial derivative of the field potential (Laplacian transformation). Intracranial current source density (CSD) studies have dissected the &quot;cortical dipole&quot; into intracortical sources and sinks, corresponding to physiologically-meaningful patterns of neuronal activity at a sublaminar resolution, much of which is locally cancelled (i.e., closed field). By virtue of the macroscopic scale of the scalp-recorded EEG, a surface Laplacian reflects the radial projections of these underlying currents, representing a unique, unambiguous measure of neuronal activity at scalp. Although the surface Laplacian requires minimal assumptions compared to complex, model-sensitive inverses, the resulting waveform topographies faithfully summarize and simplify essential constraints that must be placed on putative generators of a scalp potential topography, even if they arise from deep or partially-closed fields. CSD methods thereby provide a global empirical and biophysical context for generator localization, spanning scales from intracortical to scalp recordings.

Regulation of gene expression is considered a plausible mechanism of drug addiction given the stability of behavioral abnormalities that define an addicted state. Numerous transcription factors, proteins that bind to regulatory regions of specific genes and thereby control levels of their expression, have been implicated in the addiction process over the past decade or two. Here we review the growing evidence for the role played by several prominent transcription factors, including a Fos family protein (FosB), cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), and nuclear factor kappa B (NFB), among several others, in drug addiction. As will be seen, each factor displays very different regulation by drugs of abuse within the brain's reward circuitry, and in turn mediates distinct aspects of the addiction phenotype. Current efforts are geared toward understanding the range of target genes through which these transcription factors produce their functional effects and the underlying molecular mechanisms involved. This work promises to reveal fundamentally new insight into the molecular basis of addiction, which will contribute to improved diagnostic tests and therapeutics for addictive disorders.


Although a role for right hemisphere dysfunction has been hypothesized in Cotard delusion, it remains unclear which functions are disturbed. We report here the first known patient with unilateral right hemisphere lesions and delusions of death (1 of the 2 types of Cotard delusion). This man began to believe that he was dead after suffering a right hemisphere infarction involving the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes, as well as the thalamus. He had delusions of death in the context of both depersonalization/derealization and delusional misidentifications of people and places. Neuropsychological testing revealed left hemispatial neglect and deficits in general attention. The patient's sense of body ownership and face recognition abilities were preserved. This case suggests that abnormal feelings of familiarity, which have been implicated in several delusional misidentification syndromes, contribute significantly to the development of delusions of death. If this is true, affective processes involved in the identification of people and places and in the feeling of being alive may partially overlap, and these affective processes may be supported by the right hemisphere.
Earlier research has revealed implicit avoidance of social stimuli in social anxiety (SA). This study investigated such reactions in anticipation of social interaction. High (n=24) and low (n=22) SA females were assessed in anticipation of a getting-acquainted conversation (anticipation) and in a no-conversation-expected (neutral) condition. The Face-Turn Approach Avoidance Task was used in which participants responded to profiles of human faces or control stimuli by either pulling (approach) or pushing (avoidance) a joystick. Upon pulling, the stimuli turned toward the participant, while they turned away upon pushing. The results demonstrated the expected decreased approach response to faces in the neutral condition for the high SAs compared to the low SAs group. Unexpectedly, in the anticipation condition the high SAs showed increased approach tendencies to faces whereas, the low SAs demonstrated a decreased approach response. The implicit social approach response of the high SAs in the anticipation condition is discussed.
Numerous studies have attributed the face inversion effect (FIE) to configural processing of internal facial features in upright but not inverted faces. Recent findings suggest that face mechanisms can be activated by faceless stimuli presented in the context of a body. Here we asked whether faceless stimuli with or without body context may induce an inversion effect as large as the FIE. In Study 1 participants performed a sequential matching task for upright and inverted faces, faceless heads with full, minimal or no body context, headless bodies and bodies viewed from the back. Results show inversion effects as large as the FIE for faceless heads with full or minimal body context, but not for faceless heads without body context, headless bodies or bodies viewed from the back. These findings remarkably show that in contrast to the well-established configural explanation for the FIE, the FIE does not necessarily depend on the processing of internal facial features, but can be also triggered for faceless stimuli presented in body context. In Study 2 participants rated the extent to which they detected a face in stimuli presented with or without faces briefly followed by a mask. We found that faceless stimuli that generated a large inversion effect were rated higher for the existence of a face than faceless stimuli that generated small or no inversion effects. These findings further suggest that the FIE can be generated by a contextually induced face percept at the face detection stage rather than the face identification stage.
Mathematics shares with language an essential reliance on the human capacity for recursion, permitting the generation of an infinite range of embedded expressions from a finite set of symbols. We studied the role of syntax in arithmetic thinking, a neglected component of numerical cognition, by examining eye movement sequences during the calculation of arithmetic expressions. Specifically, we investigated whether, similar to language, an expression has to be scanned sequentially while the nested syntactic structure is being computed or, alternatively, whether this structure can be extracted quickly and in parallel. Our data provide evidence for the latter: fixations sequences were stereotypically organized in clusters that reflected a fast identification of syntactic embeddings. A syntactically relevant pattern of eye movement was observed even when syntax was defined by implicit procedural rules (precedence of multiplication over addition) rather than explicit parentheses. While the total number of fixations was determined by syntax, the duration of each fixation varied with the complexity of the arithmetic operation at each step. These findings provide strong evidence for a syntactic organization for arithmetic thinking, paving the way for further comparative analysis of differences and coincidences in the instantiation of recursion in language and mathematics.
Sense of agency refers to the feeling of controlling one's own actions, and, through these actions, events in the outside world. Sense of agency is widely held to involve a retrospective inference based on matching actual effects of an action with its expected effects. We hypothesise a second, prospective aspect of sense of agency, reflecting the fluency of action selection, based on results from subliminal priming of actions. When people responded to a target that was compatible with a preceding subliminal prime, they felt stronger sense of control over a subsequent colour effect than when the preceding prime was incompatible. Importantly, compatible and incompatible primes had the same predictive statistical relation to the colour effect. We next investigated whether differences in sense of control could be based on monitoring motor performance. By varying the timings of mask and target, we compared sense of control between a Positive Compatibility condition, where compatible primes facilitated performance, and a Negative Compatibility condition, where compatible primes impaired performance. We found that compatible priming again enhanced sense of control, irrespective of its effects on performance. We present a simple model of the prospective aspect of sense of agency, in which early signals reflecting action selection processing make a direct, experiential contribution to sense of control. Sense of agency may be partly based on an experience-based 'feeling of doing', analogous to the metacognitive 'feeling of knowing'.
Three embryonic tissue sources-the neural ectoderm, the surface ectoderm, and the periocular mesenchyme-contribute to the formation of the mammalian eye. For this reason, the developing eye has presented an invaluable system for studying the interactions among cells and, more recently, genes, in specifying cell fate. This article describes how the eye primordium is specified in the anterior neural plate by four eye field transcription factors and how the optic vesicle becomes regionalized into three distinct tissue types. Specific attention is given to how cross talk between the optic vesicle and surface ectoderm contributes to lens and optic cup formation. This article also describes how signaling networks and cell movements set up axes in the optic cup and establish the multiple cell fates important for vision. How multipotent retinal progenitor cells give rise to the six neuronal and one glial cell type in the mature retina is also explained. Finally, the history and progress of cellular therapeutics for the treatment of degenerative eye disease is outlined. Throughout this article, special attention is given to how disruption of gene function causes ocular malformation in humans. Indeed, the accessibility of the eye has contributed much to our understanding of the basic processes involved in mammalian development.
The &quot;basal ganglia&quot; refers to a group of subcortical nuclei responsible primarily for motor control, as well as other roles such as motor learning, executive functions and behaviors, and emotions. Proposed more than two decades ago, the classical basal ganglia model shows how information flows through the basal ganglia back to the cortex through two pathways with opposing effects for the proper execution of movement. Although much of the model has remained, the model has been modified and amplified with the emergence of new data. Furthermore, parallel circuits subserve the other functions of the basal ganglia engaging associative and limbic territories. Disruption of the basal ganglia network forms the basis for several movement disorders. This article provides a comprehensive account of basal ganglia functional anatomy and chemistry and the major pathophysiological changes underlying disorders of movement. We try to answer three key questions related to the basal ganglia, as follows: What are the basal ganglia? What are they made of? How do they work? Some insight on the canonical basal ganglia model is provided, together with a selection of paradoxes and some views over the horizon in the field.
More than 70% of adolescents report to have smoked a cigarette at least once. At the adolescent stage the brain has not completed its maturation. The prefrontal cortex (PFC), the brain area responsible for executive functions and attention performance, is one of the last brain areas to mature and is still developing during adolescence. Smoking during adolescence increases the risk of developing psychiatric disorders and cognitive impairment in later life. In addition, adolescent smokers suffer from attention deficits, which aggravate with the years of smoking. Recent studies in rodents reveal the molecular changes induced by adolescent nicotine exposure that alter the functioning of synapses in the PFC and that underlie the lasting effects on cognitive function. Here we provide an overview of these recent findings.
Traditionally, recovered memories of childhood sexual abuse (CSA) have been classified as those emerging spontaneously versus those surfacing during the course of suggestive therapy. There are indications that reinterpretation of memories might be a third route to recovered memories. Thus, recovered memories do not form a homogeneous category. Nevertheless, the conceptual distinctions between the various types of recovered memories remain difficult for researchers and clinicians. With this in mind, the current study explored whether recovered memories can be reliably classified. We found that classification is rather problematic in a subset of cases. To reduce potential bias, we urge for the development and subsequent use of a more reliable classification system and multiple expert raters in research on recovered memories.



Rural trauma during winter months in Alaska requires a coordinated highly skilled approach for rescue, recovery, resuscitation, and transport to distant tertiary care centers. Clinicians in this state face travel delays, extreme weather conditions, and unique transport scenarios. Early assessment and resuscitation may focus more on minimizing delays than on the traditional ABCs of emergency medicine. Clinical evaluation and treatment is also impacted by subzero temperatures, hypothermia, and prolonged exposure. Mechanical and equipment malfunctions can complicate decisions and further add to the challenges faced by medical teams who respond and deliver care in the vast wilderness of this state.

Pre-neoplastic lesions (ACF, aberrant-crypt-foci; Hp, hyperplastic/dysplastic polyps) are believed to be precursors of sporadic colorectal-tumors (Ad, adenomas; AdCA, adenocarcinomas). ACF/Hp likely originate due to abnormal growth of colonic-crypts in response to aberrant queues in the microenvironment of colonic-crypts. Thus identifying factors which regulate homeostatic vs aberrant proliferation/apoptosis of colonocytes, especially stem/progenitor cells, may lead to effective preventative/treatment strategies. Based on this philosophy, role of growth-factors/peptide-hormones, potentially available in the circulation/microenvironment of colonic-crypts is being examined extensively. Since the time gastrins were discovered as trophic (growth) factors for gastrointestinal-cells, the effect of gastrins on the growth of normal/cancer cells has been investigated, leading to many discoveries. Seminal discoveries made in the area of gastrins and colon-cancer, as it relates to molecular pathways associated with formation of colonic tumors will be reviewed, and possible impact on diagnostic/preventative/treatment strategies will be discussed.
The olfactory system is unique in many respects-two of which include the process of adult neurogenesis which continually supplies it with newborn neurons, and the fact that neurodegenerative diseases are often accompanied by a loss of smell. A link between these two phenomena has been hypothesized, but recent evidence for the lack of robust adult neurogenesis in the human olfactory system calls into question this hypothesis. Nevertheless, model organisms continue to play a critical role in the exploration of neurodegenerative disease. In part one of this review we discuss the most promising recent technological advancements for studying adult neurogenesis in the murine olfactory system. Part two continues by looking at emerging evidence related to adult neurogenesis in neurodegenerative disease studied in model organisms and the differences between animal and human olfactory system adult neurogenesis. Hopefully, the careful application of advanced research methods to the study of neurodegenerative disease in model organisms, while taking into account the recently reported differences between the human and model organism olfactory system, will lead to a better understanding of the reasons for the susceptibility of olfaction to disease.
Behet's syndrome is an autoinflammatory disease of uncertain cause characterized by mucous membrane ulceration, arthritis and inflammation within most tissues. Its prevalence differs throughout different populations, but neurological complications arise in 10% of all those affected. The majority develop inflammation within the central nervous system which may remit but may also progressively worsen without treatment. This article reviews the epidemiology, clinical characteristics, natural history and management of the disorders, and emphasizes recent considerable advances in our understanding of the various treatments which may be beneficial across the spectrum of disease types.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a genetic multiple organ system disorder that is characterized by the development of tumor-like lesions (hamartomas) and neurodevelopmental disorders. Mutations in the TSC1 and TSC2 tumor suppressor genes occur in the majority of patients with TSC, resulting in hyperactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway and subsequent abnormalities in numerous cell processes. As a result, mTOR inhibitors such as sirolimus and everolimus have the potential to provide targeted therapy for patients with TSC. Everolimus is the first mTOR inhibitor approved as a treatment option in the USA and in Europe for patients with subependymal giant-cell astrocytomas (SEGAs) associated with TSC. The clinical evidence to date supports the use of mTOR inhibitors in a variety of TSC-associated disease manifestations, including SEGAs, renal angiomyolipoma, skin manifestations, and epilepsy. Furthermore, ongoing clinical trials evaluating mTOR inhibitors in TSC are underway, and the results of these studies are expected to provide further evidence that will firmly establish their role in this setting. This article will discuss the role of the mTOR pathway in TSC and review the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, clinical efficacy, and tolerability of mTOR inhibitors, along with their current place in clinical practice.
Brain research is the most expanding interdisciplinary research that is using the state of the art techniques to overcome limitations in order to conduct more accurate and effective experiments. Drug delivery to the target site in the central nervous system (CNS) is one of the most difficult steps in neuroscience researches and therapies. Taking advantage of the nanoscale structure of neural cells (both neurons and glia); nanodrug delivery (second generation of biotechnological products) has a potential revolutionary impact into the basic understanding, visualization and therapeutic applications of neuroscience. Current review article firstly provides an overview of preparation and characterization, purification and separation, loading and delivering of nanodrugs. Different types of nanoparticle bioproducts and a number of methods for their fabrication and delivery systems including (carbon) nanotubes are explained. In the second part, neuroscience and nervous system drugs are deeply investigated. Different mechanisms in which nanoparticles enhance the uptake and clearance of molecules form cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are discussed. The focus is on nanodrugs that are being used or have potential to improve neural researches, diagnosis and therapy of neurodegenerative disorders.
A considerable amount of evidence shows that reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the mammalian brain are directly responsible for cell and tissue function and dysfunction. Excessive reactive oxygen species contribute to various conditions including inflammation, diabetes mellitus, neurodegenerative diseases, tumor formation, and mental disorders such as depression. Increased intracellular calcium levels have toxic roles leading to cell death. However, the exact connection between reactive oxygen production and high calcium stress is not yet fully understood. In this review, we focus on the role of reactive oxygen species and calcium stress in hypothalamic arcuate neurons controlling feeding. We revisit the role of NPY and POMC neurons in the regulation of appetite and energy homeostasis, and consider how ROS and intracellular calcium levels affect these neurons. These novel insights give a new direction to research on hypothalamic mechanisms regulating energy homeostasis and may offer novel treatment strategies for obesity and type-2 diabetes.
Smell is perhaps the most subjective of the human senses, making odors difficult to measure and define. In everyday language, in the philosophy of aesthetics, and in the lab, this low opinion of odors means that smells are often characterized simply along an axis of good or bad. Odors and the ways they are perceived, however, are varied and incredibly complex, requiring an understanding of chemistry, neuroscience, aesthetics, and social science. Science and art that engage the sense of smell have the potential to expand our understanding of how biology and chemistry interact.

In this review, I briefly summarize current neurobiological studies of decision-making that bear on two general themes. The first focuses on the nature of neural representation and dynamics in a decision circuit. Experimental and computational results suggest that ramping-to-threshold in the temporal domain and trajectory of population activity in the state space represent a duality of perspectives on a decision process. Moreover, a decision circuit can display several different dynamical regimes, such as the ramping mode and the jumping mode with distinct defining properties. The second is concerned with the relationship between biologically-based mechanistic models and normative-type models. A fruitful interplay between experiments and these models at different levels of abstraction have enabled investigators to pose increasingly refined questions and gain new insights into the neural basis of decision-making. In particular, recent work on multi-alternative decisions suggests that deviations from rational models of choice behavior can be explained by established neural mechanisms.
The reward prediction error (RPE) theory of dopamine (DA) function has enjoyed great success in the neuroscience of learning and decision-making. This theory is derived from model-free reinforcement learning (RL), in which choices are made simply on the basis of previously realized rewards. Recently, attention has turned to correlates of more flexible, albeit computationally complex, model-based methods in the brain. These methods are distinguished from model-free learning by their evaluation of candidate actions using expected future outcomes according to a world model. Puzzlingly, signatures from these computations seem to be pervasive in the very same regions previously thought to support model-free learning. Here, we review recent behavioral and neural evidence about these two systems, in attempt to reconcile their enigmatic cohabitation in the brain.
Willed actions are characterized by the subjective experience of 'conscious intention'. During the last decade the neural bases of this experience have been widely investigated. Previous findings have suggested that conscious intention emerges in the mesial precentral area (MPA) including the supplementary and pre-supplementary motor area. However, this assumption was later challenged by evidence indicating a key contribution of the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) in this process. In this review we show that this second hypothesis is the most plausible. We provide behavioral, clinical and electrophysiological evidence that IPL, rather than MPA, mediates the early subjective experience of 'wanting to move'. We argue that MPA generates a feeling of 'motor urge', near movement onset, when the inhibitory control exerted on the low-level motor areas is released. We propose that goal directed actions trigger two forms of motor intention: the first, 'wanting to move' intention is under the control of the inferior parietal regions and specifies a general goal to be reached before movement planning; the second, the 'urge to move' intention, is controlled by mesial precentral areas and signals the time when the planned movement is about to start. The time locked activation of these two forms of intention is at the basis of movement control.
A neuroethological approach to decision-making considers the effect of evolutionary pressures on neural circuits mediating choice. In this view, decision systems are expected to enhance fitness with respect to the local environment, and particularly efficient solutions to specific problems should be conserved, expanded, and repurposed to solve other problems. Here, we discuss basic prerequisites for a variety of decision systems from this viewpoint. We focus on two of the best-studied and most widely represented decision problems. First, we examine patch leaving, a prototype of environmentally based switching between action patterns. Second, we consider social information seeking, a process resembling foraging with search costs. We argue that while the specific neural solutions to these problems sometimes differ across species, both the problems themselves and the algorithms instantiated by biological hardware are repeated widely throughout nature. The behavioral and mathematical study of ubiquitous decision processes like patch leaving and social information seeking thus provides a powerful new approach to uncovering the fundamental design structure of nervous systems.
The stop-signal task probes agents' ability to inhibit responding. A well-known race model affords estimation of the duration of the inhibition process. This powerful approach has yielded numerous insights into the neural circuitry underlying response control, the specificity of inhibition across effectors and response strategies, and executive processes such as performance monitoring. Translational research between human and non-human primates has been particularly useful in this venture. Continued progress with the stop-signal paradigm is contingent upon appreciating the dynamics of entire cortical and subcortical neural circuits and obtaining neurophysiological data from each node in the circuit. Progress can also be anticipated on extensions of the race model to account for selective stopping; we expect this will entail embedding behavioral inhibition in the broader context of executive control.
Over the past decade, neuroeconomics studies utilizing neurophysiology methods (fMRI or EEG) have flourished, revealing the neural basis of 'boundedly rational' or 'irrational' decision-making that violates normative theory. The next question is how modulatory neurotransmission is involved in these central processes. Here I focused on recent efforts to understand how central monoamine transmission is related to nonlinear probability weighting and loss aversion, central features of prospect theory, which is a leading alternative to normative theory for decision-making under risk. Circumstantial evidence suggests that dopamine tone might be related to distortion of subjective reward probability and noradrenaline and serotonin tone might influence aversive emotional reaction to potential loss.
This review considers recent work in neuroscience that has been thought to challenge views of free will. I argue that these experiments do little to directly undermine the belief that we have free will. However, evidence for mechanism and automatic behaviors may cause us to rethink some commonsensical notions of what is required for acting freely.
Reinforcement learning (RL) has become a dominant computational paradigm for modeling psychological and neural aspects of affectively charged decision-making tasks. RL is normally construed in terms of the interaction between a subject and its environment, with the former emitting actions, and the latter providing stimuli, and appetitive and aversive reinforcement. However, there is recent emphasis on redrawing the boundary between the two, with the organism constructing its own notion of reward, punishment and state, and with internal actions, such as the gating of working memory, being treated on an equal footing with external manipulation of the environment. We review recent work in this area, focusing on cognitive control.
The hierarchical structure of human and animal behavior has been of critical interest in neuroscience for many years. Yet understanding the neural processes that give rise to such structure remains an open challenge. In recent research, a new perspective on hierarchical behavior has begun to take shape, inspired by ideas from machine learning, and in particular the framework of hierarchical reinforcement learning. Hierarchical reinforcement learning builds on traditional reinforcement learning mechanisms, extending them to accommodate temporally extended behaviors or subroutines. The resulting computational paradigm has begun to influence both theoretical and empirical work in neuroscience, conceptually aligning the study of hierarchical behavior with research on other aspects of learning and decision making, and giving rise to some thought-provoking new findings.




Arthritis pain is a complex phenomenon involving intricate neurophysiological processing at all levels of the pain pathway. The treatment options available to alleviate joint pain are fairly limited and most arthritis patients report only modest pain relief with current treatments. A better understanding of the neural mechanisms responsible for musculoskeletal pain and the identification of new targets will help in the development of future pharmacological therapies. This article reviews some of the latest research into factors which contribute to joint pain and covers areas such as cannabinoids, proteinase activated receptors, sodium channels, cytokines and transient receptor potential channels. The emerging hypothesis that osteoarthritis may have a neuropathic component is also discussed.
While pharmacotherapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) and tricyclic antidepressants comprises the traditional treatment of tension-type headaches (TTH), the use of other therapeutic approaches in combination with medications can increase the success of treatment. Patients with comorbid mood disorders and frequent headaches may particularly benefit from some nonpharmacologic approaches. This review focuses on complementary and alternative approaches to tension-type headache treatment, including psychological therapies, acupuncture, and physical treatments. The current evidence indicates that EMG biofeedback (BFB) is effective in the treatment of TTH, and cognitive behavioral therapy and relaxation training may also be beneficial. Physical therapy and acupuncture may be considered in patients with frequent TTH, but the scientific basis is limited.
Detailed in this unit are protocols for studying the effects of externally and internally applied agents on the behavior of ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs), specifically the GABA(A) receptor. These assays include a number of electrophysiological techniques applied to whole-cell and excised patch recordings of recombinant and native GABA(A) receptor subtypes used in the generation and analysis of a pharmacological data. Although applied to GABA(A) receptors, these techniques are equally applicable to other LGICs. The analysis is extended to incorporate consideration of post-synaptic inhibitory events. In addition, complementary descriptions of how tissues for such studies are prepared for studying recombinant and native receptors are included.
Psychotic depression is an identified subtype of major depression that has many features of a distinct psychiatric disorder. Recent studies support previous findings that psychotic depression is associated with a less favorable course of illness. Moreover, the presence of a single psychotic symptom appears to predict decreased responsiveness to antidepressant monotherapy. Recent studies also support biological differences between psychotic and non-psychotic depression. Previous findings of greater HPA axis dysregulation are supported by evidence of diminished cortisol suppression with the mineralocorticoid antagonist fludrocortisone in psychotic depression. Moreover, a functional neuroimaging study demonstrated greater activation in parahippocampal and tempoparietal regions in psychotic depression during a memory task. In support of several previous treatment studies, a recent meta-analysis of studies that compared an antidepressant-antipsychotic combination to antidepressants or antipsychotics alone found a therapeutic advantage with the combined treatment over monotherapy. A recent clinical trial suggests that mifepristone, a glucocorticoid antagonist, may be an effective adjunctive treatment for psychotic depression.

One of the key aspects of neuronal differentiation is the array of neurotransmitters and neurotransmitter receptors that each neuron possesses. One important goal of developmental neuroscience is to understand how these differentiated properties are established during development. In this paper, we use fluorescence activated cell sorting and RNA-seq to determine the transcriptome of the Drosophila CNS midline cells, which consist of a small number of well-characterized neurons and glia. These data revealed that midline cells express 9 neuropeptide precursor genes, 13 neuropeptide receptor genes, and 31 small-molecule neurotransmitter receptor genes. In situ hybridization and high-resolution confocal analyses were carried-out to determine the midline cell identity for these neuropeptides and the neuropeptide receptors. The results revealed a surprising level of diversity. Neuropeptide genes are expressed in a variety of midline cell types, including motoneurons, GABAergic interneurons, and midline glia. These data revealed previously unknown functional differences among the highly-related iVUM neurons. There also exist segmental differences in expression for the same neuronal sub-type. Similar experiments on midline-expressed neuropeptide receptor genes reveal considerable diversity in synaptic inputs. Multiple receptor types were expressed in midline interneurons and motoneurons, and, in one case, link feeding behavior to gut peristalsis and locomotion. There were also segmental differences, variations between the 3 iVUMs, and three hormone receptor genes were broadly expressed in most midline cells. The Drosophila Castor transcription factor is present at high levels in iVUM5, which is both GABAergic and expresses the short neuropeptide F precursor gene. Genetic and misexpression experiments indicated that castor specifically controls expression of the short neuropeptide F precursor gene, but does not affect iVUM cell fate or expression of Gad1. This indicates a novel function for castor in regulating neuropeptide gene expression.
Neural crest (NC) cells originate from the neural folds and migrate into the various embryonic regions where they differentiate into multiple cell types. A population of cephalic neural crest-derived cells (NCDCs) penetrates back into the developing forebrain to differentiate into microvascular pericytes, but little is known about when and how cephalic NCDCs invade the telencephalon and differentiate into pericytes. Using a transgenic mouse line in which NCDCs are genetically labeled with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), we observed that NCDCs started to invade the telencephalon together with endothelial cells from embryonic day (E) 9.5. A majority of NCDCs located in the telencephalon expressed pericyte markers, that is, PDGFR and NG2, and differentiated into pericytes around E11.5. Surprisingly, many of the NC-derived pericytes express p75, an undifferentiated NCDC marker at E11.5, as well as NCDCs in the mesenchyme. At the same time, a minor population of NCDCs that located separately from blood vessels in the telencephalon were NG2-negative and some of these NCDCs also expressed p75. Proliferation and differentiation of pericytes appeared to occur in a specific mesenchymal region where blood vessels penetrated into the telencephalon. These results indicate that (i) NCDCs penetrate back into the telencephalon in parallel with angiogenesis, (ii) many NC-derived pericytes may be still in pre-mature states even though after differentiation into pericytes in the early developing stages, (iii) a small minority of NCDCs may retain undifferentiated states in the developing telencephalon, and (iv) a majority of NCDCs proliferate and differentiate into pericytes in the mesenchyme around the telencephalon.

In childhood, central nervous system (CNS) presentations associated with antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channel (VGKC) complex include limbic encephalitis, status epilepticus, epileptic encephalopathy, and autistic regression. We report the cases of two individuals (a 6-year-old male and an 11-year-old female) who presented with an acute-onset explosive seizure disorder with positive VGKC complex antibodies and bilateral basal ganglia changes on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Both patients made a complete clinical recovery, without immunotherapy, with resolution of the MRI changes and normalization of the antibody levels. Extended antibody testing, including testing for leucine-rich glioma-inactivated 1 (LGI1), contactin-associated protein 2, and contactin-2 was negative. This could suggest that the clinico-radiological phenotype in our patients may in fact be associated with a novel autoreactive target(s) within the VGKC complex, as may be the case in other children with VGKC complex-mediated CNS disorders.
The development of separation response behaviors in infant rhesus macaques across the first 6 months of life was assessed. Seventeen infants underwent a neonatal assessment at 7, 14, 21, and 30 days of age which included a brief period of social isolation. At 3 and 6 months of age these same monkeys and four additional subjects were again subjected to a period of brief social isolation and also exposed to a novel environment with their sedated mother. Results indicate a developmental increase followed by a steady decline in the frequency of separation vocalizations. A modest relationship between early-infancy locomotor profiles and separation responses was also observed at several time points suggesting a possible relationship between these measures. However, stable inter-individual measures of separation distress did not emerge until late in the infantile period. This could suggest that high levels of maternal contact-seeking behavior early in infancy are context specific and not a reliable index of enduring temperament.
Stereotypic behavior in captive animals has been hypothesized to emerge from thwarted natural behavior patterns and is thought to be more common in captive-reared animals. However, data on the early stages of developing stereotypies are currently scarce. We compared the development of stereotypic route-tracing and somersaulting in hand-reared and wild-caught starlings placed in individual cages for the first time. We found that wild-caught birds were less active but showed more escape motivation and more evidence of route-tracing behavior. Furthermore, somersaulting was only observed in wild-caught birds. Development of somersaulting was predicted by subtle differences in behavior during the first few days in cages and developed in individuals with low levels of route-tracing behavior. Our data suggest a role for escape motivation in the development of starling stereotypies and additionally that route-tracing and somersaulting may represent alternative outlets for thwarted escape. In contrast to observations from mammals, our results show that stereotypies are more common in wild-caught starlings.
In vertebrates, establishment of the hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) pool involves mobilization of these cells in successive developmental hematopoietic niches. In zebrafish, HSPCs originate from the ventral wall of the dorsal aorta (VDA), the equivalent of the mammalian aorta-gonad-mesonephros (AGM). The HSPCs subsequently migrate to the caudal hematopoietic tissue (CHT) for transitory expansion and differentiation during the larval stage, and they finally colonize the kidney, where hematopoiesis takes place in adult fish. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a zebrafish mutant, tango(hkz5), which shows defects of definitive hematopoiesis. In tango(hkz5) mutants, HSPCs initiate normally in the AGM and subsequently colonize the CHT. However, definitive hematopoiesis is not sustained in the CHT owing to accelerated apoptosis and diminished proliferation of HSPCs. Positional cloning reveals that tango(hkz5) encodes SUMO1-activating enzyme subunit 1 (Sae1). A chimera generation experiment and biochemistry analysis reveal that sae1 is cell-autonomously required for definitive hematopoiesis and that the tango(hkz5) mutation produces a truncated Sae1 protein (Sae1), resulting in systemic reduction of sumoylation. Our findings demonstrate that sae1 is essential for the maintenance of HSPCs during fetal hematopoiesis in zebrafish.
Recruitment of activated immune cells into white adipose tissue (WAT) is linked to the development of insulin resistance and obesity, but the mechanism behind this is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that Y1 receptor signaling in immune cells controls inflammation and insulin resistance in obesity. Selective deletion of Y1 receptors in the hematopoietic compartment of mice leads to insulin resistance and inflammation in WAT under high fat-fed conditions. This is accompanied by decreased mRNA expression of the anti-inflammatory marker adiponectin in WAT and an increase of the proinflammatory monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1). In vitro, activated Y1-deficient intraperitoneal macrophages display an increased inflammatory response, with exacerbated secretion of MCP-1 and tumor necrosis factor, whereas addition of neuropeptide Y to wild-type macrophages attenuates the release of these cytokines, this effect being blocked by Y1 but not Y2 receptor antagonism. Importantly, treatment of adipocytes with the supernatant of activated Y1-deficient macrophages causes insulin resistance, as demonstrated by decreased insulin-induced phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and Akt as well as decreased expression of insulin receptor substrate 1. Thus, Y1 signaling in hematopoietic-derived cells such as macrophages is critical for the control of inflammation and insulin resistance in obesity.
Time estimation, within a range of seconds, involves cognitive functions which depend on multiple brain regions. Here we report on studies investigating the reproduction and production of three durations (5, 14, and 38 seconds) in four groups of patients. The amnesic patient underproduced the length of the long durations because of episodic memory deficit following bilateral medial temporal lesions. Epileptic patients (n = 9) with right medial temporal lobe resections underproduced the three durations because of a distorted representation of time in long-term memory. Traumatic brain injury patients (n = 15) made more variable duration productions and reproductions because of working memory deficits following frontal-lobe dysfunction. Patients with Parkinson's disease (n = 18) overproduced the short duration and underproduced the long duration because of a possible increase in internal clock speed following levodopa treatment, as well as working memory deficits associated with frontal-lobe damage. Further research, in neurological and psychiatric patients, is required to better understand the underlying mechanisms of time estimation.
Chronotherapeutics refers to treatments based on the principles of circadian rhythm organization and sleep physiology, which control the exposure to environmental stimuli that act on biological rhythms, in order to achieve therapeutic effects in the treatment of psychiatric conditions. It includes manipulations of the sleep-wake cycle such as sleep deprivation and sleep phase advance, and controlled exposure to light and dark. The antidepressant effects of chronotherapeutics are evident in difficult-to-treat conditions such as bipolar depression, which has been associated with extremely low success rates of antidepressant drugs in naturalistic settings and with stable antidepressant response to chronotherapeutics in more than half of the patients. Recent advances in the study of the effects of chronotherapeutics on neurotransmitter systems, and on the biological clock machinery, allow us to pinpoint its mechanism of action and to transform it from a neglected or &quot;orphan&quot; treatment to a powerful clinical instrument in everyday psychiatric practice.
The perpetual activity of the cerebral cortex is largely supported by the variety of oscillations the brain generates, spanning a number of frequencies and anatomical locations, as well as behavioral correlates. First, we review findings from animal studies showing that most forms of brain rhythms are inhibition-based, producing rhythmic volleys of inhibitory inputs to principal cell populations, thereby providing alternating temporal windows of relatively reduced and enhanced excitability in neuronal networks. These inhibition-based mechanisms offer natural temporal frames to group or &quot;chunk&quot; neuronal activity into cell assemblies and sequences of assemblies, with more complex multi-oscillation interactions creating syntactical rules for the effective exchange of information among cortical networks. We then review recent studies in human psychiatric patients demonstrating a variety alterations in neural oscillations across all major psychiatric diseases, and suggest possible future research directions and treatment approaches based on the fundamental properties of brain rhythms.
Currently available therapeutic agents for treatment of schizophrenia target signaling by monoaminergic neurotransmitters; however, these treatments do not adequately treat the range of symptoms observed in patients. While these therapies treat the positive symptoms, they do not have efficacy in treating the negative symptoms and cognitive deficits that are associated with the disease. Evidence suggests that molecules that modulate signaling by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) could provide a more comprehensive treatment of schizophrenia than currently prescribed antipsychotics. Molecules that broadly increase ACh-signaling have been demonstrated to have efficacy in treating numerous symptom clusters in schizophrenia patients. Unfortunately, these compounds induce adverse effects via activation of peripheral receptors that limit their clinical utility. One proposed strategy for retaining the efficacy of cholinergic treatments, without the adverse effects, is to target specific cholinergic receptor subtypes in the brain. Several cholinergic receptors are able to modulate brain circuits that are dysregulated in schizophrenia patients including receptors belonging to both the muscarinic family (i.e., M1, M4, and M5), and the nicotinic family (i.e., 7, 42). Recently, great strides have been made in developing small molecules with high specificity for these receptors, and several of these novel molecules have robust efficacy in several preclinical models predictive of both anti-psychotic and pro-cognitive effectiveness. Promising studies suggest that targeting M1 and 7 may be beneficial for pro-cognitive effects, while molecules that target M4 may be ideally suited to address the positive symptoms. Since these receptor subtypes are distinct from those responsible for the adverse effects observed with non-selective cholinergic treatments, there is hope that molecules targeting these receptors could provide novel therapeutics. Further research is needed to examine the utility of such compounds as therapeutics that could be used either alone, or in combination with existing medications, to better treat schizophrenia.
OBJECTIVE. Violence in psychiatric wards results in serious consequences and there is need for research to assess it in various settings to enable improvements in safety within psychiatric facilities. This study aimed to assess the inpatient violence from victims' perspective, in settings where family members accompanied patients during inpatient stay and played a significant role in caregiving. METHODS. A total of 100 consecutive incidents of inpatient violence were examined. Family members present at the time of the incident were interviewed to assess putative causes and behaviour prior to the incident. RESULTS. Bipolar spectrum disorder was the most common diagnosis. Family members were the targets of violence in 70% of the incidents and 81% were provoked episodes. Also, 76% of the patients were identified by family member to be irritable just prior to the episode. As preventive measures, family members suggested a need for more staff, more sedation, and improved communication. CONCLUSIONS. The capability of family members to identify behaviour patterns of patients prior to the episode might help decrease the severity and consequence of violence. It is essential to provide culture-specific interventions to the family, which could enable them in handling violence and give better care for the patient.
The second 'Single Molecule Localization Microscopy' symposium was held in August 2012 at the cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne in Switzerland. During two and a half days, around 100 researchers from across the globe, and in disciplines spanning physics, biology, chemistry and computer science, gathered to discuss the developments in single-molecule super-resolution imaging and its applications to address important biological questions.
Bipolar disorder is a complex pathology which has a strong heritability component. Epidemiologic studies have pinpointed the contribution of genetic factors to the heritability component. The molecular studies, that have used classical genetic approaches, have been inconclusive at indentifying genes involved in the etiology of this disorder. To overcome these difficulties, a number of strategies have been developed. One of them is the endophenotypic approach. Its main scope is to identify biological markers that are influenced by genetic factors that are less complex than those involved in the clinical expression of the disorder. Thus, it is likely these markers will be more readily linked to specific genetic loci. In this article, we describe the main phenotypes of neuro-anatomic measurements that are widely used in research, and report data on their heritability in the general population. Then, we focus on the results of the few structural neuro-imaging studies that have been carried out in families of patients suffering of bipolar disorders. The current data converge to indicate that subtle structural abnormalities, particularly at the level white matter tracts, seem to be promising endophenotype candidates for bipolar disorder.
Chronobiological markers of depression display a biological desynchronization which participates in the pathogenesis of depression. Mood disorders and clock genes have shown significant associations suggesting a possible pathogenetic link between them, providing a privileged base for exploring biorhythmic endophenotypes. They would be useful indicators of vulnerability mechanisms, giving rise to new therapies and prevention programs. Two ways of research are of interest: the study of the genetic determinants of cholinergic hypersensitivity generating REM sleep pressure in depression, and the analysis of clinical response to sleep deprivation suggesting an exploration of links between genomic function of arousal and mood regulation. To date, the empirical principle of behavioral stimulus control reaches the level of the available eco-instrumental synchronization procedures.
Corticotropin-releasing factor receptors type 1 (CRF(1)) and type 2 (CRF(2)) have complementary roles in controlling the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Because CRF receptors are expressed in sex steroid-sensitive areas of the forebrain, they may contribute to sex-specific patterns of stress sensitivity and susceptibility to stress-related mood disorders, which are more frequent in women. To determine whether CRF receptors vary as a function of age and/or sex, we measured receptor binding in the amygdala of male and female, prepubertal and adult rats. Both receptor subtypes demonstrated age- and sex-specific binding patterns. In the basolateral amygdala and posteroventral medial amygdala, CRF(1) binding decreased in males and increased in females after puberty, there, CRF(2) binding increased in males and was unchanged in females. In the posterodorsal medial amygdala, CRF(1) binding was unchanged across puberty, whereas CRF(2) binding increased across puberty far more in males than in females. Binding was lowest overall in the central amygdala; there, CRF(1) was unchanged while CRF(2) binding increased across puberty only in males. Thus, in all four examined areas across prepuberty to adulthood, CRF(2) binding increased far more in males than in females and resulted in significantly more binding in adult males than in adult females. These sex-specific developmental patterns are consistent with sex differences in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal responsiveness and may thus contribute to sex differences in mood disorder susceptibility.
Climate change will result in warmer temperatures and an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events. Given that higher temperatures increase the reproductive rate of temperate zone insects, insect population growth rates are predicted to increase in the temperate zone in response to climate. This consensus, however, rests on the assumption that food is freely available. However, under conditions of limited food, the reproductive output of the Texan cricket Gryllus texensis (Cade and Otte) was highest at its current normal average temperature and declined with increasing temperature. Moreover, low food availability decreased survival during a simulated heat wave. Therefore, the effects of climate change on this species, and possibly on many others, are likely to hinge on food availability. Extrapolation from our data suggests that G. texensis will show larger yearly fluctuations in population size as climate change continues, and this will also have ecological repercussions. Only those temperate zone insects with a ready supply of food (e.g., agricultural pests) are likely to experience the predicted increase in population growth in response to climate change; food-limited species are likely to experience a population decline.
Benzodiazepines have been used for decades as first-line treatment for status epilepticus (SE). For reasons that are not fully understood, the efficacy of benzodiazepines decreases with increasing duration of seizure activity. This often forces clinicians to resort to more drastic second- and third-line treatments that are not always successful. The antiseizure properties of benzodiazepines are mediated by -aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A) ) receptors. Decades of research have focused on the failure of GABAergic inhibition after seizure onset as the likely cause of the development benzodiazepine resistance during SE. However, the details of the deficits in GABA(A) signaling are still largely unknown. Therefore, it is necessary to improve our understanding of the mechanisms of benzodiazepine resistance so that more effective strategies can be formulated. In this review we discuss evidence supporting the role of altered GABA(A) receptor function as the major underlying cause of benzodiazepine-resistant SE in both humans and animal models. We specifically address the prevailing hypothesis, which is based on changes in the number and subtypes of GABA(A) receptors, as well as the potential influence of perturbed chloride homeostasis in the mature brain.
Seizures can give rise to enduring changes that reflect alterations in gene-expression patterns, intracellular and intercellular signaling, and ultimately network alterations that are a hallmark of epilepsy. A growing body of literature suggests that long-term changes in gene transcription associated with epilepsy are mediated via modulation of chromatin structure. One transcription factor in particular, repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor (REST), has received a lot of attention due to the possibility that it may control fundamental transcription patterns that drive circuit excitability, seizures, and epilepsy. REST represses a suite of genes in the nervous system by utilizing nuclear protein complexes that were originally identified as mediators of epigenetic inheritance. Epigenetics has traditionally referred to mechanisms that allow a heritable change in gene expression in the absence of DNA mutation. However a more contemporaneous definition acknowledges that many of the mechanisms used to perpetuate epigenetic traits in dividing cells are utilized by neurons to control activity-dependent gene expression. This review surveys what is currently understood about the role of epigenetic mechanisms in epilepsy. We discuss how REST controls gene expression to affect circuit excitability and neurogenesis in epilepsy. We also discuss how the repressor methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and activator cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) regulate neuronal activity and are themselves controlled by activity. Finally we highlight possible future directions in the field of epigenetics and epilepsy.


The differential diagnosis of epileptic seizures (ES) and psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) is often difficult. The diagnostic gold standard is video-EEG, but this procedure is limited because of its high cost and is not always available. Research groups from Germany and Britain have used conversation analysis (CA) of patients' descriptions of their seizures as a means of differentiating the type of seizure. The aim of this study was to verify the value of their considerations in relation to the Italian language. Ten subjects (five with ES and five with PNES) diagnosed by means of the video-EEG recording of one seizure were studied under blind conditions by a linguist. The patients with ES described their seizures in as much detail as possible and tried to reconstruct the experience as fully as they can, making an effort to describe their subjective symptoms, quantify the duration of the phases preceding and following the seizure, and use the image of an external entity overcoming them. On the contrary, the patients with PNES repeated their extraneousness to the events that occur, refused to reply, expressed amnesia, reconstructed the happening by referring to descriptions provided by witnesses, and often describe their seizures using the image of an internal entity of which they were victims. The linguist correctly identified nine cases out of ten using CA.
We studied the prevalence and associated factors of psychiatric comorbidities in 490 patients with refractory focal epilepsy. Of these, 198 (40.4%) patients had psychiatric comorbidity. An Axis I diagnosis was made in 154 patients (31.4%) and an Axis II diagnosis (personality disorder) in another 44 (8.97%) patients. After logistic regression, positive family history of psychiatric comorbidities (O.R.=1.98; 95% CI=1.10-3.58; p=0.023), the presence of Axis II psychiatric comorbidities (O.R.=3.25; 95% CI=1.70-6.22; p&lt;0.0001), and the epileptogenic zone located in mesial temporal lobe structures (O.R.=1.94; 95% CI=1.25-3.03; p=0.003) remained associated with Axis I psychiatric comorbidities. We concluded that a combination of clinical variables and selected structural abnormalities of the central nervous system contributes to the development of psychiatric comorbidities in patients with focal epilepsy.
A long-term follow-up study was conducted in patients affected by Continuous Spikes and Waves during slow Sleep (CSWS) to evaluate the long-term outcomes. Twenty-five patients (19 males, 6 females), from 2 to 16 years of age (mean age 6 years3 SD), affected by CSWS syndrome, as defined by the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE, 1989), were enrolled and followed for 11 years (mean duration of follow-up: 3.9 years). At the time of the appearance of CSWS, one or more neuropsychiatric disorders were present in 96% of the patients, such as behavioral problems in 54%, mental retardation in 37.5%, learning disabilities in 33%, developmental coordination disorder in 17%, language disorder in 12.5%, and pervasive developmental disorder in 8%. During the follow-up, neuropsychiatric dysfunctions remained unaltered in 52% of the patients, worsened in 24%, and improved in only 24%. Our data confirm that CSWS may be associated with a broad spectrum of neuropsychiatric disorders and may promote their worsening over time. Moreover, the findings cannot be generalized to all cases of children with CSWS because most of the children in the subgroups with no change in outcome and worse outcome had symptomatic CSWS.
The nature of the relationship between childhood febrile seizures (CFSs) and temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to perform a comprehensive analysis of measures of structural changes of the hippocampus and limbic white matter to determine whether structural abnormalities previously demonstrated in TLE were present in adults with isolated CFS. Twenty-three adults with past CFS but no history of nonfebrile seizures and 21 controls underwent research MRI for measurement of volume, T2 and mean diffusivity of the hippocampus and fractional anisotropy of the fornix and cingulum. No significant group differences were found in any of the measured parameters. These findings suggest that structural abnormalities of the hippocampus and limbic white matter that have been demonstrated in TLE are not associated with isolated CFS.
Generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) comprises a group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous epilepsy syndrome. Here, we provide the first report of clinical presentation and mutational analysis of SCN1A gene in 36 Malaysian GEFS+ patients. Mutational analysis of SCN1A gene revealed twenty seven sequence variants (missense mutation and silent polymorphism also intronic polymorphism), as well as 2 novel de-novo mutations were found in our patients at coding regions, c.5197A&gt;G (N1733D) and c.4748A&gt;G (H1583R). Our findings provide potential genetic insights into the pathogenesis of GEFS+ in Malaysian populations concerning the SCN1A gene mutations.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor plays a key role in excitatory synaptic transmission. The overactivation of the NMDA receptor has been implicated in the development of epileptic seizures. D-Serine is a coagonist of the NMDA receptor and its biosynthesis is catalyzed by serine racemase (SR). Here, we examined the effect of d-serine deficiency on the seizures induced by a single injection of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) using SR knockout (KO) mice. We found that, compared with wild-type (WT) mice, SR-KO mice showed the attenuation of seizure expression in terms of a significantly shortened duration of generalized seizures and resistance to generalized clonic-tonic seizures. Consistently, immunohistochemical analysis of c-Fos demonstrated that the numbers of cells expressing c-Fos induced by high-dose PTZ in the cerebral cortex, hippocampal CA1, hippocampal CA3, and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala in WT mice were significantly higher than those in SR-KO mice. Moreover, PTZ induced an increase in extracellular glutamate level in the dentate gyrus of WT mice at two different time phases. However, such a PTZ-induced increase in glutamate level was completely inhibited in SR-KO mice. The present findings suggest that SR may be a target for the development of new therapeutic strategies for epileptic seizures.
The objective of this study was to develop and validate coding algorithms for epilepsy using ICD-coded inpatient claims, physician claims, and emergency room (ER) visits. 720/2049 charts from 2003 and 1533/3252 charts from 2006 were randomly selected for review from 13 neurologists' practices as the &quot;gold standard&quot; for diagnosis. Epilepsy status in each chart was determined by 2 trained physicians. The optimal algorithm to identify epilepsy cases was developed by linking the reviewed charts with three administrative databases (ICD 9 and 10 data from 2000 to 2008) including hospital discharges, ER visits and physician claims in a Canadian health region. Accepting chart review data as the gold standard, we calculated sensitivity, specificity, positive, and negative predictive value for each ICD-9 and ICD-10 administrative data algorithm (case definitions). Of 18 algorithms assessed, the most accurate algorithm to identify epilepsy cases was &quot;2 physician claims or 1 hospitalization in 2 years coded&quot; (ICD-9 345 or G40/G41) and the most sensitive algorithm was &quot;1 physician clam or 1 hospitalization or 1 ER visit in 2 years.&quot; Accurate and sensitive case definitions are available for research requiring the identification of epilepsy cases in administrative health data.


In a recent randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, we established a robust efficacy (Cohen's d=2.17) of osmotic release oral system-methylphenidate (OROS-methylphenidate) delivered 72mg daily for 5weeks versus placebo on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms, global severity and global functioning in 30 adult male prison inmates with ADHD and coexisting disorders. Outcomes continued to improve during the subsequent 47-week open-label extension with OROS-methylphenidate delivered at a flexible daily dosage of up to 1.3mg/kg body weight. In the present study, we evaluated long-term effectiveness and maintenance of improvement over the cumulated 52-week trial on cognition, motor activity, institutional behaviour and quality of life. Post hoc, we explored the associations between investigators' and self-ratings of ADHD symptoms and between ratings of symptoms and functioning, respectively. Outcomes, calculated by repeated measures ANOVA, improved from baseline until week 16, with maintenance or further improvement until week 52. Both verbal and visuospatial working memory, and abstract verbal reasoning improved significantly over time, as well as several cognition-related measures and motor activity. No substance abuse was detected and a majority of participants took part in psychosocial treatment programmes. The quality of life domains of Learning, and Goals and values improved over time; the latter domain was at open-label endpoint significantly related to improvements in attention. Investigators' and self-ratings of ADHD symptoms, as well as global symptom severity related most significantly to global functioning at week 52. Finally, investigators' and self-ratings of ADHD symptoms associated significantly at baseline with increasing convergence over time.
Working memory deficits are found in different psychiatric populations and are most pronounced in schizophrenia. There is preliminary evidence from pharmacological studies that the verbal and visuospatial subcomponents of working memory are subject to differential neurotransmitter modulation. Here, we investigated the impact of well-known polymorphisms of the dopamine transporter gene (SLC6A3, DAT) and the catechol-O-methyl-transferase gene (COMT) as well as the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4, 5-HTT) on these specific working memory subcomponents in a mixed sample of patients and healthy individuals. Twenty healthy subjects and 80 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder, or obsessive-compulsive disorder underwent genotyping for the DAT variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR), the COMT val/met-, and the 5-HTT promoter length polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) and neuropsychological testing using a battery of well-characterized, brain circuit-specific working memory tasks. DAT genotype revealed a significant and selective effect on visuospatial working memory, while there was no effect on verbal working memory functioning. 5-HTT genotype, by contrast, exerted a significant and selective effect on verbal working memory task performance. COMT genotype did not show any influence on either working memory domain. The results of the present study provide evidence for a differential impact of genetic polymorphisms of the dopaminergic and serotonergic systems on verbal and visuospatial working memory functioning. Together with prior evidence suggesting the existence of subgroups of schizophrenia patients exhibiting isolated deficits in only one working memory domain, this finding further supports the idea of endophenotypically and pathophysiologically distinct subgroups of schizophrenia with implications for personalized therapeutic approaches.
Protein-o-mannosyl transferase 1 (POMT1) is a glycosyltransferase involved in -dystroglycan (-DG) glycosylation. Clinical phenotype in POMT1-mutated patients ranges from congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) with structural brain abnormalities, to limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) with microcephaly and mental retardation, to mild LGMD. No cardiac involvement has until now been reported in POMT1-mutated patients. We report three patients who harbored compound heterozygous POMT1 mutations and showed left ventricular (LV) dilation and/or decrease in myocardial contractile force: two had a LGMD phenotype with a normal or close-to-normal cognitive profile and one had CMD with mental retardation and normal brain MRI. Reduced or absent -DG immunolabeling in muscle biopsies were identified in all three patients. Bioinformatic tools were used to study the potential effect of POMT1-detected mutations. All the detected POMT1 mutations were predicted in silico to interfere with protein folding and/or glycosyltransferase function. The report on the patients described here has widened the clinical spectrum associated with POMT1 mutations to include cardiomyopathy. The functional impact of known and novel POMT1 mutations was predicted with a bioinformatics approach, and results were compared with previous in vitro studies of protein-o-mannosylase function.





Motor fluctuations and motor complications are a major consequence of the treatment and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) and they have, in particular, been linked to L-dopa therapy. Using continuous dopaminergic stimulation (CDS) by employing longer acting dopaminergic drugs has been proposed as a means of avoiding or lowering their occurrence. However, both the preclinical and clinical evidence base suggest that this concept does not fully explain the differences between L-dopa and dopamine (DA) agonist drugs and that their pharmacological profiles may also be important. In addition, the way in which drugs are delivered in PD appears to have a marked influence on both efficacy and side-effect profile. As a consequence, the concept of continuous drug delivery (CDD) has arisen to explain the differences between the intermittent and continuous delivery of both L-dopa and DA agonists. This review presents the evidence for using CDD as a working concept for the early and later stages of PD and in the treatment of motor complications and motor fluctuations. CDD as an approach to the treatment of PD may improve the outcome of therapy and explain the differences between drug classes and the delivery systems employed.

Lateral hypothalamus (LH) orexin neurons are essential for the expression of a cocaine place preference. However, the afferents that regulate the activity of these orexin neurons during reward behaviors are not completely understood. Using tract tracing combined with Fos staining, we examined LH afferents for Fos induction during cocaine preference in rats. We found that the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (vBNST) was a major input to the LH orexin cell field that was significantly Fos-activated during cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP). Inactivation of the vBNST with baclofen plus muscimol blocked expression of cocaine CPP. Surprisingly, such inactivation of the vBNST also increased Fos induction in LH orexin neurons; as activity in these cells is normally associated with increased preference, this result indicates that a vBNST-orexin connection is unlikely to be responsible for CPP that is dependent on vBNST activity. Because previous studies have revealed that vBNST regulates dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which is known to be involved in CPP and other reward functions, we tested whether vBNST afferents to the VTA are necessary for cocaine CPP. We found that disconnection of the vBNST and VTA (using local microinjections of baclofen plus muscimol unilaterally into the vBNST and contralateral VTA) significantly attenuated expression of cocaine preference. However, blocking ionotropic glutamatergic afferents to the VTA from the vBNST did not significantly reduce cocaine preference. These results indicate that a non-glutamatergic vBNST-VTA projection is involved in expression of cocaine preference.
Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is used to measure the excitability of interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) between the hand areas of the two motor cortices. It varies from person to person, and is highly predictive of individual differences in callosal anatomy (fractional anisotropy) and even motor behaviour, e.g. the amount of involuntary electromyographic (EMG) 'mirroring' in one hand during rapid contraction of the other. The present experiments tested whether it also predicts how well individuals can improve motor performance in a task involving the two hands. Healthy participants were given 100 trials to maximize the initial acceleration of a ballistic finger movement made with one hand while trying to maintain a tonic low level of EMG activity in the other hand. Initially, each movement was accompanied by additional unwanted EMG mirroring in the other hand. However, after practice, participants had on average increased acceleration by approximately one-third without changing the amount of EMG mirroring in the contralateral hand; indeed, in some individuals EMG mirroring activity declined. TMS measures showed that there was an increase in corticospinal excitability in the trained hemisphere, but there was no change in the excitability of short- or long-latency IHI from the trained to non-trained hemisphere. Nevertheless, in each individual, the baseline (pre-practice) excitability of short-latency IHI was highly predictive (r = 0.65; P = 0.0019) of the change in EMG mirroring. The implication is that a physiological measure of brain excitability at rest can predict behaviour in response to training.
Muscle spindles provide information about the position and movement of our bodies. One method for investigating spindle signals is tendon vibration. Vibration of flexor tendons can produce illusions of extension, and vibration of extensor tendons can produce illusions of flexion. Here we estimate the temporal resolution and persistence of these illusions. In Experiments 1 and 2, sequences of alternating vibration of wrist flexor and extensor tendons produced position illusions that varied with alternation period. When vibrations alternated at 1 Hz or slower, perceived position at the end of the sequence depended on the last vibration. When vibrations alternated every 0.3 s, perceived position was independent of the last vibration. Experiment 2 verified and extended these results using more trials and concurrent electromyographic recording. Although tendon vibrations sometimes induce reflexive muscle activity, we found no evidence that such activity contributed to these effects. Experiment 3 investigated how long position sense is retained when not updated by current information from spindles. Our first experiments suggested that vibrating antagonistic tendons simultaneously could produce conflicting inputs, leaving position sense reliant on memory of position prior to vibration onset. We compared variability in position sense after different durations of such double vibration. After 12 s of double vibration, variability across trials exceeded levels predicted from vibrations of flexor or extensor tendons alone. This suggests that position sense memory had decayed too much to substitute for the current conflicting sensory information. Together, our results provide novel, quantitative insight into the temporal properties of tendon vibration illusions.
In acute rat spinal cord slices, the application of capsaicin (5 m, 90 s), an agonist of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 receptors expressed by a subset of nociceptors that project to laminae I-II of the spinal cord dorsal horn, induced an increase in the frequency of spontaneous excitatory and spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in about half of the neurons in laminae II, III-IV and V. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, which blocks action potential generation and polysynaptic transmission, capsaicin increased the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in only 30% of lamina II neurons and had no effect on the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in laminae III-V or on the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in laminae II-V. When the communication between lamina V and more superficial laminae was interrupted by performing a mechanical section between laminae IV and V, capsaicin induced an increase in spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current frequency in laminae II-IV and an increase in spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current frequency in lamina II that were similar to those observed in intact slices. However, in laminae III-IV of transected slices, the increase in spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current frequency was virtually abolished. Our results indicate that nociceptive information conveyed by transient receptor potential vanilloid 1-expressing nociceptors is transmitted from lamina II to deeper laminae essentially by an excitatory pathway and that deep laminae exert a 'feedback' control over neurons in laminae III-IV by increasing inhibitory synaptic transmission in these laminae. Moreover, we provide evidence that laminae III-IV might play an important role in the processing of nociceptive information in the dorsal horn.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) regulates various biological functions by selectively activating the NPS receptor (NPSR). Recently, epidemiological studies revealed an association between NPSR single nucleotide polymorphisms and susceptibility to panic disorders. Here we investigated the effects of NPS in mice subjected to the elevated T maze (ETM), an assay which has been proposed to model anxiety and panic. Diazepam [1 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)] elicited clear anxiolytic effects reducing the latency to emerge from the closed to the open (CO) arm without modifying the latencies from the open to the closed (OC) arm. By contrast, chronic fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p., once a day for 21 days) selectively increased OC latency, suggesting a panicolytic-like effect. NPS given intracerebroventricularly at 0.001-1 nmol elicited both anxiolytic- and panicolytic-like effects. However, although the NPS anxiolytic dose-response curve displayed the classical sigmoidal shape, the dose-response curve of the putative panicolytic-like effect was bell shaped with peak effect at 0.01 nmol. The behaviour of wild-type [NPSR(+/+)] and receptor knock out [NPSR(-/-)] mice in the ETM task was superimposable. NPS at 0.01 nmol elicited anxiolytic- and panicolytic-like effects in NPSR(+/+) but not in NPSR(-/-) mice. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that NPS, via selective activation of the NPSR, promotes both anxiolytic- and panicolytic-like actions in the mouse ETM.
The goal of executive control is to adjust our behaviour to the environment. It involves not only the continuous planning and adaptation of actions but also the inhibition of inappropriate movements. Recently, a proactive form of inhibitory control has been shown, demonstrating that actions can be withheld, in an uncertain environment, thanks to the proactive locking of the mechanism by which motor commands are triggered (e.g. while waiting at traffic lights in a dense pedestrian zone, one will refrain in anticipation of a brisk acceleration when the green light comes on). However, little is known about this executive function and it remains unclear whether the overall amount of inhibitory control can be modulated as a function of the context. Here, we show that the level of this control varies parametrically as a function of the exogenous and endogenous factors setting the task context. We also show that the level of implemented proactive inhibitory control is dynamically readjusted to match the implicit temporal structure of the environment. These observations are discussed in relation to possible underlying functional substrates and related neurological and psychiatric pathologies.

Impaired hippocampal function is believed to be important in the pathogenesis of depression. The hippocampus contains a high concentration of both mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR), and the experimental administration of corticosteroids has been reported to mimic memory impairments seen in depression. Using pharmacological functional magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) we investigated whether hippocampal function is altered after acute administration of hydrocortisone. Changes in BOLD signal following infusion of 100mg hydrocortisone given as a rapid intravenous bolus were measured in 14 healthy volunteers in a within-subject placebo-controlled crossover design. Subsequently, subjects completed an n-back task during an fMRI scan. Hydrocortisone infusion caused a significant, time-dependent increase in fMRI BOLD signal in hippocampus reaching a maximal effect at 11-19min. The n-back task increased BOLD signal in prefrontal and parietal cortical areas and decreased it in the hippocampus. After hydrocortisone the left hippocampal decrease in BOLD signal was attenuated with the magnitude of attenuation correlating with the increase seen after hydrocortisone infusion. No difference in behavioural task performance was observed. The results suggest acute hydrocortisone has rapid direct and modulatory influences on hippocampal function, probably acting through non-genomic GR or MR signalling. Hydrocortisone infusion phMRI may be a useful tool to investigate hippocampal corticosteroid receptor function in depression.


Automatic attentional capture by a salient distractor can be prevented by spatial attentional control settings (ACSs) (e.g., Yantis and Jonides in J Exp Psychol Hum Percept Perform 16:121-134, 1990). Earlier, converging evidence for a spatial ACS (Eason et al. 1969) was found in event-related potentials (ERPs). In these studies, the ACS was defined by a single target-relevant location. In an extension, Ishigami et al. (Vis Cogn 17:431-456, 2009) demonstrated a successful ACS in performance that was based on multiple (two) target-relevant locations. The purpose of the current study is to seek converging evidence from ERPs for a spatial ACS defined by multiple (two) target-relevant locations, using the methods in Ishigami et al. (Vis Cogn 17:431-456, 2009). Any one of four figure-8s brightened uninformatively (cue) before presentation of a digit target calling for a speeded identification (2 or 5). A spatial ACS was encouraged because in different blocks, the digit targets appeared only on the horizontal or vertical axis. Performance was more impaired following the invalid-attended cues than following invalid-unattended cues, consistent with Ishigami et al. (Vis Cogn 17:431-456, 2009) and verifying a successful spatial ACS. The direction of attention significantly affected the visual evoked potentials (VEPs) elicited by otherwise identical cues: the amplitudes of early VEPs were greater when the location the cue was presented in was target-relevant than when the location was target-irrelevant. These results re-affirm that attentional capture by irrelevant salient stimuli can be modulated by spatial ACSs defined by multiple target locations in performance and provide converging evidence from ERPs for the previously established behavioral findings.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is widely expressed throughout the CNS and exerts a number of important physiological functions as well as playing a role in pathological conditions such as obesity, anxiety, epilepsy, chronic pain and neurodegenerative disorders. In this review, we highlight some of the recent advances in our understanding of NPY biology and how this may help explain not only its role in health and disease, but also its possible use therapeutically.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been identified as a potent promoter of neurite growth, a finding that has led to an ongoing exploration of this neurotrophin as a potential treatment for spinal cord injury. BDNF's many effects in the nervous system make it an excellent candidate for neuroprotective strategies as well as for promoting axonal regeneration, plasticity and re-myelination. In addition, neuronal activity and physical exercise can modulate the expression of BDNF, suggesting that non-invasive means to increase BDNF levels might exist. Nonetheless, depending on the location, amount and duration of BDNF delivery, this potent neurotrophin can also have adverse effects, such as modulation of nociceptive pathways or contribution to spasticity. Taken together, the benefits and possible risks require careful assessment when considering this multifaceted neurotrophin as a treatment option for spinal cord injury.




Middle cerebral artery occlusion(1) (MCAO) is a widely used experimental technique in rodents to model both the short-term pathological events and longer term neuroanatomical and functional damage associated with focal ischemia. Various neurobehavioral tasks have been developed to assess the motor and cognitive dysfunctions associated with MCAO in rodents, and these studies have revealed deficits related to long-term sensorimotor function, as well as retention of spatial memory. Assessment of auditory processing in a MCAO model has not been undertaken, despite findings suggesting an auditory processing deficit in humans with stroke induced-aphasia, a common post-stroke deficit. Using a modified pre-pulse inhibition paradigm, and other behavioral tasks thought to tap &quot;language-related processing&quot;, adult male C57Bl/6 mice were subjected to 60 minute MCAO or Sham surgery and were behaviorally assessed from P58 to P124 (2 to 65 days post-surgery). Tasks were selected based on evidence that rapid auditory processing(2) (RAP) skills are associated with language processing indices in clinical populations. Cognitive and sensorimotor ability was evaluated using the Morris water maze, non-spatial water maze, and a post-injury rotarod task administered over multiple days (motor learning). Combined behavioral results from post-MCAO mice provide evidence of a RAP deficit as well as deficits in spatial, non-spatial, and motor learning. Overall results support a fuller characterization of behavioral deficits in auditory processing after MCAO.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) acts on central angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptors to increase water and saline intake. Prolonged exposure to Ang II in cell culture models results in a desensitization of the AT(1) receptor that is thought to involve receptor internalization, and a behavioural correlate of this desensitization has been shown in rats after repeated central injections of Ang II. Specifically, rats given repeated injections of Ang II drink less water than control animals after a subsequent test injection of Ang II. In the same conditions, however, repeated injections of Ang II have no effect on Ang II-induced saline intake. Given earlier studies indicating that separate intracellular signalling pathways mediate Ang II-induced water and saline intake, we hypothesized that the desensitization observed in rats may be incomplete, leaving the receptor able to activate mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases (ERK1/2), which play a role in Ang II-induced saline intake without affecting water intake. In support of this hypothesis, we found no difference in MAP kinase phosphorylation after an Ang II test injection in rats given prior treatment with repeated injections of vehicle, Ang II or Sar(1),Ile(4),Ile(8)-Ang II (SII), an Ang II analogue that activates MAP kinase without G protein coupling. In addition, we found that pretreatment with the MAP kinase inhibitor U0126 completely blocked the desensitizing effect of repeated Ang II injections on water intake. Furthermore, Ang II-induced water intake was reduced to a similar extent by repeated injections of Ang II or SII. The results suggest that G protein-independent signalling is sufficient to produce behavioural desensitization of the angiotensin system and that the desensitization requires MAP kinase activation.
Myoclonic seizures are sudden, brief, shock-like contractions that can vary in distribution and intensity. They may be present in different epilepsy syndromes, including some idiopathic generalized epilepsy, epileptic encephalopathies and progressive myoclonus epilepsies. Despite the fact that there are many studies about the pathophysiology of myoclonic seizures and clear descriptions of the different myoclonic epilepsy syndromes, relatively little has been written on treatment. Valproate and some benzodiazepines are widely used to treat myoclonic seizures. In addition, more treatment options exist today as there is emerging evidence to support the efficacy of some newer antiepileptic drugs. On the other hand, some myoclonic epilepsies remain refractory to drug treatment and some antiepileptic drugs may exacerbate or even induce myoclonus. In the coming years, better understanding of mechanisms of myoclonic seizures and myoclonic epilepsies could result in great improvement of therapy and the quality of life of patients.
Internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (ICBT) is a promising treatment that may increase availability of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for psychiatric disorders and other clinical problems. The main objective of this study was to determine the applications, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of ICBT. The authors conducted a systematic review to identify randomized controlled trials investigating CBT delivered via the internet for adult patient populations. Searches to identify studies investigating cost-effectiveness of ICBT were also conducted. Evidence status for each clinical application was determined using the American Psychologist Association criteria for empirically supported treatments. Of 1104 studies reviewed, 108 met criteria for inclusion, of which 103 reported on clinical efficacy and eight on cost-effectiveness. Results showed that ICBT has been tested for 25 different clinical disorders, whereas most randomized controlled trials have been aimed at depression, anxiety disorders and chronic pain. Internet-based treatments for depression, social phobia and panic disorder were classified as well-established, that is, meeting the highest level of criteria for evidence. Effect sizes were large in the treatment of depression, anxiety disorders, severe health anxiety, irritable bowel syndrome, female sexual dysfunction, eating disorders, cannabis use and pathological gambling. For other clinical problems, effect sizes were small to moderate. Comparison to conventional CBT showed that ICBT produces equivalent effects. Cost-effectiveness data were relatively scarce but suggested that ICBT has more than 50% probability of being cost effective compared with no treatment or to conventional CBT when willingness to pay for an additional improvement is zero. Although ICBT is a promising treatment option for several disorders, it can only be regarded as a well-established treatment for depression, panic disorder and social phobia. It seems that ICBT is as effective as conventional CBT for respective clinical disorder, that is, if conventional CBT works then ICBT works. The large effects and the limited therapist time required suggest that the treatment is highly cost effective for well-established indications.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies or prion diseases are fatal neurodegenerative pathologies characterized by the autocatalytic misfolding and polymerization of a cellular glycoprotein (cellular prion protein [PrP(C)]) that accumulates in the CNS and leads to neurodegeneration. The detailed mechanics of PrP(C) conversion to its pathological isoform (PrP(TSE)) are unclear but one or more exogenous factors are likely involved in the process of PrP misfolding. In the last 20years, proteomic investigations have identified several endogenous proteins that interact with PrP(C), PrP(TSE) or both, which are possibly involved in the prion pathogenetic process. However, current approaches have not yet produced convincing conclusions on the biological value of such PrP interactors. Future advancements in the comprehension of the molecular pathogenesis of prion diseases, in experimental techniques and in data analysis procedures, together with a boost in more productive international collaborations, are therefore needed to improve the understanding on the role of PrP interactors. Finally, the advancement of 'omics' techniques in prion diseases will contribute to the development of novel diagnostic tests and effective drugs.
The Siena Meeting has been held biannually since 1994, when for the first time the concept of the proteome was introduced to a large scientific audience. Over the years, the meeting has grown to be a major international conference in the field of proteomics and has attracted excellent scientists from all corners of the world. The 9th Siena Meeting: 'from Genome to Proteome: Open Innovations' was attended by 300 scientists. There were four plenary and eight parallel sessions with 50 invited talks and three poster sessions with 94 posters covering wide range of functional proteomics, signaling, biomarkers, cancer, neuroscience, glycoproteomics, mass spectrometry and bioinformatics. As in the past, this year's Siena Meeting maintained its tradition of placing science at centre stage, which generated a wide range of discussions of major importance for the future.
The pathways leading specifically to the toxic A42 peptide production, a key event in Alzheimer's disease (AD), are unknown. While searching for pathways that mediate pathological increases of A42, we identified Aftin-4, a new compound that selectively and potently increases A42 compared to DMSO (N2a cells: 7-fold; primary neurons: 4-fold; brain lysates: 2-fold) with an EC(50) of 30 M. These results were confirmed by ELISA and IP-WB. Using affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry, we identified 3 proteins (VDAC1, prohibitin, and mitofilin) relevant to AD that interact with Aftin-4, but not with a structurally similar but inactive molecule. Electron microscopy studies demonstrated that Aftin-4 induces a reversible mitochondrial phenotype reminiscent of the one observed in AD brains. Sucrose gradient fractionation showed that Aftin-4 perturbs the subcellular localization of -secretase components and could, therefore, modify -secretase specificity by locally altering its membrane environment. Remarkably, Aftin-4 shares all these properties with two other &quot;AD accelerator&quot; compounds. In summary, treatment with three A42 raising agents induced similar biochemical alterations that lead to comparable cellular phenotypes in vitro, suggesting a common mechanism of action involving three structural cellular targets.
Activins are critical components of the signaling network that controls female reproduction. However, their roles in hypothalamus, and the specific functions of their different receptors, have not been elucidated. Here, we investigated the expression and function of the activin receptor ALK7 in the female reproductive axis using Alk7-knockout mice. ALK7 was found in subsets of SF1-expressing granulosa cells in the ovary, FSH gonadotrophs in the pituitary, and NPY-expressing neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Alk7-knockout females showed delayed onset of puberty and abnormal estrous cyclicity, had abnormal diestrous levels of FSH and LH in serum, and their ovaries showed premature depletion of follicles, oocyte degeneration, and impaired responses to exogenous gonadotropins. In the arcuate nucleus, mutant mice showed reduced expression of Npy mRNA and lower numbers of Npy-expressing neurons than wild-type controls. Alk7 knockouts showed a selective loss of arcuate NPY/AgRP innervation in the medial preoptic area, a key central regulator of reproduction. These results indicate that ALK7 is an important regulator of female reproductive function and reveal a new role for activin signaling in the control of hypothalamic gene expression and wiring. Alk7 gene variants may contribute to female reproductive disorders in humans, such as polycystic ovary syndrome.
Reported here are the proceedings of a symposium given in honor of Dr. Henry F. Krous upon his retirement as Clinical Professor of Pathology and Pediatrics at the University of California Schools of Medicine, and as Director of the San Diego SIDS/SUDC Research Project. Dr. Krous' distinguished 37-year-career was dedicated to research into sudden unexpected death in infancy and childhood, notably the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and sudden unexplained death in childhood (SUDC). The presentations were given at the International Conference on Stillbirth, SIDS, and infant survival on October 5, 2012, in Baltimore, MD, USA. Eight colleagues of Dr. Krous whose own professional careers were touched by his efforts discussed forensic issues related to SIDS, tissue banking, animal models in SIDS, brainstem studies in SIDS, genetic studies in SIDS, establishment of a SUDC registry, neuropathologic research in SUDC, and potential shared mechanisms underlying sudden and unexpected death in early life. The wide scope of the presentations crossed the disciplines of forensic pathology, pediatric pathology, neuropathology, neuroscience, physiology, genetics, and bereavement, and attest to Dr. Krous' far-reaching influence upon SIDS and SUDC research.
DNA methylation is a key epigenetic mark when occurring in the promoter and enhancer regions regulates the accessibility of the binding protein and gene transcription. DNA methylation is inheritable and can be de novo-synthesized, erased and reinstated, making it arguably one of the most dynamic upstream regulators for gene expression and the most influential pacer for development. Recent progress has demonstrated that two forms of cytosine methylation and two pathways for demethylation constitute ample complexity for an instructional program for orchestrated gene expression and development. The forum of the current discussion and review are whether there is such a program, if so what the DNA methylation program entails, and what environment can change the DNA methylation program. The translational implication of the DNA methylation program is also proposed.
Application of volatile anesthetics greatly alters modern medicine. There are obvious advantages of volatile anesthetics such as strong anesthetic potency, rapid onset and elimination through respiration system. Isoflurane is one of the most widely used volatile anesthetics in clinic. Emulsified isoflurane, the emulsion of isoflurane, is a novel intravenous general anesthetic. With the development of emulsified isoflurane in the past fifteen years, its utility has spread from intravenous general anesthesia to various fields including regional anesthesia, organ protection, as well as anesthetic pharmacological study. In this review, we will summarize literatures of emulsified isoflurane about its history, clinical application and future potential utility in the above mentioned fields.
The esophagus is perfused directly by prominent arteries and may provide a more consistent tissue source for pulse oximetry. The goal of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity and accuracy of an esophageal pulse oximetry probe on patients during controlled hypoxemia in comparison to measurements obtained with conventional pulse oximetry (SpulseO(2)). Forty-five ASA I-II adult patients were included in this prospective observational study. Nellcor digital oximetric probes were placed on finger tips for SpulseO(2) before anesthesia. After tracheal intubation, an esophageal probe was placed in the lower segment of the esophagus for esophageal oximetric monitoring (SoesO(2)). All patients were disconnected from the breathing circuit to establish a controlled hypoxemia, and were re-connected to the breathing circuit and ventilated with 100% oxygen immediately when SoesO(2) dropped to 90%. Matched SoesO(2) and SpulseO(2) readings were recorded when SoesO(2) measurements were at 100%, 95%, 90% and the lowest reading. The time for SoesO(2) and SpulseO(2) to drop from 100% to 95%, 90% and return to 100% was recorded. Oxygen saturation from arterial blood samples (SartO(2)) was also measured at each time point respectively. The linear correlation coefficient of the regression analysis between SartO(2) and SoesO(2) was 0.954. The mean  2SD of the difference was 0.3%  4.3% for SoesO(2) vs. SartO(2) and 6.8%  5.6% for SpulseO(2) vs. SartO(2) (P &lt; 0.001). The 95% confidence interval for the absolute difference between SoesO(2) and SartO(2) was 0.3% to 0.7% and 6.2% to 7.4% between SpulseO(2) and SartO(2). The time to reach 90% saturation measured with SoesO(2) was approximately 94 seconds earlier than the SpulseO(2) (P &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, SoesO(2) is more accurate and enables earlier detection of hypoxemia when compared to conventional pulse oximetry during hypoxemia for patients undergoing general anesthesia.

When a patient receives home care, an important factor is how the family accepts the patient's death. In this study, we observed that the number of long-term in-home terminal care cases increased, as well as the number of short-term in-home care cases. Moreover, the number of cancer cases among the young population is also increasing. Consequently, how to acceptance of a patient's death varies among their family. When tending to patients, suitable support from the medical staff is required. Additionally, various options need to be provided for terminal care.
The major histocompatibility complex class II transactivator (CIITA) gene (16p13) has been reported to associate with susceptibility to multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis and myocardial infarction, recently also to celiac disease at genome-wide level. However, attempts to replicate association have been inconclusive. Previously, we have observed linkage to the CIITA region in Scandinavian type 1 diabetes (T1D) families. Here we analyze five Swedish T1D cohorts and a combined control material from previous studies of CIITA. We investigate how the genotype distribution within the CIITA gene varies depending on age, and the association to T1D. Unexpectedly, we find a significant difference in the genotype distribution for markers in CIITA (rs11074932, P=4  10(-5) and rs3087456, P=0.05) with respect to age, in the collected control material. This observation is replicated in an independent cohort material of about 2000 individuals (P=0.006, P=0.007). We also detect association to T1D for both markers, rs11074932 (P=0.004) and rs3087456 (P=0.001), after adjusting for age at sampling. The association remains independent of the adjacent T1D risk gene CLEC16A. Our results indicate an age-dependent variation in CIITA allele frequencies, a finding of relevance for the contrasting outcomes of previously published association studies.
Key roles of macroglia are inextricably coupled to specialized membrane domains. The perivascular endfoot membrane has drawn particular attention, as this domain contains a unique complement of aquaporin-4 (AQP4) and other channel proteins that distinguishes it from perisynaptic membranes. Recent studies indicate that the polarization of macroglia is lost in a number of diseases, including temporal lobe epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease. A better understanding is required of the molecular underpinning of astroglial polarization, particularly when it comes to the significance of the dystrophin associated protein complex (DAPC). Here, we employ immunofluorescence and immunogold cytochemistry to analyze the molecular scaffolding in perivascular endfeet in macroglia of retina and three regions of brain (cortex, dentate gyrus, and cerebellum), using AQP4 as a marker. Compared with brain astrocytes, Mller cells (a class of retinal macroglia) exhibit lower densities of the scaffold proteins dystrophin and -syntrophin (a DAPC protein), but higher levels of AQP4. In agreement, depletion of dystrophin or -syntrophin--while causing a dramatic loss of AQP4 from endfoot membranes of brain astrocytes--had only modest or insignificant effect, respectively, on the AQP4 pool in endfoot membranes of Mller cells. In addition, while polarization of brain macroglia was less affected by dystrophin depletion than by targeted deletion of -syntrophin, the reverse was true for retinal macroglia. These data indicate that the molecular scaffolding in perivascular endfeet is more complex than previously assumed and that macroglia are heterogeneous with respect to the mechanisms that dictate their polarization.
Retinaldehyde dehydrogenases (RALDH) catalyze the synthesis of the regulatory factor retinoic acid (RA). Cultured astrocytes express several of the RALDH enzyme family, and it has been assumed that this can be extrapolated to astrocytes in vivo. However, this study finds that few astrocytes in the rodent brain express detectable RALDH enzymes, and only when these cells are grown in culture are these enzymes upregulated. Factors controlling the expression of the RALDHs in cultured astrocytes were explored to determine possible reasons for differences between in vitro versus in vivo expression. Retinoids were found to feedback to suppress several of the RALDHs, and physiological levels of retinoids may be one route by which astrocytic RALDHs are maintained at low levels. In the case of RALDH2, in vivo reduction of vitamin A levels in rats resulted in an increase in astrocyte RALDH2 expression in the hippocampus. Other factors though are likely to control RALDH expression. A shift in astrocytic RALDH subcellular localization is a potential mechanism for regulating RA signaling. Under conditions of vitamin A deficiency, RALDH2 protein moved from the cytoplasm to the nucleus where it may synthesize RA at the site of the nuclear RA receptors. Similarly, in conditions of oxidative stress RALDH1 and RALDH2 moved from the cytoplasm to a predominantly nuclear position. Thus, the RALDHs have been revealed to be dynamic in their expression in astrocytes where they may maintain retinoid homeostasis in the brain.
ATP-mediated synaptic transmission represents the only transmitter-gated Ca(2+)-entry pathway in neurons of the rodent medial habenula. In addition to direct purinergic receptor-mediated synaptic inputs, the medial habenula contains purinergic systems that modulate synaptic transmission. Purinergic signaling is modulated or terminated by ectonucleotidase, nucleotide-hydrolyzing enzymes of the cell surface. Here we identify the major ectonucleotidase responsible for the hydrolysis of extracellular ATP in the mouse medial habenula as ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 2 (NTPDase2), using immunostaining and enzyme histochemistry. Double labeling experiments reveal that the enzyme is expressed by astrocytes enwrapping the densely packed neurons and also the myelinated fiber bundles of the stria medullaris. NTPDase2 immunoreactivity is absent from the lateral habenula. The analysis of mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein under the promoter of glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that the medial habenula harbors a highly polar type of astrocytes with very long laminar cellular processes, untypical for grey matter astrocytes. Its morphology strongly differs from that of the stellate astrocytes in the adjacent lateral habenula. Our results suggest that the mouse medial habenula contains a specific perineuronal nonstellate subtype of astrocyte that expresses the ectonucleotidase NTPDase2 and is in a strategic position to modulate purinergic transmission in this subnucleus.


Age-related hearing loss (presbycusis) affects 35% of humans older than sixty-five years. Symptoms of presbycusis include impaired discrimination of sounds with fast temporal features, such as those present in speech. Such symptoms likely arise because of central auditory system plasticity, but the underlying components are incompletely characterized. The rapid spiking inhibitory interneurons that co-express the calcium binding protein Parvalbumin (PV) are involved in shaping neural responses to fast spectrotemporal modulations. Here, we examined cortical PV expression in the C57bl/6 (C57) mouse, a strain commonly studied as a presbycusis model. We examined if PV expression showed auditory cortical field- and layer-specific susceptibilities with age. The percentage of PV-expressing cells relative to Nissl-stained cells was counted in the anterior auditory field (AAF) and primary auditory cortex (A1) in three age groups: young (1-2 months), middle-aged (6-8 months) and old (14-20 months). There were significant declines in the percentage of cells expressing PV at a detectable level in layers I-IV of both A1 and AAF in the old mice compared to young mice. In layers V-VI, there was an increase in the percentage of PV-expressing cells in the AAF of the old group. There were no changes in percentage of PV-expressing cells in layers V-VI of A1. These data suggest cortical layer(s)- and field-specific susceptibility of PV+ cells with presbycusis. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that a decline in inhibitory neurotransmission, particularly in the superficial cortical layers, occurs with presbycusis.
This study was carried out to determine the behavioral sensitivity to sound of rats with unilateral lesions of inferior colliculus (IC) located ipsilateral or contralateral to the projection pathway from one ear. Absolute thresholds for the detection of a broad-band noise burst were compared for rats with a profound conductive hearing loss in one ear and a lesion placed either ipsilateral or contralateral to the normally functioning ear. The rats were trained to make withdrawal responses to avoid a shock when they detected the presence of a noise burst. Sound pressure level was systematically lowered to obtain psychophysical curves from which absolute thresholds could be determined. Complete lesions of the contralateral IC resulted in substantial elevations in absolute threshold relative to normal whereas equivalent lesions of the ipsilateral IC produced relatively little elevation. In neither case did unilateral destruction of the IC produce a total inability to respond to sound. Contralateral IC lesions that included the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) produced a significantly greater elevation in behavioral thresholds than complete lesions limited to the IC. The results indicate a predominance of the contralateral over the ipsilateral pathway to IC for maintaining normal thresholds. They also indicate that other pathways that bypass the IC are likely involved in detecting the presence of a sound.
HuD protein is an RNA-binding protein involved in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression for synaptogenesis, neuronal differentiation, and learning and memory, and is up-regulated and redistributed by a protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent pathway in neurons. Here, we show a PKC-regulated mechanism on HuD-mediated mRNA stability and expression of several neurotrophic factors (NTFs) in cultured hippocampal neurons. HuD pull-down assays showed that HuD is associated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and neurotrophin (NT)-3 mRNAs. Reduction of HuD expression with short hairpin RNAs decreased BDNF, NGF, and NT-3 mRNAs and NTFs expression. Bryostatin, a PKC activator, treatment enhanced their association with HuD and increased these transcripts' stability. Bryostatin induced HuD phosphorylation, which was inhibited by Ro 32-0432, a specific PKC inhibitor. Activated PKC specifically phosphorylated coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1), which methylates HuD and negatively modulates HuD-mRNA interactions during neuronal differentiation, and inhibited its methyltransferase activity, resulting in decrease in CARM1-mediated HuD methylation. Furthermore cotreatment of bryostatin and AMI-1, a specific CARM1 inhibitor, potentiated PKC-dependent HuD-mRNA interactions and enhanced dendritic arborization. These results demonstrate that PKC may play an important role in neuronal differentiation and synaptogenesis via stimulating HuD-mediated mRNA stability and inhibiting CARM1 in hippocampal neurons.
Aging is accompanied by poor learning and memory abilities and by decreased hippocampal neurogenesis, a process that is also modulated by oxidative stress (OS). P66(Shc) has recently emerged as a novel mammalian gerontogene able to affect healthspan during aging. Deletion of this gene in mice leads to reduced OS accompanied by decreased incidence of age-related pathologies and reduced signs of behavioral aging. We hypothesized that p66(Shc-/-) mutants might show increased neurogenesis in the hippocampus, a brain region involved in learning and memory processes. To this aim, granule cell number, proliferation, neuronal differentiation, and cell death were assessed in the hippocampus in senescent p66(Shc-/-) [knock out (KO)] and p66(Shc+/+) [wild type (WT)] male and female mice. Spatial learning abilities and spontaneous activity were also investigated in a multifunctional behavioral system-IntelliCages. The behavioral analysis revealed that females in general perform better in spatial learning tasks, with genotype effects being apparent in the activity pattern only. Likewise, all females showed increased neuronal differentiation, whereas increased proliferation was found only in those belonging to the p66(Shc-/-) genotype, indicating that they might be protected from precursor cell loss. The number of dying cells was not affected by genotype or sex; however, all KO mice showed less granule cells than WT. Overall, our data suggest that hippocampal function is protected in the female gender at older age, an effect amplified by reduced OS in the p66(Shc-/-) mutant.
Aripiprazole is a D2 and D3 receptor partial agonist that is unlike other second generation antipsychotics. The effectiveness of aripiprazole with regard to neurocognitive function and its adverse effects is unclear. The present study evaluates the comparative efficacy, effects on neurocognitive function, and adverse effects of aripiprazole and risperidone in the treatment of hospitalized patients with schizophrenia. This double-blind, cross-over study included 23 patients with schizophrenia who were randomly assigned to be treated first with either aripiprazole or risperidone. After eight weeks on one medication, the patients were switched to the other medication for eight weeks. The patient assessment included the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), neurocognitive assessments, and adverse events including extrapyramidal symptoms, vital signs, electrocardiogram, and clinical laboratory tests. The study findings indicated that psychopathology assessed with the PANSS, extrapyramidal symptoms and other adverse effects did not differ between aripiprazole and risperidone for the subjects remaining in treatment. In the neurocognitive assessments, the score for disinhibition with aripiprazole was significantly lower than with risperidone (p &lt; 0.05). In addition, serum prolactin levels were significantly lower with aripiprazole (p &lt; 0.001). The treatment drop-out rate was higher for patients receiving aripiprazole than risperidone. In comparing aripiprazole and risperidone, risperidone is better from the viewpoint of treatment continuation. On the other hand, some adverse effects, such as hyperprolactinemia and disinhibition, are less severe with aripiprazole. Thus, for certain applications, aripiprazole may be a beneficial new treatment option for schizophrenia.
The choroid plexus epithelium controls the movement of solutes between the blood and the cerebrospinal fluid. It has been considered as a functionally more immature interface during brain development than in adult. The anatomical basis of this barrier is the interepithelial choroidal junction whose tightness has been attributed to the presence of claudins. We used quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blot and immunohistochemistry to identify different claudins in the choroid plexuses of developing and adult rats. Claudin-1, -2, and -3 were highly and selectively expressed in the choroid plexus as compared to brain or parenchyma microvessels and were localized at epithelial junctions. Claudin-6, -9, -19, and -22 also displayed a previously undescribed choroidal selectivity, while claudin-4, -5, and -16 were enriched in the cerebral microvessels. The choroidal pattern of tight junction protein expression in prenatal brains was already complex and included occludin and zonula occludens proteins. It differed from the adult pattern in that the pore-forming claudin-2, claudin-9, and claudin-22 increased during development, while claudin-3 and claudin-6 decreased. Claudin-2 and claudin-11 presented a mirror image of abundance between lateral ventricle and fourth ventricle choroid plexuses. Imunohistochemical analysis of human fetal and postnatal brains for claudin-1, -2, and -3 demonstrated their early presence and localization at the apico-lateral border of the choroid plexus epithelial cells. Overall, choroidal epithelial tight junctions are already complex in developing brain. The observed differences in claudin expression between developing and adult choroid plexuses may indicate developmental differences in selective blood-cerebrospinal fluid transport functions.
The midbrain is a complex structure where different functions are located. This formation is mainly involved in the visual and auditory information process (tectum) and visual movements and motor coordination (tegmentum). Here we display a complete description of midbrain anatomy based on the prosomeric model and of the developmental events that take place to generate this structure. We also summarize the new data about the differentiation and specification of the basal populations of the midbrain. The neural tube suffers the influence of several secondary organizers. These signaling centers confer exact positional information to the neuroblasts. In the midbrain these centers are the Isthmic organizer for the antero-posterior axis and the floor and roof plates for the dorso-ventral axis. This segment of the brain contains, in the dorsal part, structures such as the collicula (superior and inferior), tectal grey and the preisthmic segment, and in the basal plate, neuronal populations such as the oculomotor complex, the dopaminergic substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area, the reticular formation and the periacueductal grey. Knowledge of the genetic cascades involved in the differentiation programs of the diverse populations will be extremely important to understand not only how the midbrain develops, but how degenerative pathologies, such as Parkinson's disease, occurs. These cascades are triggered by signaling molecules such as Shh, Fgf8 or Wnt1 and are integrated by receptor complexes and transcription factors. These are directly responsible for the induction or repression of the differentiation programs that will produce a specific neuronal phenotype.

Viewing other's pain inhibits the excitability of the motor cortex and also modulates the neural activity elicited by a concomitantly delivered nociceptive somatosensory stimulus. As the neural activity elicited by a transient nociceptive stimulus largely reflects non nociceptive-specific, multimodal neural processes, here we tested, for the first time, whether the observation of other's pain preferentially affects the brain responses elicited by nociceptive stimulation, or instead similarly modulates those elicited by stimuli belonging to a different sensory modality. Using 58-channel electroencephalography (EEG), we recorded the cortical responses elicited by laser and auditory stimulation during the observation of videoclips showing either noxious or non-noxious stimulation of a stranger's hand. We found that the observation of other's pain modulated the cortical activity consisting in an event-related desynchronization in the  band ( ERD), and elicited by nociceptive laser stimuli, but not by auditory stimuli. Using three different source analysis approaches, we provide converging evidence that such modulation affected neural activity in the contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex. The magnitude of this modulation correlated well with a subjective measure of similarity between the model's hand and the onlooker's representation of the hand. Altogether, these findings demonstrate that the observation of other's pain modulates, in a somatosensory-specific fashion, the cortical responses elicited by nociceptive stimuli in the sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the stimulated hand.
Animal models of stroke demonstrated that white matter ischemia may cause both axonal damage and myelin degradation distant from the core lesion, thereby impacting on behavior and functional outcome after stroke. We here used parameters derived from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to investigate the effect of focal white matter ischemia on functional reorganization within the motor system. Patients (n = 18) suffering from hand motor deficits in the subacute or chronic stage after subcortical stroke and healthy controls (n = 12) were scanned with both diffusion MRI and functional MRI while performing a motor task with the left or right hand. A laterality index was employed on activated voxels to assess functional reorganization across hemispheres. Regression analyses revealed that diffusion MRI parameters of both the ipsilesional corticospinal tract (CST) and corpus callosum (CC) predicted increased activation of the unaffected hemisphere during movements of the stroke-affected hand. Changes in diffusion MRI parameters possibly reflecting axonal damage and/or destruction of myelin sheath correlated with a stronger bilateral recruitment of motor areas and poorer motor performance. Probabilistic fiber tracking analyses revealed that the region in the CC correlating with the fMRI laterality index and motor deficits connected to sensorimotor cortex, supplementary motor area, ventral premotor cortex, superior parietal lobule, and temporoparietal junction. The results suggest that degeneration of transcallosal fibers connecting higher order sensorimotor regions constitute a relevant factor influencing cortical reorganization and motor outcome after subcortical stroke.
Previous imaging studies assessing the relationship between white matter (WM) damage and matter (GM) atrophy have raised the concern that Multiple Sclerosis (MS) WM lesions may affect measures of GM volume by inducing voxel misclassification during intensity-based tissue segmentation. Here, we quantified this misclassification error in simulated and real MS brains using a lesion-filling method. Using this method, we also corrected GM measures in patients before comparing them with controls in order to assess the impact of this lesion-induced misclassification error in clinical studies. We found that higher WM lesion volumes artificially reduced total GM volumes. In patients, this effect was about 72% of that predicted by simulation. Misclassified voxels were located at the GM/WM border and could be distant from lesions. Volume of individual deep gray matter (DGM) structures generally decreased with higher lesion volumes, consistent with results from total GM. While preserving differences in GM volumes between patients and controls, lesion-filling correction revealed more lateralised DGM shape changes in patients, which were not evident with the original images. Our results confirm that WM lesions can influence MRI measures of GM volume and shape in MS patients through their effect on intensity-based GM segmentation. The greater effect of lesions at increasing levels of damage supports the use of lesion-filling to correct for this problem and improve the interpretability of the results. Volumetric or morphometric imaging studies, where lesion amount and characteristics may vary between groups of patients or change over time, may especially benefit from this correction.
The ability to resist immediate rewards is crucial for lifetime success and individual well-being. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we assessed the association between trait impulsivity and the neural underpinnings of the ability to control immediate reward desiring. Low and high extreme impulsivity groups were compared with regard to their behavioral performance and brain activation in situations, in which they had to forego immediate rewards with varying value to achieve a superordinate long-term goal. We found that highly impulsive (HI) individuals, who successfully compensated for their lack in behavioral self-control, engaged two complementary brain mechanisms when choosing actions in favor of a long-term goal, but at the expense of an immediate reward. First, self-controlled decisions led to a general attenuation of reward-related activation in the nucleus accumbens, which was accompanied by an increased inverse connectivity with the anteroventral prefrontal cortex. Second, HI subjects controlled their desire for increasingly valuable, but suboptimal rewards through a linear reduction of activation in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC). This was achieved by an increased inverse coupling between the VMPFC and the ventral striatum. Importantly, the neural mechanisms observed in the HI group differed from those in extremely controlled individuals, despite similar behavioral performance. Collectively, these results suggest trait-specific neural mechanisms that allow HI individuals to control their desire for immediate reward.
To examine how musical expertise tunes the brain to subtle metric anomalies in an ecological musical context, we presented piano compositions ending on standard and deviant cadences (endings) to expert pianists and musical laymen, while high-density EEG was recorded. Temporal expectancies were manipulated by substituting standard &quot;masculine&quot; cadences at metrically strong positions with deviant, metrically unaccented, &quot;feminine&quot; cadences. Experts detected metrically deviant cadences better than laymen. Analyses of event-related potentials demonstrated that an early P3a-like component (~150-300 ms), elicited by musical closure, was significantly enhanced at frontal and parietal electrodes in response to deviant endings in experts, whereas a reduced response to deviance occurred in laymen. Putative neuronal sources contributing to the modulation of this component were localized in a network of brain regions including bilateral supplementary motor areas, middle and posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, associative visual areas, as well as in the right amygdala and insula. In all these regions, experts showed enhanced responses to metric deviance. Later effects demonstrated enhanced activations within the same brain network, as well as higher processing speed for experts. These results suggest that early brain responses to metric deviance in experts may rely on motor representations mediated by the supplementary motor area and motor cingulate regions, in addition to areas involved in self-referential imagery and relevance detection. Such motor representations could play a role in temporal sensory prediction evolved from musical training and suggests that rhythm evokes action more strongly in highly trained instrumentalists.
The purpose of our study was to determine the relationship between voltage-dependent anion channel 1 protein (VDAC1) and amyloid beta (A) and phosphorylated tau in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using brain specimens from AD patients, control subjects and 6-, 12- and 24-month-old A precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice, we studied VDAC1 protein levels. Further, we also studied the interaction between VDAC1 and A (monomers and oligomers) and phosphorylated tau, using cortical issues from AD patients, control subjects, APP, APP/PS1 and 3XTg.AD mice. We also studied age- and VDAC1-linked, mutant APP/A-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in APP and non-transgenic wild-type (WT) mice. We found progressively increased levels of VDAC1 in the cortical tissues from the brains of patients with AD, relative to control subjects, and significantly increased levels of VDAC1 in the cerebral cortices of 6-, 12- and 24-month-old APP transgenic mice, relative to the age-matched control WT mice. Interestingly, we found VDAC1 interacted with A and phosphorylated tau in the brains from AD patients and from APP, APP/PS1 and 3XTg.AD mice. We found progressively increased mitochondrial dysfunction in APP mice relative to WT mice. These observations led us to conclude that VDAC1 interacts with A, and phosphorylated tau may in turn block mitochondrial pores, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction in AD pathogenesis. Based on current study observations, we propose that reduced levels of VDAC1, A and phosphorylated tau may reduce the abnormal interaction between VDAC1 and APP, VDAC1 and A, and VDAC1 and phosphorylated tau; and that reduced levels of VDAC1, A and phosphorylated tau may maintain normal mitochondrial pore opening and pore closure, ultimately leading to normal mitochondrial function, mitochondria supplying ATP to nerve terminals and boosting synaptic and cognitive function in AD.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand-mediated transcription factors, which control both lipid and energy metabolism and inflammation pathways. PPAR agonists are effective in the treatment of metabolic diseases and, more recently, neurodegenerative diseases, in which they show promising neuroprotective effects. We studied the effects of the pan-PPAR agonist bezafibrate on tau pathology, inflammation, lipid metabolism and behavior in transgenic mice with the P301S human tau mutation, which causes familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Bezafibrate treatment significantly decreased tau hyperphosphorylation using AT8 staining and the number of MC1-positive neurons. Bezafibrate treatment also diminished microglial activation and expression of both inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase 2. Additionally, the drug differentially affected the brain and brown fat lipidome of control and P301S mice, preventing lipid vacuoles in brown fat. These effects were associated with behavioral improvement, as evidenced by reduced hyperactivity and disinhibition in the P301S mice. Bezafibrate therefore exerts neuroprotective effects in a mouse model of tauopathy, as shown by decreased tau pathology and behavioral improvement. Since bezafibrate was given to the mice before tau pathology had developed, our data suggest that bezafibrate exerts a preventive effect on both tau pathology and its behavioral consequences. Bezafibrate is therefore a promising agent for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases associated with tau pathology.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly heterogeneous type of tumor characterized by genomic and signaling abnormalities affecting pathways involved in control of cell fate, including tumor-suppressor- and growth factor-regulated pathways. An aberrant miRNA expression has been observed in GBM, being associated with impaired cellular functions resulting in malignant transformation, proliferation and invasion. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF-B), a potent angiogenic growth factor involved in GBM development and progression, promotes downregulation of pro-oncogenic (miR-21) and anti-oncogenic (miR-128) miRNAs, as well as upregulation/downregulation of several miRNAs involved in GBM pathology. Retrovirally mediated overexpression of PDGF-B in U87 human GBM cells or their prolonged exposure, as well as that of F98 rat glioma cells to this ligand, resulted in decreased miR-21 and miR-128 levels, which was associated with increased cell proliferation. Furthermore, siRNA-mediated PDGF-B silencing led to increased levels of miR-21 and miR-128, while miRNA modulation through overexpression of miR-21 did not alter the levels of PDGF-B. Finally, we demonstrate that modulation of tumor suppressors PTEN and p53 in U87 cells does not affect the decrease in miR-21 levels associated with PDGF-B overexpression. Overall, our findings suggest that, besides its role in inducing GBM tumorigenesis, PDGF-B may enhance tumor proliferation by modulating the expression of oncomiRs and tumor suppressor miRNAs in U87 human GBM cells.
Riccio and Stoffregen (1988) have suggested that task performance is the predominant constraint of change in postural control. To test this hypothesis, 12 healthy, young adults performed large lateral gaze shifts (left/right gaze shifts with a visual angle of 150 and at a frequency of 0.5 Hz or 1 Hz) and a control condition (looking at a stationary dot). Performance in the visual task was expected to be good under all conditions. In accordance with Riccio and Stoffregen's hypothesis, the center of pressure sway variability (range or standard deviation) was expected to be similar in the three visual tasks when a destabilizing, narrow stance was adopted. Indeed, body sway had to be restrained in narrow stance to adequately perform the task. In standard and wide stance conditions, the center of pressure sway variability was expected to be larger when gaze shifts were performed. Indeed, in these more stable stance conditions, the task could be performed successfully in minimizing energy expenditure, that is, in letting body sway increase naturally. The results were consistent with these expectations. On a practical level, intentional, large gaze shifts may not cause postural instability per se, even though postural sway may increase significantly.
Identifying genes that modify the age at onset (AAO) of Alzheimer disease and targeting them pharmacologically represent a potential treatment strategy. In this exploratory study, we sequenced the complete genomes of six individuals with familial Alzheimer disease due to the autosomal dominant mutation p.Glu280Ala in PSEN1 (MIM# 104311; NM_000021.3:c.839A&gt;C). The disease and its AAO are highly heritable, motivating our search for genetic variants that modulate AAO. The median AAO of dementia in carriers of the mutant allele is 49 years. Extreme phenotypic outliers for AAO in this genetically isolated population with limited environmental variance are likely to harbor onset modifying genetic variants. A narrow distribution of AAO in this kindred suggests large effect sizes of genetic determinants of AAO in these outliers. Identity by descent (IBD) analysis and a combination of bioinformatics filters have suggested several candidate variants for AAO modifiers. Future work and replication studies on these variants may provide mechanistic insights into the etiopathology of Alzheimer disease.
Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (PTHS) is a rare developmental disorder associated with severe mental retardation, facial abnormalities, and intermittent hyperventilation. Autosomal dominant PTHS is caused by mutations in the transcription factor 4 (TCF4) gene, whereas NRXN1 and CNTNAP2 mutations are associated with autosomal recessive PTHS. To determine the impact of missense mutations on TCF4 function, we tested a panel of PTHS-associated mutations using a range of quantitative techniques. Mutations in the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) domain of TCF4 alter the subnuclear localization of the mutant protein and can attenuate homo- and heterodimer formation in homogenous time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF) assays. By contrast, mutations proximal to the bHLH domain do not alter the location of TCF4 or impair heterodimer formation. In addition, we show that TCF4 can transactivate the NRXN1 and CNTNAP2 promoters in luciferase assays. Here we find variable, context-specific deficits in the ability of the different PTHS-associated TCF4 mutants to transactivate these promoters when coexpressed with different bHLH transcription factors. These data demonstrate that PTHS-associated missense mutations can have multiple effects on the function of the protein, and suggest that TCF4 may modulate the expression of NRXN1 and CNTNAP2 thereby defining a regulatory network in PTHS.
Within affluent societies, people who grow up in deprived areas begin reproduction much earlier than their affluent peers, and they display a number of other behaviors adapted to an environment in which life will be short. The psychological mechanisms regulating life-history strategies may be sensitive to the age profile of the people encountered during everyday activities. We hypothesized that this age profile might differ between environments of different socioeconomic composition. We tested this hypothesis with a simple observational study comparing the estimated age distribution of people using the streets in an affluent and a socioeconomically deprived neighborhood which were closely matched in other ways. We were also able to use the UK census to compare the age profile of observed street users with the actual age profile of the community. We found that people over 60 years of age were strikingly less often observed on the street in the deprived than in the affluent neighborhood, whereas young adults were observed more often. These differences were not reflections of the different age profiles of people who lived there, but rather of differences in which residents use the streets. The way people use the streets varies with age in different ways in the affluent and the deprived neighborhoods. We argue that chronic exposure to a world where there are many visible young adults and few visible old ones may activate psychological mechanisms that produce fast life-history strategies.
Recent studies show that necrotic neuronal cells (NNC) activate microglia, thereby leading to neuronal cell death. This suggests that chemicals that inhibit microglia activation may be used as neuroprotective drugs. In this context, we screened a chemical library for inhibitors of microglia activation. Using a screening system based on a nitrite assay, we isolated two chemicals that inhibit nitric oxide (NO) release from activated microglia: triamcinolone acetonide (TA) and amcinonide. The half-maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50) of TA and amcinonide for NO release inhibition were 1.78 nM and 3.38 nM, respectively. These chemicals also inhibited NNC-induced expression of the proinflammatory genes iNOS, TNF-, and IL-1 in glial cells. A study based on a luciferase assay revealed that TA attenuated NNC-induced microglia activation by blocking the NF-B signaling pathway. In addition, TA protected cortical neurons in coculture with microglia from LPS/IFN--induced neuronal cell death. In conclusion, TA may inhibit microglia activation and may protect neuronal cells from death induced by microglial activation.
Ghrelin was discovered in 1999 as growth hormone secretagouge released from the gut. Soon after it was recognized that ghrelin is a fundamental driver of appetite in rodents and humans and that its mode of action requires alteration of hypothalamic circuit function. Here we review aspects of ghrelin's action that revolve around the central nervous system with the goal to highlight these pathways in integrative physiology of metabolism regulation including ghrelin's cross-talk with the action of the adipose hormone, leptin.

Post-traumatic epileptic seizure is a common complication of brain trauma including military injuries. We present clinical characteristics and correlates of post-traumatic epilepsy in 163 head-injured veterans suffering from intractable epilepsy due to blunt or penetrating head injuries sustained during the Iraq-Iran war. The medical records of 163 war veterans who were admitted by the Epilepsy Department of the Shefa Neuroscience Center between 2005 and 2009 were retrospectively reviewed. The mean follow-up period after developing epilepsy was 17.2 years. The time interval between the trauma and the first seizure was shorter and the seizure frequency was higher in epileptic patients suffering from penetrating head trauma. There was no difference in seizure type between epileptic patients traumatised by blunt or penetrating injury. Patients with seizure frequency of more than 30 per month mostly had simple partial seizure. Frontal and parietal semiologies were observed more frequently in patients with penetrating trauma, whereas patients with blunt trauma showed a higher temporal semiology. The most common brain lesion observed by CT scan was encephalomalacia followed by porencephaly and focal atrophy. There was no association between intracerebral retained fragments and different characteristic features of epilepsy. Patients with military brain injury carry a high risk of intractable post-traumatic epilepsy decades after their injury, and thus require a long-term medical follow-up.

The neuropeptide galanin inhibits the evoked release of several neurotransmitters including acetylcholine and modulates adenylate cyclase (AC) activity. Galanin has also been established to impair various forms of learning and memory in rodents. However, whether galanin produces learning deficits by inhibiting cholinergic activity or decreasing AC function has not been clearly established. The current study investigated if donepezil, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor utilized in Alzheimer's disease, could rescue galanin-induced Morris water task deficits in rats. The results demonstrated that donepezil did not alter the previously established deficits induced by galanin. These findings suggest that galanin-mediated spatial learning deficits may be unrelated to its modulation of the cholinergic system.

The fetal transcription factor PLAG1 is found to be overexpressed in cancers, and has been suggested to bind the insulin like growth factor 2 (IGF2) P3 promoter, and to activate the IGF2 gene. The expression of IGF2 has partly been linked to loss of CTCF-dependent chromatin insulator function at the H19 imprinting control region (ICR). We investigated the role of PLAG1 for IGF2 regulation in Hep3B and JEG-3 cell lines. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed cell type-specific binding of PLAG1 to the IGF2 P3 promoter, which was substantially insensitive to recombinant PLAG1 overexpression in the endogenous context. We hypothesized that the H19 chromatin insulator may be involved in the cell type-specific PLAG1 response. By using a GFP reporter gene/insulator assay plasmid construct with and without the H19 ICR and/or an SV40 enhancer, we confirm that the effect of the insulator is specifically associated with the activity of the IGF2 P3 promoter in the GFP reporter system, and furthermore, that the reporter insulator is functional in JEG-3 but not in Hep3B cells. FACS analysis was used to assess the function of PLAG1 in low endogenously expressing, but Zn-inducible stable PLAG1 expressing JEG-3 cell clones. Considerable increase in IGF2 expression upon PLAG1 induction with a partial insulator overriding activity was found using the reporter constructs. This is in contrast to the effect of the endogenous IGF2 gene which was insensitive to PLAG1 expression in JEG-3, while modestly induced the already highly expressed IGF2 gene in Hep3B cells. We suggest that the PLAG1 binding to the IGF2 P3 promoter and IGF2 expression is cell type-specific, and that the PLAG1 transcription factor acts as a transcriptional facilitator that partially overrides the insulation by the H19 ICR.
The object of this paper is to provide a metapsychological definition of alexithymia as described in 1967 in terms of operational thinking and negative hallucination. This is a familiar and established concept in the fields of psychopathology, psychology, and of clinical and psychosomatic medicine. From a psychoanalytic and psychosomatic point of view, the term is conceptually close to P. Marty's &quot;operative thinking&quot;, as described in 1963, even though we know they do not belong to the same epistemological field: on one hand Neuroscience, Psychiatry and the objectalization of the symptom at different levels, and on the other, as regards mechanical functioning, a psychoanalytic clinical approach within the dynamics of the relationship between transference and counter-transference. The present authors consider that Freudian metapsychology, as now complexified by Andr Green, allows for a metapsychological approach to alexithymia insofar as it relates to Marty's operative thinking. Thus does Green's conceptualization of the mother's negative hallucination, of negative introjection, of a psychically 'dead (and insecure) mother', now provide us with the opportunity to describe, in metapsychological terms, the genesis of this particular mode of psychical functioning. Given the mother's negative hallucination produces a host structure as a background to negativity that will fit future object representations, we will assume that in the case of  future operational or alexithymic ?, this negative hallucination will pathologically and defensively involve the endo-psychic perception of affect.
In a previous study, we have shown that passive recognition of tactile geometrical shapes (i.e. no exploratory movement) engages prefrontal and premotor areas in addition to somatosensory regions (Savini et al., 2010). In the present study we tested the hypothesis that these regions are involved not only in the perception but also during working memory of such somatic information. We performed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during the execution of N-BACK tasks, with 2D geometrical shapes blindly pressed on the subjects' right hand palm. Three conditions with increasing memory load (0-BACK, 1-BACK, 2-BACK) were used. Results showed that primary somatosensory area (SI), secondary somatosensory area (SII) and bilateral Insula were active in all conditions, confirming their importance in coding somatosensory stimuli. Activation of fronto-parietal circuit in supplementary motor area (SMA), right superior parietal lobe (rSPL), bilateral middle frontal gyrus, left inferior frontal gyrus, and right superior frontal sulcus was significantly larger during 1-BACK and 2-BACK than 0-BACK. Left superior parietal lobe and right frontal eye field showed a higher activation during the 2-BACK than 0-BACK. Finally, SMA and rSPL were characterized by a statistically significant higher activation during 2-BACK than 1-BACK, revealing their sensitivity to the memory load. These results suggest that working memory of tactile geometrical shapes (no exploratory movement) involves a complex circuit of modal and supramodal fronto-parietal areas.
Music is a stimulus which may give rise to a wide range of emotional and cognitive responses. Therefore, brain reactivity to music has become a focus of interest in cognitive neuroscience. It is possible that individual preference moderates the effectof music on the brain. In the present study we examined whether there are common effects of listening to music even if each subject in a sample chooses their own piece of music. We invited 18 subjects to bring along their favorite relaxing music, and their favourite stimulating music. Additionally, a condition with tactile stimulation on the foot and a baseline condition (rest) without stimulation were used. The tactile stimulation was chosen to provide a simple, non-auditory condition which would be identical for all subjects. The electroencephalogram was recorded for each of the 3 conditions and during rest. We found responses in the alpha range mainly on parietal and occipital sites that were significant compared to baseline in 13 subjects during relaxing music, 15 subjects during activating music, and 16 subjects during tactile stimulation. Most subjects showed an alpha desynchronization in a lower alpha range followed by a synchronization in an upper frequency range. However, some subjects showed an increase in this area, whereas others showed a decrease only. In addition, many subjects showed reactivity in the beta range. Beta activity was especially increased while listening to activating music and during tactile stimulation in most subjects. We found interindividual differences in the response patterns even though the stimuli provoked comparable subjective emotions (relaxation, activation), and even if the stimulus was the same for all subjects (somatosensory stimulation). We suggest that brain responsivity to music should be examined individually by considering individual characteristics.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that results in loss of memory and cognitive function, eventually leading to dementia. A key neuropathological event in AD is the cerebral accumulation of senile plaques formed by aggregates of amyloid--peptides (A). A results from two sequential endoproteolytic cleavages operated on the amyloid- precursor protein (APP), an integral membrane protein with a single-membrane spanning domain, a large extracellular N-terminus and a shorter, cytoplasmic C-terminus. First, -secretase (BACE1) cleaves APP at the N-terminal end of the A sequence to produce a secreted form of APP, named sAPP, and a C-terminal membrane-bound 99-aminoacid fragment (C99). Then, -secretase cleaves C99 within the transmembrane domain to release the A peptides of different lengths, predominantly A1-40 and A1-42.
Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are responsible for the breakdown of cyclic nucleotides, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). As such, they are crucial regulators of levels of cyclic nucleotide-mediated signaling. cAMP signaling and cGMP signaling have been associated with neuroplasticity and protection, and influencing their levels in the cell by inhibition of PDEs has become a much studied target for treatment in a wide array of disorders, including neurodegenerative disorders. In this review, we will focus on the involvement of PDEs in neurodegenerative disorders. In comparison with preclinical work, data on human patients are scarce. Alzheimer's disease is associated with changes in PDE4, PDE7, and PDE8 expression in the brain. Altered functioning of PDE4 as well as PDE11 is associated with major depressive disorder. In multiple sclerosis, there are indications of alterations in expression of several PDE subtypes in the central nervous system; however, evidence is indirect. In Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease, most research has focused on PDE1B and PDE10, because of their abundant presence in striatal neurons. In another rare, neurodegenerative striatal motor disorder, that is, autosomal-dominant striatal degeneration, genetic defects in PDE8B gene are thought to underlie the neurodegenerative processes. Although the latter disorder has showed a causative dysfunction of PDEs, this does not hold for the neurodegenerative disorders discussed above, in which changes in PDE levels seemingly rather represent secondary changes and compensation to prior existing dysfunction. However, normalizing cyclic nucleotide signaling via PDE inhibition remains interesting for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Alterations of the insulin signaling cascade underlie cognitive decline and the development of several neurodegenerative diseases. In recent years, a great interest has been put in studying the interaction between diabetes and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In fact, evidence shows that both diseases present several biochemical similarities including defects in the insulin signaling pathway. Here, we give an overview of the main functions of insulin in the central nervous system. The impact of insulin signaling impairment in brain aging and AD is also discussed. Finally, we present evidence supporting the notion that insulin is a link between diabetes and AD.
The ability of a receiver to detect a signal is a product of the signal characteristics at the sender, habitat-specific degradation of the signal, and properties of the receiver's sensory system. Active space describes the maximum distance at which a receiver with a given sensory system can detect a signal in a given habitat. Here the effect of habitat structure and urbanization on brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) perched song active space was explored. The active space of the cowbird song was affected by both habitat type and level of urbanization. High frequency (4 to 6 kHz) portions of song resulted in the maximum active space. Surprisingly, the active space was the largest in open urban environments. The hard surfaces found in open urban areas (e.g., sidewalks, buildings) may provide a sound channel that enhances song propagation. When the introductory phrase and final phrase were analyzed separately, the active space of the introductory phrase was found to decrease in open urban environments but the active space of the final phrase increased in open urban environments. This suggests that different portions of the vocalization may be differentially influenced by habitat and level of urbanization.
In echoic environments, direct sounds dominate perception even when followed by their reflections. As the delay between the direct (lead) source and the reflection (lag) increases, the reflection starts to become localizable. Although this phenomenon, which is part of the precedence effect, is typically studied with brief transients, leading and lagging sounds often overlap in time and are thus composed of three distinct segments: the &quot;superposed&quot; segment, when both sounds are present together, and the &quot;lead-alone&quot; and &quot;lag-alone&quot; segments, when leading and lagging sounds are present alone, respectively. Recently, it was shown that the barn owl (Tyto alba) localizes the lagging sound when the lag-alone segment, not the lead-alone segment, is lengthened. This was unexpected given the prevailing hypothesis that a leading sound may briefly desensitize the auditory system to sounds arriving later. The present study confirms this finding in humans under conditions that minimized the role of the superposed segment in the localization of either source. Just as lengthening the lag-alone segment caused the lagging sound to become more salient, lengthening the lead-alone segment caused the leading sound to become more salient. These results suggest that the neural representations of the lead and lag are independent of one another.
Acupuncture is an ancient treatment modality that can trace its origins to as far back as 10,000 BC along the banks of the Yellow River in China. It involves the insertion of sharpened objects into specific areas of the body to achieve therapeutic effects. According to the theory of Traditional Chinese Medicine, acupuncture modulates the flow of Qi and Xue through the meridians so that the main organs (Zhongs-Fus) will re-establish homeostasis as governed by the laws of Yin-Yang and the Five Elements. In clinical practice, acupuncture is an efficacious treatment for alleviating acute and chronic pain, but a consensus on its underlying mechanisms is still lacking. This article presents an up-to-date review of the various neurophysiologic mechanisms that have been proposed to produce acupuncture-induced analgesia.


Calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals are responsible for the kidney injury associated with exposure to ethylene glycol or severe hyperoxaluria. Current treatment strategies target the formation of calcium oxalate but not its interaction with kidney tissue. Because aluminum citrate blocks calcium oxalate binding and toxicity in human kidney cells, it may provide a different therapeutic approach to calcium oxalate-induced injury. Here, we tested the effects of aluminum citrate and sodium citrate in a Wistar rat model of acute high-dose ethylene glycol exposure. Aluminum citrate, but not sodium citrate, attenuated increases in urea nitrogen, creatinine, and the ratio of kidney to body weight in ethylene glycol-treated rats. Compared with ethylene glycol alone, the addition of aluminum citrate significantly increased the urinary excretion of both crystalline calcium and crystalline oxalate and decreased the deposition of crystals in renal tissue. In vitro, aluminum citrate interacted directly with oxalate crystals to inhibit their uptake by proximal tubule cells. These results suggest that treating with aluminum citrate attenuates renal injury in rats with severe ethylene glycol toxicity, apparently by inhibiting calcium oxalate's interaction with, and retention by, the kidney epithelium.
This study investigated the function of the cruciate ligaments during a forward lunge movement. The mechanical roles of the anterior and posterior cruciate ligament (ACL, PCL) during sagittal plane movements, such as forward lunging, are unclear. A forward lunge movement contains a knee joint flexion and extension that is controlled by the quadriceps muscle. The contraction of the quadriceps can cause anterior tibial translation, which may strain the ACL at knee joint positions close to full extension. However, recent findings suggest that it is the PCL rather than the ACL which is strained during forward lunging. Thus, the purpose of the present study was to establish a musculoskeletal model of the forward lunge to computationally investigate the complete mechanical force equilibrium of the tibia during the movement to examine the loading pattern of the cruciate ligaments. A healthy female was selected from a group of healthy subjects who all performed a forward lunge on a force platform, targeting a knee flexion angle of 90. Skin-markers were placed on anatomical landmarks on the subject and the movement was recorded by five video cameras. The three-dimensional kinematic data describing the forward lunge movement were extracted and used to develop a biomechanical model of the lunge movement. The model comprised two legs including femur, crus, rigid foot segments and the pelvis. Each leg had 35 independent muscle units, which were recruited according to a minimum fatigue criterion. This approach allowed a full understanding of the mechanical equilibrium of the knee joint, which revealed that the PCL had an important stabilizing role in the forward lunge movement. In contrast, the ACL did not have any significant mechanical function during the lunge movement. Furthermore, the results showed that m.gluteus maximus may play a role as a knee stabilizer in addition to the hamstring muscles.
Type 2 diabetes adversely affects the properties of native connective tissue. The underlying mechanisms, however, by which diabetes alters connective tissue metabolism, especially tendon, are poorly defined. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of type 2 diabetes on the mechanical, histological, and molecular properties of the intact and healing Achilles tendon. The right Achilles tendon was transected in 11 male diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) and 10 age- and sex-matched Wistar control rats, while the left Achilles tendon was left intact. At 2 wk postinjury the intact and injured tendons were assessed by biomechanical testing and histology. The gene expression of collagen I and III, biglycan, versican, MMP-13, and MMP-3 was measured by quantitative RT-PCR, and their protein distribution was studied by immunohistochemistry. Intact tendons exhibited only small differences between the groups. In injured tendons, however, a significantly smaller transverse area and lower stiffness was found in diabetic GK compared with Wistar control rats. This correlated with impaired structural organization of collagen fibers and a reduced expression of collagen I and III in the injured tendons of the diabetic GK compared with Wistar control. Moreover, MMP-3 gene expression was downregulated in the injured diabetic GK tendons compared with injured Wistar controls. Our results indicate that in a rat model of diabetes tendon healing is impaired mainly due to altered expression of collagen and MMPs reflecting decreased degradation of matrix proteins and impaired tissue remodeling. Further our data suggest that therapeutic modulation of collagens or MMPs might be targets for new regenerative approaches in operated, injured, or maybe also degenerative tendon diseases in diabetes.
The mammalian inner ear combines spectral analysis of sound with multiband dynamic compression. Cochlear mechanics has mainly been studied using single-tone and tone-pair stimulation. Most natural sounds, however, have wideband spectra. Because the cochlea is strongly nonlinear, wideband responses cannot be predicted by simply adding single-tone responses. We measured responses of the gerbil basilar membrane to single-tone and wideband stimuli and compared them, while focusing on nonlinear aspects of the response. In agreement with previous work, we found that frequency selectivity and its dependence on stimulus intensity were very similar between single-tone and wideband responses. The main difference was a constant shift in effective sound intensity, which was well predicted by a simple gain control scheme. We found expansive nonlinearities in low-frequency responses, which, with increasing frequency, gradually turned into the more familiar compressive nonlinearities. The overall power of distortion products was at least 13 dB below the overall power of the linear response, but in a limited band above the characteristic frequency, the power of distortion products often exceeded the linear response. Our results explain the partial success of a &quot;quasilinear&quot; description of wideband basilar membrane responses, but also indicate its limitations.
Amplitude modulations in the speech envelope are crucial elements for speech perception. These modulations comprise the processing rate at which syllabic (~3-7 Hz), and phonemic transitions occur in speech. Theories about speech perception hypothesize that each hemisphere in the auditory cortex is specialized in analyzing modulations at different timescales, and that phonemic-rate modulations of the speech envelope lateralize to the left hemisphere, whereas right lateralization occurs for slow, syllabic-rate modulations. In the present study, neural processing of phonemic- and syllabic-rate modulations was investigated with auditory steady-state responses (ASSRs). ASSRs to speech-weighted noise stimuli, amplitude modulated at 4, 20, and 80 Hz, were recorded in 30 normal-hearing adults. The 80 Hz ASSR is primarily generated by the brainstem, whereas 20 and 4 Hz ASSRs are mainly cortically evoked and relate to speech perception. Stimuli were presented diotically (same signal to both ears) and monaurally (one signal to the left or right ear). For 80 Hz, diotic ASSRs were larger than monaural responses. This binaural advantage decreased with decreasing modulation frequency. For 20 Hz, diotic ASSRs were equal to monaural responses, while for 4 Hz, diotic responses were smaller than monaural responses. Comparison of left and right ear stimulation demonstrated that, with decreasing modulation rate, a gradual change from ipsilateral to right lateralization occurred. Together, these results (1) suggest that ASSR enhancement to binaural stimulation decreases in the ascending auditory system and (2) indicate that right lateralization is more prominent for low-frequency ASSRs. These findings may have important consequences for electrode placement in clinical settings, as well as for the understanding of low-frequency ASSR generation.
Calyx afferent terminals engulf the basolateral region of type I vestibular hair cells, and synaptic transmission across the vestibular type I hair cell/calyx is not well understood. Calyces express several ionic conductances, which may shape postsynaptic potentials. These include previously described tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward Na(+) currents, voltage-dependent outward K(+) currents and a K(Ca) current. Here, we characterize an inwardly rectifying conductance in gerbil semicircular canal calyx terminals (postnatal days 3-45), sensitive to voltage and to cyclic nucleotides. Using whole-cell patch clamp, we recorded from isolated calyx terminals still attached to their type I hair cells. A slowly activating, noninactivating current (I(h)) was seen with hyperpolarizing voltage steps negative to the resting potential. External Cs(+) (1-5 mM) and ZD7288 (100 M) blocked the inward current by 97 and 83 %, respectively, confirming that I(h) was carried by hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide gated channels. Mean half-activation voltage of I(h) was -123 mV, which shifted to -114 mV in the presence of cAMP. Activation of I(h) was well described with a third order exponential fit to the current (mean time constant of activation, , was 190 ms at -139 mV). Activation speeded up significantly (=136 and 127 ms, respectively) when intracellular cAMP and cGMP were present, suggesting that in vivo I(h) could be subject to efferent modulation via cyclic nucleotide-dependent mechanisms. In current clamp, hyperpolarizing current steps produced a time-dependent depolarizing sag followed by either a rebound afterdepolarization or an action potential. Spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) became larger and wider when I(h) was blocked with ZD7288. In a three-dimensional mathematical model of the calyx terminal based on Hodgkin-Huxley type ionic conductances, removal of I(h) similarly increased the EPSP, whereas cAMP slightly decreased simulated EPSP size and width.
Mycobacterium hassiacum is a rapidly growing mycobacterium isolated from human urine and so far the most thermophilic among mycobacterial species. Its thermotolerance and phylogenetic relationship to M. tuberculosis render its proteins attractive tools for crystallization and structure-guided drug design. We report the draft genome sequence of M. hassiacum DSM 44199.
Microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1) is the major enzyme catalyzing the isomerization of prostaglandin (PG) H(2) to PGE(2). Here we report the development of a robust and practical automated assay in a 384-well format for room temperature screening of mPGES-1 inhibitors with high precision and low reagent consumption. The assay should enable precise structure-activity relationship development. It uses acetonitrile as solvent for PGH(2), FeCl(2)/citrate as stop reagent, and a short reaction time. Combined with high-precision liquid transfer and extensive mixing after addition of reactants, these properties let the assay reach Z' &gt; 0.7 and high reproducibility of inhibitor IC(50) values. Thorough investigation of the quality of mixing in all liquid transfer steps proved crucial for reaching high-precision performance. Abbreviations: mPGES-1 (microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1); FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer); HTRF (homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence); PGH2 (prostaglandin H2); PGE2 (prostaglandin E2); SAR (structure-activity relationship); COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2); GSH (glutathione); ALP (automated labware positioner).
To our knowledge, no other study has investigated Italian medical students' attitudes toward care of the dying patient. The purpose of this study is to investigate those attitudes among second-year Italian medical students. Two-hundred students completed the Italian version of the Frommelt Attitude Toward Care of the Dying Scale form B (FATCOD Form B). Students obtained a mean total score on FATCOD Form B of 112.8 (the possible total score ranges from 30 to 150). On some items, statistically significant differences (p&lt;0.05) emerged for gender and personal previous experiences with terminally ill people. This study shows poor attitudes toward care of the dying patient among second-year Italian medical students, as measured by FATCOD Form B. The need to establish tailored methods in End-of-Life Care education to make students aware of their relationship patterns and to improve students' attitudes toward dying patients is discussed.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection of the central nervous system (CNS) affects cross-talk between the individual cell types of the neurovascular unit, which then contributes to disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the development of neurological dysfunctions. Although the toxicity of HIV-1 on neurons, astrocytes and brain endothelial cells has been widely studied, there are no reports addressing the influence of HIV-1 on pericytes. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether or not pericytes can be infected with HIV-1 and how such an infection affects the barrier function of brain endothelial cells. Our results indicate that human brain pericytes express the major HIV-1 receptor CD4 and co-receptors CXCR4 and CCR5. We also determined that HIV-1 can replicate, although at a low level, in human brain pericytes as detected by HIV-1 p24 ELISA. Pericytes were susceptible to infection with both the X4-tropic NL4-3 and R5-tropic JR-CSF HIV-1 strains. Moreover, HIV-1 infection of pericytes resulted in compromised integrity of an in vitro model of the BBB. These findings indicate that human brain pericytes can be infected with HIV-1 and suggest that infected pericytes are involved in the progression of HIV-1-induced CNS damage.
This article briefly reviews some of the mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of neurological diseases, i.e. damage mechanisms (DM), and their interactions and overlap with protection and reparatory processes (i.e. endogenous defence activities). A relationship between DM and endogenous defence activity (EDA) regarding therapy principles will also be described. Currently, it is difficult to find the correct therapeutic approach for brain protection and recovery, especially because we do not fully understand all of the endogenous neurobiological processes, the complete nature of the pathophysiological mechanisms and the links between these two categories. Moreover, we continue to use a simplistic and reductionist approach in this respect. Endogenous neurobiological processes, such as neurotrophicity, neuroprotection, neuroplasticity and neurogenesis, are central to protection and recovery and represent the background of EDA. The biological reality of the nervous system is far more complex. In fact, there is an endogenous holistic process of neuroprotection and neurorecovery that should be approached therapeutically in an integrated way. The current tendency to exclusively frame drug activity in terms of single mechanisms and single focus effect might distract from other paradigms with greater explanatory power and hinder the development of more effective treatment strategies. A change of concept is required in pharmacological brain protection and recovery. Prospective considerations include an integrated pharmacological approach, focusing on drugs with multimodal activity and pleiotropic neuroprotective effect which are biological drugs, rather than single mechanism drugs, which usually are chemical drugs.
Hyperoxia during T2*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (oxygen challenge imaging (OCI)) causes T2*-weighted signal change that is dependent on cerebral blood volume (CBV) and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF). Crossed cerebellar diaschisis (CCD), where CBV is reduced but OEF is maintained, may be used to understand the relative contributions of OEF and CBV to OCI results. In subjects with large hemispheric strokes, OCI showed reduced signal change in the contralesional cerebellum (P=0.027, n=12). This was associated with reduced CBV in contralesional cerebellum (P=0.039, n=9). CCD may be a useful model to determine the relative contribution of CBV to signal change measured by OCI.
Imprinting on kin occurs during the sixth day of larval development in zebrafish and depends on olfactory signals. In rodents, the immediate early gene egr1 is involved in maintaining the dopaminergic phenotype of periglomerular olfactory bulb cells in an activity dependent way. Furthermore, egr1 is upregulated in medial amygdalar dopamine cells in some rodents (prairie voles) dependent on social pheromone interactions. Thus, we aimed to investigate whether egr1 is involved in imprinting processes and later kin recognition in zebrafish in olfactory centers, such as the olfactory bulb and suspected medial amygdala. In the present paper, we focus on a basic investigation of basal egr1 expression throughout zebrafish brain development and its co-localization with tyrosine hydroxylase as a marker for dopaminergic neurons. Indeed, there is unambiguous co-localization of egr1 and tyrosine hydroxylase in the zebrafish olfactory bulb and hypothetical medial amygdala. Furthermore, as in rodents, ipsilateral transient olfactory deprivation through Triton X-100 treatment of the olfactory epithelium leads to downregulation of egr1 and tyrosine hydroxylase expression in the olfactory bulb, but apparently not in secondary olfactory targets of the zebrafish brain. This indicates that similar processes might be at work in zebrafish and rodent olfactory systems, but their more specific involvement in imprinting in zebrafish has to be further tested.
The Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL(TM)) is a widely-used generic measure of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in children aged  2 years. In the UK, mean scores are known for healthy children aged  5 years, but unknown for toddlers. This paper reports the psychometric properties of parent-rated PedsQL(TM) scores in healthy UK toddlers and compares scores with a healthy USA sample. Two-hundred and fifty-six parents of healthy 2-4-year-olds (recruited from UK Children's Centres/nurseries, University staff/volunteers, and a national parent forum) completed the toddler version of the PedsQL(TM). Internal consistency was good ( 0.70) for all except Nursery Functioning. There were ceiling effects but missing response rates were minimal. Mean scores were: Total score 87.8; Physical Health 92.6; Emotional Functioning 76.0; Social Functioning 89.9; Nursery Functioning 92.3; and Psychosocial Summary 84.6. UK parents rated higher on Physical and Nursery Functioning (p &lt; 0.001), but worse than their US counterparts on Emotional Functioning (p &lt; 0.001) and Psychosocial Summary (p = 0.004). In conclusion, the toddler version of the PedsQL(TM) performed well in a UK sample, apart from the Nursery Functioning scale. Further evidence is needed to ascertain its construct and discriminant validity in the UK. Differences between the UK and USA samples highlight the importance of cross-cultural variations.



A comparison of the effectiveness of immunomodulatory therapies in patients with Guillain Barr syndrome (GBS) who require mechanical ventilation (MV) is important for patient treatment and cost. We aimed to compare the effectiveness of three modes of intervention on the outcome of patients with GBS receiving MV: intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIgG); small volume plasmapheresis (SVP) and large volume plasmapheresis (LVP). Patients with GBS satisfying National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke 1990 criteria and requiring MV between 1997 between 2007 were analyzed. The primary outcome parameters evaluated were mortality, duration of MV, hospital stay and Hughes scale at discharge from hospital. Of the 173 (Male: Female, 118:55) patients who required MV during the study, 106 patients received single modality treatment (IVIgG 31, LVP 45, SVP 30) based on availability, affordability and feasibility. Patients receiving IVIgG had a higher incidence of severe weakness and bulbar involvement. The mean duration of MV (p=0.61), total hospital stay (p=0.44) and Hughes scale at discharge (p=0.31) did not differ among the three groups. Complications were similar in the three treatment groups except for hypoalbuminemia and anemia, which were more common in patients in the LVP group. In conclusion, the outcome of patients treated with these three immunomodulatory treatment modalities did not vary. The beneficial effects of SVP in our study warrant further randomized control trials especially in resource-constrained settings.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is characterized by slowly progressive, predominantly distal, asymmetric limb weakness and partial conduction blocks (CB) of motor axons. Cranial nerve involvement and respiratory failure are uncommon. We report two patients who exhibited unilateral hypoglossal and abducens palsy as presenting signs. Other remarkable features were autonomic instability and respiratory failure due to bilateral phrenic nerve involvement. Treatment with intravenous (IV) immunoglobulin (Ig) resulted in an improvement. Patient 2, who showed IgM reactivity against ganglioside GM1, has been receiving maintenance therapy with IVIg for 7 years. We speculate that cranial weakness of our patients could be due to CB similar to those detected in the motor nerves of the extremities.



Multisensory interactions can produce analgesic effects. In particular, viewing one's own body reduces pain levels, perhaps because of changes in connectivity between visual areas specialized for body representation, and sensory areas underlying pain perception. We tested the causal role of the extrastriate visual cortex in triggering visually induced analgesia by modulating the excitability of this region with transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). Anodal, cathodal, or sham tDCS (2 mA, 10 min) was administered to 24 healthy participants over the right occipital or over the centro-parietal areas thought to be involved in the sensory processing of pain. Participants were required to rate the intensity of painful electrical stimuli while viewing either their left hand or an object occluding the left hand, both before and immediately after tDCS. We found that the analgesic effect of viewing the body was enhanced selectively by anodal stimulation of the occipital cortex. The effect was specific for the polarity and the site of stimulation. The present results indicate that visually induced analgesia may depend on neural signals from the extrastriate visual cortex.
In everyday situations, we often rely on our memories to find what we are looking for in our cluttered environment. Recently, we developed a new experimental paradigm to investigate how long-term memory (LTM) can guide attention and showed how the pre-exposure to a complex scene in which a target location had been learned facilitated the detection of the transient appearance of the target at the remembered location [Summerfield, J. J., Rao, A., Garside, N., &amp; Nobre, A. C. Biasing perception by spatial long-term memory. The Journal of Neuroscience, 31, 14952-14960, 2011; Summerfield, J. J., Lepsien, J., Gitelman, D. R., Mesulam, M. M., &amp; Nobre, A. C. Orienting attention based on long-term memory experience. Neuron, 49, 905-916, 2006]. This study extends these findings by investigating whether and how LTM can enhance perceptual sensitivity to identify targets occurring within their complex scene context. Behavioral measures showed superior perceptual sensitivity (d') for targets located in remembered spatial contexts. We used the N2pc ERP to test whether LTM modulated the process of selecting the target from its scene context. Surprisingly, in contrast to effects of visual spatial cues or implicit contextual cueing, LTM for target locations significantly attenuated the N2pc potential. We propose that the mechanism by which these explicitly available LTMs facilitate perceptual identification of targets may differ from mechanisms triggered by other types of top-down sources of information.
Activity in frontocentral motor regions is routinely reported when individuals process action words and is often interpreted as the implicit simulation of the word content. We hypothesized that these neural responses are not invariant components of action word processing but are modulated by the context in which they are evoked. Using fMRI, we assessed the relative weight of stimulus features (i.e., the intrinsic semantics of words) and contextual factors, in eliciting word-related sensorimotor activity. Participants silently read action-related and state verbs after performing a mental rotation task engaging either a motor strategy (i.e., referring visual stimuli to their own bodily movements) or a visuospatial strategy. The mental rotation tasks were used to induce, respectively, a motor and a nonmotor &quot;cognitive context&quot; into the following silent reading. Irrespective of the verb category, reading in the motor context, compared with reading in the nonmotor context, increased the activity in the left primary motor cortex, the bilateral premotor cortex, and the right somatosensory cortex. Thus, the cognitive context induced by the preceding motor strategy-based mental rotation modulated word-related sensorimotor responses, possibly reflecting the strategy of referring a word meaning to one's own bodily activity. This pattern, common to action and state verbs, suggests that the context in which words are encountered prevails over the intrinsic semantics of the stimuli in mediating the recruitment of sensorimotor regions.
TMS interference over right intraparietal sulcus (IPS) causally disrupts behaviorally and EEG rhythmic correlates of endogenous spatial orienting before visual target presentation [Capotosto, P., Babiloni, C., Romani, G. L., &amp; Corbetta, M. Differential contribution of right and left parietal cortex to the control of spatial attention: A simultaneous EEG-rTMS study. Cerebral Cortex, 22, 446-454, 2012; Capotosto, P., Babiloni, C., Romani, G. L., &amp; Corbetta, M. Fronto-parietal cortex controls spatial attention through modulation of anticipatory alpha rhythms. Journal of Neuroscience, 29, 5863-5872, 2009]. Here we combine data from our previous studies to examine whether right parietal TMS during spatial orienting also impairs stimulus-driven reorienting or the ability to efficiently process unattended stimuli, that is, stimuli outside the current focus of attention. Healthy volunteers (n = 24) performed a Posner spatial cueing task while their EEG activity was being monitored. Repetitive TMS (rTMS) was applied for 150 msec simultaneously to the presentation of a central arrow directing spatial attention to the location of an upcoming visual target. Right IPS-rTMS impaired target detection, especially for stimuli presented at unattended locations; it also caused a modulation of the amplitude of parieto-occipital positive ERPs peaking at about 480 msec (P3) post-target. The P3 significantly decreased for unattended targets and significantly increased for attended targets after right IPS-rTMS as compared with sham stimulation. Similar effects were obtained for left IPS stimulation albeit in a smaller group of volunteers. We conclude that disruption of anticipatory processes in right IPS has prolonged effects that persist during target processing. The P3 decrement may reflect interference with postdecision processes that are part of stimulus-driven reorienting. Right IPS is a node of functional interaction between endogenous spatial orienting and stimulus-driven reorienting processes in human vision.
The prelimbic prefrontal cortex (PL) is a brain region integral to complex behaviors that are highly influenced by cannabinoids and by dopamine D2 receptor (D2R)-mediated regulation of fast-firing parvalbumin-containing interneurons. We have recently shown that constitutive deletion of the cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB1R) greatly reduces parvalbumin levels in these neurons. The effects of CB1R deletion on PL parvalbumin interneurons may be ascribed to loss of CB1R-mediated retrograde signaling on mesocortical dopamine transmission, and, in turn, altered expression and/or subcellular distribution of D2R in the PL. Furthermore, diminished parvalbumin expression could indicate metabolic changes in fast-firing interneurons that may be reflected in changes in mitochondrial density in this population. We therefore comparatively examined electron microscopic dual labeling of D2R and parvalbumin in CB1 (-/-) and CB1 (+/+) mice to test the hypothesis that absence of CB1R produces changes in D2R localization and mitochondrial distribution in parvalbumin-containing interneurons of the PL. CB1 (-/-) mice had a significantly lower density of cytoplasmic D2R-immunogold particles in medium parvalbumin-labeled dendrites and a concomitant increase in the density of these particles in small dendrites. These dendrites received both excitatory and inhibitory-type synapses from unlabeled terminals and contained many mitochondria, whose numbers were significantly reduced in CB1 (-/-) mice. Non-parvalbumin dendrites showed no between-group differences in either D2R distribution or mitochondrial number. These results suggest that cannabinoid signaling provides an important determinant of dendritic D2 receptor distribution and mitochondrial availability in fast-spiking interneurons.
Despite the known importance of galanin in the nervous system of vertebrates, the galanin gene structure and expression and the consequences of galanin deficiency in developing zebrafish are unknown. We cloned the galanin gene and analyzed its expression by using in situ hybridization, PCR, and immunocytochemistry throughout the early development of zebrafish until the end of the first week of life. The single zebrafish galanin gene encoded for a single amidated galanin peptide and a galanin message-associated peptide. Two forms resulting from alternative processing were identified. Galanin mRNA was maternally expressed and found in developing fish throughout early development. In situ hybridization showed the first positive neurons in three groups in the brain at 28 hours postfertilization. At 2 days postfertilization, three prosencephalic neuron groups were seen in the preoptic area and in rostral and caudal periventricular hypothalamus. In addition, two other groups of weakly stained neurons were visible, one in the midbrain and another in the hindbrain. Translation inhibition of galanin mRNA with morpholino oligonucleotides caused complete disappearance of galanin immunoreactivity in the brain until 7 dpf and did not induce known cascades of nonspecific pathways or morphological abnormalities. A minor disturbance of sensory ganglia was found. Galanin knockdown did not alter the expression of tyrosine hydroxylases 1 and 2, choline acetyltransferase, histidine decarboxylase, or orexin mRNA. The results suggest that galanin does not regulate the development of these key markers of specific neurons, although galanin-expressing fibers were in a close spatial proximity to several neurons of these neuronal populations.
Histamine is an essential factor in the ascending arousal system (AAS) during motivated behaviors. Histamine and hypocretin/orexin (hcrt) are proposed to be responsible for different aspects of arousal and wakefulness, histamine mainly for cognitive and motivated behaviors. In this study we visualized the entire histaminergic neuron population in adult male and female zebrafish brain and quantified the histaminergic neuron numbers. There were 40-45 histaminergic neurons in both male and female zebrafish brain. Further, we identified cotransmitters of histaminergic neurons in the ventrocaudal hypothalamus, i.e., around the posterior recess (PR) in adult zebrafish. Galanin, -aminobutyric acid (GABA), and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) were colocalized with histamine in some but not all neurons, a result that was verified by intracerebroventricular injections of colchicine into adult zebrafish. Fibers immunoreactive (ir) for galanin, GABA, TRH, or methionine-enkephalin (mENK) were dense in the ventrocaudal hypothalamus around the histaminergic neurons. In histamine-ir fibers TRH and galanin immunoreactivities were also detected in the ventral telencephalon. All these neurotransmitters are involved in maintaining the equilibrium of the sleep-wake state. Our results are in accordance with results from rats, further supporting the use of zebrafish as a tool to study molecular mechanisms underlying complex behaviors.
The goal of this study was to create a realistic and quantitative simulation of vasopressin (AVP) secretion under iso-osmotic and short-term challenged plasma osmolality. The relationship between AVP concentration ([AVP]) and plasma osmolality was computed using a sophisticated and integrated model that chronologically simulates (1) the overall firing rate of the hypothalamus' magnocellular neuronal (MCN) population, (2) the propagation of the spike activity down the axons, (3) the fatigue and facilitation mechanisms of AVP release at the axon terminals and (4) the [AVP] pharmacodynamics based on the trains of AVP release. This global simulation predicted that the differential MCN sensitivity to dynorphin would be the most critical mechanism underlying the individual variability of MCN firing behaviors (silence, irregular, phasic and continuous firing patterns). However, at the level of the MCN population, the simulation predicted that the dynorphin factor must be combined with the distribution of the resting membrane potentials among the MCNs to obtain a realistic overall firing rate in response to a change in osmolality. Moreover, taking advantage of the integrated model, the simulation predicted that the selective removal of the frequency-dependent facilitation of AVP secretion has a major impact on the overall [AVP]-to-osmolality relationship (mean absolute change of 2.59 pg/ml); the action potential propagation failure, while critical, has a smaller quantitative impact on the overall [AVP] (0.58 pg/ml). The present integrated model (from a single MCN to a quantitative plasma [AVP]) improves our knowledge of the mechanisms underlying overall MCN firing and AVP excitation-secretion coupling.
One of the reasons the visual cortex has attracted the interest of computational neuroscience is that it has well-defined inputs. The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus is the source of visual signals to the primary visual cortex (V1). Most large-scale cortical network models approximate the spike trains of LGN neurons as simple Poisson point processes. However, many studies have shown that neurons in the early visual pathway are capable of spiking with high temporal precision and their discharges are not Poisson-like. To gain an understanding of how response variability in the LGN influences the behavior of V1, we study response properties of model V1 neurons that receive purely feedforward inputs from LGN cells modeled either as noisy leaky integrate-and-fire (NLIF) neurons or as inhomogeneous Poisson processes. We first demonstrate that the NLIF model is capable of reproducing many experimentally observed statistical properties of LGN neurons. Then we show that a V1 model in which the LGN input to a V1 neuron is modeled as a group of NLIF neurons produces higher orientation selectivity than the one with Poisson LGN input. The second result implies that statistical characteristics of LGN spike trains are important for V1's function. We conclude that physiologically motivated models of V1 need to include more realistic LGN spike trains that are less noisy than inhomogeneous Poisson processes.
Synaptic plasticity is believed to represent the neural correlate of mammalian learning and memory function. It has been demonstrated that changes in synaptic conductance can be induced by approximately synchronous pairings of pre- and post- synaptic action potentials delivered at low frequencies. It has also been established that NMDAr-dependent calcium influx into dendritic spines represents a critical signal for plasticity induction, and can account for this spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) as well as experimental data obtained using other stimulation protocols. However, subsequent empirical studies have delineated a more complex relationship between spike-timing, firing rate, stimulus duration and post-synaptic bursting in dictating changes in the conductance of hippocampal excitatory synapses. Here, we present a detailed biophysical model of single dendritic spines on a CA1 pyramidal neuron, describe the NMDAr-dependent calcium influx generated by different stimulation protocols, and construct a parsimonious model of calcium driven kinase and phosphatase dynamics that dictate the probability of stochastic transitions between binary synaptic weight states in a Markov model. We subsequently demonstrate that this approach can account for a range of empirical observations regarding the dynamics of synaptic plasticity induced by different stimulation protocols, under regimes of pharmacological blockade and metaplasticity. Finally, we highlight the strengths and weaknesses of this parsimonious, unified computational synaptic plasticity model, discuss differences between the properties of cortical and hippocampal plasticity highlighted by the experimental literature, and the manner in which further empirical and theoretical research might elucidate the cellular basis of mammalian learning and memory function.


Despite the acknowledged influence of cognition on patients' capacity to consent to treatment, the specific neuropsychological domains involved remain elusive, as does the role of executive functions. We investigated possible associations between executive functions and decisional capacity in a sample of acute psychiatric inpatients. Patients were recruited and evaluated through the MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool for Treatment (MacCAT-T), the 24-item Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). Patients with poor executive functioning performed worse in MacCAT understanding, appreciation, and expression of a choice, compared with good performers. These findings point to the importance of cognition in decisional capacity processes. In addition, the strong association found between learning abilities and informed consent decision-making provide empirical evidence indicating possible cognitive enhancement strategies that may improve psychiatric patients' competency.
Integumentary sensory organs (ISOs) are densely distributed on the jaws of crocodilians and on body scales of members of the families Crocodilidae and Gavialidae. We examined the distribution, anatomy, innervation and response properties of ISOs on the face and body of crocodilians and documented related behaviors for an alligatorid (Alligator mississippiensis) and a crocodylid (Crocodylus niloticus). Each of the ISOs (roughly 4000 in A. mississippiensis and 9000 in C. niloticus) was innervated by networks of afferents supplying multiple different mechanoreceptors. Electrophysiological recordings from the trigeminal ganglion and peripheral nerves were made to isolate single-unit receptive fields and to test possible osmoreceptive and electroreceptive functions. Multiple small (&lt;0.1 mm(2)) receptive fields, often from a single ISO, were recorded from the premaxilla, the rostral dentary, the gingivae and the distal digits. These responded to a median threshold of 0.08 mN. The less densely innervated caudal margins of the jaws had larger receptive fields (&gt;100 mm(2)) and higher thresholds (13.725 mN). Rapidly adapting, slowly adapting type I and slowly adapting type II responses were identified based on neuronal responses. Several rapidly adapting units responded maximally to vibrations at 20-35 Hz, consistent with reports of the ISOs' role in detecting prey-generated water surface ripples. Despite crocodilians' armored bodies, the ISOs imparted a mechanical sensitivity exceeding that of primate fingertips. We conclude that crocodilian ISOs have diverse functions, including detection of water movements, indicating when to bite based on direct contact of pursued prey, and fine tactile discrimination of items held in the jaws.
Spatial reasoning, a crucial skill for everyday actions, develops gradually during the first several years of childhood. Previous studies have shown that perceptual information and problem solving strategies are critical for successful spatial reasoning in young children. Here, we sought to link these two factors by examining children's use of perceptual color cues and whether their use of such cues would lead to the acquisition of a general problem solving strategy. Forty-eight 3-year-olds were asked to predict the trajectory of a ball dropped into one of three intertwined tubes. Children who received additional perceptual cues in the form of distinctly colored tubes succeeded twice as often as those who did not receive the cues. A third group of children who received the additional cues on only the first half of the test trials succeeded while the cues were present but reverted to making errors once they were removed. These findings demonstrate that perceptual color cues provide preschoolers with answers to spatial reasoning problems but might not teach children a general strategy for solving the problem.

Large-artery stiffness is a risk factor for stroke, including cerebral small-vessel disease. Retinal microvascular changes are thought to mirror those in cerebral microvessels. We investigated the relationship between aortic stiffness and retinal microvascular changes in Asian ischemic stroke patients. We studied 145 acute ischemic stroke patients in Singapore who had aortic stiffness measurements using carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (cPWV). Retinal photographs were assessed for retinal microvessel caliber and qualitative signs of focal arteriolar narrowing, arteriovenous nicking and enhanced arteriolar light reflex. Aortic stiffening was associated with retinal arteriolar changes. Retinal arteriolar caliber decreased with increasing cPWV (r=-0.207, P=0.014). After adjusting for age, gender, hypertension, diabetes, mean arterial pressure and small-vessel stroke subtype, patients within the highest cPWV quartile were more likely to have generalized retinal arteriolar narrowing defined as lowest caliber tertile (odds ratio (OR) 6.84, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.45-32.30), focal arteriolar narrowing (OR 13.85, CI 1.82-105.67), arteriovenous nicking (OR 5.08, CI 1.12-23.00) and enhanced arteriolar light reflex (OR 3.83, CI 0.89-16.48), compared with those within the lowest quartile. In ischemic stroke patients, aortic stiffening is associated with retinal arteriolar luminal narrowing as well as features of retinal arteriolosclerosis.
Motor neuron disease (MND) typically affects upper and lower motor neurons without any sensory involvement. Regional anaesthesia is preferred in motor neuron disease patients to avoid aspiration and possibility of prolonged postoperative ventilation following general anaesthesia. As microlaryngeal surgery in a motor neuron disease patient needed airway protection, it was decided to perform the surgery under general anaesthesia with awake intubation following airway block and avoiding muscle relaxant agents completely to minimise unnecessary complications. The patient was allowed spontaneous breathing while maintaining anaesthesia and stable haemodynamic condition with combination of anaesthetic and analgesic agents accordingly throughout the operation.
Human serum albumin (HSA) displays several metal binding sites, participating to essential and toxic metal ions disposal and transport. The major Zn(II) binding site, called Site A, is located at the I/II domain interface, with residues His67, Asn99, His247, and Asp249 contributing with five donor atoms to the metal ion coordination. Additionally, one water molecule takes part of the octahedral coordination geometry. The occurrence of the metal-coordinated water molecule allows the investigation of the metal complex geometry by water (1)H-NMR relaxation, provided that the diamagnetic Zn(II) is replaced by the paramagnetic Mn(II). Here, the (1)H-NMR relaxometric study of Mn(II) binding to HSA is reported. Mn(II) binding to HSA is modulated by Zn(II), pH, and myristate through competitive inhibition and allosteric mechanisms. The body of results indicates that the primary binding site of Zn(II) corresponds to the secondary binding site of Mn(II), i.e. the multimetal binding site A. Excess Zn(II) completely displaces Mn(II) from its primary site suggesting that the primary Mn(II) site corresponds to the secondary Zn(II) site. This uncharacterized site is functionally-linked to FA1; moreover, metal ion binding is modulated by myristate and pH. Noteworthy, water (1)H-NMR relaxometry allowed a detailed analysis of thermodynamic properties of HSA-metal ion complexes.
Human behavior emerges from a complex dynamic interaction between graded and context-sensitive neural processes, the biomechanics of our bodies, and the vicissitudes of our environments. These coupled processes bear little resemblance to the iterated application of simple symbolic rules. Still, there are circumstances under which our behavior appears to be guided by explicit mental rules. A prototypical case is when succinct verbal instructions are communicated and are promptly followed by another. How does the brain support such rule-guided behavior? How are explicit rules represented in the brain? How are rule representations shaped by experience? What neural processes form the foundation of our ability to systematically represent and apply rules from the vast range of possible rules? This article reviews a line of research that has sought a computational cognitive neuroscience account of rule-guided behavior in terms of the functioning of the prefrontal cortex, the basal ganglia, and related brain systems.
Cognitive psychologists have relied on dual-task interference experiments to understand the low-capacity and serial nature of conscious mental operations. Two widely studied paradigms, the Attentional Blink (AB) and the Psychological Refractory Period (PRP) have demonstrated a first-come first-served policy; processing a stimulus either impedes conscious access (AB) or postpones treatment (PRP) of a concurrent stimulus. Here we explored the transition from dual-task paradigms to multi-step human cognition. We studied the relative weight of individual addends in a sequential arithmetic task, where number notation (symbolic/non-symbolic) and presentation speed were independently manipulated. For slow presentation and symbolic notation, the decision relied almost equally on all addends, whereas for fast or non-symbolic notation, the decision relied almost exclusively on the last item reflecting a last-come first-served policy. We suggest that streams of stimuli may be chunked in events in which the last stimuli may override previous items from sensory buffers.

The development of nanoparticles containing active molecules having improved stability, sustained release and maximum half life helps in cell proliferation result in enhanced tissue regeneration. Our study focuses on the use of Gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) and serotonin (5-HT) coupled chitosan nanoparticles for the active liver regeneration in male Wistar rats. The nanoparticles were prepared and the morphology was studied using SEM. The FT-IR spectra of the nanoparticles and the maximum encapsulation efficiency of GABA and 5-HT binding to chitosan nanoparticles were observed. The in vitro release studies provided the percentage release of GABA and 5-HT from the nanoparticles at different time intervals. The quantification of DNA and protein syntheses was done using [(3)H] thymidine and [(3)H] leucine uptake studies that determined the enhancement in hepatocyte proliferation. Our results project the role of GABA and 5-HT chitosan nanoparticles in the treatment of liver based diseases.
Schizophrenia could be considered the most severe of all psychiatric disorders. It shows a heterogeneous clinical picture and presents an etiopathogenesis that is not cleared sufficiently. Even if the etiopathogenesis remains a puzzle, there is a scientific consensus that it is an expression of interaction between genotype and environmental factors. In the present article, following a study of literature and the accumulated evidence, the role of prenatal and perinatal factors in the development of schizophrenia will be revised and synthesized. We think that better knowledge of the risk factors could be helpful not only for better comprehension of the pathogenesis but especially to optimize interventions for prevention of the disorder.

In situations of hypoxia, glutamate excitotoxicity induces neuronal death. The release of extracellular adenosine is also triggered and is accompanied by an increase of the stress mediator, corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF). Adenosine A(2A) receptors contribute to glutamate excitoxicity and their blockade is effective in stress-induced neuronal deficits, but the involvement of CRF on this effect was never explored. We now evaluated the interaction between A(2A) and CRF receptors (CRFR) function, upon glutamate insult. Primary rat cortical neuronal cultures (9 days in vitro) expressing both CRF(1)R and CRF(2)R were challenged with glutamate (20-1000 M, 24 h). CRF(1)R was found to co-localize with neuronal markers and CRF(2)R to be present in both neuronal and glial cells. The effects of the CRF and A(2A) receptors ligands on cell viability were measured using propidium iodide and Syto-13 fluorescence staining. Glutamate decreased cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner. Urocortin (10 pM), an agonist of CRF receptors, increased cell survival in the presence of glutamate. This neuroprotective effect was abolished by blocking either CRF(1)R or CRF(2)R with antalarmin (10 nM) or anti-Sauvagine-30 (10 nM), respectively. The blockade of A(2A) receptors with a selective antagonist SCH 58261 (50 nM) improved cell viability against the glutamate insult. This effect was dependent on CRF(2)R, but not on CRF(1)R activation. Overall, these data show a protective role of CRF in cortical neurons, against glutamate-induced death. The neuroprotection achieved by A(2A) receptors blockade requires CRF(2)R activation. This interaction between the adenosine and CRF receptors can explain the beneficial effects of using A(2A) receptor antagonists against stress-induced noxious effects.
Excitotoxicity induced by NMDA receptor-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+) ](i)) overload is a major cause of delayed neuronal death in cerebral ischemia. Transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) 6 protects neurons from ischemic brain damage. However, the mechanisms by which TRPC6 protects neurons are largely unknown. Here, we reported that TRPC6 suppressed the [Ca(2+)](i) elevation induced by NMDA and protected neurons from excitotoxicity. Over-expressing or down-regulating TRPC6 suppressed or aggravated Ca(2+) overload under excitotoxicity, respectively. TRPC6 protected cultured neurons from damage caused by NMDA toxicity or oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD). Moreover, the infarct volume in TRPC6 transgenic (Tg) mice was smaller than that in wild-type (WT) littermates. The TRPC6 Tg mice had better behavior performance and lower mortality than their WT littermates. Thus, TRPC6 inhibited NMDA receptor-triggered neurotoxicity and protected neurons from ischemic brain damage. Increase in TRPC6 activity could be a potential strategy for stroke prevention and therapy.
The P2X(7) receptor is an ion-gated channel, which is activated by high extracellular concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Activation of P2X(7) receptors has been shown to induce neuroinflammatory changes associated with several neurological conditions. The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of endopeptidases that have several functions including degradation of the extracellular matrix, cell migration and modulation of bioactive molecules. The actions of MMPs are prevented by a family of protease inhibitors called tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). In this study, we show that ATP-treated glial cultures from neonatal C57BL/6 mice release and increase MMP-9 activity, which is coupled with a decrease in release of TIMP-1 and an increase in activated cathepsin B within the extracellular space. This process occurs independently of NLRP3-inflammasome formation. Treatment with a P2X(7) receptor antagonist prevents ATP-induced MMP-9 activity, inhibition of active cathepsin B release and allows for TIMP-1 to be released from the cell. We have shown that cathepsin B degrades TIMP-1, and inhibition of cathepsin B allows for release of TIMP-1 and inhibits MMP-9 activity. We also present data that indicate that ATP or cell damage induces glial cell migration, which is inhibited by P2X(7) antagonism, depletion of MMP-9 or inhibition of cathepsin B.
Neurotrophic growth factors control neuronal development by activating specific receptor tyrosine kinase positive signaling pathways, such as Ras-MAPK and PI3K-Akt cascades. Once activated, neurotrophic factor receptors also trigger a cascade of molecular events, named negative receptor signaling, that restricts the intensity of the positive signals and modulates cellular behavior. Thus, to avoid signaling errors that ultimately could lead to aberrant neuronal physiology and disease, negative signaling mechanisms have evolved to ensure that suitable thresholds of neuronal stimulation are achieved and maintained during right periods of time. Recent findings have revealed that neurotrophic factor receptor signaling is tightly modulated through the coordinated action of many different protein regulators that limit or potentiate signal propagation in spatially and temporally controlled manners, acting at specific points after receptor engagement. In this review, we discuss progress in this field, highlighting the importance of these modulators in axonal growth, guidance, neural connectivity, and nervous system regeneration.
Dopamine plays an important role in cellular processes controlling the functional and structural plasticity of neurons, as well as their generation and proliferation, both in the developing and the adult brain. The precise roles of individual dopamine receptors subtypes in adult neurogenesis remain poorly defined, although D3 receptors are known to be involved in neurogenesis in the subventricular zone. By contrast, very few studies have addressed the influence of dopamine and D3 receptors upon neurogenesis in the subgranular zone of the hippocampus, an issue addressed herein employing constitutive D3 receptor knockout mice, or chronic exposure to the preferential D3 receptor antagonist, S33138. D3 receptor knockout mice revealed increased baseline levels of cell proliferation and ongoing neurogenesis, as measured both using Ki-67 and doublecortin, whereas there was no difference in cell survival as measured by BrdU (5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine). Chronic administration of S33138 was shown to be functionally active in enhancing levels of the plasticity-related molecule, delta-FosB, in the D3 receptor-rich nucleus accumbens. In accordance with the stimulated neurogenesis seen in D3 receptor knockout mice, S33138 increased proliferation in wild-type mice. These observations suggest that D3 receptors exert a tonic, constitutive inhibitory influence upon adult hippocampal neurogenesis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by selective and progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) can induce chronic inflammation and has been widely used to study the pathogenesis of PD. In this study, a single intracerebroventricular injection of LPS was used to induce neurotoxic effects on dopaminergic neurons in Sprague-Dawley rats. The long-term neurotoxic effects of LPS were evaluated at different time points. Microglia were activated in the hippocampus and striatum at 4 weeks, and in the SN at 24 weeks. Astrocytes were activated in the hippocampus and nigrostriatal system at 2 and 24 weeks. The expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the SN increased at 4 weeks and decreased after 12 weeks, and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the SN were shown to have an atrophic appearance, with cell loss evident after 24 weeks. Phospho--synuclein expression, a reflection of parkinsonian pathogenesis, increased at 12 weeks, and peaked at 24 weeks. Abnormal motor behavior appeared at 16 weeks and lasted up to 48 weeks. These results indicate that microglia are activated for several months after a single, low dose injection of LPS, which eventually results in progressive and selective damage to dopaminergic neurons in the SN.
Sex steroid hormones and neurotrophic factors are involved in pruning and shaping the developing brain and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders. Sex steroid hormones are also involved in the regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression. A review of the literature is provided on the relationship between brain-derived neurotrophic factor and sex steroid hormones, as well as the mechanisms behind this interaction, in the context of how this relationship may be involved in the development of neurodevelopmental psychiatric illnesses, such as schizophrenia and depression.
Corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) neuroendocrine neurones in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) drive adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and thereby glucocorticoid release from pituitary corticotrophs and the adrenal cortex, respectively. Glucocorticoids suppress the ability of neuroendocrine corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurones to synthesise and release ACTH secretogogues. Despite the importance of glucocorticoids as regulatory signals to CRH neurones in the extended time domain, how and where they act in this capacity is still not fully understood. Ascending catecholamine projections encode important cardiovascular, metabolic and other visceral information to the rat PVH and surrounding hypothalamus. These afferents have previously been implicated as targets for glucocorticoid action, including a role in the feedback regulation of PVH neuroendocrine neurones. To determine the contribution of these neurones to the long-term actions of corticosterone on CRH and vasopressin (AVP) gene expression in the PVH, we used an immunocytotoxin (a conjugate of the cytotoxin saporin and an antibody against dopamine--hydroxylase) that specifically ablates adrenergic and noradrenergic neurones. Lesions were administered to intact animals and to adrenalectomised animals with either no corticosterone or corticosterone replacement that provided levels above those required to normalise Crh expression. The ability of elevated levels of corticosterone to suppress Crh expression was abolished in animals lacking catecholaminergic innervation of the PVH. No effect was seen in the absence of corticosterone or in animals with intact adrenals. Furthermore, Avp expression, which is increased in CRH neurones following adrenalectomy, was suppressed in adrenalectomised catecholaminergic-lesioned animals. Interactions between corticosterone and catecholaminergic projections to the hypothalamus therefore make significant contributions to the regulation of Crh and Avp expression. However, the importance of catecholamine inputs is only apparent when circulating corticosterone concentrations are maintained either below or above those required to maintain the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis that is seen in intact animals.
The magnocellular neurones (MCN) of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) undergo reversible changes during dehydration. We hypothesise that alterations in steady-state transcript levels might be partially responsible for this plasticity. In turn, regulation of transcript abundance might be mediated by transcription factors. We have previously used microarrays to identify changes in the expression of mRNAs encoding transcription factors in response to water deprivation. We observed down-regulation of 11 and up-regulation of 31 transcription factor transcripts, including members of the activator protein-1 gene family, namely c-fos, c-jun, fosl1 and junD. Because JunD expression and regulation within the SON has not been previously described, we have used in situ hybridisation and the quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to confirm the array results, demonstrating a significant increase in JunD mRNA levels following 24 and 72h of water deprivation. Western blot and immunohistochemistry revealed a significant increase in JunD protein expression following dehydration. Double-staining fluorescence immunohistochemistry with a neurone-specific marker (NeuN) demonstrated that JunD staining is predominantly neuronal. Additionally, JunD immunoreactivity is observed primarily in vasopressin-containing neurones with markedly less staining seen in oxytocin-containing MCNs. Furthermore, JunD is highly co-expressed with c-Fos in MCNs of the SON following dehydration. These results suggest that JunD plays a role in the regulation of gene expression within MCNs of the SON in association with other Fos and Jun family members.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short (22 nucleotides) noncoding RNA molecules that post-transcriptionally repress the expression of protein-coding genes by binding to 3'-untranslated regions of the target mRNAs. To identify miRNAs selectively expressed within the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls vital bodily functions, we employed locked nucleic acid (LNA)-fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH). The expression pattern of the mature miRNAs miR-7a, miR-7b, miR-137 and miR-153 in mouse brain tissue sections was investigated. Although all studied miRNAs were present in the hypothalamus, miR-7a, was the only miRNA found to be enriched in the hypothalamus, with low or no expression in other parts of the central nervous system (CNS). Within the hypothalamus, strong miR-7a expression was distinct and restricted to some hypothalamic nuclei and adjacent areas. miR-7a expression was particularly prominent in the subfornical organ, as well as the suprachiasmatic, paraventricular, periventricular, supraoptic, dorsomedial and arcuate nuclei. Identical expression patterns for miR-7a were seen in mouse and rat hypothalamus. By combining LNA-FISH with immunohistochemistry, it was shown that miR-7a was preferentially present in small orexigenic neuropeptide Y/agouti-related protein-containing-neurones located in the ventromedial aspect of the arcuate nucleus but not in large pro-opiomelanocortin/cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-containing anorexigenic neurones of the ventrolateral part of the arcuate nucleus. The limited and distinct expression of miR-7a in the CNS suggests that miR-7a has a role in post-transcriptional regulation in hypothalamic neurones. Particularly strong expression of miR-7a in neurones located in the ventromedial division of the arcuate nucleus, a subregion with a weak blood-brain barrier, raises the possibility that miR-7a is influenced by circulating hormones and is a regulator of the genes involved in body weight control.

Animal models and clinical studies have linked the innate and adaptive immune system to the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Despite such progress, the specific immune responses that influence disease progression have eluded investigators. Herein, we assessed relationships between T cell phenotype and function with PD progression. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from two separate cohorts, a discovery cohort and a validation cohort, totaling 113 PD patients and 96 age- and environment-matched caregivers were examined by flow cytometric analysis and T cell proliferation assays. Increased effector/memory T cells (Tem), defined as CD45RO+ and FAS+ CD4+ T cells and decreased CD31+ and 47+ CD4+ T cells were associated with progressive Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale III scores. However, no associations were seen between immune biomarkers and increased age or disease duration. Impaired abilities of regulatory T cells (Treg) from PD patients to suppress effector T cell function was observed. These data support the concept that chronic immune stimulation, notably Tem activation and Treg dysfunction is linked to PD pathobiology and disease severity, but not disease duration. The association of T cell phenotypes with motor symptoms provides fresh avenues for novel biomarkers and therapeutic designs.
Studies of methamphetamine (Meth)-induced neurotoxicity have traditionally focused on monoaminergic terminal damage while more recent studies have found that stress exacerbates these damaging effects of Meth. Similarities that exist between the mechanisms that cause monoaminergic terminal damage in response to stress and Meth and those capable of producing a disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) suggest that the well-known high co-morbidity of stress and Meth could produce long-lasting structural and functional BBB disruption. The current studies examined the role of neuroinflammation in mediating the effects of exposure to chronic stress and/or Meth on BBB structure and function. Rats were pre-exposed to chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) and/or challenged with Meth. Twenty-four hours after the treatment of Meth in rats pre-exposed to CUS, occludin and claudin-5 immunoreactivity were decreased while truncation of -dystroglycan, as well as FITC-dextran and water extravasation was increased. All changes other than -dystroglycan and edema persisted 7 days later, occurred with increases in GFAP and COX-2, and were blocked by ketoprofen after Meth treatment. In addition, persistent increases in FITC-dextran extravasation were prevented by treatment with an EP1 receptor antagonist after Meth exposure. The results indicate that CUS and Meth synergize to produce long-lasting structural and functional BBB disruptions that are mediated by cyclooxygenase and protracted increases in inflammation. These results suggest that stress and Meth can synergize to produce a long-lasting vulnerability of the brain to subsequent environmental insults resulting from the persistent breach of the BBB.
Many multiple sclerosis (MS) patients develop chronic pain, but the underlying pathological mechanism is unknown. Mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) have been widely used to model MS-related neurological complications, including CNS demyelination, neuroinflammation and motor impairments. Similar to MS patients, EAE mice also develop chronic pain. We are interested in elucidating the potential involvement of Wnt signaling in the pathogenesis of chronic pain in EAE mice. In this study, we characterized the expression of Wnt signaling proteins in the spinal cord dorsal horn (SCDH) of EAE mice, by immunoblotting and immunostaining. The EAE model was created by immunization of adult mice (C57BL/6, 10 weeks) with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) 35-55. Robust mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia were developed in both fore- and hindpaws of the EAE mice. Wnt3a, a prototypical Wnt ligand for the canonical pathway, was significantly increased in the SCDH of the EAE mice. Another key protein in the canonical pathway, -catenin, was also significantly up-regulated. In addition, Wnt5a, a prototypic Wnt ligand for the non-canonical pathway, and its receptor (co-receptor) Ror2 were also up-regulated in the SCDH of the EAE mice. We further found that Wnt5a antagonist Box5 and -catenin inhibitor indomethacin attenuated mechanical allodynia in the EAE mice. Our data collectively suggest that Wnt signaling pathways are up-regulated in the SCDH of the EAE mice and that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling contributes to the development of EAE-related chronic pain.
Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2, also known as monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) is an important factor for the pathogenesis of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). The mechanisms of MCP-1-mediated neuropathogenesis, in part, revolve around its neuroinflammatory role and the recruitment of monocytes into the central nervous system (CNS) via the disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB). We have previously demonstrated that HIV-1/HIV-1 Tat upregulate platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB, a known cerebrovascular permeant; subsequently, the present study was aimed at exploring the regulation of MCP-1 by PDGF-BB in astrocytes with implications in HAND. Specifically, the data herein demonstrate that exposure of human astrocytes to HIV-1 LAI elevated PDGF-B and MCP-1 levels. Furthermore, treating astrocytes with the human recombinant PDGF-BB protein significantly increased the production and release of MCP-1 at both the RNA and protein levels. MCP-1 induction was regulated by activation of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathways and the downstream transcription factor, nuclear factor B (NFB). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays demonstrated increased binding of NFB to the human MCP-1 promoter following PDGF-BB exposure. Conditioned media from PDGF-BB-treated astrocytes increased monocyte transmigration through human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs), an effect that was blocked by STI-571, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (PDGF receptor (PDGF-R) blocker). PDGF-BB-mediated release of MCP-1 was critical for increased permeability in an in vitro BBB model as evidenced by blocking antibody assays. Since MCP-1 is linked to disease severity, understanding its modulation by PDGF-BB could aid in understanding the proinflammatory responses in HAND. These results suggest that astrocyte activation by PDGF-BB exaggerates monocyte recruitment into the brain via MCP-1 and underscores the critical role astrocytes play in HAND.
Migraine patients with multiple brain white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) may represent a diagnostic challenge. Using double inversion recovery (DIR) imaging, we studied whether cortical lesions (CLs) could be seen in these patients. Approval of the institutional review boards and written informed consent were obtained from each participant. CLs and WM lesions were assessed on brain scans from 32 migraine patients with WMHs (17 patients with and 15 without aura), and in two control groups, consisting of 15 relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients and 20 healthy controls, matched for age and gender. By definition, brain WM lesions were detected in all migraine and RRMS patients. The number and volume of WM lesions were lower in migraine versus RRMS patients (p &lt; 0.0001). No CLs were identified in migraine patients and healthy controls, whereas 20 CLs were seen in 9 (60 %) RRMS patients. The application of DIR imaging to assess focal cortical involvement seems to be useful in the diagnostic workup of patients with WMHs of unknown etiology, including those with migraine.
To systematically review the ultrasonographic criteria proposed for the diagnosis of chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI). The authors analyzed the five ultrasonographic criteria, four extracranial and one intracranial, suggested for the diagnosis of CCSVI in multiple sclerosis (MS), together with the references from which these criteria were derived and the main studies that explored the physiology of cerebrospinal drainage. The proposed CCSVI criteria are questionable due to both methodological and technical errors: criteria 1 and 3 are based on a scientifically incorrect application of data obtained in a different setting; criteria 2 and 4 have never been validated before; criterion 2 is technically incorrect; criteria 3 and 5 are susceptible to so many external factors that it is difficult to state whether the data collected are pathological or a variation from the normal. It is also unclear how it was decided that two or more of these five ultrasound criteria may be used to diagnose CCSVI, since no validation of these criteria was performed by different and independent observers nor were they blindly compared with a validated gold-standard investigation. The European Society of Neurosonology and Cerebral Hemodynamics (ESNCH) has considerable concerns regarding the accuracy of the proposed criteria for CCSVI in MS. Therefore, any potentially harmful interventional treatment such as transluminal angioplasty and/or stenting should be strongly discouraged.




White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) associate with both cognitive slowing and motor dysfunction in the neurologically normal elderly. A full understanding of the pathology underlying this clinicoradiologic finding is currently lacking in autopsy-confirmed normal brains. To determine the histopathologic basis of WMH seen on magnetic resonance imaging, we studied the relationship between postmortem fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) intensity and neuropathologic markers of WM lesions (WMLs) that correspond to WMH in cognitively normal aging brains. Samples of periventricular (n = 24), subcortical (n = 26), and normal-appearing WM (NAWM, n = 31) from 4clinically and pathologically confirmed normal cases were examined. The FLAIR intensity, vacuolation, and myelin basic protein immunoreactivity loss were significantly higher in periventricular WML versus subcortical WML; both were higher than in NAWM. The subcortical WML and NAWM had significantly less axonal loss, astrocytic burden, microglial density, and oligodendrocyte loss than those of the periventricular WML. Thus, vacuolation, myelin density, and small vessel density contribute to the rarefaction of WM, whereas axonal density, oligodendrocyte density, astroglial burden, and microglial density did not. These data suggest that the age-related loss of myelin basic protein and the decrease in small vessel density may contribute to vacuolation of WM. Vacuolation enables interstitial fluid to accumulate, which contributes to the prolonged T2 relaxation and elevated FLAIR intensity in the WM.
In many animals, limb movements transition between gait patterns with increasing locomotor speed. While for tetrapod systems several well-developed models in diverse taxa (e.g., cat, mouse, salamander, turtle) have been used to study motor control of limbs and limb gaits, virtually nothing is known from fish species, including zebrafish, a well-studied model for axial motor control. Like tetrapods, fish have limb gait transitions, and the advantages of the zebrafish system make it a powerful complement to tetrapod models. Here we describe pectoral fin motoneuron activity in a fictive preparation with which we are able to elicit two locomotor gaits seen in behaving larval zebrafish: rhythmic slow axial and pectoral fin swimming and faster axis-only swimming. We found that at low swim frequencies (17-33 Hz), fin motoneurons fired spikes rhythmically and in coordination with axial motoneuron activity. Abductor motoneurons spiked out of phase with adductor motoneurons, with no significant coactivation. At higher frequencies, fin abductor motoneurons were generally nonspiking, whereas fin adductor motoneurons fired spikes reliably and nonrhythmically, suggesting that the gait transition from rhythmic fin beats to axis-only swimming is actively controlled. Using brain and spinal cord transections to localize underlying circuit components, we demonstrate that a limited region of caudal hindbrain and rostral spinal cord in the area of the fin motor pool is necessary to drive a limb rhythm while the full hindbrain, but not more rostral brain regions, is necessary to elicit the faster axis-only, fin-tucked swimming gait.
-Band oscillations occur in motor and somatosensory cortices and muscle activity. Oscillations appear most strongly after movements, suggesting that they may represent or probe the limb's final sensory state. We tested this idea by training two macaque monkeys to perform a finger flexion to one of four displacements, which was then held for 2 s without visual feedback of absolute displacement. Local field potential (LFP) and single unit spiking were recorded from the rostral and caudal primary motor cortex and parietal areas 3a, 3b, 2, and 5. Information theoretic analysis determined how well unit firing rate or the power of LFP oscillations coded finger displacement. All areas encoded significant information about finger displacement after the movement into target, both in -band (20 Hz) oscillatory activity and unit firing rate. On average, the information carried by unit firing was greater (0.07 bits) and peaked earlier (0.73 s after peak velocity) than that by LFP -oscillations (0.05 bits and 0.95 s). However, there was considerable heterogeneity among units: some cells did not encode maximal information until midway through the holding phase. In 30% of cells, information in rate lagged information in LFP oscillations recorded at the same site. Finger displacement may be represented in the cortex in multiple ways. Coding the digit configuration immediately after a movement probably relies on nonoscillatory feedback, or efference copy. With increasing delay after movement cessation, oscillatory processing may also play a part.
Current methods to reconstruct muscle contributions to joint torque usually combine electromyograms (EMGs) with cadaver-based estimates of biomechanics, but both are imperfect representations of reality. Here, we describe a new method that enables online force reconstruction in which we optimize a &quot;virtual&quot; representation of muscle biomechanics. We first obtain tuning curves for the five major wrist muscles from the mean rectified EMG during the hold phase of an isometric aiming task when a cursor is driven by actual force recordings. We then apply a custom, gradient-descent algorithm to determine the set of &quot;virtual pulling vectors&quot; that best reach the target forces when combined with the observed muscle activity. When these pulling vectors are multiplied by the rectified and low-pass-filtered (1.3 Hz) EMG of the five muscles online, the reconstructed force provides a close spatiotemporal match to the true force exerted at the wrist. In three separate experiments, we demonstrate that the technique works equally well for surface and fine-wire recordings and is sensitive to biomechanical changes elicited by a modification of the forearm posture. In all conditions tested, muscle tuning curves obtained when the task was performed with feedback of reconstructed force were similar to those obtained when the task was performed with real force feedback. This online force reconstruction technique provides new avenues to study the relationship between neural control and limb biomechanics since the &quot;virtual biomechanics&quot; can be systematically altered at will.
Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that the right temporoparietal junction (TPJ) is activated during detection of salient stimuli, including pain, in the sensory environment. Right TPJ damage more often produces spatial neglect than left TPJ damage. We recently reported a right lateralized system of white matter connectivity of the TPJ. However, lateralization in intrinsic TPJ functional connectivity during a task/stimuli-independent state has not been fully characterized. Here we used resting-state functional MRI in healthy humans to compare the functional connectivity of right and left TPJ with salience- and attention-related brain networks. Independent components analysis revealed that both right and left TPJ were functionally connected with a network that included the anterior insula, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), and mid-cingulate cortex, considered to be the salience/ventral attention network. Dual regression revealed this network was more strongly connected with right TPJ than left TPJ. Seed-based functional connectivity analysis showed 1) negative connectivity the TPJ bilaterally with the &quot;default mode network&quot;; 2) positive connectivity of TPJ bilaterally with the salience/ventral attention network; 3) stronger connectivity between right TPJ compared with left TPJ with regions within the salience/ventral attention network and mid-insula, S2, and temporal/parietal opercula (implicated in pain); and 4) stronger connectivity of left TPJ compared with right TPJ with the &quot;executive control network,&quot; including the dorsomedial/medial PFC, inferior frontal gyrus, and cerebellum (crus I/II). Our findings build on classic lesion and neuroimaging studies, demonstrating a complex spatial network organization of lateralization in TPJ functional connectivity in the absence of an overt stimulus.
Gene targeting with genetically encoded optical voltage sensors brings the methods of voltage imaging to genetically defined neurons and offers a method of studying circuit activity in these selected populations. The present study reports the targeting of genetically encoded hybrid voltage sensors (hVOS) to neurons in transgenic mice. The hVOS family of probes employs a membrane-targeted fluorescent protein, which generates voltage-dependent fluorescence changes in the presence of dipicrylamine (DPA) as the result of a voltage-dependent optical interaction between the two molecules. We generated transgenic mice with two different high-performance hVOS probes under control of a neuron-specific thy-1 promoter. Hippocampal slices from these animals present distinct spatial patterns of expression, and electrical stimulation evoked fluorescence changes as high as 3%. Glutamate receptor and Na(+) channel antagonists blocked these responses. One hVOS probe tested here harbors an axonal targeting motif (from GAP-43) and shows preferential expression in axons; this probe can thus report axonal voltage changes. Voltage imaging in transgenic mice expressing hVOS probes opens the door to the study of functional activity in genetically defined populations of neurons in intact neural circuits.
Monoamines can modulate the output of a variety of invertebrate and vertebrate networks, including the spinal cord networks that control walking. Here we examined the multiple changes in the output of locomotor networks induced by dopamine (DA). We found that DA can depress the activation of locomotor networks in the neonatal mouse spinal cord following ventral root stimulation. By examining disinhibited rhythms, where the Renshaw cell pathway was blocked, we found that DA depresses a putative recurrent excitatory pathway that projects onto rhythm-generating circuitry of the spinal cord. This depression was D(2) but not D(1) receptor dependent and was not due exclusively to depression of excitatory drive to motoneurons. Furthermore, the depression in excitation was not dependent on network activity. We next compared the modulatory effects of DA on network function by focusing on a serotonin and a N-methyl-dl-aspartate-evoked rhythm. In contrast to the depressive effects on a ventral root-evoked rhythm, we found that DA stabilized a drug-evoked rhythm, reduced the frequency of bursting, and increased amplitude. Overall, these data demonstrate that DA can potentiate network activity while at the same time reducing the gain of recurrent excitatory feedback loops from motoneurons onto the network.
Electrical stimulation of the lateral gastrocnemius-soleus (LGS) nerve at group I afferent strength leads to adaptations in the amplitude and timing of extensor muscle activity during walking in the decerebrate cat. Such afferent feedback in the stance leg might result from a delay in stance onset of the opposite leg. Concomitant adaptations in hip abductor and adductor activity would then be expected to maintain lateral stability and balance until the opposite leg is able to support the body. As many hip abductors and adductors are also hip extensors, we hypothesized that stimulation of the LGS nerve at group I afferent strength would produce increased activation and prolonged burst duration in hip abductor and adductor muscles in the premammillary decerebrate walking cat. LGS nerve stimulation during the extensor phase of the locomotor cycle consistently increased burst amplitude of the gluteus medius and adductor femoris muscles, but not pectineus or gracilis. In addition, LGS stimulation prolonged the burst duration of both gluteus medius and adductor femoris. Unexpectedly, long-duration LGS stimulus trains resulted in two distinct outcomes on the hip abductor and adductor bursting pattern: 1) a change of burst duration and timing similar to medial gastrocnemius; or 2) to continue rhythmically bursting uninterrupted. These results indicate that activation of muscle afferents from ankle extensors contributes to the regulation of activity of some hip abductor and adductor muscles, but not all. These results have implications for understanding the neural control of stability during locomotion, as well as the organization of spinal locomotor networks.
The primate wrist is an ideal model system for studying the reference frames in which movements are coded within the central nervous system, as a simple rotation of the forearm allows dissociation between extrinsic and body-referenced coordinates. Important information regarding coordinate frame transformations has been obtained using this system, particularly from studies involving extracellular cortical and spinal recordings from monkeys. Because preferred directions of muscle use were reported to rotate by less than half of the joint rotation, the system was considered to dissociate three reference frames: extrinsic (direction of movement in space), muscle (activity of muscles), and joint (angle of the wrist joint). However, given the relatively minor changes in reported muscle biomechanics with human forearm rotation, the reported distinction between joint space and muscle space is surprisingly large. Here, we reassessed patterns of wrist muscle activity with changes in forearm posture in humans, during an isometric force-aiming task with a device that enabled stringent control of the musculoskeletal configuration. Results show that the preferred directions for wrist muscle activation closely follow forearm orientation (i.e., by 88%). Control experiments confirmed this, whether the hand was clamped passively by a device or grasped a handle. Furthermore, the remaining 12% discrepancy between intended changes in wrist orientation and muscle use also occurred for muscle-pulling directions obtained by intramuscular electrical stimulation. The findings prompt reconsideration of data based on the previously reported dissociation between joint space and muscle space and have critical implications for future investigations of sensorimotor transformations and their adaptation using the wrist.
During development, synaptic exocytosis by cochlear hair cells is first initiated by patterned spontaneous Ca(2+) spikes and, at the onset of hearing, by sound-driven graded depolarizing potentials. The molecular reorganization occurring in the hair cell synaptic machinery during this developmental transition still remains elusive. We characterized the changes in biophysical properties of voltage-gated Ca(2+) currents and exocytosis in developing auditory hair cells of a precocial animal, the domestic chick. We found that immature chick hair cells (embryonic days 10-12) use two types of Ca(2+) currents to control exocytosis: low-voltage-activating, rapidly inactivating (mibefradil sensitive) T-type Ca(2+) currents and high-voltage-activating, noninactivating (nifedipine sensitive) L-type currents. Exocytosis evoked by T-type Ca(2+) current displayed a fast release component (RRP) but lacked the slow sustained release component (SRP), suggesting an inefficient recruitment of distant synaptic vesicles by this transient Ca(2+) current. With maturation, the participation of L-type Ca(2+) currents to exocytosis largely increased, inducing a highly Ca(2+) efficient recruitment of an RRP and an SRP component. Notably, L-type-driven exocytosis in immature hair cells displayed higher Ca(2+) efficiency when triggered by prerecorded native action potentials than by voltage steps, whereas similar efficiency for both protocols was found in mature hair cells. This difference likely reflects a tighter coupling between release sites and Ca(2+) channels in mature hair cells. Overall, our results suggest that the temporal characteristics of Ca(2+) entry through T-type and L-type Ca(2+) channels greatly influence synaptic release by hair cells during cochlear development.
Recent findings implicate the central lateral amygdala (CeL) in conditioned fear. Indeed, CeL contains neurons exhibiting positive (CeL-On) or negative (CeL-Off) responses to fear-inducing conditioned stimuli (CSs). In mice, these cells differ in their expression of protein kinase C (PKC) and physiological properties. CeL-Off cells are PKC(+) and late firing (LF), whereas CeL-On cells are PKC(-) and express a regular-spiking (RS) or low-threshold bursting (LTB) phenotype. However, the scarcity of LF cells in rats raises questions about the correspondence between the organization of CeL in mice and rats. Therefore, we studied the PKC expression, morphological properties, synaptic responsiveness, and fear conditioning-induced plasticity of rat CeL neurons. No PKC(+) LF cells were encountered, but 20-25% of RS and LTB neurons were PKC(+). Compared with RS neurons, a higher proportion of LTB cells projected to central medial amygdala (CeM) and they had fewer primary dendritic branches, yet the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by lateral amygdala (LA) stimulation was similar in RS and LTB cells. In contrast, LA-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) had a higher amplitude in LTB than RS neurons. Finally, fear conditioning did not induce plasticity at LA inputs to RS or LTB neurons. These findings point to major species differences in the organization of CeL. Since rat LTB cells are subjected to stronger feedforward inhibition, they are more likely to exhibit inhibitory CS responses than RS cells. This is expected to cause a disinhibition of CeM fear output neurons and therefore an increase in fear expression.
Many neuroscientists access surface brain structures via a small cranial window, opened in the bone above the brain region of interest. Unfortunately this methodology has the potential to perturb the structure and function of the underlying brain tissue. One potential perturbation is heat loss from the brain surface, which may result in local dysregulation of brain temperature. Here, we demonstrate that heat loss is a significant problem in a cranial window preparation in common use for electrical recording and imaging studies in mice. In the absence of corrective measures, the exposed surface of the neocortex was at 28C, 10C below core body temperature, and a standing temperature gradient existed, with tissue below the core temperature even several millimeters into the brain. Cooling affected cellular and network function in neocortex and resulted principally from increased heat loss due to convection and radiation through the skull and cranial window. We demonstrate that constant perfusion of solution, warmed to 37C, over the brain surface readily corrects the brain temperature, resulting in a stable temperature of 36-38C at all depths. Our results indicate that temperature dysregulation may be common in cranial window preparations that are in widespread use in neuroscience, underlining the need to take measures to maintain the brain temperature in many physiology experiments.
A new stimulating protocol [fictive locomotion-induced stimulation (FListim)], consisting of intrinsically variable weak waveforms applied to a single dorsal root is very effective (though not optimal as it eventually wanes away) in activating the locomotor program of the isolated rat spinal cord. The present study explored whether combination of FListim with low doses of pharmacological agents that raise network excitability might further improve the functional outcome, using this in vitro model. FListim was applied together with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) + serotonin, while fictive locomotion (FL) was electrophysiologically recorded from lumbar ventral roots. Superimposing FListim on FL evoked by these neurochemicals persistently accelerated locomotor-like cycles to a set periodicity and modulated cycle amplitude depending on FListim rate. Trains of stereotyped rectangular pulses failed to replicate this phenomenon. The GABA(B) agonist baclofen dose dependently inhibited, in a reversible fashion, FL evoked by either FListim or square pulses. Sustained episodes of FL emerged when FListim was delivered, at an intensity subthreshold for FL, in conjunction with subthreshold pharmacological stimulation. Such an effect was, however, not found when high potassium solution instead of NMDA + serotonin was used. These results suggest that the combined action of subthreshold FListim (e.g., via epidural stimulation) and neurochemicals should be tested in vivo to improve locomotor rehabilitation after injury. In fact, reactivation of spinal locomotor circuits by conventional electrical stimulation of afferent fibers is difficult, while pharmacological activation of spinal networks is clinically impracticable due to concurrent unwanted effects. We speculate that associating subthreshold chemical and electrical inputs might decrease side effects when attempting to evoke human locomotor patterns.
Neuroscience research indicates that moral reasoning is underpinned by distinct neural networks including the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), amygdala, and ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which support communication between computational systems underlying affective states, cognitions, and motivational processes. To characterize real-time neural processing underpinning moral computations, high-density event-related potentials were measured in participants while they viewed short, morally laden visual scenarios depicting intentional and accidental harmful actions. Current source density maxima in the right pSTS as fast as 62 ms poststimulus first distinguished intentional vs. accidental actions. Responses in the amygdala/temporal pole (122 ms) and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (182 ms) were then evoked by the perception of harmful actions, indicative of fast information processing associated with early stages of moral cognition. Our data strongly support the notion that intentionality is the first input to moral computations. They also demonstrate that emotion acts as a gain antecedent to moral judgment by alerting the individual to the moral salience of a situation and provide evidence for the pervasive role of affect in moral sensitivity and reasoning.
Glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the retina, functions by activation of both ionotropic (iGluR) and metabotropic (mGluR) glutamate receptors. Group III mGluRs, except for mGluR6, are mostly found in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), and their retinal functions are not well known. Therefore, we decided to investigate the effect of mGluRIII on glutamate release and GABAergic amacrine cells in the chick retina. The nonselective mGluRIII agonist L-SOP promoted a decrease in the number of -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-positive cells and in the GABA immunoreactivity in all sublayers of the IPL. This effect was prevented by the antagonist MAP-4, by GAT-1 inhibitor, and by antagonists of iGluR. Under the conditions used, L-SOP did not alter endogenous glutamate release. VU0155041, an mGluR4-positive allosteric modulator, reduced GABA immunoreactivity in amacrine cells and in sublayers 2 and 4 of the IPL but evoked an increase in the glutamate released. VU0155041's effect was inhibited by the absence of calcium. AMN082, a selective mGluR7-positive allosteric modulator, also decreased GABA immunoreactivity in amacrine cells and sublayers 1, 2, and 3 and increased glutamate release, and this effect was also inhibited by calcium absence. DCPG, an mGluR8-selective agonist, did not significantly alter GABA immunoreactivity in amacrine cells or glutamate release. However, it did significantly increase GABA immunoreactivity in sublayers 4 and 5. The results suggest that mGluRIIIs are involved in the modulation of glutamate and GABA release in the retina, possibly participating in distinct visual pathways: mGluR4 might be involved with cholinergic circuitry, whereas mGluR7 and mGluR8 might participate, respectively, in the OFF and the ON pathways.
Synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2) is a glycoprotein that exists in three isoforms, SV2A, SV2B, and SV2C. SV2A knockout (KO) mice and SV2A/SV2B double KO (DKO) mice, but not SV2B KO animals, start to experience severe seizures and weight loss 7 days after birth and die at about postnatal day (P)14-P23. Because excitatory and inhibitory inputs play a major role in controlling neuronal excitability in the hippocampus, we examined the effects of SV2A and/or SV2B deletions on glutamatergic and GABA(A) neurotransmission in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Spontaneous and miniature excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs, mEPSCs, sIPSCs, and mIPSCs, respectively) were recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique in slices from P6-P14 mice. The frequency of sEPSCs was increased in SV2A KO and SV2A/SV2B DKO mice, but their amplitude was unchanged. Such changes were not observed in SV2B KOs. On the contrary, the frequency and amplitude of sIPSCs were decreased in SV2A KO and SV2A/SV2B DKO mice but not in SV2B KO animals, as reported previously for the CA3 region. Kinetic parameters of sIPSCs and sEPSCs were unchanged. Importantly, no changes were observed in any genotype when examining mEPSCs and mIPSCs. We conclude that action potential- and Ca(2+) -dependent glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission are differentially altered in the hippocampus of SV2A-deficient mice, whereas the mechanism of exocytosis itself is not changed. The altered balance between these major excitatory and inhibitory inputs is probably a contributing factor to seizures in SV2A KO and SV2A/SV2B DKO mice.
The theme of the 80th Annual Meeting of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons and the title of this presidential address, &quot;We are neurosurgery,&quot; is a simple 3-word affirmation of who neurosurgeons are, what they have achieved, and how much there is yet to accomplish. Recent advances in neurobiology and the clinical neurosciences have brought an unprecedented understanding of the human nervous system in both health and disease. As a specialty, neurosurgery has translated knowledge, expanded techniques, and incorporated technology to exponentially expand the science and scope of neurosurgical practice. However, the rapidly advancing, divergently evolving growth of neurosurgery has had profound effects on all aspects of neurosurgery. In this address, the author examines the contemporary meaning of the annual meeting's theme as it relates to the science, practice, specialty, and profession of neurosurgery, as well as the neurosurgeon. In doing so, the author reveals his interpretation of &quot;We are neurosurgery,&quot; which he hopes will have an effect on others.

Primary cerebellar glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a rare tumor in adults that accounts for just 1% of all cases of GBM. Cerebellar GBMs are not yet completely understood also as far as the prognosis. We report a case of cerebellar GBM in a 27-year-old woman. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a 3x3.6 cm-sized, ill-defined, heterogeneously enhancing mass in the left cerebellum. GBM was histologically confirmed following radical surgery. Postoperative radiotherapy with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide chemotherapy was subsequently administrated. She has no evidence of recurrence and is in good clinical conditions up-to date, three years after surgery.
Tinnitus treatment has traditionally been restricted to ENT surgeons, audiologists, psychologists and psychiatrists. Recently, both basic and clinical research has focused on the brain's involvement in the generation of tinnitus, opening the tinnitus field up to neurologists and neurosurgeons specialized in the field of tinnitus. Non-pulsatile tinnitus can be considered an auditory phantom phenomenon, analogous to phantom pain, both with regards to pathophysiological mechanisms, clinical characteristics, and treatment approaches. Thus the understanding of tinnitus has benefited a lot from translating available knowledge of the somatosensory (pain) system to the auditory system. A literature review of neuromodulatory approaches to tinnitus is integrated in a single center's experience with invasive neuromodulation treatments for tinnitus. This is compared to findings from neuromodulatory treatment of chronic pain syndromes. The past, present and future options for functional neurosurgical approaches are outlined. In the past only destructive approaches were used, consisting of nerve lesions and frontal lobotomies. Presently neurostimulation trials are ongoing evaluating the effect of auditory cortex stimulation, frontal cortex stimulation, thalamic (VIM) and caudate stimulation as well as amygdalohippocampal stimulation, yielding suppression rates between 10 and 70%. Further potentially promising targets include the anterior cingulate, the medial geniculate bodies (MGB), the periaqueductal gray/ tectal longitudinal column (PAG/TLC), the dorsal cochlear nucleus, as well as the C2 and trigeminal nerve. Understanding tinnitus and its potential neuromodulation treatments is relatively simple for a neurosurgeon specialized in pain or a pain physician, based on the pathophysiological and clinical analogies. Similarly to pain a multidisciplinary approach can be advocated, and in view of the epidemiology and amount of suffering associated with this enigmatic symptom further investment in possible neuromodulation treatments is warranted.
Pancreatic zinc (Zn(2+)) concentrations are linked to diabetes and pancreatic dysfunction, but Zn(2+) is also required for insulin processing and packaging. Zn(2+) released with insulin increases -cell pancreatic death after streptozotocin toxin exposure in vitro and in vivo. Triosephosphate accumulation, caused by NAD(+) loss and glycolytic enzyme dysfunction, occur in type-1 diabetics (T1DM) and animal models. We previously showed these mechanisms are also involved in Zn(2+) neurotoxicity and are attenuated by nicotinamide- or pyruvate-induced restoration of NAD(+) concentrations, Zn(2+) restriction, or inhibition of Sir2 proteins. We tested the hypothesis that similar Zn(2+)- and NAD(+)-mediated mechanisms are involved in -cell toxicity in models of ongoing T1DM using mouse insulinoma cells, islets, and nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice. Zn(2+), streptozotocin, and cytokines caused NAD(+) loss and death in insulinoma cells and islets, which were attenuated by Zn(2+) restriction, pyruvate, nicotinamide, NAD(+), and inhibitors of Sir2 proteins. We measured diabetes incidence and mortality in NOD mice and demonstrated that pyruvate supplementation, or genetic or dietary Zn(2+) reduction, attenuated these measures. T-lymphocyte infiltration, punctate Zn(2+) staining, and -cell loss increased with time in islets of NOD mice. Dietary Zn(2+) restriction or Zn(2+) transporter 5 knockout reduced pancreatic Zn(2+) staining and increased -cell mass, glucose homeostasis, and survival in NOD mice, whereas Zn(2+) supplementation had the opposite effects. Pancreatic Zn(2+) reduction or NAD(+) restoration (pyruvate or nicotinamide supplementation) are suggested as novel targets for attenuating T1DM.



Hereditary canine spinal muscular atrophy is an inherited motor neuron disease that occurs in Brittany Spaniels and has remarkable similarities with human spinal muscular atrophy. Both disorders are characterized by proximal limb and truncal muscle weakness of variable severity. Detailed pathological studies indicate that there is early dysfunction of motor neuron synapses, particularly the neuromuscular junction synapse, prior to motor neuron death. This period of synaptic dysfunction may define a critical window of opportunity for disease reversibility in motor neuron disease.
Many neurodegenerative diseases and neuropathies have been proposed to be caused by a disruption of axonal transport. However, the mechanisms whereby impaired transport causes disease remain unclear. Proposed mechanisms include impairment in delivery of organelles such as mitochondria, defective retrograde neurotrophic signaling, and disruption of the synaptic vesicle cycle within the synaptic terminal. Simple model organisms such as the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster, allow live imaging of axonal transport to be combined with high-throughput genetic screens and are providing insights into the pathophysiology of peripheral nerve diseases.
Longitudinal axon fascicles within the Drosophila embryonic CNS provide connections between body segments and are required for coordinated neural signaling along the anterior-posterior axis. We find that the establishment of CNS longitudinal tracts, and the formation of precise chordotonal mechanosensory afferent innervation to the same CNS region, are coordinately regulated by the secreted semaphorins Sema-2a and Sema-2b. Both Sema-2a and Sema-2b utilize the same neuronal receptor, plexin B (PlexB), but they serve repulsive and attractive functions, respectively, to promote interneuron fascicle assembly and sensory afferent connectivity. In the absence of Sema-2b or PlexB, chordotonal afferent connectivity within the CNS is severely disrupted, as are select interneuron pathways within longitudinal fascicles, resulting in specific larval behavioral deficits. These results reveal that distinct semaphorin-mediated guidance functions converge at the PlexB receptor, and that attractive and repulsive functions mediated by this receptor are critical for functional neural circuit assembly.
This contribution reviews aspects of the 10 years I spent with Dr. Jack Griffin in the Department of Neurology at Johns Hopkins University. It highlights how Jack influenced my research career and changed my focus from a myelin centric basic science researcher to one that had an appreciation of the interdependence of axon and myelin forming cells as it related to the pathogenesis of human demyelinating diseases.
In this study, we report a novel connexin 32 (CX32) mutation associated with cognitive impairment and a differential degree of peripheral nerve involvement. We present clinical, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging data on a family with X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease caused by a 41A&gt;G mutation of the gap junction protein beta 1 (GJB1) gene. The proband and her sister presented with a severe neuropathy with subclinical cognitive impairment; the proband's brother showed severe cognitive impairment and a mild neuropathy. This family report confirms that Charcot-Marie-Tooth type X is a clinically heterogeneous group, with great variability of phenotypes, possible severe involvement in females and clinical signs of cognitive impairment. Thus, this novel mutation should be added to the group of CX32 mutations with a central nervous system phenotype.
Transthyretin-related familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (TTR-FAP) usually presents itself as a progressive sensorimotor polyneuropathy with severe autonomic dysfunction and cardiomyopathy. Eighteen patients carrying the Leu64 mutation underwent a series of regular follow-ups, including: neurological examination, electroneurography, electromyography, electrocardiography and echocardiography, blood analysis, a questionnaire on autonomic symptoms, cardiovascular autonomic tests and a 99mTc-DPD examination study. A late onset of a slowly progressive disease which reached its terminal stage after about 10years was observed. The onset was mainly a length-dependent sensory neuropathy, although a focal onset with carpal tunnel syndrome was detected in three patients. At the onset of the disease, autonomic dysfunction was present in a small number of patients, but, within a few years, this had manifested in all members of the sample group. The only extra-neurological manifestations were cardiac related. It is reasonable to consider Southern Italy as an endemic focus of TTR-FAP. An underestimation of disease prevalence could be caused by a late onset of FAP, which can manifest in patients up to their late 70s. Follow-up of asymptomatic individuals may permit the early detection of symptoms and signs, allowing a detailed record of the natural history of the disease from the beginning and facilitating prompt treatment.

Although lithium has been the first line agent in the treatment of bipolar disorder (BD), few studies have evaluated lithium's efficacy in mania with psychosis and its association with later response. Furthermore, given the widespread concern about antipsychotic side effects, answering a question about whether lithium alone can manage to treat both psychotic and non-psychotic mania seems a very relevant one. The present study addresses the antipsychotic efficacy of lithium monotherapy in acute mania and early improvement of psychotic symptoms as a predictor of later response of manic symptoms. Forty-six patients presenting a manic episode (32 with psychotic features and 14 subjects without psychotic features) were treated for 4 weeks with lithium monotherapy and evaluated weekly using the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS). Subjects with rapid cycling, substance abuse/dependence, or mixed episodes were excluded. The overall antimanic efficacy of lithium in psychosis vs. non-psychosis groups was evaluated. In addition, early improvement of psychotic symptoms and its prediction of subsequent response (&gt;50% decrease in total YMRS scores) or remission were evaluated. Lithium showed a similar efficacy in both psychosis and non-psychosis mania. Early improvement of psychotic symptoms was associated with clinical response and remission at endpoint.
Several studies have shown that maintaining in memory some attributes of speech, such as the content or pitch of an interlocutor's message, is markedly reduced in the presence of background sounds made of spectrotemporal variations. However, experimental paradigms showing this interference have only focused on one attribute of speech at a time, and thus differ from real-life situations in which several attributes have to be memorized and maintained simultaneously. It is possible that the interference is even greater in such a case and can occur for a broader range of background sounds. We developed a paradigm in which participants had to maintain the content, pitch and speaker size of auditorily presented speech information and used various auditory distractors to generate interference. We found that only distractors with spectrotemporal variations impaired the detection, which shows that similar interference mechanisms occur whether there are one or more speech attributes to maintain in memory. A high percentage of false alarms was observed with these distractors, suggesting that spectrotemporal variations not only weaken but also modify the information maintained in memory. Lastly, we found that participants were unaware of the interference. These results are similar to those observed in the visual modality.
Lithium (Li) is the main mood stabilizer and acts on multiple biochemical targets, leading to neuronal plasticity. Several clinical studies have shown that tamoxifen (TMX) - a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor - has been effective in treating acute mania. The present study aims to evaluate the effects of TMX on biochemical targets of Li, such as glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), PKC, PKA, CREB, BDNF and NGF, in the brain of rats subjected to an animal model of mania induced by d-amphetamine (d-AMPH). Wistar rats were treated with d-AMPH (2mg/kg, once a day) or saline (Sal; NaCl 0.9%, w/v), Li (47.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.), twice a day) or TMX (1 mg/kg i.p., twice a day) or Sal in protocols of reversion and prevention treatment. Locomotor behavior was assessed using the open-field task, and protein levels were measured by immunoblot. Li and TMX reversed and prevented d-AMPH-induced hyperactivity. Western blot showed that d-AMPH significantly increased GSK-3 and PKC levels, and decreased pGSK-3, PKA, NGF, BDNF and CREB levels in the structures analyzed. Li and TMX were able to prevent and reverse these changes induced by d-AMPH in most structures evaluated. The present study demonstrated that the PKC inhibitor modulates the alterations in the behavior, neurotrophic and apoptosis pathway induced by d-AMPH, reinforcing the need for more studies of PKC as a possible target for treatment of bipolar disorder.

The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between overnight sleep perception and the daytime multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) among individuals who were primary insomnia patients (PIPs) or good sleeper controls (GSCs). We collected overnight sleep data via polysomnography (PSG), subjective sleep data via a morning questionnaire (self-evaluated) and MSLT data via four 20-min naps over 8 h. Subjects included 122 PIPs and 48 GSCs. Sleep perception was calculated as subjective sleep time/objective sleep time  100%. PIPs showed a significant difference (P &lt; 0.001) between sleep time, as determined by PSG (387.8  100 min) and self-report (226.3  160 min), but no difference was obtained for GSCs (440.6  53 versus 435.4  65 min). The means for sleep perception were 56.4  38.8% for the PIPs and 99.3  13.6% for the GSCs (P &lt; 0.001). In the PIPs group, weak but statistically significant negative correlations (r: -0.20 to -0.25) were found for MSLT versus sleep perception and versus self- and PSG-evaluated sleep time. Compared to PIPs with low scores on the MSLT, those with high scores had less sleep perception (%), less self- and PSG-evaluated sleep time and greater sleep misperception time. GSCs did not show significant correlations between MSLT and sleep measures or differences in comparisons between individuals with high and low scores on the MSLT. These results add novel data to the literature by suggesting that 24-h hyperarousal potentially plays a key role in the pathophysiological issues of insomnia.

Social support buffers the negative impact of stressful events. Less, however, is known about the characteristics of this association in the context of disaster and findings have been discrepant regarding direct and buffering effects. This study tested whether the protective effects of social support differed across levels of exposure severity (i.e., buffered distress) and assessed whether the buffering effect differed between event-specific and general distress. Participants were 4,600 adult Swedish tourists (44% of invited; 55% women) repatriated within 3 weeks after the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. A survey 14 months after the disaster included the Crisis Support Scale, the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R), and the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12). Social support buffered the negative impact of exposure on both outcomes. The support and distress association ranged from very small in participants with low exposure to moderate in those with high exposure ((p)(2) = .004 to .053). The buffering effect was not found to differ between the IES-R and GHQ-12, F(2, 4589) = 0.87, p = .42. The findings suggest that social support moderates the stressor-distress relationship after disasters. This study might help explain discrepant findings and point to refinements of postdisaster interventions.


During the past 10 years, the intense involvement of the grey matter of the CNS in the pathology of multiple sclerosis has become evident. On gross inspection, demyelination in the grey matter is rather inconspicuous, and lesions in the grey matter are mostly undetectable with traditional MRI sequences. However, the results of immunohistochemical studies have shown extensive involvement of grey matter, and researchers have developed and applied new MRI acquisition methods as a result. Imaging techniques specifically developed to visualise grey matter lesions indicate early involvement, and image analysis techniques designed to measure the volume of grey matter show progressive loss. Together, these techniques have shown that grey matter pathology is associated with neurological and neuropsychological disability, and the strength of this association exceeds that related to white matter lesions or whole brain atrophy. By focusing on the latest insights into the in-vivo measurement of grey matter lesions and atrophy, we can assess their clinical effects.


In this work, diffusion weighting and parallel imaging is combined with a vertical gradient and spin echo data readout. This sequence was implemented and evaluated on healthy volunteers using a 1.5 and a 3 T whole-body MR system. As the vertical gradient and spin echo trajectory enables a higher k-space velocity in the phase-encoding direction than single-shot echo planar imaging, the geometrical distortions are reduced. When combined with parallel imaging such as generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition, the geometric distortions are reduced even further, while also keeping the minimum echo time reasonably low. However, this combination of a diffusion preparation and multiple refocusing pulses during the vertical gradient and spin echo readout, generally violates the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill condition, which leads to interferences between echo pathways. To suppress the stimulated echo pathway, refocusing pulses with a sharper slice profiles and an odd/even crusher variation scheme were implemented and evaluated. Being a single-shot acquisition technique, the reconstructed images are robust to rigid-body head motion and spatially varying brain motion, both of which are common sources of artifacts in diffusion MRI.
Long term opioid treatment results in hyperalgesia and tolerance, which is a troublesome phenomenon in clinic application. Recent studies have revealed a critical role of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in the neuropathological process of opioid-induced hyperalgesia and tolerance. TLR4 is predominantly expressed by microglial cells and is a key modulator in the activation of the innate immune system. Activation of TLR4 may initiate the activation of microglia and hence a number of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that could enhance neuronal excitability are released. Blockade of TLR4 activation by its antagonists alleviate neuropathic pain. We hypothesized that opioid antagonists such as naloxone and naltrexone, which were also demonstrated to be TLR4 antagonist, may have clinic application value in attenuation of opioid-induced hyperalgesia and tolerance.
Autism is a disorder characterized by difficulty with social interactions, difficulty expressing empathy and intimacy and, in many cases, mild to severe language and learning deficits. Current estimates suggest autism now affects approximately one in 88 children, with rates increasing rapidly, making autism one of the most common and devastating developmental disorders. This trend is especially alarming considering that a cause for this disorder has yet to be discovered, nor are there successful biological treatments. Here a possible biochemical etiology is proposed for a certain spectrum of autism based on a reaction between propionic acid and ammonia released by Candida albicans in the gastrointestinal tract. A reaction between ammonia and propionic acid should result in the production of beta-alanine, a chemical similar in composition to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter which has been shown to be present in higher quantities in autistic patients. Assuming beta-alanine is able to cross the blood-brain barrier, beta-alanine would be used in the brain as a partial antagonist, blocking the receptor sites for GABA, thus facilitating the production of more GABA to achieve equilibrium. An excess of GABA has been proposed as a possible contributor to autism. Further research should be conducted with this hypothesis to determine whether the chemical reaction in the human body between propionic acid and ammonia does in fact produce a chemical structurally and functionally similar to beta-alanine, as well as how this product affects the brain. Positive conclusions from this follow-on research could result in a preventative screening test for sensitivity to propionic acid and gastrointestinal yeast, thus slowing the progression of this type of autism. A more targeted treatment for children already diagnosed with autism could also result.
Metastasis of an atrial myxoma to the brain is extremely rare. Thus far there are only 17 cases reported, including our present case. Most of the brain metastases manifest only in 3 to 6 decades, after an average time frame of one to two years after surgical removal of parental tumour. We present a case of brain metastases of atrial myxoma in a teenager of the youngest age among all reported cases, unusually as early as 15 years old. The progress of the metastatic process had been insidious for three years after heart surgery, The imaging demonstrated a rather sizeable tumour by the time when the patient is symptomatic. The location of the metastatic tumour is anyhow superficial to the cortical surface, enabling complete surgical excision of the tumour easily achievable with favourable outcome.
In an effort to address dance-related injuries, screening programs are typically employed to assess injury susceptibility. The aim of this study was to explore for potential links between postural stability and dancers' previous lower-limb injuries and susceptibility to future lower-limb injuries. Eighty-five contemporary dance students were recruited at a UK dance conservatoire. Information concerning previous injuries was collected by self-report survey. The participants completed two balance tasks, one static and one dynamic, performed on a RS Scan Footscan pressure pad to calculate postural sway. Injuries in the participant cohort were then tracked for a 10-month period to assess injury susceptibility. The participants exhibited significantly less postural sway when balancing on the left leg than their right, and the women exhibited less postural sway than the men. A one-way ANOVA revealed that participants who had experienced a lower-limb injury in the 12 months prior to testing exhibited more postural sway than participants who had not experienced a lower-limb injury, with some of the differences attaining significance (p &lt;0.05). No significant links were found between either postural sway or previous injury and future injury susceptibility. The results suggest that assessments of postural stability via centre of pressure measurements are a reliable method for assessing dancers' balance ability. While reaffirming the importance of comprehensive, multidisciplinary screening programs, the results also highlight the necessity of developing a greater understanding of both dancers and the environments in which they dance and work to fully ascertain injury susceptibility.
Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) is a progressive neurodegenerative lysosomal disease with altered cellular lipid trafficking. The metabolism of amyloid- (A) - previously mainly studied in Alzheimer's disease - has been suggested to be altered in NPC. Here we aimed to perform a detailed characterization of metabolic products from the amyloid precursor protein (APP) in NPC models and patients. We used multiple analytical technologies, including immunoassays and immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry (IP-MS) to characterize A peptides and soluble APP fragments (sAPP-/) in cell media from pharmacologically (U18666A) and genetically (NPC1 ( -/- ) ) induced NPC cell models, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from NPC cats and human patients. The pattern of A peptides and sAPP-/ fragments in cell media was differently affected by NPC-phenotype induced by U18666A treatment and by NPC1 ( -/- ) genotype. U18666A treatment increased the secreted media levels of sAPP-, AX-40 and AX-42 and reduced the levels of sAPP-, A1-40 and A1-42, while IP-MS showed increased relative levels of A5-38 and A5-40 in response to treatment. NPC1 ( -/- ) cells had reduced media levels of sAPP- and A1-16, and increased levels of sAPP-. NPC cats had altered CSF distribution of A peptides compared with normal cats. Cats treated with the potential disease-modifying compound 2-hydroxypropyl--cyclodextrin had increased relative levels of short A peptides including A1-16 compared with untreated cats. NPC patients receiving -cyclodextrin had reduced levels over time of CSF A1-42, AX-38, AX-40, AX-42 and sAPP-, as well as reduced levels of the axonal damage markers tau and phosphorylated tau. We conclude that NPC models have altered A metabolism, but with differences across experimental systems, suggesting that NPC1-loss of function, such as in NPC1 ( -/- ) cells, or NPC1-dysfunction, seen in NPC patients and cats as well as in U18666A-treated cells, may cause subtle but different effects on APP degradation pathways. The preliminary findings from NPC cats suggest that treatment with cyclodextrin may have an impact on APP processing pathways. CSF A, sAPP and tau biomarkers were dynamically altered over time in human NPC patients.
Oxidative stress is a major component of harmful cascades activated in neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we tried to elucidate the possible neuroprotective effect of Salvigenin, a natural polyphenolic compound, on oxidative stress-induced apoptosis and autophagy in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. We measured cell viability by MTT test and found that 25 M is the best protective concentration of Salvigenin. GSH and SOD assays suggested that Salvigenin activates antioxidant factors. At the same time, measurement of ER stress-associated proteins including calpain and caspase-12 showed the ability of Salvigenin to decrease ER stress. We found that Salvigenin could decrease the apoptotic factors. Salvigenin inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced caspase-3 which is a hallmark of apoptosis in addition to reducing Bax\Bcl-2 ratio by 1.45 fold. Additionally, Salvigenin increased the levels of autophagic factors. Our results showed an increase in LC3-II/LC3-I ratio, Atg7, and Atg12 in the presence of 25 M of Salvigenin by about 1.28, 1.25, and 1.54 folds, respectively, compared to H(2)O(2)-treated cells. So it seems that H(2)O(2) cytotoxicity mainly results from apoptosis. Besides, Salvigenin helps cells to survive by inhibiting apoptosis and enhancing autophagy that opens a new horizon for the future experiments.
A growing body of epidemiologic and experimental data point to chronic bacterial and viral infections as possible risk factors for neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Infections of the central nervous system, especially those characterized by a chronic progressive course, may produce multiple damage in infected and neighbouring cells. The activation of inflammatory processes and host immune responses cause chronic damage resulting in alterations of neuronal function and viability, but different pathogens can also directly trigger neurotoxic pathways. Indeed, viral and microbial agents have been reported to produce molecular hallmarks of neurodegeneration, such as the production and deposit of misfolded protein aggregates, oxidative stress, deficient autophagic processes, synaptopathies and neuronal death. These effects may act in synergy with other recognized risk factors, such as aging, concomitant metabolic diseases and the host's specific genetic signature. This review will focus on the contribution given to neurodegeneration by herpes simplex type-1, human immunodeficiency and influenza viruses, and by Chlamydia pneumoniae.
Nitric oxide is a short-lived intracellular and intercellular messenger. The first realisation that nitric oxide is important in physiology occurred in 1987 when its identity with the endothelium-derived relaxing factor was discovered. Subsequent studies have shown that nitric oxide possesses a number of physiological functions that are essential not only to vascular homeostasis but also to neurotransmission, such as in the processes of learning and memory and endocrine gland regulation, as well as inflammation and immune responses. The discovery in 1995 that a splice variant of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase is localised at the sarcolemma via the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex and of its displacement in Duchenne muscular dystrophy has stimulated a host of studies exploring the role of nitric oxide in skeletal muscle physiology. Recently, nitric oxide has emerged as a relevant messenger also of myogenesis that it regulates at several key steps, especially when the process is stimulated for muscle repair following acute and chronic muscle injuries. Here, we will review briefly the mechanisms and functions of nitric oxide in skeletal muscle and discuss its role in myogenesis, with specific attention to the promising nitric oxide-based approaches now being explored at the pre-clinical and clinical level for the therapy of muscular dystrophy.
Several studies demonstrated in experimental models and in humans synaptic plasticity impairment in some neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and schizophrenia. Recently new neurophysiological tools, such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation, have been introduced in experimental and clinical settings for studying physiology of the brain and modulating cortical activity. These techniques use noninvasive transcranial electrical or magnetic stimulation to modulate neurons activity in the human brain. Cortical stimulation might enhance or inhibit the activity of cortico-subcortical networks, depending on stimulus frequency and intensity, current polarity, and other stimulation parameters such as the configuration of the induced electric field and stimulation protocols. On this basis, in the last two decades, these techniques have rapidly become valuable tools to investigate physiology of the human brain and have been applied to treat drug-resistant neurological and psychiatric diseases. Here we describe these techniques and discuss the mechanisms that may explain these effects.
Estradiol treatment of ovariectomized rodents is known to affect the morphology of dendritic spines and produce behavioral and cognitive effects. Kalirin-7 (Kal7), a postsynaptic density (PSD)-localized Rho-guanine nucleotide exchange factor, is important for dendritic spine formation and stability. Male Kal7 knockout [Kal7(KO)] mice exhibit a number of abnormal behavioral and biochemical phenotypes. Given that chronic 17-estradiol (E2) replacement of ovariectomized rats enhanced Kal7 expression in the hippocampus and primary hippocampal cultures, we assessed the behavioral and biochemical effects of chronic E2 treatment of ovariectomized female wild-type and Kal7(KO) mice. Both intact and ovariectomized Kal7(KO) female mice exhibited decreased anxiety-like behavior compared with the corresponding wild type in the elevated zero maze and were unaffected by E2 treatment. Chronic E2 decreased locomotor activity in the open field and enhanced performance in a passive-avoidance fear conditioning task, which were both unaffected by genotype. Kal7(KO) female mice engaged in significantly more object exploration, both familiar and novel, than did wild-type females. E2 enhanced the acute locomotor response to cocaine, with no significant effect of genotype. Similar to Kal7(KO) males, Kal7(KO) females had decreased levels of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor 2B in hippocampal PSD fractions with no effect of E2 treatment. The differing behavioral effects of Kal7 ablation in female and male mice may offer insight into the molecular underpinnings of these differences.
Chlorpromazine initiated effective pharmacotherapy for schizophrenia 60 years ago. This discovery initiated or stimulated key developments in the field of psychiatry. Nonetheless, advances in pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia have been modest. Psychosis remains the primary aspect of psychopathology addressed, and core pathologies such as cognition and negative symptom remain unmet therapeutic challenges. New clinical and basic neuroscience paradigms may guide the near future and provide a more heuristic construct for novel and innovative discovery.
Investigating and understanding gene-environment interaction (G  E) in a neurodevelopmentally and biologically plausible manner is a major challenge for schizophrenia research. Hypoxia during neurodevelopment is one of several environmental factors related to the risk of schizophrenia, and links between schizophrenia candidate genes and hypoxia regulation or vascular expression have been proposed. Given the availability of a wealth of complex genetic information on schizophrenia in the literature without knowledge on the connections to environmental factors, we now systematically collected genes from candidate studies (using SzGene), genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and copy number variation (CNV) analyses, and then applied four criteria to test for a (theoretical) link to ischemia-hypoxia and/or vascular factors. In all, 55% of the schizophrenia candidate genes (n=42 genes) met the criteria for a link to ischemia-hypoxia and/or vascular factors. Genes associated with schizophrenia showed a significant, threefold enrichment among genes that were derived from microarray studies of the ischemia-hypoxia response (IHR) in the brain. Thus, the finding of a considerable match between genes associated with the risk of schizophrenia and IHR and/or vascular factors is reproducible. An additional survey of genes identified by GWAS and CNV analyses suggested novel genes that match the criteria. Findings for interactions between specific variants of genes proposed to be IHR and/or vascular factors with obstetric complications in patients with schizophrenia have been reported in the literature. Therefore, the extended gene set defined here may form a reasonable and evidence-based starting point for hypothesis-based testing of G  E interactions in clinical genetic and translational neuroscience studies.
Psychotic symptoms occur in ~40% of subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and are associated with more rapid cognitive decline and increased functional deficits. They show heritability up to 61% and have been proposed as a marker for a disease subtype suitable for gene mapping efforts. We undertook a combined analysis of three genome-wide association studies (GWASs) to identify loci that (1) increase susceptibility to an AD and subsequent psychotic symptoms; or (2) modify risk of psychotic symptoms in the presence of neurodegeneration caused by AD. In all, 1299 AD cases with psychosis (AD+P), 735 AD cases without psychosis (AD-P) and 5659 controls were drawn from Genetic and Environmental Risk in AD Consortium 1 (GERAD1), the National Institute on Aging Late-Onset Alzheimer's Disease (NIA-LOAD) family study and the University of Pittsburgh Alzheimer Disease Research Center (ADRC) GWASs. Unobserved genotypes were imputed to provide data on &gt;1.8 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Analyses in each data set were completed comparing (1) AD+P to AD-P cases, and (2) AD+P cases with controls (GERAD1, ADRC only). Aside from the apolipoprotein E (APOE) locus, the strongest evidence for association was observed in an intergenic region on chromosome 4 (rs753129; 'AD+PvAD-P' P=2.85  10(-7); 'AD+PvControls' P=1.11  10(-4)). SNPs upstream of SLC2A9 (rs6834555, P=3.0  10(-7)) and within VSNL1 (rs4038131, P=5.9  10(-7)) showed strongest evidence for association with AD+P when compared with controls. These findings warrant further investigation in larger, appropriately powered samples in which the presence of psychotic symptoms in AD has been well characterized.
The opiate withdrawal syndrome is a severe stressor that powerfully triggers addictive drug intake. However, no treatment yet exists that effectively relieves opiate withdrawal distress and spares stress-coping abilities. The corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system mediates the stress response, but its role in opiate withdrawal distress and bodily strategies aimed to cope with is unknown. CRF-like signaling is transmitted by two receptor pathways, termed CRF(1) and CRF(2). Here, we report that CRF(2) receptor-deficient (CRF(2)(-/-)) mice lack the dysphoria-like and the anhedonia-like states of opiate withdrawal. Moreover, in CRF(2)(-/-) mice opiate withdrawal does not increase the activity of brain dynorphin, CRF and periaqueductal gray circuitry, which are major substrates of opiate withdrawal distress. Nevertheless, CRF(2) receptor-deficiency does not impair brain, neuroendocrine and autonomic stress-coping responses to opiate withdrawal. The present findings point to the CRF(2) receptor pathway as a unique target to relieve opiate withdrawal distress without impairing stress-coping abilities.
The surgical lesion of different brain structures has been used as a treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) for several decades. More recently, the favored therapeutic approach has involved the administration of levodopa and the use of DBS. These two major therapeutic advances have greatly modified both the clinical condition of patients and the history of the disease. With the introduction of L-dopa in 1967, patients could regain mobility, because their akinesia, tremor, and rigidity were greatly improved, with consequent significant improvement in quality of life and increased life expectancy. However, after the so-called &quot;honeymoon&quot; period in which the disease seemed to be controlled, motor fluctuations and L-dopa-induced dyskinesias mitigated the initial enthusiasm. In the 1990s, unilateral pallidotomy and DBS of the globus palllidus internus and STN reduced these motor fluctuations and dyskinesias remarkably, thereby inaugurating a new era in the surgical treatment of PD. Short- and medium-term follow-up studies of patients who underwent surgery have documented sustained, significant motor benefits. However, given the progressive nature of PD and the purely symptomatic effects of pallidotomy and DBS, the long-term clinical evolution of these surgical patients currently seems to be associated with a new PD phenotype, mainly characterized by axial motor problems and cognitive impairment. Here, we analyze the long-term clinical outcomes of surgical PD patients with at least 5-year follow-up, focusing on the long-term motor symptoms that were initially responsive to surgery.
Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis is an autosomal recessive inborn error of cholesterol metabolism. It presents with systemic and neurological symptoms, rarely including parkinsonism. Presented here are a clinical description of a new family with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis and parkinsonism and a review of 13 additional cases reported in the literature. The index case developed corticobasal syndrome, previously not reported in cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. His brother had parkinsonism with cerebellar features and cognitive impairment. In a literature review, median age of onset of parkinsonism was found to be 40 years. Nearly all patients had other neurological symptoms: cognitive (93%), pyramidal (93%), or cerebellar (53%). All patients had walking difficulties, with falls in 27%. Systemic features were common: cataracts (93%) or tendon xanthomata (87%). Frequent MRI abnormalities included cerebellar atrophy (100%), cerebral atrophy (80%), and dentate nuclei signal changes (80%). Functional dopaminergic imaging often demonstrated presynaptic denervation. Improvement with levodopa was frequent (91%) but mild. Progressive neurological decline occurred in 92% of patients despite treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid. Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of atypical parkinsonism, including corticobasal syndrome, particularly with early age of onset and in the context of a complex neurological phenotype. Tendon xanthomata, early-onset cataracts, and radiological findings of cerebellar atrophy with lesions of the dentate nuclei are useful clinical clues. Symptomatic treatment with levodopa may help, but progressive neurological decline is frequent despite treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid.
The link between Parkinson's disease (PD) and certain primary sleep disorders has yet to be clarified. We performed a systematic review of case-control polysomnography studies to evaluate the relationship between PD and sleep disorders. A PubMed literature search and bibliography review yielded 15 case-control polysomnography studies in patients with PD. Studies differed by recruitment methods, duration of polysomnography monitoring, and sleep parameters measured. Subjective sleepiness was greater in patients than controls (50%-66% vs 2.9%-12%) despite lack of objective increase in daytime sleepiness by mean sleep latency testing. The 4 case-control polysomnography studies investigating rapid eye movement behavior disorder support a higher prevalence in PD (0%-47% vs 0%-1.8% in controls), although differences in diagnostic criteria hamper interpretation. The preponderance of evidence did not support an increased incidence of obstructive sleep apnea (27%-60% vs 13%-65%) or periodic leg movements of sleep in patients compared to controls. Adequately powered, prospective studies with uniform methodology and healthy controls are needed to further address the association and pathophysiological significance between PD and sleep problems.



Radial shock waves therapy (RSWT) differs from extracorporeal shock waves therapy (ESWT) in that it produces a non-focused wave that is dissipated radially at the skin. Few studies have yet explored the effects of RSWT on bone tissue. Osteoblasts in culture flasks were studied by polymerase chain reaction after treatment with RSW (500 impulses, 0.05mJ/mm(2)). An inhibited osteoblastogenesis was observed, with a statistically significant reduction in type 1 collagen, osterix, bone sialoprotein and receptor activator NF kappa ligand expression at 24 and 48h, of osteocalcin at 24, 48 and 72h, and osteopontin at 48 and 72h. These findings show that RSWT is not indicated for treatment of delayed fracture union, pseudoarthrosis, and complex regional pain syndrome. The observed reduction in the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kB ligand/osteoprotegerin ratio suggests that it has an inhibiting effect on osteoclastogenesis, which could make it a useful tool for applications in proliferative diseases.



Implantable neural microelectrodes that can record extracellular biopotentials from small, targeted groups of neurons are critical for neuroscience research and emerging clinical applications including brain-controlled prosthetic devices. The crucial material-dependent problem is developing microelectrodes that record neural activity from the same neurons for years with high fidelity and reliability. Here, we report the development of an integrated composite electrode consisting of a carbon-fibre core, a poly(p-xylylene)-based thin-film coating that acts as a dielectric barrier and that is functionalized to control intrinsic biological processes, and a poly(thiophene)-based recording pad. The resulting implants are an order of magnitude smaller than traditional recording electrodes, and more mechanically compliant with brain tissue. They were found to elicit much reduced chronic reactive tissue responses and enabled single-neuron recording in acute and early chronic experiments in rats. This technology, taking advantage of new composites, makes possible highly selective and stealthy neural interface devices towards realizing long-lasting implants.
Hydrocephalus is a common neurological disorder that leads to expansion of the cerebral ventricles and is associated with a high rate of morbidity and mortality. Most neonatal cases are of unknown etiology and are likely to have complex inheritance involving multiple genes and environmental factors. Identifying molecular mechanisms for neonatal hydrocephalus and developing noninvasive treatment modalities are high priorities. Here we use a hydrocephalic mouse model of the human ciliopathy Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (BBS) and identify a role for neural progenitors in the pathogenesis of neonatal hydrocephalus. We found that hydrocephalus in this mouse model is caused by aberrant platelet-derived growth factor receptor  (PDGFR-) signaling, resulting in increased apoptosis and impaired proliferation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (also known as neuron-glial antigen 2 or NG2)(+)PDGFR-(+) neural progenitors. Targeting this pathway with lithium treatment rescued NG2(+)PDGFR-(+) progenitor cell proliferation in BBS mutant mice, reducing their ventricular volume. Our findings demonstrate that neural progenitors are crucial in the pathogenesis of neonatal hydrocephalus, and we identify new therapeutic targets for this common neurological disorder.
Although an influence of adult neurogenesis in mediating some of the effects of antidepressants has received considerable attention in recent years, much less is known about how alterations in this form of plasticity may contribute to psychiatric disorders such as anxiety and depression. One way to begin to address this question is to link the functions of adult-born hippocampal neurons with specific endophenotypes of these disorders. Recent studies have implicated adult-born hippocampal neurons in pattern separation, a process by which similar experiences or events are transformed into discrete, non-overlapping representations. Here we propose that impaired pattern separation underlies the overgeneralization often seen in anxiety disorders, specifically post-traumatic stress disorder and panic disorder, and therefore represents an endophenotype for these disorders. The development of new, pro-neurogenic compounds may therefore have therapeutic potential for patients who display pattern separation deficits.
Emotionally important events are well remembered. Although memories of emotional experiences are known to be mediated and modulated by stress hormones such as glucocorticoids, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms. We found that the hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors that are critically engaged during the formation of long-term inhibitory avoidance memory in rats were coupled to the activation of CaMKII, TrkB, ERK, Akt, PLC and CREB, as well as a to a substantial induction of Arc and synaptic GluA1. Most of these changes, which are initiated by a nongenomic effect of glucocorticoid receptors, were also downstream of the activation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Hippocampal administration of BDNF, but not of other neurotrophins, selectively rescued both the amnesia and the molecular impairments produced by glucocorticoid receptor inhibition. Thus, glucocorticoid receptors mediate long-term memory formation by recruiting the CaMKII-BDNF-CREB-dependent neural plasticity pathways.
During neurogenesis, neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) undergo an irreversible fate transition to become neurons. The Notch pathway is important for this process, and repression of Notch-dependent Hes genes is essential for triggering differentiation. However, Notch signaling often remains active throughout neuronal differentiation, implying a change in the transcriptional responsiveness to Notch during the neurogenic transition. We identified Bcl6, an oncogene, as encoding a proneurogenic factor that is required for proper neurogenesis of the mouse cerebral cortex. BCL6 promoted the neurogenic conversion by switching the composition of Notch-dependent transcriptional complexes at the Hes5 promoter. BCL6 triggered exclusion of the co-activator Mastermind-like 1 and recruitment of the NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase Sirt1, which was required for BCL6-dependent neurogenesis. The resulting epigenetic silencing of Hes5 led to neuronal differentiation despite active Notch signaling. Our findings suggest a role for BCL6 in neurogenesis and uncover Notch-BCL6-Sirt1 interactions that may affect other aspects of physiology and disease.
As in other sensory modalities, one function of the somatosensory system is to detect coherence and contrast in the environment. To investigate the neural bases of these computations, we applied different spatiotemporal patterns of stimuli to rat whiskers while recording multiple neurons in the barrel cortex. Model-based analysis of the responses revealed different coding schemes according to the level of input correlation. With uncorrelated stimuli on 24 whiskers, we identified two distinct functional categories of neurons, analogous in the temporal domain to simple and complex cells of the primary visual cortex. With correlated stimuli, however, a complementary coding scheme emerged: two distinct cell populations, similar to reinforcing and antagonist neurons described in the higher visual area MT, responded specifically to correlations. We suggest that similar context-dependent coexisting coding strategies may be present in other sensory systems to adapt sensory integration to specific stimulus statistics.
Protracted social isolation of adult mice induced behavioral, transcriptional and ultrastructural changes in oligodendrocytes of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and impaired adult myelination. Social re-integration was sufficient to normalize behavioral and transcriptional changes. Short periods of isolation affected chromatin and myelin, but did not induce behavioral changes. Thus, myelinating oligodendrocytes in the adult PFC respond to social interaction with chromatin changes, suggesting that myelination acts as a form of adult plasticity.
Respiration in mammals relies on the rhythmic firing of neurons in the phrenic motor column (PMC), a motor neuron group that provides the sole source of diaphragm innervation. Despite their essential role in breathing, the specific determinants of PMC identity and patterns of connectivity are largely unknown. We show that two Hox genes, Hoxa5 and Hoxc5, control diverse aspects of PMC development including their clustering, intramuscular branching, and survival. In mice lacking Hox5 genes in motor neurons, axons extend to the diaphragm, but fail to arborize, leading to respiratory failure. Genetic rescue of cell death fails to restore columnar organization and branching patterns, indicating these defects are independent of neuronal loss. Unexpectedly, late Hox5 removal preserves columnar organization but depletes PMC number and branches, demonstrating a continuous requirement for Hox function in motor neurons. These findings indicate that Hox5 genes orchestrate PMC development through deployment of temporally distinct wiring programs.
In theoretical accounts of perceptual decision-making, a decision variable integrates noisy sensory evidence and determines action through a boundary-crossing criterion. Signals bearing these very properties have been characterized in single neurons in monkeys, but have yet to be directly identified in humans. Using a gradual target detection task, we isolated a freely evolving decision variable signal in human subjects that exhibited every aspect of the dynamics observed in its single-neuron counterparts. This signal could be continuously tracked in parallel with fully dissociable sensory encoding and motor preparation signals, and could be systematically perturbed mid-flight during decision formation. Furthermore, we found that the signal was completely domain general: it exhibited the same decision-predictive dynamics regardless of sensory modality and stimulus features and tracked cumulative evidence even in the absence of overt action. These findings provide a uniquely clear view on the neural determinants of simple perceptual decisions in humans.
Given the unprecedented tools that are now available for rapidly comparing genomes, the identification and study of genetic and genomic changes that are unique to our species have accelerated, and we are entering a golden age of human evolutionary genomics. Here we provide an overview of these efforts, highlighting important recent discoveries, examples of the different types of human-specific genomic and genetic changes identified, and salient trends, such as the localization of evolutionary adaptive changes to complex loci that are highly enriched for disease associations. Finally, we discuss the remaining challenges, such as the incomplete nature of current genome sequence assemblies and difficulties in linking human-specific genomic changes to human-specific phenotypic traits.
Regaining motor function is of high priority to patients with spinal cord injury (SCI). A variety of electronic devices that interface with the brain or spinal cord, which have applications in neural prosthetics and neurorehabilitation, are in development. Owing to our advancing understanding of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, new technologies to monitor, decode and manipulate neural activity are being translated to patient populations, and have demonstrated clinical efficacy. Brain-machine interfaces that decode motor intentions from cortical signals are enabling patient-driven control of assistive devices such as computers and robotic prostheses, whereas electrical stimulation of the spinal cord and muscles can aid in retraining of motor circuits and improve residual capabilities in patients with SCI. Next-generation interfaces that combine recording and stimulating capabilities in so-called closed-loop devices will further extend the potential for neuroelectronic augmentation of injured motor circuits. Emerging evidence suggests that integration of closed-loop interfaces into intentional motor behaviours has therapeutic benefits that outlast the use of these devices as prostheses. In this Review, we summarize this evidence and propose that several known plasticity mechanisms, operating in a complementary manner, might underlie the therapeutic effects that are achieved by closing the loop between electronic devices and the nervous system.
Pharmacoresistance occurs in up to 30% of patients with epilepsy, and is most commonly associated with epilepsy of structural or metabolic origin, abnormal findings on brain imaging or examination, and failure to respond to the first two antiepileptic drugs. However, in patients presumed to have difficult to treat epilepsy, factors that might result in apparent treatment resistance (misdiagnosis of epilepsy, incorrect drug and/or dose, and lifestyle issues) must first be excluded and the diagnosis re-examined. Epilepsy is commonly misdiagnosed, especially in patients with syncope and psychogenic events. The initial steps in confirming the diagnoses of both epilepsy and pharmacoresistance are to obtain a detailed, reliable history and to conduct a careful review of all prior trials of antiepileptic drug therapy. Once the diagnoses of epilepsy and pharmacoresistance are confirmed, the seizure type, epilepsy syndrome, and expected course of the disorder dictate its medical and surgical management. Epilepsy surgery should be considered promptly in these patients, since few interventions are as effective as brain surgery in this setting, particularly in patients with focal pharmacoresistant epilepsy. This Review discusses the concept of pharmacoresistance and describes the approach to management of the patient with difficult to treat epilepsy, focusing on the important role of epilepsy surgery.
All cells are influenced by mechanical forces. In the brain, force-generating and load-bearing proteins twist, turn, ratchet, flex, compress, expand and bend to mediate neuronal signalling and plasticity. Although the functions of mechanosensitive proteins have been thoroughly described in classical sensory systems, the effects of endogenous mechanical energy on cellular function in the brain have received less attention, and many working models in neuroscience do not currently integrate principles of cellular mechanics. An understanding of cellular-mechanical concepts is essential to allow the integration of mechanobiology into ongoing studies of brain structure and function.
Genetic and environmental factors control morphological and functional differences between the two sides of the nervous system. Neural asymmetries are proposed to have important roles in circuit physiology, cognition and species-specific behaviours. We propose two fundamentally different mechanisms for encoding left-right asymmetry in neural circuits. In the first, asymmetric circuits share common components; in the second, there are unique unilateral structures. Research in both vertebrates and invertebrates is helping to reveal the mechanisms underlying the development of neural lateralization, but less is known about the function of circuit asymmetries. Technical advances in the coming years are likely to revolutionize our understanding of left-right asymmetry in the nervous system.

The brain processes information in a highly parallel manner. Determination of the relationship between neural spikes and synaptic connections plays a key role in the analysis of electrophysiological data. Information geometry (IG) has been proposed as a powerful analysis tool for multiple spike data, providing useful insights into the statistical interactions within a population of neurons. Previous work has demonstrated that IG measures can be used to infer the connection weight between two neurons in a neural network. This property is useful in neuroscience because it provides a way to estimate learning-induced changes in synaptic strengths from extracellular neuronal recordings. A previous study has shown, however, that this property would hold only when inputs to neurons are not correlated. Since neurons in the brain often receive common inputs, this would hinder the application of the IG method to real data. We investigated the two-neuron-IG measures in higher-order log-linear models to overcome this limitation. First, we mathematically showed that the estimation of uniformly connected synaptic weight can be improved by taking into account higher-order log-linear models. Second, we numerically showed that the estimation can be improved for more general asymmetrically connected networks. Considering the estimated number of the synaptic connections in the brain, we showed that the two-neuron IG measure calculated by the fourth- or fifth-order log-linear model would provide an accurate estimation of connection strength within approximately a 10% error. These studies suggest that the two-neuron IG measure with higher-order log-linear expansion is a robust estimator of connection weight even under correlated inputs, providing a useful analytical tool for real multineuronal spike data.
The sparse coding hypothesis has generated significant interest in the computational and theoretical neuroscience communities, but there remain open questions about the exact quantitative form of the sparsity penalty and the implementation of such a coding rule in neurally plausible architectures. The main contribution of this work is to show that a wide variety of sparsity-based probabilistic inference problems proposed in the signal processing and statistics literatures can be implemented exactly in the common network architecture known as the locally competitive algorithm (LCA). Among the cost functions we examine are approximate l(p) norms (0  p  2), modified l(p)-norms, block-l1 norms, and reweighted algorithms. Of particular interest is that we show significantly increased performance in reweighted l1 algorithms by inferring all parameters jointly in a dynamical system rather than using an iterative approach native to digital computational architectures.
We propose a theory for cortical representation and computation of visually completed curves that are generated by the visual system to fill in missing visual information (e.g., due to occlusions). Recent computational theories and physiological evidence suggest that although such curves do not correspond to explicit image evidence along their length, their construction emerges from corresponding activation patterns of orientation-selective cells in the primary visual cortex. Previous theoretical work modeled these patterns as least energetic 3D curves in the mathematical continuous space R2  S1, which abstracts the mammalian striate cortex. Here we discuss the biological plausibility of this theory and present a neural architecture that implements it with locally connected parallel networks. Part of this contribution is also a first attempt to bridge the physiological literature on curve completion with the shape problem and a shape theory. We present completion simulations of our model in natural and synthetic scenes and discuss various observations and predictions that emerge from this theory in the context of curve completion.
Previously, we have reported amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) families with multiple mutations in major ALS-associated genes. These findings provided evidence for an oligogenic basis of ALS. In our present study, we screened a cohort of 755 sporadic ALS patients, 111 familial ALS patients (97 families), and 765 control subjects of Dutch descent for mutations in vesicle-associated membrane protein B (VAPB). We have identified 1 novel VAPB mutation (p.V234I) in a familial ALS patient known to have a chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72) repeat expansion. This p.V234I mutation was absent in control subjects, located in a region with high evolutionary conservation, and predicted to have damaging effects. Taken together, these findings provide additional evidence for an oligogenic basis of ALS.
Expansions of the noncoding GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat in the Chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9ORF72) gene cause frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this study we aimed to determine whether the length of the normal-unexpanded-allele of the GGGGCC repeat in C9ORF72 plays a role in the presentation of disease or affects age at onset in C9ORF72 mutation carriers. We also studied whether the GGGGCC repeat length confers risk or affects age at onset in FTD and ALS patients without C9ORF72 repeat expansions. C9ORF72 genotyping was performed in 580 FTD, 995 ALS, and 160 FTD-ALS patients, and 1444 controls, leading to the identification of 211 patients with pathogenic C9ORF72 repeat expansions. No meaningful association between the repeat length of the normal alleles of the GGGGCC repeat in C9ORF72 and disease phenotype or age at onset was observed in C9ORF72 mutation carriers or nonmutation carriers.
The nucleus pararetroambiguus (NPRA) and the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract (NTScom) show estrogen nuclear receptor- immunoreactivity (nuclear ER--IR). Both cell groups are involved in estrous cycle related adaptations. We examined in normally cycling aged hamsters the occurrence/amount/frequency of age-related degenerative changes in NPRA and NTScom during estrus and diestrus. In 2640 electron microscopy photomicrographs plasticity reflected in the ratio of axon terminal surface/dendrite surface (t/d) was morphometrically analyzed. Medial tegmental field (mtf, nuclear ER--IR poor), served as control. In aged animals, irrespective of nuclear ER--IR+ or nuclear ER--IR- related cell groups, extensive diffuse degenerative structural aberrations were observed. The hormonal state had a strong influence on t/d ratios in NPRA and NTScom, but not in mtf. In NPRA and NTScom, diestrous hamsters had significantly smaller t/d ratios (NPRA, 0.750  0.050; NTScom, 0.900  0.039) than the estrous hamsters (NPRA, 1.083  0.075; NTScom, 1.204  0.076). Aging affected axodendritic ratios only in mtf (p &lt; 0.001). In conclusion: in the female hamster brain, estrous cycle-induced structural plasticity is preserved in NPRA and NTScom during aging despite the presence of diffuse age-related neurodegenerative changes.
Amyloid plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) induce inflammatory responses associated with activated microglia and reactive astrocytes, which exacerbate neurodegeneration through release of inflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen species, and other factors. Inflammation contributes to neurodegeneration at later stages of AD, but it may also play a role in early disease pathogenesis. We found that before plaque deposition, amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin 1 (PSEN1) transgenic mice (PSAPP mice), a well-characterized model of AD, exhibit evidence of cerebrovascular inflammation. Expression of the endothelial cell-specific antigen MECA-32 (mouse endothelial cell antigen-32) was upregulated in the cerebrovasculature of young PSAPP mice (3 months old) and was similar to that observed in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a model of multiple sclerosis characterized by neuroinflammation. MECA-32 is normally expressed in central and peripheral vasculature throughout development, but expression in the cerebrovasculature is downregulated on establishment of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). However, CNS inflammation triggers re-expression of MECA-32 in compromised cerebrovasculature. Our study indicates that MECA-32 may be a robust marker of cerebrovascular inflammation and compromised BBB integrity, triggered by soluble amyloid- early in disease pathogenesis.
Age-related decline is common in multiple cognitive domains. -amyloid (A) deposition, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, is also associated with cognitive changes in many older people. In this study, we examined a wide range of cognitive function in order to differentiate the effect of age and A on cognition during aging. Using positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with the radiotracer Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB), we classified normal older subjects as High PIB-Old and Low PIB-Old and applied sequential multivariate analyses (i.e., principal components analysis [PCA] and discriminant analysis) to obtain summary measures of cognitive tests encompassing multiple cognitive domains. Among 5 cognitive components, a significant age effect was observed in component scores of visual memory and executive functions, regardless of the level of A. Discriminant scores (weighted scores of the 5 cognitive components) revealed a significant effect of both age and A and were further associated with quantitative PIB counts. The results of the current study highlight both effects of age and A on cognitive changes in normal elderly.
This study investigated the regional distribution of white matter (WM) damage in Richardson's syndrome (PSP-RS) and progressive supranuclear palsy-Parkinsonism (PSP-P) using diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The DT MRI classificatory ability in diagnosing progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) syndromes, when used in combination with infratentorial volumetry, was also quantified. In 37 PSP (21 PSP-RS, 16 PSP-P) and 42 controls, the program Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS; www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/tbss) was applied. DT MRI metrics were derived from supratentorial, thalamic, and infratentorial tracts. The magnetic resonance parkinsonism index (MRPI) was calculated. All PSP harbored diffusivity abnormalities in the corpus callosum, frontoparietal, and frontotemporo-occipital tracts. Infratentorial WM and thalamic radiations were severely affected in PSP-RS and relatively spared in PSP-P. When MRPI and DT MRI measures were combined, the discriminatory power increased for each comparison. Distinct patterns of WM alterations occur in PSP-RS and PSP-P. Adding DT MRI measures to MRPI improves the diagnostic accuracy in differentiating each PSP syndrome from healthy individuals and each other.
In infant rats adenosine A(2A) receptor-mediated modulation of neuromuscular transmission predominates over A1 receptor-mediated neuromodulation. We investigated whether aging affects this A(2A)/A(1) receptor balance. Evoked (EPPs) and miniature end plate potentials (MEPPs) were recorded from single fibers of (weeks-old) infant (3-4), young adult (12-16), older (36-38), and aged (80-90) male rat-diaphragm. The non A1/A(2A) selective agonist, 2-chloroadenosine (CADO; 30 nM) and the adenosine kinase inhibitor, iodotubericidin (ITU; 10 M) increased mean amplitude and quantal content of EPPs in infant, young adult, and older adult rats, but not in aged rats. The facilitatory effects were prevented by the A(2A) receptor antagonist, ZM241385 (50 nM) and mimicked by the A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS21680 (10 nM). The A1 receptor agonist, 6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA; 100 nM), decreased EPPs amplitude in all age groups. It is concluded that aging differently influences adenosine A1 receptor and A(2A) receptor-mediated presynaptic modulation of neuromuscular transmission, so that the facilitatory influence decreases upon aging, whereas the inhibitory influence remains unchanged in aged animals. The reduction of adenosine A(2A) receptors upon aging may contribute to the age-related changes in neuromuscular function.
The fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) plays a vital role in the development of the nervous system regulating a multitude of cellular processes. One of the interaction partners of the FGFR is the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), which is known to play an important role in neuronal development, regeneration and synaptic plasticity. Thus, simultaneous activation of FGFR- and NCAM-mediated signaling pathways may be expected to affect processes underlying neurodegenerative diseases. We here report the identification of a peptide compound, Enreptin, capable of interacting with both FGFR and NCAM. We demonstrate that this dual specificity agonist induces phosphorylation of FGFR and differentiation and survival of primary neurons in vitro, and that these effects are inhibited by abrogation of both NCAM and FGFR signaling pathways. Furthermore, Enreptin crosses the blood-brain barrier after subcutaneous administration, enhances long-term memory in normal mice and ameliorates memory deficit in mice with induced brain inflammation. Moreover, Enreptin reduces cognitive impairment and neuronal death induced by A25-35 in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease, and reduces the mortality rate and clinical signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rats. Thus, Enreptin is an attractive candidate for the treatment of neurological diseases.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by neuronal loss in the striatum, ultimately leading to an 'imbalance' in the electrical activity of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits. To restore this 'imbalance' in HD patients, which is held responsible for (some) of the motor symptoms, different basal ganglia nuclei have been targeted for surgical therapies, such as ablative surgery and deep brain stimulation. However, evidence to target brain nuclei for surgical therapies in HD is lacking. We reasoned that a neuronal and metabolic mapping of the basal ganglia nuclei could identify a functional substrate for therapeutic interventions. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the metabolic and neuronal activity of basal ganglia nuclei in a transgenic rat model of HD (tgHD). Subjects were 10-12 month old tgHD rats and wildtype littermates. We examined the striatum, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, the subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra at different levels. First, we determined the overall neuronal activity at a supracellular level, by cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Secondly, we determined the subcellular metabolic activity, by immunohistochemistry for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- transcription co-activator (PGC-1), a key player in the mitochondrial machinery. Finally, we performed extracellular single unit recordings in the nuclei to determine the cellular activity. In tgHD rats, optical density analysis showed a significantly increased cytochrome oxidase levels in the globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus when compared to controls. PGC-1 expression was only enhanced in the subthalamic nucleus and electrophysiological recordings revealed decreased firing frequency of the majority of the neurons in the globus pallidus and increased firing frequency of the majority of the neurons in the subthalamic nucleus. Altogether, our results suggest that the globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus play a role in the neurobiology of HD and can be potential targets for therapeutic interventions.
The main pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) consist of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Hippocampal cell loss, atrophy and cholinergic dysfunction are also features of AD. The present work is aimed at studying the interactions between cholinergic denervation, APP processing and hippocampal integrity. The cholinergic immunotoxin mu p-75-saporin was injected into the 3rd ventricle of 6- to 8-month-old Tg2576 mice to induce a cholinergic denervation. Four weeks after cholinergic immunolesion, a significant 14-fold increase of soluble A1-42 was observed. Cholinergically lesioned Tg2576 mice showed hippocampal atrophy together with degenerating FluoroJade-B-stained neurons and reduction of synaptophysin expression in CA1-3 pyramidal layers. We also found that cholinergic denervation led to reduced levels of ADAM17 in hippocampus of Tg2576 mice. Inhibition of ADAM17 with TAPI-2 (5 M) decreased viability of hippocampal primary neurons from Tg2576 brains and decreased phosphorylation of downstream effectors of trophic signalling (ERK and Akt). The cholinergic agonist carbachol (100 M) rescued these effects, suggesting that cholinergic deficits might render hippocampus more vulnerable to neurotoxicity upon certain toxic environments. The present work proposes a novel model of AD that worsens the patent amyloid pathology of Tg2576 mice together with hippocampal synaptic pathology and neurodegeneration. Drugs aimed at favoring cholinergic transmission should still be considered as potential treatments of AD.
Dyskinesia is a major side effect of chronic levodopa (L-DOPA) administration, the reference treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-HFS) alleviates parkinsonian motor symptoms and indirectly improves dyskinesia by decreasing L-DOPA requirement. However, inadequate stimulation can also trigger dyskinetic movements in PD patients and animal models. Here, we investigated the possible association between L-DOPA- and STN-HFS-induced dyskinesia and regulation of the NR2B subunit of NMDA receptors in the rodent model of PD. We subjected 6-OHDA-lesioned rats to HFS for 1h, at an intensity triggering forelimb dyskinesia. Other 6-OHDA-lesioned rats were treated with chronic high doses of L-DOPA for ten days, to induce abnormal involuntary movements. The 6-OHDA lesion regulated NR2B only in the SNr, where the activation of NR2B was observed (as assessed by phosphorylation of the Tyr1472 residue). Both STN-HFS and L-DOPA dyskinesiogenic treatments induced NR2B activation in the STN and EP, but only L-DOPA triggered NR2B hyperphosphorylation in the striatum. Finally, the use of CP-101,606 exacerbated L-DOPA-induced motor behavior and associated NR2B hyperphosphorylation in the striatum, STN and EP. Thus, NR2B activation in basal ganglia structures is correlated with dyskinesia.
In the epileptic brain, seizures can increase hippocampal neurogenesis, while opposingly seizure-associated brain pathology has been shown to detrimentally affect neurogenesis. The long-term impact of recurrent seizures on the number of new neurons as well as their relative contribution to the granule cell layer remains an open question. Therefore we analyzed neuron addition based on genetic fate mapping in a chronic model of epilepsy comparing non-kindled animals and kindled animals having at least one generalized seizure with and without further seizures. The number of all new granule cells added to the dentate gyrus following the onset of kindling was significantly increased (7.0-8.9 fold) in kindled groups. The hyperexcitable kindled state and a prior seizure history proved to be sufficient to cause a pronounced long-term net effect on neuron addition. An ongoing continuous occurrence of seizures did not further increase the number of new granule cells in the long-term. In contrast, a correlation was found between the cumulative duration of seizures and neuron addition following a kindled state. In addition, the overall number of seizures influenced the relative portion of new cells among all granule cells. Non-kindled animals showed 1.6% of new granule cells among all granular cells by the end of the experiment. This portion reached 5.7% in the animals which experienced either 10 or 22 seizures. A percentage of 8.4% new cells were determined in the group receiving 46 seizures which is a significant increase in comparison to the control group. In conclusion, permanent genetic fate mapping analysis demonstrated that recurrent seizures result in a lasting change in the makeup of the granule cell layer with alterations in the relative contribution of newborn neurons to the granule cell network. Interestingly, the formation of a hyperexcitable kindled network even without recent seizure activity can result in pronounced long-term alterations in the absolute number of new granule cells. However, seizure density also seems to play a critical role with more frequent seizures resulting in increased fractions of new neurons.
Opioid receptors located in the ventral tegmental area are known to regulate dopamine (DA) release from mesocortical afferents to medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) but little is known on whether in this cortical region activation of opioid receptors affect DA receptor signaling. In the present study we show that in mouse mPFC concomitant activation of either - or -opioid receptors, but not -opioid receptors, potentiated DA D1-like receptor-induced stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity through a G protein  subunit-dependent mechanism. In tissue slices of mPFC, the combined addition of the opioid agonist leu-enkephalin and the DA D1-like receptor agonist SKF 81297 produced more than additive increase in the phosphorylation state of AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits GluR1 and NR1, respectively. Moreover, in primary cultures of mouse frontal cortex neurons, DA D1-like receptor-induced Ser133 phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein was potentiated by concurrent stimulation of opioid receptors. Double immunofluorescence analysis of cultured cortical cells indicated that a large percentage of DA D1 receptor positive cells expressed either - or -opioid receptor immunoreactivity. These data indicate that in mouse mPFC activation of - and -opioid receptors enhances DA D1-like receptor signaling likely through converging regulatory inputs on -stimulated adenylyl cyclase isoforms. This previously unrecognized synergistic interaction may selectively affect DA D1 transmission at specific postsynaptic sites where the receptors are co-localized and may play a role in prefrontal DA D1 regulation of opioid addiction.
Age, sex, and gonadal hormones have profound effects on ischemic stroke outcomes, although how these factors impact basic stroke pathophysiology remains unclear. There is a plethora of inconsistent data reported throughout the literature, primarily due to differences in the species examined, the timing and methods used to evaluate injury, the models used, and confusion regarding differences in stroke incidence as seen in clinical populations vs. effects on acute neuroprotection or neurorepair in experimental stroke models. Sex and gonadal hormone exposure have considerable independent impact on stroke outcome, but these factors also interact with each other, and the contribution of each differs throughout the lifespan. The contribution of sex and hormones to experimental stroke will be the focus of this review. Recent advances and our current understanding of age, sex, and hormone interactions in ischemic stroke with a focus on inflammation will be discussed.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) plays a variety of important roles within the nervous system. Increasing CGRP expression could improve the survival of injured neurons and prevent neuronal loss. In this study, we first evaluated in vitro the neuroprotective function of CGRP on mechanically injured cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) of rats. We then verified this result through exogenous administration of CGRP in a spinal cord transected completely in rats. Finally, we investigated the effect of electro-acupuncture (EA) on CGRP expression following the spinal cord transected completely in rats. We found that EA can improve CGRP expression, and exogenous CGRP may promote the survival of injured neurons, both in vivo and in vitro. Our results suggest that CGRP may be a specific neuropeptide expressed in GV-EA treatment of spinal cord injuries (SCI), and that CGRP may play a neuroprotective role in survival of neurons injured mechanically.
Cilnidipine, a calcium channel blocker, has been reported to have neuroprotective effects. We investigated whether cilnidipine could protect neurons from hypoxia and explored the role of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) pathways in the neuroprotective effect of cilnidipine. The viability of a primary culture of cortical neurons injured by hypoxia, measured by trypan blue staining and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay, was dramatically restored by cilnidipine treatment. TUNEL and DAPI staining showed that cilnidipine significantly reduced apoptotic cell death induced by hypoxia. Free radical stress and calcium influx induced by hypoxia were markedly decreased by treatment with cilnidipine. Survival signaling proteins associated with the PI3K and ERK pathways were significantly increased while death signaling proteins were markedly decreased in the primary culture of cortical neurons simultaneously exposed to cilnidipine and hypoxia when compared with the neurons exposed only to hypoxia. These neuroprotective effects of cilnidipine were blocked by treatment with a PI3K inhibitor or an ERK inhibitor. These results show that cilnidipine protects primary cultured cortical neurons from hypoxia by reducing free radical stress, calcium influx, and death-related signaling proteins and by increasing survival-related proteins associated with the PI3K and ERK pathways, and that activation of those pathways plays an important role in the neuroprotective effects of cilnidipine against hypoxia. These findings suggest that cilnidipine has neuroprotective effects against hypoxia through various mechanisms, as well as a blood pressure-lowering effect, which might help to prevent ischemic stroke and reduce neuronal injury caused by ischemic stroke.
The substantia nigra plays important roles in the brain function and is critical in the development of many diseases, particularly Parkinson's disease. Pathological changes of the substantia nigra have also been reported in other neurodegenerative diseases. Using a quantitative proteomic approach, we investigated protein expressions in the substantia nigra of Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and Multiple sclerosis. The expression level of one hundred and four proteins that were identified in at least three samples of each group were compared with the control group, with nineteen, twenty-two and thirteen proteins differentially expressed in Alzheimer's diseases, Huntington's disease and Multiple sclerosis respectively. The result indicates that the substantia nigra also undergoes functional adaption or damage in these diseases.
Glycolytic ATP synthesis by synaptic vesicles provides an efficient mechanism for fueling vesicular loading of the neurotransmitter glutamate. This is achieved in part by vesicle-bound pyruvate kinase. However, we have found that vesicular glutamate uptake, in the presence of the pyruvate kinase substrates ADP and phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), substantially exceeds that caused by exogenous ATP. We propose that this much enhanced uptake is in part due to extra ATP produced via a mechanism involving a novel enzyme, PEP-dependent ADP synthase. We discuss implications for this enzyme in energy homeostasis and pathophysiology, as well as in efficient synaptic glutamate transmission.
Drug-resistance and adverse effects of current drugs are the most obstacles in the treatment of epilepsy. In a plan for finding new natural anticonvulsant agents, we studied the anticonvulsant effects of essential oil (ZMEO) and methanolic extract (ZMME) of Zhumeria majdae in pentylene tetrazol (PTZ) and maximal electro-shock (MES) models in mice. Mice received different doses of ZMEO and ZMME, 30 min before induction of chemical and electrical convulsions. Neurotoxicity (movement toxicity and sedation) was evaluated using rota-rod test. The mortality was determined after 24 h following injection of different doses of the ZMEO and ZMME. The obtained results show that ZMEO dose-dependently protected mice from tonic convulsions induced by PTZ and MES with effective doses (ED(50)) of 0.26 (0.13-0.39) and 0.27 (0.17-0.37) ml/kg respectively. Toxic doses (TD(50)) in rota-rod test for ZMEO was 0.55 (0.42-0.70) ml/kg. ZMME at dose of 2 g/kg decreased tonic convulsions as much as 40 %. For ZMEO, TD(50) of 0.55 (0.45-0.69) ml/kg was obtained. ZMME significantly decreased the walking time in rota-rod test at dose of 2 g/kg. Lethal dose (LD(50)) of ZMEO was determined as 2.35 (1.98-2.65) ml/kg. ZMME showed about 34 % death of the animals at dose 5 g/kg. The essential oil of Z. majdae could be a good candidate for further anticonvulsive studies.




Changes in regional brain activity can be observed following global normalization procedures to reduce variability in the data. In particular, spurious regional differences may appear when scans from patients with low global activity are compared to those from healthy subjects. It has thus been suggested that the consistent increases in subcortical activity that characterize the abnormal Parkinson's disease-related metabolic covariance pattern (PDRP) are artifacts of global normalization, and that similar topographies can be identified in scans from healthy subjects with varying global activity. To address this issue, we examined the effects of experimental reductions in global metabolic activity on PDRP expression. Ten healthy subjects underwent F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET in wakefulness and following sleep induction. In all subjects, the global metabolic rate (GMR) declined with sleep (mean -34%, range: -17 to -56%), exceeding the test-retest differences of the measure (p&lt;0.001). By contrast, sleep-wake differences in PDRP expression did not differ from test-retest differences, and did not correlate (R=0.04) with concurrent declines in global metabolic activity. Indeed, despite significant GMR reductions in sleep, PDRP values remained within the normal range. Likewise, voxel weights on the principal component patterns resulting from combined analysis of the sleep and wake scans did not correlate (R&lt;0.07) with the corresponding regional loadings on the PDRP topography. In aggregate, the data demonstrate that abnormal PDRP expression is not induced by reductions in global activity. Moreover, significant declines in GMR are not associated with the appearance of PDRP-like spatial topographies.
In recent years, one of the most important findings in systems neuroscience has been the identification of large scale distributed brain networks. These networks support healthy brain function and are perturbed in a number of neurological disorders (e.g. schizophrenia). Their study is therefore an important and evolving focus for neuroscience research. The majority of network studies are conducted using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) which relies on changes in blood oxygenation induced by neural activity. However recently, a small number of studies have begun to elucidate the electrical origin of fMRI networks by searching for correlations between neural oscillatory signals from spatially separate brain areas in magnetoencephalography (MEG) data. Here we advance this research area. We introduce two methodological extensions to previous independent component analysis (ICA) approaches to MEG network characterisation: 1) we show how to derive pan-spectral networks that combine independent components computed within individual frequency bands. 2) We show how to measure the temporal evolution of each network with millisecond temporal resolution. We apply our approach to ~10h of MEG data recorded in 28 experimental sessions during 3 separate cognitive tasks showing that a number of networks could be identified and were robust across time, task, subject and recording session. Further, we show that neural oscillations in those networks are modulated by memory load, and task relevance. This study furthers recent findings on electrodynamic brain networks and paves the way for future clinical studies in patients in which abnormal connectivity is thought to underlie core symptoms.
What are the brain mechanisms that mediate conscious object recognition? To investigate this question, it is essential to distinguish between brain processes that cause conscious recognition of a stimulus from other correlates of its sensory processing. Previous fMRI studies have identified large-scale brain activity ranging from striate to high-level sensory and prefrontal regions associated with conscious visual perception or recognition. However, the possible role of changes in connectivity during conscious perception between these regions has only rarely been studied. Here, we used fMRI and connectivity analyses, together with 120 custom-generated, two-tone, Mooney images to directly assess whether conscious recognition of an object is accompanied by a dynamical change in the functional coupling between extrastriate cortex and prefrontal areas. We compared recognizing an object versus not recognizing it in 19 nave subjects using two different response modalities. We find that connectivity between the extrastriate cortex and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) increases when objects are consciously recognized. This interaction was independent of the response modality used to report conscious recognition. Furthermore, computing the difference in Granger causality between recognized and not recognized conditions reveals stronger feedforward connectivity than feedback connectivity when subjects recognized the objects. We suggest that frontal and visual brain regions are part of a functional network that supports conscious object recognition by changes in functional connectivity.

Vertical supranuclear gaze palsy (VSGP) is a key clinical feature in patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease (NP-C), a rare, autosomal recessive, neuro-visceral disorder caused by mutations in either the NPC1 or NPC2 gene. VSGP is present in approximately 65 % of the cases and is, with gelastic cataplexy, an important risk indicator for NP-C. VSGP in NP-C is characterized by a paralysis of vertical saccades, especially downward, with the slow vertical eye movement systems (smooth pursuit and the vestibulo-ocular reflex) spared in the early phase of the disease. This dissociation is caused by a selective vulnerability of the neurons in the rostral interstitial nuclei of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (riMLF) in NP-C. Here we discuss VSGP in NP-C and how clinicians can best elicit this sign.
The aim of our study was to analyse decision making in early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) patients performing the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). We compared 19 patients with early-onset PD ( 45 years) on dopaminergic medication (no evidence of depression, dementia, executive dysfunction according to the Tower of London test and the Stroop test, or pathological gambling) with 20 age-matched controls. A computer version of the IGT was employed. The PD patients achieved slightly lower IGT scores than the control group. A detailed analysis based on 'shift frequencies' between the individual decks showed that the patients tended to change their preferences for the decks more frequently, with a higher preference for the 'disadvantageous' deck B. Control subjects seemed to develop a more effective strategy. These differences could be caused by the poorer ability of the patients to develop any strategy at all. We observed changes in decision making during IGT performance in patients with early-onset PD, although they had no executive dysfunction as measured by established neuropsychological tests. The more detailed analysis employed in the present study could lead to a more accurate study of IGT performance and application of IGT in clinical practice.
A patient self-rated 19-item wearing-off questionnaire (WOQ-19) was shown to be a potent screening tool for wearing-off (WO) in patients with Parkinson's disease. As part of the early detection of wearing-off in Parkinson's disease study, we preliminarily performed a linguistic and a psychometric validation of an Italian version of the WOQ-19. Moreover, we assessed the sensitivity and specificity of the WOQ-19 in the office-based settings. The psychometric validation study included assessment of discriminant ability, internal consistency and test-retest reliability. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and the Cronbach's Alpha were assessed. The WOQ-19 sensitivity and specificity were calculated in respect to the physician assessment of WO, taken as the gold standard. The Italian version of WOQ-19 was found easy to understand by  80% of the patients. The number of WO-related symptoms detected by WOQ-19 was 7.5  3.2 in patients with WO and 1.6  2.6 in patients without WO (p &lt; 0.0001). Cronbach's alpha was equal to 0.868 for the total number of WO symptoms. The ICC value was equal to 0.858 for WO-related symptoms as a whole. The diagnostic ability study recruited 207 patients: for a WOQ-19 cut-off  2, the sensitivity was equal to 0.881 and the specificity was 0.674. This is the first validation of WOQ-19 in Italian, with excellent linguistic validity and psychometric properties. WOQ-19 was confirmed to be reliable in WO detection.
The aim of this study was to determine the mechanism by which erythropoietin (EPO) suppressed 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced apoptosis. Our results showed that 6-OHDA remarkably decreased phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) as well as enhanced the level of Bax in the mitochondria. Besides, 6-OHDA decreased the mitochondrial expression of Bcl-2 without altering the cytoplasmic expression of Bcl-2. In line with these results, 6-OHDA treatment enhanced the apoptosis and caspase 3 activity in PC12 cells. These findings indicated that mitochondrial dysfunction was involved in the neurotoxicity of 6-OHDA and GSK3 might act upstream of Bax/Bcl-2 and the caspase 3 pathways in 6-OHDA-treated PC12 cells. Furthermore, EPO reduced 6-OHDA-induced growth inhibition. Western blot exhibited that GSK3 inhibitor 4-benzyl-2-methyl-1, 2,4-thiadiazolidine-3, 5-dione (TDZD8) and EPO not only increased the phosphorylation of GSK3 but also inhibited the mitochondrial translocation of Bax. In agreement with these results, EPO and TDZD8 obviously increased the mitochondrial expression of Bcl-2. Finally, TDZD-8 and EPO significantly suppressed the enhanced apoptosis and activity of caspase 3 induced by 6-OHDA. Taken together, GSK3-mediated mitochondrial cell death pathway is involved in the neuroprotective effect of EPO against 6-OHDA-induced apoptosis.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is common in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD). A few studies so far have investigated RLS prevalence in ESRD patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). The aim of this study was to compare the prevalence, characteristics, consequences and predictors of RLS between HD and CAPD patients. We recruited 58 HD and 28 CAPD patients. A neurologist expert in sleep medicine performed RLS diagnosis during a face-to-face interview. The prevalence of RLS was slightly higher in HD than in CAPD patients (19 vs. 10.7%). RLS appeared after the onset of kidney complaint in HD patients; in contrast, in CAPD patients RLS preceded the occurrence of renal disease. Five HD patients reported that RLS symptoms occurred throughout the dialysis session. HD patients with RLS(+) had a higher mean number of HD sessions per week and a longer mean duration of HD session than the RLS(-) ones. Prevalence of females was significantly higher in CAPD patients with RLS(+) than in the RLS(-) ones. RLS frequently affects both HD and CAPD patients. RLS impaired sleep in both groups, but use of dopaminergic agents was uncommon in our sample. Dialysis schedule was associated with RLS in HD patients, while female sex was related to RLS in CAPD patients. Awareness concerning RLS identification and treatment in HD and CAPD patients is recommended.
We report the case of a patient suffering from migraine with and without aura who had a complete remission of both during warfarin treatment for pulmonary embolism; the attacks reappeared promptly during two treatment withdrawals. We highlight warfarin as prophylactic drug in migraine prophylaxis and discuss about new, safer and more specific anticoagulants that could be used in migraine treatment. Their use could also clarify literature's conflicting data about anticoagulants' efficacy in migraine prophylaxis and clear if their efficacy in migraine treatment could be related aspecifically to anticoagulation's effect or to a particular mechanism in the coagulation cascade.
Although the association between PFO and cryptogenic stroke is well shown in young adults, the causality is still unclear. The pathogenetic mechanism of ischemic stroke related to PFO is not entirely understood. Indeed, besides the well-known paradoxical embolism, formations of thrombi in situ, especially in the presence of ASA, a higher incidence of atrial fibrillation have been often observed. Cerebral sinus venous thrombosis may be due to local inflammation or to acquired or genetic thrombophilia including hyperhomocysteinemia. We report a case of a young man presenting with a cerebellar infarction probably secondary to a paradoxical brain-to-brain embolism, in which the only detectable embolic source was a cerebral vein thrombosis.
Myotonia congenita-inducing mutations in the muscle chloride channel CLC-1 normally result in reduced open probability (P (o)) of this channel. One well-accepted mechanism of the dominant inheritance of this disease involves a dominant-negative effect of the mutation on the function of the common-gate of this homodimeric, double-barreled molecule. We report here a family with myotonia congenita characterized by muscle stiffness and clinical and electrophysiologic myotonic phenomena transmitted in an autosomal dominant pattern. DNA sequencing of DMPK and ZNF9 genes for myotonic muscular dystrophy types I and II was normal, whereas sequencing of CLC-1 encoding gene, CLCN1, identified a single heterozygous missense mutation, G233S. Patch-clamp analyses of this mutant CLC-1 channel in Xenopus oocytes revealed an increased P (o) of the channel's fast-gate, from ~0.4 in the wild type to &gt;0.9 in the mutant at -90 mV. In contrast, the mutant exhibits a minimal effect on the P (o) of the common-gate. These results are consistent with the structural prediction that the mutation site is adjacent to the fast-gate of the channel. Overall, the mutant could lead to a significantly reduced dynamic response of CLC-1 to membrane depolarization, from a fivefold increase in chloride conductance in the wild type to a twofold increase in the mutant-this might result in slower membrane repolarization during an action potential. Since expression levels of the mutant and wild-type subunits in artificial model cell systems were unable to explain the disease symptoms, the mechanism leading to dominant inheritance in this family remains to be determined.
We describe the case of a 64-year-old woman affected by chronic polymyositis with gait disturbance, fatty replacement and swelling of thigh muscles. She achieved significant clinical improvement after 5 weeks intensive aerobic training. In particular the patient improved in motor performance tests, showed an improvement in the efficiency of oxidative metabolism and quality of life. Furthermore, analysis of creatinephosphokinase levels showed a reduction of muscle damage susceptibility. In conclusion, a specific intensive exercise program can be safely used with beneficial effects on muscle function in patients with chronic polymyositis.
Fatigue is a frequent complaint in muscular dystrophies but it is yet not well defined or studied. We have examined the issue of muscle fatigue in a series of molecularly defined muscular dystrophies. A greater fatigability is seen in muscular dystrophy patients and can be an acute or chronic status. In Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy and beta-sarcoglycanopathy besides the alteration of dystrophin and/or sarcoglycan complex, a neuronal nitric oxide synthase depletion is frequently found and might correlate with post-exercise fatigability as well as with cardiac involvement. Therefore, it might be an important modulating factor of the severity of myopathy. In myotonic dystrophy, fatigue is a common complaint: muscle is involved and type 1 atrophy is a frequent feature; brain involvement and depressed mood might likely explain the extent of fatigue and daytime sleepiness commonly observed in these patients. Furthermore, in our observation in a series of 24 cases, muscle and brain can be independently involved in DM1 patients. These observations have profound impact on the type of physical therapy to be prescribed in such patients.
In mitochondrial myopathies with respiratory chain deficiency impairment of energy cell production may lead to in excess reactive oxygen species generation with consequent oxidative stress and cell damage. Aerobic training has been showed to increase muscle performance in patients with mitochondrial myopathies. Aim of this study has been to evaluate, in 7 patients (6 F e 1M, mean age 44.9  12.1 years) affected by mitochondrial disease, concomitantly to lactate exercise curve, the occurrence of oxidative stress, as indicated by circulating levels of lipoperoxides, in rest condition and as effect of exercise, and also, to verify if an aerobic training program is able to modify, in these patients, ox-redox balance efficiency. At rest and before training blood level of lipoperoxides was 382.4  37.8 AU, compared to controls (318.7  63.8; P&lt;0.05), this corresponding to a moderate oxidative stress degree according to the adopted scale. During incremental exercise blood level of lipoperoxides did not increase, but maintained significantly higher compared to controls. After an aerobic training of 10 weeks the blood level of lipoperoxides decreased by 13.7% at rest (P&lt;0.01) and 10.4%, 8.6% and 8.5% respectively at the corresponding times during the exercise test (P=0.06). These data indicate that, in mitochondrial patients, oxidative stress occurs and that an aerobic training is useful in partially reverting this condition.

Chronic opiate usage, whether prescribed or illicit, has been associated with changes in bone mass and is a recognized risk factor for the development of osteoporosis; however, the mechanism behind this effect is unknown. Here we show that lack of dynorphin, an endogenous opioid, in mice (Dyn-/-), resulted in a significantly elevated cancellous bone volume associated with greater mineral apposition rate and increased resorption indices. A similar anabolic phenotype was evident in bone of mice lacking dynorphin's cognate receptor, the kappa opioid receptor. Lack of opioid receptor expression in primary osteoblastic cultures and no change in bone cell function after dynorphin agonist treatment in vitro indicates an indirect mode of action. Consistent with a hypothalamic action, central dynorphin signaling induces extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and c-fos activation of neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (Arc). Importantly, this signaling also leads to an increase in Arc NPY mRNA expression, a change known to decrease bone formation. Further implicating NPY in the skeletal effects of dynorphin, Dyn-/-/NPY-/- double mutant mice showed comparable increases in bone formation to single mutant mice, suggesting that dynorphin acts upstream of NPY signaling to control bone formation. Thus the dynorphin system, acting via NPY, may represent a pathway by which higher processes including stress, reward/addiction and depression influence skeletal metabolism. Moreover, understanding of these unique interactions may enable modulation of the adverse effects of exogenous opioid treatment without directly affecting analgesic responses.
The formation of adipose tissue is a process that includes the pre-adipocyte proliferation and differentiation to adipocytes that are cells specialized in lipid accumulation. The adipocyte differentiation is a process driven by the coordinated expression of various transcription factors, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR-). Neuropeptide Y (NPY) induces adipocyte proliferation and differentiation but the NPY receptors and the intracellular pathways involved in these processes are still not clear. In the present work we studied the role of NPY receptors and the intracellular pathways involved in the stimulatory effect of NPY on lipid accumulation. The murine pre-adipocyte cell line, 3T3-L1, was used as a cell model. Adipogenesis was evaluated by quantifying lipid accumulation by Oil red-O assay and by analyzing PPAR- expression using the Western blotting assay. Adipocytes were incubated with NPY (100nM) and a decrease on lipid accumulation and PPAR- expression was observed in the presence of NPY Y(2) receptor antagonist (BIIE0246, 1M) or NPY Y(5) antagonist. Furthermore, NPY Y(2) (NPY(3-36), 100nM) or NPY Y(5) (NPY(19-23)(GLY(1), Ser(3), Gln(4), Thr(6), Ala(31), Aib(32), Gln(34)) PP, 100nM) receptor agonists increased lipid accumulation and PPAR- expression. We further investigate the intracellular pathways associated with NPY Y(2) and NPY Y(5) receptor activation. Our results show NPY induces PPAR- expression and lipid accumulation through NPY Y(2) and NPY Y(5) receptors activation. PKC and PLC inhibitors inhibit lipid accumulation induced by NPY Y(5) receptor agonist. Moreover, our results suggest that lipid accumulation induced by NPY Y(2) receptor activation occurs through PKA, MAPK and PI3K pathways. In conclusion, this study contributes to a step forward on the knowledge of intracellular mechanisms associated with NPY receptors activation on adipocytes and contributes to a better understanding and the development of new therapeutic targets for obesity treatment.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is involved on the development of cerebral edema in acute ischemic stroke. As edema is a therapeutic target in cerebral ischemia, our aim was to study the effect of antagonists for ET-1 receptors (Clazosentan and BQ-788, specific antagonists for receptors A and B, respectively) on the development of edema, infarct volume and sensorial-motor deficits in rats subjected to ischemia by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO). We used Wistar rats (280-320 g) submitted to ischemia by intraluminal transient (90 min) MCAO. After ischemia, rats were randomized into 4 groups (n = 6) treated with; 1) control group (saline), 2) Clazosentan group (10 mg/kg iv), 3) BQ-788 group (3 mg/kg iv), and 4) combined treatment (Clazosentan 10 mg/kg plus BQ-788 3 mg/kg iv). We observed that rats treated with Clazosentan showed a reduction of edema, measured by MRI, at 72 h (hours) and at day 7 (both p &lt; 0.0001), and a decrease in the serum levels of ET-1 at 72 h (p &lt; 0.0001) and at day 7 (p = 0.009). The combined treatment also induced a reduction of edema at 24 h (p = 0.004), 72 h (p &lt; 0.0001) and at day 7 (p &lt; 0.0001), a reduction on infarct volume, measured by MRI, at 24 and 72 h, and at day 7 (all p &lt; 0.01), and a better sensorimotor recovery at 24 and 72 h, and at day 7 (all p &lt; 0.01). Moreover, Clazosentan induced a decrease in AQP4 expression, while BQ-788 induced an increase in AQP9 expression. These results suggest that antagonists for ET-1 receptors may be a good therapeutic target for cerebral ischemia.
Monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) is the key enzyme for the degradation of brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA). We recently generated and characterized a novel line of MAO-A hypormorphic mice (MAO-A(Neo)), featuring elevated monoamine levels, social deficits and perseverative behaviors as well as morphological changes in the basolateral amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex. Here we showed that MAO-A(Neo) mice displayed deficits in motor control, manifested as subtle disturbances in gait, motor coordination, and balance. Furthermore, magnetic resonance imaging of the cerebellum revealed morphological changes and a moderate reduction in the cerebellar size of MAO-A(Neo) mice compared to wild type (WT) mice. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses using calbindin-D-28k (CB) expression of Purkinje cells revealed abnormal cerebellar foliation with vermal hypoplasia and decreased in Purkinje cell count and their dendritic density in MAO-A(Neo) mice compared to WT. Our current findings suggest that congenitally low MAO-A activity leads to abnormal development of the cerebellum.
The orexin/hypocretin system has been implicated in multiple phases of drug addiction. Acute orexin receptor blockade with the orexin-1 receptor (OX1R) antagonist, SB-334867, has been found to reduce cocaine seeking after cocaine self-administration. As repeated drug dosing can have differential effects and is more clinically relevant than acute dosing, in the current study we examined the effects of repeated SB-334867 on cocaine self-administration, extinction, and reinstatement to cocaine seeking in Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that repeated SB-334867 (10mg/kg/day) had no effect on established cocaine self-administration. Repeated SB-334867 (both 10 and 20mg/kg) attenuated cocaine seeking during extinction; however, this effect was only observed when animals had no prior experience with SB-334867 and when SB-334867 was administered prior to, but not after, daily extinction sessions. Notably, daily treatment with SB-334867 (10mg/kg) during extinction increased subsequent cue-induced reinstatement, whereas repeated SB-334867 (20mg/kg) administration during extinction enabled acute SB-334867 to reduce cue-induced reinstatement. Repeated SB-334867 treatment (10 or 20mg/kg) failed to affect reinstatement induced by priming injections of cocaine (10mg/kg). These results show that repeated inhibition of OX1R-mediated signaling exerts a lasting and specific role in mediating environmentally activated cocaine seeking.
GABA(B) receptor antagonists have been shown to have antidepressant-like properties in animal models and thus, could represent a novel approach for the treatment of depression. The neurobiological mechanisms underlying these effects are currently unknown. Adult hippocampal neurogenesis (the birth of new neurons) is thought to play a role in antidepressant drug action. However, the ability of GABA(B) receptors to modulate the proliferation and survival of newly-born cells in the adult hippocampus remains unexplored. Therefore, we investigated whether the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, CGP 52432, can induce antidepressant-like behaviour and increase hippocampal neurogenesis in the stress-sensitive mouse strain, BALB/c. Male mice were treated with CGP 52432 either acutely (one injection, 3; 10; 30mg/kg, i.p.), subchronically (7 days, 3; 10mg/kg, i.p.) or chronically (21 days, 3; 10mg/kg, i.p.) and antidepressant-like behaviour was assessed using the forced swim test (FST). The effects of CGP 52432 on the proliferation and survival of newly-born cells in the hippocampus were assessed using BrdU immunohistochemistry. Acute, subchronic and chronic treatment with CGP 52432 induced antidepressant-like behavioural effects in the FST. Moreover, chronic but not acute or subchronic treatment with CGP 52432 increased hippocampal cell proliferation but had no effect on the survival of newly-born cells. This temporal effect is consistent with the time course for the therapeutic action of antidepressants. Interestingly, CGP 52432-induced increases in cell proliferation occurred in the ventral but not in the dorsal hippocampus. This topographical segregation concurs with the hypothesis that the ventral hippocampus is primarily involved in the regulation of stress and emotionality. Taken together, our data suggest that increased hippocampal cell proliferation is a plausible mechanism for the antidepressant-like effects of GABA(B) receptor antagonists following chronic but not acute treatments. Moreover, altered behavioural effects in the FST does not correlate with changes in neurogenesis.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is involved in the regulation of diverse intracellular messenger systems in the brain. Nitric Oxide (NO) contributes to inducing signaling cascades that involve a complex pattern of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 (in Thr-34), which controls the phosphoproteins involved in neuronal activation. However, the role of NO in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) and its effect in striatal neurons have been scarcely explored. In the present work, we investigate the effects of a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) in the nigrostriatal pathway of striatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats. Our quantitative histological findings show that treatment with 7-NI significantly reduced 6-OHDA-induced dopaminergic damage in the dorsolateral striatum and Substantia Nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Moreover, 6-OHDA lesioned rats show a significant increase of nNOS(+) and Phospho-Thr34-DARPP-32(+) cells, accompanied by a consequent decrease of total DARPP-32(+) cells, which suggests an imbalance of NO activity in the DA-depleted striatum, which is also reflected in behavioral studies. Importantly, these effects are reverted in the group treated with 7-NI. These results show a clear link between the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 and parkinsonism, which is regulated by nNOS. This new evidence suggests a prominent role for nitric oxide in the neurotransmitter balance within the basal ganglia in the pathophysiology of experimental parkinsonism.
Signal transduction cascades, including the MAPK, PI3 kinase, Ca(2+) and PKC pathways, play important roles in neurons downstream of multiple signals including neurotrophins and neurotransmitters. Small molecule kinase inhibitors that block these pathways provide a powerful way of studying the invivo or cellular roles of these signaling systems. Over the last 15 years there has been a major effort by the pharmaceutical industry to develop kinase inhibitors as potential drugs for a variety of diseases including cancer and auto-immunity. As a result of this there are now many compounds available that can be used as research tools. One major drawback is however that many of these compounds are not truly selective for a single kinase, and therefore the possibility that their cellular effects may be due to an off target activity must be considered. This problem has been brought into sharp relief by modern invitro screening methods that allow an inhibitor to be screened against a significant proportion of the kinome. In this review we discuss the advantages and problems with the use of kinase inhibitors as research tools and describe some of the available compounds that target pathways important to neurons.
Late preterm (LP) birth (34 0/7 - 36 6/7 weeks' gestation) accounts for nearly three-fourths of all preterm births, making this population a sizeable public health concern. The immature fetal development associated with LP delivery increases the risk of mortality and short-term medical complications. Which combination of maternal, fetal, or neonatal risk factors may be most critical has only recently begun to be addressed, and whether LP birth's disruptive impact on brain development will exert adverse effects on neuropsychological functioning in childhood and adolescence has been understudied. Early data have shown a graded response, with LP children often functioning better than very preterm children but worse than term children, and with subtle intellectual and neuropsychological deficits in LP children compared with healthy children born at term gestational age. Further characterization of the neuropsychological profile is required and would be best accomplished through prospective longitudinal studies. Moreover, since moderate and LP births result in disparate medical and psychological outcomes, the common methodology of combining these participants into a single research cohort to assess risk and outcome should be reconsidered. The rapidly growing LP outcomes literature reinforces a critical principle: fetal development occurs along a dynamic maturational continuum from conception to birth, with each successive gestational day likely to improve overall outcome.
How regular and irregular verbs are processed remains a matter of debate. Some English-speaking patients with nonfluent aphasia are especially impaired on regular past-tense forms like played, whether the task requires production, comprehension or even the judgement that &quot;play&quot; and &quot;played&quot; sound different. Within a dual-mechanism account of inflectional morphology, these deficits reflect disruption to the rule-based process that adds (or strips) the suffix -ed to regular verb stems; but the fact that the patients are also impaired at detecting the difference between word pairs like &quot;tray&quot; and &quot;trade&quot; (the latter being a phonological but not a morphological twin to &quot;played&quot;) suggests an important role for phonological characteristics of the regular past tense. The present study examined MEG brain responses in healthy participants evoked by spoken regular past-tense forms and phonological twin words (plus twin pseudowords and a non-speech control) presented in a passive oddball paradigm. Deviant forms (played, trade, kwade/kwayed) relative to their standards (play, tray, kway) elicited a pronounced neuromagnetic response at approximately 130 ms after the onset of the affix; this response was maximal at sensors over temporal areas of both hemispheres but stronger on the left, especially for played and kwayed. Relative to the same standards, a different set of deviants ending in /t/--plate, trait and kwate--produced stronger difference responses especially over the right hemisphere. Results are discussed with regard to dual- and single-mechanism theories of past tense processing and the need to consider neurobiological evidence in attempts to understand inflectional morphology.
In order to investigate the relevance of the left posterior parietal cortex (PPC) for precise sensorimotor timing we applied 1 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over left PPC, right PPC and visual cortex of healthy participants for 10 min, respectively. The impact on sensorimotor timing of the right hand was assessed using a synchronization task that required subjects to synchronize their right index finger taps with respect to constant auditory, visual or auditory-visual pacing. Our results reveal reduced negative tap-to-pacer asynchronies following rTMS of the left PPC in all pacing conditions. This effect lasted for about 5 min after cessation of rTMS. Right PPC and visual cortex stimulation did not yield any significant behavioural effects. Since suppression of left PPC modified right-hand synchronization accuracy independent of the pacing signal's modality, the present data support the significance of left PPC for anticipatory motor control over a primary role in multisensory integration. The present data suggest that 1 Hz rTMS might interrupt a matching process of anticipated and real sensorimotor feedback within PPC. Alternatively, downregulation of left PPC activity may affect M1 excitability via functional connections leading to a delay in motor output and, thus, smaller tap-to-pacer asynchronies.
As humans, we are consciously aware of unobservable mental states, including our own during episodic memory and other people's by having a &quot;theory of mind&quot; (ToM). Episodic memory and ToM are closely related: they share a neural substrate and emerge close in time in ontogenetic development. This relationship is central to prominent child development and cognitive neuroscience theories of ToM, but its causal nature has not been tested empirically. The current study examined whether normal episodic memory development is necessary for normal ToM development. To investigate this, we tested H.C., a young woman with impaired episodic memory development due to early hippocampal damage, on a wide range of ToM measures. H.C.'s performance was indistinguishable from that of controls on all tests of ToM suggesting that, contrary to theoretical claims in the literature, normal episodic memory development and hippocampal function are not essential for the development of ToM.
Anatomical and functional brain studies have converged to the hypothesis that autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are associated with atypical connectivity. Using a modified resting-state paradigm to drive subjects' attention, we provide evidence of a very marked interaction between ASD brain functional connectivity and cognitive state. We show that functional connectivity changes in opposite ways in ASD and typicals as attention shifts from external world towards one's body generated information. Furthermore, ASD subject alter more markedly than typicals their connectivity across cognitive states. Using differences in brain connectivity across conditions, we ranked brain regions according to their classification power. Anterior insula and dorsal-anterior cingulate cortex were the regions that better characterize ASD differences with typical subjects across conditions, and this effect was modulated by ASD severity. These results pave the path for diagnosis of mental pathologies based on functional brain networks obtained from a library of mental states.
What does it mean to &quot;know&quot; what an object is? Viewing objects from different categories (e.g., tools vs. animals) engages distinct brain regions, but it is unclear whether these differences reflect object categories themselves or the tendency to interact differently with objects from different categories (grasping tools, not animals). Here we test how the brain constructs representations of objects that one learns to name or physically manipulate. Participants learned to name or tie different knots and brain activity was measured whilst performing a perceptual discrimination task with these knots before and after training. Activation in anterior intraparietal sulcus, a region involved in object manipulation, was specifically engaged when participants viewed knots they learned to tie. This suggests that object knowledge is linked to sensorimotor experience and its associated neural systems for object manipulation. Findings are consistent with a theory of embodiment in which there can be clear overlap in brain systems that support conceptual knowledge and control of object manipulation.
Previous studies revealed consistently enhanced recognition memory for same- as compared to other-age faces (own-age bias, OAB) in young adults, but inconsistent results in elderly participants. To resolve these discrepancies, we examined recognition memory and event-related potentials (ERPs) for young and old faces in young participants and two elderly groups, who either reported high or low degrees of daily contact with elderly relative to younger persons. As expected, young adults showed more accurate memory for young versus old faces. While no OAB was found in old/low contact participants, old/high contact participants were more accurate with old versus young faces. ERPs in young adults revealed a parietal old/new effect from 500 to 800 ms (hits&gt;correct rejections) for young but not old faces. Whereas no old/new effect was seen in the old/low contact group, the old/high contact participants exhibited a prominent reversed old/new effect (hits&lt;correct rejections) for old faces. These results suggest that contact may account for earlier discrepant results with regard to the OAB in elderly participants. A behavioral OAB in elderly participants may depend on high degrees of contact towards old people. The finding of ERP old/new effects specific to own-age faces suggests enhanced recollection of study phase detail in young participants, whereas it may reflect increased engagement in processes aiming at compensating for a deficit in recollection in elderly participants.
It is widely reported that inverting a face dramatically affects its recognition. Previous studies have shown that face inversion increases the amplitude and delays the latency of the face-specific N170 component of the event-related potential (ERP) and also enhances the amplitude of the occipital P1 component (latency 100-132 ms). The present study investigates whether these effects of face inversion can be modulated by visual spatial attention. Participants viewed two streams of visual stimuli, one to the left and one to the right of fixation. One stream consisted of a sequence of alphanumeric characters at 6.67 Hz, and the other stream consisted of a series of upright and inverted images of faces and houses presented in randomized order. The participants' task was to attend selectively to one or the other of the streams (during different blocks) in order to detect infrequent target stimuli. ERPs elicited by inverted faces showed larger P1 amplitudes compared to upright faces, but only when the faces were attended. In contrast, the N170 amplitude was larger to inverted than to upright faces only when the faces were not attended. The N170 peak latency was delayed to inverted faces regardless of attention condition. These inversion effects were face specific, as similar effects were absent for houses. These results suggest that early stages of face-specific processing can be enhanced by attention, but when faces are not attended the onset of face-specific processing is delayed until the latency range of the N170.
In a previous study (Simmons-Stern, Budson &amp; Ally, 2010), we found that patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) better recognized visually presented lyrics when the lyrics were also sung rather than spoken at encoding. The present study sought to further investigate the effects of music on memory in patients with AD by making the content of the song lyrics relevant for the daily life of an older adult and by examining how musical encoding alters several different aspects of episodic memory. Patients with AD and healthy older adults studied visually presented novel song lyrics related to instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) that were accompanied by either a sung or a spoken recording. Overall, participants performed better on a memory test of general lyric content for lyrics that were studied sung as compared to spoken. However, on a memory test of specific lyric content, participants performed equally well for sung and spoken lyrics. We interpret these results in terms of a dual-process model of recognition memory such that the general content questions represent a familiarity-based representation that is preferentially sensitive to enhancement via music, while the specific content questions represent a recollection-based representation unaided by musical encoding. Additionally, in a test of basic recognition memory for the audio stimuli, patients with AD demonstrated equal discrimination for sung and spoken stimuli. We propose that the perceptual distinctiveness of musical stimuli enhanced metamemorial awareness in AD patients via a non-selective distinctiveness heuristic, thereby reducing false recognition while at the same time reducing true recognition and eliminating the mnemonic benefit of music. These results are discussed in the context of potential music-based memory enhancement interventions for the care of patients with AD.
Semantic dementia (SD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterised by the amodal loss of semantic knowledge in the context of relatively preserved recent episodic memory. Recent studies have demonstrated that despite relatively intact episodic memory the capacity for future simulation in SD is profoundly impaired, resulting in an asymmetric profile where past retrieval is significantly better than future simulation (referred to as a past&gt;future effect). Here, we sought to identify the origins of this asymmetric profile by conducting a fine-grained analysis of the contextual details provided during past retrieval and future simulation in SD. Participants with SD (n=14), Alzheimer's disease (n=11), and healthy controls (n=14) had previously completed an experimental past-future interview in which they generated three past events from the previous year, and three future events in the next year, and provided subjective qualitative ratings of vividness, emotional valence, emotional intensity, task difficulty, and personal significance for each event described. Our results confirmed the striking impairment for future simulation in SD, despite a relative preservation of past episodic retrieval. Examination of the contextual details provided for past memories and future simulations revealed significant impairments irrespective of contextual detail type for future simulations in SD, and demonstrated that the future thinking deficit in this cohort was driven by a marked decline in the provision of internal (episodic) event details. In contrast with this past&gt;future effect for internal event details, SD patients displayed a future&gt;past effect for external (non-episodic) event details. Analyses of the qualitative ratings provided for past and future events indicated that SD patients' phenomenological experience did not differ between temporal conditions. Our findings underscore the fact that successful extraction of episodic elements from the past is not sufficient for the generation of novel future simulations in SD. The notable disconnect between objective task performance and patients' subjective experience during future simulation likely reflects the tendency of SD patients to recast entire past events into the future condition. Accordingly, the familiarity of the recapitulated details results in similar ratings of vividness and emotionality across temporal conditions, despite marked differences in the richness of contextual details as the patient moves from the past to the future.
Speech disturbances (e.g., altered prosody) have been described in symptomatic Huntington's Disease (HD) individuals, however, the extent to which speech changes in gene positive pre-manifest (PreHD) individuals is largely unknown. The speech of individuals carrying the mutant HTT gene is a behavioural/motor/cognitive marker demonstrating some potential as an objective indicator of early HD onset and disease progression. Speech samples were acquired from 30 individuals carrying the mutant HTT gene (13 PreHD, 17 early stage HD) and 15 matched controls. Participants read a passage, produced a monologue and said the days of the week. Data were analysed acoustically for measures of timing, frequency and intensity. There was a clear effect of group across most acoustic measures, so that speech performance differed in-line with disease progression. Comparisons across groups revealed significant differences between the control and the early stage HD group on measures of timing (e.g., speech rate). Participants carrying the mutant HTT gene presented with slower rates of speech, took longer to say words and produced greater silences between and within words compared to healthy controls. Importantly, speech rate showed a significant correlation to burden of disease scores. The speech of early stage HD differed significantly from controls. The speech of PreHD, although not reaching significance, tended to lie between the performance of controls and early stage HD. This suggests that changes in speech production appear to be developing prior to diagnosis.
When interacting with someone from another social group, one's responses may be influenced by both stereotypes and evaluations. Given behavioral results suggesting that stereotypes and evaluative associations operate independently, we used fMRI to test whether these biases are mediated by distinct brain systems. White participants viewed pairs of Black or White faces and judged them based on an evaluation (who would you befriend?) or a stereotype-relevant trait (who is more likely to enjoy athletic activities?). Multi-voxel pattern analysis revealed that a predominantly occipital network represented race in a context-invariant manner. However, lateral orbitofrontal cortex preferentially represented race during friendship judgments, whereas anterior medial prefrontal cortex preferentially represented race during trait judgments. Furthermore, representation of race in left temporal pole correlated with a behavioral measure of evaluative bias during friendship judgments and, independently, a measure of stereotyping during trait judgments. Whereas early sensory regions represent race in an apparently invariant manner, representations in higher-level regions are multi-componential and context-dependent.
A current challenge in cognitive neuroscience is to provide an explicit separation of the neural correlates of abstract global decision variables from sensory and integrative ones. In particular, the insular cortex and the adjacent frontal operculum seem to have a crucial but still unclear role in evidence accumulation and decision signaling in perceptual decision-making tasks. Here, we have used a visual decision-making paradigm based on the detection of ambiguous two-tone (Mooney) face stimuli to assess the emergence of holistic percepts. These are constructed using global gestalt rules and not by gradual spatiotemporal increases in sensory evidence. Our paradigm (neurochronometric approach) enabled the experimental separation between multiple cognitive components in perceptual decision validated by both model-driven and data-driven analysis. This strategy allowed for the functional dissection of operculo-insular networks into task related complexes such as anterior (accumulator), middle (decision) and posterior (somatosensory/sensorimotor). We conclude that global perceptual integration based on holistic rules requires a distributed operculo-insular network.

Cognitive enhancers that act by increasing glycine transmission might be useful adjuncts to cocaine-cue extinction training to deter relapse. The study investigated the effects of combining treatments of the glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) inhibitor, Org24598, with extinction training on the subsequent reacquisition of cocaine self-administration. Squirrel monkeys and rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under a second-order schedule of intravenous drug injection in which responding was maintained by cocaine injections and a cocaine-paired visual stimulus. During three weekly extinction sessions, saline was substituted for cocaine but responding still produced the cocaine-paired stimulus. Subjects were treated with Org24598 or vehicle, either before or after each extinction session. One week later, cocaine injections were restored, and reacquisition of cocaine self-administration was evaluated over 15 sessions. Compared with vehicle, administration of Org24598 (1.0mg/kg in monkeys; 3.0 or 7.5mg/kg in rats) before each extinction session significantly inhibited reacquisition of cocaine self-administration in each species. In contrast, administration of Org24598 (1.0mg/kg in monkeys) following, rather than preceding, each extinction session did not affect reacquisition compared with vehicle. When extinction training was replaced by cocaine self-administration or abstinence control conditions, treatment with the same doses of Org24598 resulted in reacquisition that was significantly more rapid than the reacquisition observed when Org24598 was administered before extinction training sessions. The results support the potential clinical utility of GlyT-1 inhibitor pretreatments combined with cocaine-cue extinction training to inhibit relapse.
The present study was aimed at determining the relative contribution of the dorsal (DH) and ventral (VH) hippocampus in stress-induced memory retrieval impairments. Thus, we studied the temporal involvement of corticosterone and its receptors, i.e. mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid (GR) in the DH and VH, in relation with the time-course evolution of stress-induced memory retrieval impairments. In a first experiment, double microdialysis allowed showing on the same animal that an acute stress (electric footshocks) induced an earlier corticosterone rise in the DH (15-60min post-stress) and then in the VH (90-105min post-stress). The return to baseline was faster in the DH (105min) than in the VH (120min). Memory deficits assessed by delayed alternation occurred at 15-, 60-, and 105-min delays after stress and were closely related to the kinetic of corticosterone rises within the DH and VH. In a second experiment, the GR antagonist RU-38486 and the MR antagonist RU-28318 were administered in the DH or VH 15min before stress. RU-38486 restored memory at 60 but not at 105min post-stress delays in the DH, whereas the opposite pattern was observed in the VH. By contrast, RU-28318 had no effect on memory impairments at both the 60- and 105-min post-stress delays, showing that MR receptors are not involved at these delays. However, RU-28318 administered in the DH restored memory when administered at a shorter post-stress delay (15min). Overall, our data are first to evidence that stress induces a functional switch from the DH to VH via different corticosterone time-course evolutions in these areas and the sequential GR receptors involvement in the DH and then in the VH, as regards the persistence of stress-induced memory retrieval deficits over time.
Genes and early-life adversity (ELA) interactively increase the risk of developing major depressive disorder (MDD). A recent genome-wide association study suggests that the minor T-allele of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the bicaudal C homolog 1 gene (BICC1) has a protective role against MDD. The aims of the study were to investigate whether the minor T-allele of BICC1 is protective against hippocampal structural brain changes, whether it is associated with increased functional brain activity in the emotion regulation system, and how ELA would modify this association. Forty-four patients with MDD and 44 healthy controls were investigated using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional MRI with an emotion inhibition task. Analysis of a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the BICC1-1 (rs999845) gene was performed. Right hippocampal bodies of patients and controls without a history of ELA and who carry the protective T-allele of BICC1 were significantly larger compared with those participants homozygous for the major C-allele of BICC1. However, MDD patients with ELA, who carry the T-allele, had smaller hippocampal head volumes compared with MDD patients without ELA. FMRI showed that patients and controls carrying the protective T-allele of BICC1 activate the emotion regulation system significantly more compared with those participants homozygous for the major C-allele (p&lt;0.05, family wise error corrected). These results are suggestive that the minor T-allele of BICC1 has a protective role against MDD and its known structural and functional brain changes. However, this protective effect seems to be lost in the case of co-occurrence of ELA.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in complex pathological reactions, the initial lesion worsened by secondary inflammation and edema. Angiotensin II (Ang II) is produced in the brain and Ang II receptor type 1 (ATR) overstimulation produces vasoconstriction and inflammation. Ang II receptor blockers (ARBs) are neuroprotective in models of stroke but little is known of their effect when administered in TBI models. We therefore performed controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury on mice to investigate whether the ARB candesartan would mitigate any effects of TBI. We administered candesartan or vehicle to mice 5h before CCI injury. Candesartan treatment reduced the lesion volume after CCI injury by approximately 50%, decreased the number of dying neurons, lessened the number of activated microglial cells, protected cerebral blood flow (CBF), and reduced the expression of the cytokine TGF1 while increasing expression of TGF3. Candesartan-treated mice also showed better motor skills on the rotarod 3 days after injury, and improved performance in the Morris water maze 4 weeks after injury. These results indicate that candesartan is neuroprotective, reducing neuronal injury, decreasing lesion volume and microglial activation, protecting CBF and improving functional behavior in a mouse model of TBI. Co-treatment with a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR) antagonist significantly reduced some of the beneficial effects of candesartan after CCI, suggesting that PPAR activation may contribute to part or to all of the neuroprotective effect of candesartan. Overall, our data suggest that ARBs with dual ATR-blocking and PPAR activation properties may have therapeutic value in treating TBI.



Predicting outcomes is a critical ability of humans and animals. The dopamine reward prediction error hypothesis, the driving force behind the recent progress in neural &quot;value-based&quot; decision making, states that dopamine activity encodes the signals for learning in order to predict a reward, that is, the difference between the actual and predicted reward, called the reward prediction error. However, this hypothesis and its underlying assumptions limit the prediction and its error as reactively triggered by momentary environmental events. Reviewing the assumptions and some of the latest findings, we suggest that the internal state representation is learned to reflect the environmental reward structure, and we propose a new hypothesis - the dopamine reward structural learning hypothesis - in which dopamine activity encodes multiplex signals for learning in order to represent reward structure in the internal state, leading to better reward prediction.


Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder characterized by an initial injury due to stroke, traumatic brain injury, brain infection, or febrile seizures causing status epilepticus (SE). This phenomenon precedes recurrent (secondary) seizures, the latent period (period without seizures) and downstream appearance of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS). Epilepsy inducers include the organophosphorous (OP) compounds modified as chemical warfare nerve agents, such as soman. SE induced by soman is a result of cholinergic system hyperactivity caused by the irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, and the subsequent increase in the amount of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at central and peripheral sites. SE leads to profound, permanent, complex and widespread brain damage and associated cognitive and behavioral deficits, accompanied by impaired neurogenesis. Several anticonvulsant and neuroprotective strategies have been studied in order to avoid the epileptogenesis which occurs after SE caused by soman exposure. In recent studies, we showed that SRS occur post-soman exposure and neuropathology can be reduced with diazepam (DZP) and valproic acid (VPA) when administered in combination treatment. These effects are accompanied by neurogenesis seen 15 days post-exposure in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG). This review discusses several findings about epilepsy induced by soman exposure such as behavioral changes, EEG anomalies, neuropathology, neuroinflammation, neurogenesis, possible circuitry changes and current strategies for treatment. The soman seizure model is an important model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and comparable in certain respects with well studied models in the literature such as pilocarpine and kainic acid. All these models together allow for a greater understanding of the different mechanisms of seizure induction, propagation and options for treatment. These studies are very necessary for current military and civilian treatment regimens, against OP nerve agent exposure, which fail to prevent SE resulting in severe neuropathology and epilepsy.
The complexity of the neuroendocrine level of investigation requires the assessment of behavioral patterns that extend beyond the reproductive functions, which are age- and sex-specific in rodents, described by defined clusters of behavioral items regulated by genetic, hormonal, and epigenetic factors. The study of social behavior in laboratory rodents reveals sex-dimorphic effects of environmental chemicals that may be undetected either by a traditional neurotoxicological approach or referring to the classical definition of endocrine disrupting chemicals. Here we review data on the neurobehavioral effects of developmental exposure to the non-persistent organophosphorus insecticide chlorpyrifos, whose neurotoxic activity at low doses is currently a matter of concern for children's health. In mice exposed to chlorpyrifos in utero and/or in early development social/emotional responses are differently affected in the two sexes in parallel with sex-dependent interference on hypothalamic neuroendocrine pathways regulating social behaviors (vasopressin, oxytocin, and steroid regulated systems). Through the analysis of complex sex-dimorphic behavioral patterns we show that neurotoxic and endocrine disrupting activities of CPF overlap. This widely diffused organophosphorus pesticide might thus be considered as a neuroendocrine disruptor possibly representing a risk factor for sex-biased neurodevelopmental disorders in children.
In 2007, the first common genetic variants were identified, which undoubtedly affect our susceptibility to obesity. These variants are located in the fat mass and obesity-associated gene FTO. Since then, over 50 loci for common obesity have been identified. As the research on these loci is still at an early stage, there is a great need to review, for clarification purposes, the current research on FTO, as this is likely to influence future studies. Based on the current knowledge, FTO seems to be directly involved in the regulation of energy intake, but there is an urgent need for the identification of regulatory polymorphisms. Thus, herein, we discuss current knowledge and highlight putative functional regions in FTO based on published data and computer-based analysis.
Obesity is a risk factor for type II diabetes, atherosclerosis, and some forms of cancer. Variation in common measures of obesity (e.g., BMI, waist/hip ratio) is largely explained by heritability. The advent of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) has made it possible to identify several genetic variants that associate with measures of obesity, but how exactly these genetic variants contribute to overweight has remained largely unresolved. One first hint is given by the fact that many of the associated variants reside in or near genes that act in the central nervous system, which implicates neuronal signaling in the etiology of obesity. Although the brain controls both energy intake and expenditure, it has more capacity to regulate energy intake rather than energy expenditure. In environments where food is abundant, this renders the body prone to weight increases. To gain more insight into the neurobiological mechanisms involved, we set out to investigate the effect of dietary exposure on the expression levels of obesity-associated genes in the ventro-medial hypothalamus (VMH)/arcuate nucleus (ARC) and the substantia nigra (SN)/ventral tegmental area (VTA), two brain regions that are implicated in feeding behavior. We show that the expression of Etv5, Faim2, Fto, Negr1 but not Sh2b1 is affected by nutritional state in these two areas, thereby providing insight into the relationship between nutritional state and expression levels of obesity-associated genes in two brain areas relevant to feeding.
We describe a rare case of orbital involvement in Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease, a rare, benign, self limiting systemic disease, in a young Italian woman. The origin of the disease is unknown, so no specific treatment has been defined. Histology has an important role in establishing the diagnosis. In presence of an eyelid swelling, it is important to rule out infections, lymphoproliferative disorders, and connective tissue diseases. Despite the fact that it is rare in Europe, the possibility of this disease should be borne in mind.






An important question in contemporary sensory neuroscience is how animals perceive their environment and make appropriate behavioral choices based on chemical perceptions. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust tastant and odor-evoked behaviors. Understanding how the gustatory and olfactory systems support the perception of these contact and volatile chemicals and translate them into appropriate attraction or avoidance behaviors has made an unprecedented contribution to our knowledge of the organization of chemosensory systems. In this review, I begin by describing the receptors and signaling mechanisms of the Drosophila gustatory and olfactory systems and then highlight their involvement in the control of simple and complex behaviors. The topics addressed include feeding behavior, learning and memory, navigation behavior, neuropeptide modulation of chemosensory behavior, and I conclude with a discussion of recent work that provides insight into pheromone signaling pathways.
The tachykinin, neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R) is a g-protein coupled receptor that is broadly distributed in the nervous system and exerts its diverse physiological actions through multiple signaling pathways. Despite the role of the receptor system in a range of biological functions, the effects of NK3R activation on chromatin dynamics and gene expression have received limited attention. The present work determined the effects of senktide, a selective NK3R agonist, on chromatin organization, acetylation, and gene expression, using qRT-PCR, in a hypothalamic cell line (CLU 209) that expresses the NK3R. Senktide (1 nM, 10nM) caused a relaxation of chromatin, an increase in global acetylation of histone H3 and H4, and an increase in the expression of a common set of genes involved in cell signaling, cell growth, and synaptic plasticity. Pretreatment with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) inhibitor (garcinol and 2-methylene y-butylactone), that inhibits p300, p300/CREB binding protein (CBP) associated factor (PCAF), and GCN 5, prevented the senktide-induced increase in expression of most, but not all, of the genes upregulated in response to 1 nM and 10nM senktide. Treatment with 100 nM had the opposite effect: a reduction in chromatin relaxation and decreased acetylation. The expression of four genes was significantly decreased and the HAT inhibitor had a limited effect in blocking the upregulation of genes in response to 100 nM senktide. Activation of the NK3R appears to recruit multiple pathways, including acetylation, and possibly histone deactylases, histone methylases, or DNA methylases to affect chromatin structure and gene expression.
A modified version of the Oppel-Kundt illusion (i.e., a filled space is perceived as more expanded than an empty space of the same length) has been previously employed to distort space representation both in patients with neglect (i.e., failure to report/react to stimuli located in the space contralateral to the brain lesion) and in healthy participants. In those experiments, participants had to bisect or extend horizontal segments on backgrounds of exponentially spaced vertical lines. The exclusive use of visuo-motor tasks, however, did not allow excluding that the results were accounted for by a bias occurring at a response level of stimulus processing rather than by a visual illusion. To address this issue, in addition to a traditional line bisection task, a line length estimation task was employed, which allowed separating response and illusion-related factors. The results demonstrated that performance depended on the visual illusion rather than on a response bias. It was concluded that this version of the Oppel-Kundt illusion can be successfully employed to modulate space representation in humans.
Evidence suggests that cocaine addiction may involve progressive neuroadaptive changes in the dorsolateral caudate putamen (dlCPu). While cocaine seeking following abstinence from chronic self-administration requires intact dlCPu function, in vivo neurotransmitter release in the dlCPu has not been investigated. The current study measured dlCPu dopamine (DA) and glutamate (GLU) release during drug seeking following limited or extended abstinence, as well as in response to a cocaine priming injection alone. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine (0.2mg/50l infusion, i.v.) for 10days (2h/day). In vivo microdialysis occurred in the self-administration chamber after 1 and 14days of abstinence (Experiment 1). A separate set of animals that completed self-administration as well as drug nave controls received a cocaine priming injection (20mg/kg) during concurrent microdialysis (Experiment 2). DA release increased during drug seeking in the self-administration context at both 1 and 14days post abstinence. In contrast, GLU release only increased after 1day of abstinence. Furthermore, animals with a cocaine self-administration history showed enhanced DA and GLU release following cocaine challenge as compared to drug nave controls. These results indicate that chronic cocaine self-administration enhances dlCPu DA and GLU under both drug-paired context and drug-primed conditions.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is a neuromodulatory peptide, acting via a G-protein-coupled receptor to regulate sleep, anxiety and behavioral arousal. Recent research has found that intracerebroventricular NPS can increase cocaine and alcohol self-administration in rodents, suggesting a key role in reward-related neurocircuitry. It is hypothesized that antagonism of the NPS system might represent a novel strategy for the pharmacological treatment of cocaine abuse. To this end, a small-molecule NPSR antagonist (RTI-118) was developed and tested in animal models of cocaine seeking and cocaine taking. Male Wistar rats (n=54) trained to self-administer cocaine and food under a concurrent alternating FR4 schedule exhibited specific dose-dependent decreases in cocaine intake when administered RTI-118. RTI-118 also decreased the reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior induced by conditioned cues, yohimbine and a priming dose of cocaine. These data support the hypothesis that antagonism of the neuropeptide S receptor may ultimately show efficacy in reducing cocaine use and relapse.
Naltrexone, one of four FDA-approved pharmacotherapies for alcohol dependence, has shown moderate efficacy in clinical trials. Pharmacogenetic effects have been reported such that allelic variation at the gene encoding the mu-opioid receptor (OPRM1, rs1799971) predicts naltrexone-induced blunting of the positively reinforcing effects of alcohol. However, naltrexone also binds, albeit to a lesser degree, to kappa and delta opioid receptors in the brain. This alternate binding presents the possibility that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the kappa and delta opioid receptor (OPRK1 and OPRD1) genes may contribute to naltrexone pharmacogenetics. Therefore, the goal of this exploratory study was to re-examine data from a double-blind placebo controlled laboratory trial of naltrexone for pharmacogenetic effects at kappa and delta opioid receptor tag SNPs. Participants were 40 heavy drinkers (12 female) who underwent an intravenous alcohol challenge paradigm after receiving naltrexone (50mg) or placebo in randomized and crossover fashion. Dependent variables were self-reported alcohol-induced stimulation, sedation, and craving. Multilevel models revealed a significant NaltrexoneOPRK1 Genotype (rs997917) interaction predicting alcohol-induced sedation, such that TT homozygotes reported lower naltrexone-induced alcohol sedation as compared to carriers of the C allele. Moreover, there was a significant NaltrexoneOPRD1 Genotype (rs4654327) interaction predicting alcohol-induced stimulation and craving, such that carriers of the A allele at this locus reported greater naltrexone-induced blunting of alcohol stimulation and alcohol craving compared to GG homozygotes. These findings suggest that additional pharmacogenetic effects in the opioid receptor system may account for individual differences in response to naltrexone in the human laboratory.
Exposure to an immunogen results in a constellation of behavioral changes collectively referred to as &quot;sickness behaviors,&quot; with alterations in cytokine expression previously shown to contribute to this sickness response. Since behaviors observed during ethanol withdrawal are strikingly similar to sickness behaviors, we hypothesized that behavioral manifestations of ethanol withdrawal might be an expression of sickness behaviors induced by ethanol-related changes in peripheral and/or central cytokine expression. Accordingly, behaviors exhibited during a modified social investigation test were first characterized in male rats following an acute injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100g/kg). Subsequently, behavioral changes after either a high (4-g/kg; Experiment 2) or low dose (0.5g/kg; Experiment 3) of ethanol were also examined in the same social investigation test, as well as in the forced-swim test (FST; Experiment 4). Results from these experiments demonstrated similar reductions in both exploration and social investigatory behavior during acute illness and ethanol withdrawal, while a seemingly paradoxical decrease in immobility was observed in the FST during acute ethanol withdrawal. In follow-up studies, neither indomethacin (Experiment 5) nor interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (Experiment 6) pre-exposure reversed the ethanol withdrawal-induced behavioral changes observed in this social investigation test. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that the behavioral sequelae of acute illness and ethanol withdrawal are similar in nature, while antagonist studies suggest that these behavioral alterations are not reversed by blockade of IL-1 receptors or inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis. Though a direct mechanistic link between cytokines and the expression of acute ethanol withdrawal-related behaviors has yet to be found, future studies examining the involvement of brain cytokines as potential mediators of ethanol effects are greatly needed.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are among the most widely prescribed drugs in psychiatry. Based on the fact that SSRIs increase extracellular monoamine levels in the brain, the monoamine hypothesis of depression was introduced, postulating that depression is associated with too low serotonin, dopamine and noradrenaline levels. However, several lines of evidence indicate that this hypothesis is too simplistic and that depression and the efficacy of SSRIs are dependent on neuroplastic changes mediated by changes in gene expression. Because a coherent view on global gene expression is lacking, we aim to provide an overview of the effects of SSRI treatment on the final targets of 5-HT receptor signal transduction pathways, namely the transcriptional regulation of genes. We address gene polymorphisms in humans that affect SSRI efficacy, as well as in vitro studies employing human-derived cells. We also discuss the molecular targets affected by SSRIs in animal models, both in vivo and in vitro. We conclude that serotonin transporter gene variation in humans affects the efficacy and side-effects of SSRIs, whereas SSRIs generally do not affect serotonin transporter gene expression in animals. Instead, SSRIs alter mRNA levels of genes encoding serotonin receptors, components of non-serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, neurotrophic factors, hypothalamic hormones and inflammatory factors. So far little is known about the epigenetic and age-dependent molecular effects of SSRIs, which might give more insights in the working mechanism(s) of SSRIs.
Human beings are subject to a range of cognitive and affective limitations which interfere with our ability to pursue our individual and social goals. I argue that shaping our environment to avoid triggering these limitations or to constrain the harms they cause is likely to be more effective than genetic or pharmaceutical modifications of our capacities because our limitations are often the flip side of beneficial dispositions and because available enhancements seem to impose significant costs. I argue that carefully selected environmental interventions respect agents' autonomy and are consistent with democratic decision making.
The cross-sectional decontextualization afflicting contemporary neuroscience - attributing to 'the brain' what is the province of the whole organism - is mirrored by an evolutionary decontextualization exceptionalizing consciousness. The living state is characterized by cognitive processes at all scales and levels of organization. Many can be associated with dual information sources that 'speak' a 'language' of behavior-in-context. Shifting global broadcasts analogous to consciousness, albeit far slower - wound healing, tumor control, immune function, gene expression, etc. - have emerged through repeated evolutionary exaptation of the crosstalk and noise inherent to all information transmission. These recruit 'unconscious' cognitive modules into tunable arrays as needed to meet threats and opportunities across multiple frames of reference. The development is straightforward, based on the powerful necessary conditions imposed by the asymptotic limit theorems of communication theory, in the same sense that the Central Limit Theorem constrains sums of stochastic variates. Recognition of information as a form of free energy instantiated by physical processes that consume free energy permits analogs to phase transition and nonequilibrium thermodynamic arguments, leading to 'dynamic regression models' useful for data analysis.
Acute porphyria, though rare, has well-known neurological sequelae. Vasospasm rarely complicates exacerbations of acute intermittent porphyria, but has not been previously reported in hereditary coproporphyria. We describe a porphyric crisis in a woman with previously undiagnosed hereditary coproporphyria (triggered by rifampicin), leading to vasospasm and stroke.


Risk of overmedication and adverse drug reactions.
The knowledge on neurobiology of drug dependence substantially progressed with animal models. All drug of abuse share the effect of an increase of dopamine in nucleus accumbens that contributes to induce dependence. Chronic drug use disrupts numerous neurotransmission systems (glutamate, serotonin, neuropeptides) and this may participate in relapse. Therapeutic approaches are classified in two types: agonist strategies consist of drug replacement by medicine acting on the same target and strategies using medicines acting on multiple neurotransmission systems.
Seventy-five percent of health care costs can be attributed to chronic diseases, making prevention and management imperative. Collaborative patient self-management in primary care is efficacious in reducing symptoms and increasing quality of life. In this article, the authors argue that self-management interventions span the continuum of prevention and disease management. Self-management interventions rest on a foundation of 5 core actions: (1) activate motivation to change, (2) apply domain-specific information from education and self-monitoring, (3) develop skills, (4) acquire environmental resources, and (5) build social support. Several delivery vehicles are described and evaluated in terms of diffusion and cost-containment goals.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is one an intriguing set of nine neurodegenerative diseases caused by the expansion of a unstable trinucleotide CAG repeat where the repeat is located within the coding of the affected gene, i.e. the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. A gain-of-function mechanism for toxicity in SCA1, like the other polyQ diseases, is thought to have a major role in pathogenesis. Yet, the specific nature of this gain-of-function is a matter of considerable discussion. An issue concerns whether toxicity stems from the native or normal function of the affected protein versus a novel function induced by polyQ expansion. For SCA1 considerable evidence is accumulating that pathology is mediated by a polyQ-induced exaggeration of a native function of the host protein Ataxin-1 (ATXN1) and that phosphorylation of S776 regulates its interaction with other cellular protein and thereby function. In addition, this posttranslational modification modulates toxicity of ATXN1 with an expanded polyglutamine.
Although it is well established that axonal transport defects are part of the initiation or progression of some neurodegenerative diseases, the precise role of these defects in disease development is poorly understood. Thus, in this article, rather than enumerate the already well-reviewed evidence that there are transport deficits in disease, I will focus on a discussion of two crucial and unanswered questions about the possible role of axonal transport defects in HD and AD. (1) Are alterations in axonal transport caused by changes in the normal function of proteins mutated or altered in HD and AD and/or do such alterations in transport occur as a result of the formation of toxic aggregates of peptides or proteins? (2) Do alterations in axonal transport contribute to the causes of HD and AD or are they early, or late, secondary consequences of other cellular defects caused by disease-induction?



Young adult participants are more accurate at remembering young as compared with old faces (own-age bias). This study investigated behavioral and event-related potential (ERP) correlates of recognition memory in 4 consecutive age categories (ranging from 19-29, 30-44, 45-59, and 60-80 years), both with respect to face and participant age. Young and young middle-aged participants yielded more accurate recognition memory for both young and young middle-aged as compared to old middle-aged and old faces, suggesting that the own-age bias in adults is not exclusively directed toward age-congruent &quot;in-group&quot; faces. No own-age bias was observed in old middle-aged and elderly participants. Analysis of ERPs revealed significant positive correlations of both N170 latency and amplitude with participant age, thus, suggesting an age-related delay of processing speed and an increase in processing demands at early perceptual stages of face processing. Furthermore, an ERP old-new effect (400-700 ms), with more positive amplitudes for hits as compared with correct rejections, was detected in young and young middle-aged participants but not in the 2 older groups. Because these older groups did not demonstrate enhanced memory performance for own-age faces, we suggest that detailed recollection of study-episode information, as reflected in the ERP old-new effect, may be a necessary prerequisite for the own-age bias.
The present study investigated effects of cognitive aging on conflict resolution (the ability to suppress prepotent and distracting, irrelevant information) and conflict adaptation (the adjustment of conflict resolution based on previously experienced conflict level). In addition, it aimed at investigating whether Cognitive Reserve (CR) and intelligence play a compensatory role against age-related deficits in both factors. A color-word Stroop task with no feature repetitions (i.e., neither the word nor the color was repeated in two subsequent trials) was administered to 23 older adults with no dimentia (65-79 years old) and 22 younger controls (18-34 years old), in addition to measures of intelligence and CR. Older adults' performance was characterized by general slowing. However, response slowing inversely correlated with intelligence, education, and a cognitive-reserve index. The Stroop effect (i.e., response-time (RT) difference between incongruent and congruent conditions) was larger in older adults than in younger controls, and in the older group only, it negatively correlated with verbal IQ. With this feature-repetitions-free Stroop task, we confirmed the presence of some conflict adaptation effects, which, however, were spared by aging. Altogether, these findings show that older adults can cope better with age-related impairment in verbal interference resolution, if they have enough intelligence resources in a related (verbal) domain, whereas CR plays a role in general performance speed only. We therefore suggest that general and specific accounts of cognitive aging may apply to different processing stages, which are influenced by partially different compensatory factors.
This study examines day-to-day variability in psychometrically defined mild cognitive impairment (MCI) status and potential predictors of changes in MCI status in an independent-living sample of urban dwelling older adults in Baltimore, Maryland. The participant sample consisted of 50 older adults, ranging in age from 50 to 80 years. Participants completed health and cognitive measures (i.e., executive function, language, memory, and global cognition) over 8 occasions within a 2-3-week period. After each testing occasion, a post hoc classification of MCI status was determined using psychometrically defined criteria based on cognitive performance. Participants who classified as MCI after one assessment often did not meet MCI criteria at subsequent occasions. Daily fluctuations in sleep duration were associated with an increased risk for MCI classification. These results demonstrate that changes in sleep may explain changes in MCI status, particularly for African Americans.
Compared with nonarousing stimuli, arousing stimuli enhance memory performance. The most robust effects have been reported for negative stimuli, &quot;the negativity effect,&quot; although a number of mediating factors prevent definitive conclusions, for example, age, gender, memory task, retention period, and alternative arousal measures. To clarify whether the negativity effect is robust across age, gender, and time, we studied incidental recognition of neutral and negative pictures from the International Affective Picture System (Lang, Bradley, &amp; Cuthbert, 1999) in healthy younger and older adults--women and men--after a 1-year retention interval. Memory performance was related to 2 arousal measures at encoding, skin conductance response (SCR), and intensity rating of unpleasantness. The results showed weaker overall memory performance for older adults compared with younger adults. The negativity effect on accuracy (d') was gender dependent and age independent. In contrast, the negativity effect on response bias (c) interacted with age, but not gender, being weaker for older adults. Despite significant differences in arousal (SCR and arousal rating) between negative and neutral pictures, the correlations between arousal measures and memory performance were weak. Controlling for age and gender, a small negative partial correlation was found between arousal ratings and accuracy. The results extend previous studies by relating long-term recognition to both age and gender as well as to arousal at encoding.
This experiment tested the possibility that older adults are less susceptible to semantic illusions because they are more likely to notice contradictions with stored knowledge. Older and young adults encoded stories containing factual inaccuracies; critically, half the participants were instructed to mark any errors they noticed. Older adults reproduced fewer story-errors on a later general knowledge test, but there were no age differences in marking errors during encoding. However, older adults were better able to recover and answer correctly after failing to notice errors during story-reading. Implications for false memories and semantic illusions are discussed.
Psychologists frequently use symptom validity tests (SVTs) to help determine whether evaluees' test performance or reported symptoms accurately represent their true functioning and capability. Most studies evaluating the accuracy of SVTs have used either known-group comparisons or simulation designs, but these approaches have well-known limitations (potential misclassifications or lack of ecological validity). This study uses latent class modeling (LCM) implemented in a Bayesian framework to estimate SVT classification accuracy based on data obtained from real-life forensic evaluations. We obtained archival data from 1,301 outpatient evaluees who underwent testing with the Computerized Assessment of Response Bias (CARB), the Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM), and the Word Memory Test (WMT) in a forensic evaluation context. Under various data models, Markov chain Monte Carlo methods implemented via WinBUGS converged to target distributions that permitted Bayesian estimates of SVT accuracy. Under the most plausible model (conditional dependence in test results), classification accuracies (expressed as area under the &quot;trapezoidal&quot; receiver operating characteristic curve  standard deviation) were as follows: CARB = 0.765  0.030, WMT = 0.929  0.020, and TOMM = 0.771  0.034. At decision thresholds that hold false positive rates at 0.02, the SVTs would detect invalid responses (true positives) at rates of approximately 35%, 65%, and 49%, respectively, for the 3 tests. Though LCM methods have limitations, this study suggests that they offer an approach to SVT evaluation that avoids methodological pitfalls of known-group research designs while retaining ecological validity that is absent in simulation studies.




Reactions of neural, psychological, and social systems are rarely, if ever, independent of previous inputs and states. The potential for serial order carryover effects from one condition to the next in a sequence of experimental trials makes counterbalancing of condition order an essential part of experimental design. Here, a method is proposed for generating counterbalanced sequences for repeated-measures designs including those with multiple observations of each condition on one participant and self-adjacencies of conditions. Condition ordering is reframed as a graph theory problem. Experimental conditions are represented as vertices in a graph and directed edges between them represent temporal relationships between conditions. A counterbalanced trial order results from traversing an Euler circuit through such a graph in which each edge is traversed exactly once. This method can be generalized to counterbalance for higher order serial order carryover effects as well as to create intentional serial order biases. Modern graph theory provides tools for finding other types of paths through such graph representations, providing a tool for generating experimental condition sequences with useful properties.
Compulsive shopping is an impulse control disorder that produces psychological distress. Appropriate measurement scales of compulsive buying are important to identify compulsive buyers. Three compulsive buying scales (Faber and O'Guinn scale, Edwards scale, Yale and Brown scale) were tested in an Italian sample composed of 438 participants randomly selected from the general population. Self-report questionnaires measured psychiatric dysfunctions and personality traits. The data confirmed that high anxiety, obsessive-compulsive dysfunctions, depression, psychoticism, and low self-esteem were associated with inappropriate shopping. The Faber and O'Guinn scale and Edwards Scale are appropriate for surveys, while the Yale and Brown scale are more appropriate for clinical diagnosis of psychological dependences.
Visual perception starts with localized filters that subdivide the image into fragments that undergo separate analyses. The visual system has to reconstruct objects by grouping image fragments that belong to the same object. A widely held view is that perceptual grouping occurs in parallel across the visual scene and without attention. To test this idea, we measured the speed of grouping in pictures of animals and vehicles. In a classification task, these pictures were categorized efficiently. In an image-parsing task, participants reported whether two cues fell on the same or different objects, and we measured reaction times. Despite the participants' fast object classification, perceptual grouping required more time if the distance between cues was larger, and we observed an additional delay when the cues fell on different parts of a single object. Parsing was also slower for inverted than for upright objects. These results imply that perception starts with rapid object classification and that rapid classification is followed by a serial perceptual grouping phase, which is more efficient for objects in a familiar orientation than for objects in an unfamiliar orientation.
People tend to slow down after mistakes. This posterror slowing (PES) has commonly been explained by a change to a more conservative response threshold to avoid future errors. Alternatively, the attention-orienting account posits that all infrequent, surprising events (including errors) elicit an orienting response followed by a time-consuming process of task reorientation, explaining PES without increased response caution. In the present study, we employed both behavioral and electrophysiological measures to compare the predictions of these accounts using a flanker paradigm in which accurate or false external response feedback was provided. Participants demonstrated typical posterror adjustments, responding more slowly and accurately in posterror than in postcorrect trials. This finding provides initial evidence suggesting that posterror adjustments are motivated by the avoidance of subsequent mistakes. Most importantly, PES and an event-related potential relating to the attentional processing of feedback, the feedback-related P300 (f-P300), were modulated by feedback type. More specifically, the f-P300 was larger after false than after accurate feedback, suggesting that participants oriented their attention toward (i.e., were surprised by) inaccurate feedback signals. Interestingly, false feedback differentially modulated reaction times: Participants were slower after correct responses when feedback falsely informed of an error rather than confirmed the correct response. In contrast, faster responses were made after errors when feedback falsely indicated correct rather than incorrect performance. When these patterns of results are regarded together, they are best explained by theories of cognitive control in which posterror adjustments in choice reaction time tasks are assumed to reflect control processes leading to more conservative performance after error signals.
Stress-related research has employed several procedures to activate the human stress system. Two of the most commonly used laboratory paradigms are the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) and the Cold Pressor Test (CPT). We combined their most stressful features to create a simple laboratory stress test capable of eliciting strong autonomic and glucocorticoid stress responses. In comparison with the CPT and its variations, our stress tool (labeled the Maastricht Acute Stress Test; MAST) was found to yield superior salivary cortisol responses, while being equally effective in eliciting subjective stress reactions and (systolic and diastolic) blood pressure increases (study 1; N=80). In study 2 (N=20), we directly compared the effectiveness of the MAST and TSST and found that both methods elicited similar subjective, salivary alpha-amylase, and salivary cortisol stress responses. Finally, we developed and evaluated an appropriate no-stress control version of the MAST that was similar to the stress version, although it did not comprise stressful components (study 3; N=40). Collectively, our results confirm the effectiveness of the MAST in terms of subjective, autonomic, and--most importantly--glucocorticoid stress responses. Thus, as a brief and simple stress protocol, the MAST holds considerable promise for future research.
The activity and regulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis has been related to cognitive decline during aging. This study investigated whether the cortisol awakening response (CAR) is related to memory performance among older adults. The sample was composed of 88 participants (44 men and 44 women) from 55 to 77 years old. The memory assessment consisted of two tests measuring declarative memory (a paragraph recall test and a word list learning test) and two tests measuring working memory (a spatial span test and a spatial working memory test). Among those participants who showed the CAR on two consecutive days, we found that a greater CAR was related to poorer declarative memory performance in both men and women, and to better working memory performance only in men. The results of our study suggest that the relationship between CAR and memory performance is negative in men and women when memory performance is largely dependent on hippocampal functioning (i.e. declarative memory), and positive, but only in men, when memory performance is largely dependent on prefrontal cortex functioning (i.e. working memory).







Maintenance of the integrity of the plasma membrane is essential for maintenance of cellular function and prevention of cell death. Since the plasma membrane is frequently exposed to a variety of mechanical and chemical insults the cell has evolved active processes to defend against these injuries by resealing disruptions in the plasma membrane. Cell membrane repair is a conserved process observed in nearly every cell type where intracellular vesicles are recruited to sites of membrane disruption where they can fuse with themselves or the plasma membrane to create a repair patch. When disruptions are extensive or there is an underlying pathology that reduces the membrane repair capacity of a cell this defense mechanism may prove insufficient and the cell could die due to breakdown of the plasma membrane. Extensive loss of cells can compromise the integrity and function of tissues and leading to disease. Thus, methods to increase membrane resealing capacity could have broad utility in a number of disease states. Efforts to find reagents that can modulate plasma membrane reseal found that specific tri-block copolymers, such as poloxamer 188 (P188, or Pluronic F68), can increase the structural stability and resealing of the plasma membrane. Here we review several current patents and patent applications that present inventions making use of P188 and other copolymers to treat specific disease states such as muscular dystrophy, heart failure, neurodegenerative disorders and electrical injuries, or to facilitate biomedical applications such as transplantation. There appears to be promise for the application of poloxamers in the treatment of various diseases, however there are potential concerns with toxicity with long term application and bioavailability in some cases.
Population control of feral animals is often difficult, as it can be dangerous for the animals, labour intensive and expensive. Therefore, a useful tool for control of animal populations would be a non-surgical method to induce sterility. Our laboratories utilize methods aimed at targeting brain cells in vivo with vehicles that deliver a payload of either inhibitory RNAs or genes intended to correct cellular dysfunction. A useful framework for design of a new approach will be the combination of these methods with the intended goal to produce a technique that can be used to non-invasively sterilize cats and dogs. For this approach to succeed, it has to meet several conditions: the target gene must be essential for fertility; the method must include a mechanism to effectively and specifically silence the gene of interest; the method of delivering the silencing agent must be minimally invasive, and finally, the silencing effect must be sustained for the lifespan of the target species, so that expansion of the population can be effectively prevented. In this article, we discuss our work to develop gene silencing technology to induce sterility; we will use examples of our previous studies demonstrating that this approach is viable. These studies include (i) the use of viral vectors able to disrupt reproductive cyclicity when delivered to the regions of the brain involved in the control of reproduction and (ii) experiments with viral vectors that are able to ameliorate neuronal disease when delivered systemically using a novel approach of gene therapy.
Triclosan is an antimicrobial additive in many personal care and household products, and evidence indicates that it can be estrogenic. As estrogen elevations can disrupt blastocyst implantation, we examined the influence of triclosan on implantation in inseminated mice. Doses of 18 and 27 mg/animal/day (about 523 and 785 mg/kg/day) on gestational days (GD) 1-3 reduced the number of implantation sites on GD 6. Single doses on GD 2 or 3 also reduced implantation sites. Subsequently, we examined triclosan in combination with bisphenol-A (BPA), which also can disrupt implantation. Although doses of 4 mg BPA (122 mg/kg) and 9 mg triclosan (262 mg/kg) on GD 1-3 were individually ineffective, in combination they reduced the number of implantation sites and also increased gestation length. All of these effects mimicked stronger effects of 17-estradiol. These data are consistent with potential estrogenic properties of triclosan, and show that it can act together with BPA.

There are strong research activities in the field of dysimmune neuropathies. In Guillain-Barr syndrome, new pathophysiological mechanisms have been demonstrated with the potential development of new therapies, a clinical prediction model is applicable early in the course of disease, and under investigation are new treatment strategies with adapted intravenous Ig dosages. In chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathies, current diagnostic tests are discussed but biomarkers are needed, such as histological changes or differential gene expression in nerve or skin biopsies. The exploration of novel therapeutic approaches including monoclonal antibodies and oral immunosuppressants, known from multiple sclerosis studies, suggests new approaches to treatment. Changes of the peripheral nerves on MR imaging are better known and the usefulness of serum antibodies is reviewed.

Methods for culturally and linguistically appropriate cognitive testing of elderly minority populations are lacking in Europe. The aim of this study was to compare performance on the Rowland Universal Dementia Assessment Scale (RUDAS) and the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) in Turkish immigrants in Denmark and determine the impact of demographic and health-related variables on test performance. A sample of non-demented community-dwelling Turkish immigrants was recruited from the greater Copenhagen area. All participants completed a structured interview regarding demographic, physical and mental health status, as well as measures of depression and acculturation, and cognitive testing with the RUDAS and the MMSE. A total of 76 non-demented participants aged 50 or more were included in the study. The mean performance on the RUDAS and the MMSE was 26.8 (SD 2.4) and 23.7 (SD 4.3), respectively. In group comparisons, correlation analyses and regression analyses, level of schooling represented a more significant variable for RUDAS and MMSE performance than any other variable. However, the impact of schooling was considerably more pronounced on the MMSE and the test was not found to be a valid measure of general cognitive function in subjects with less than five years of schooling. Although not entirely free of educational bias, the RUDAS can be a valuable supplement to the MMSE for assessment of general cognitive function in Turkish minority populations.

The default-mode network (DMN) of the brain shows highly coherent intrinsic activity in healthy subjects and is implicated in self-referential processing important for social cognitive functioning. Schizophrenia patients show abnormal resting-state connectivity within the DMN and this aberrant connectivity is thought to contribute to difficulties in self-referential and introspective processing. Subjects at increased genetic risk of developing schizophrenia, including unaffected siblings of patients, also exhibit brain abnormalities and impaired social cognitive processing. However, it is unclear whether resting-state connectivity within the DMN is abnormal in these subjects. Here, we investigate resting-state DMN connectivity in siblings and whether this is related to the functioning of the network during self-referential processing. Brain activity was measured using functional MRI in 25 unaffected siblings of patients with schizophrenia and 25 healthy controls during an 8-minute resting-state period and during a self-referential processing task in which the subjects had to indicate whether a trait adjective (e.g. &quot;lazy&quot;) described their personality (self-referential condition) or whether the trait was socially desirable (non-referential condition). Compared with controls, siblings showed exaggerated connectivity during resting-state between the midline areas of the DMN. Moreover, they failed to adequately modulate connectivity between these areas during self-referential processing. No abnormalities in activation during self-referential processing were observed. These findings suggest that subjects at increased genetic risk of developing schizophrenia exhibit abnormal intrinsic connectivity within the midline DMN and that this is associated with aberrant interactions between these regions during self-referential processing.

Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) can be classified as secretory (FGF1-10 and FGF15-23) or intracellular non-secretory forms (FGF11-14). Secretory forms of FGF and their receptors are best known for their regulatory roles in cell growth, differentiation and morphogenesis in the early stages of neural development. However, the functions of intracellular FGFs remain to be explored. FGF12 and FGF14 are found to interact with voltage-gated sodium channels, and regulate the channel activity in neurons. FGF13 is expressed in primary sensory neurons, and is colocalized with sodium channels at the nodes of Ranvier along the myelinated afferent fibers. FGF13 is also expressed in cerebral cortical neurons during the late developmental stage. A recent study showed that FGF13 is a microtubule-stabilizing protein required for regulating the neuronal development in the cerebral cortex. Thus, non-secretory forms of FGF appear to have important roles in the brain, and it would be interesting to further investigate the functions of intracellular FGFs in the nervous system and in neural diseases.


The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, has been attracting much attention in the research field of biomedical science and neuroscience, based on its (i) cross-reactivity with human cytokines or hormones, (ii) comparative ease in handling due to its small size, (iii) high reproductive efficiency, (iv) establishment of basic research tools, and (v) advantages of its unique behavioral and cognitive characters. Various neurological disease models have been developed in the common marmoset, including Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injury. We recently developed transgenic common marmoset with germline transmission, which is expected to provide a new animal model for the study of human diseases. In this review, we summarize the recent progress of biomedical research and neuroscience using common marmoset as an excellent model system.
Neuropathic pain is caused by lesion or disease of somatosensory system. The glial cell includes astrocyte and microglia in central nervous system (CNS), as well as satellite cell and Schwann cell in peripheral nervous system (PNS). Neural lesion activates the glial cell, inducing its morphology changes and certain protein expression. By interacting with neurons, the glial cell plays important roles in both the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain. In this review, we present recent progress in the study of glial mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain.
Oligodendrocytes are myelin forming cells in central nerve system, which arise from oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) following a series development processes: The mechanism of myelination has become one of the hot point in neurosciences research. Recently, the cytoskeleton of oligodendrocyte has been considered to play an important role in this process. Mediated by a series of intracellular and extracellular signaling moleculues and lipid raft, the cytoskeleton of oligodendrocytes regulates morphological changes of cells and results in terminal differentiation or maturation of oligodendrocytes. The simple processes of cells gradually become highly ramified, and extend the membrane to wrap the neuronal axons to form the myelin layers. Finally, the compaction of myelin layers by the reorganization of cytoskeleton leads to formation of the mature myelin sheath.
pH homeostasis is essential for development, proliferation and apoptosis of cells. Once the pH balances are broken, cell functions and survival will be affected. Nevertheless, moderate acidosis could result in adaptive responses for cell survival and increase tolerance to harmful stress. Here we found that acidic preconditioning (APC) could significantly increase the survival rate of Daphnia pulex, a freshwater invertebrate, during severe hypoxic insult. Meanwhile, the acidic treatment significantly increased the gene expression of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF). Both echinomycin, an inhibitor of HIF, and compound C, an inhibitor of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), could effectively eliminate the acid-induced hypoxic tolerance and the enhanced transcription of HIF. Temsirolimus, an inhibitor of mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR), though effectively abolished the increased transcription of HIF, improved the APC-mediated protection. This result suggests that the involvement of the HIF and AMPK and mTOR could signal the pathways in APC-induced protection against hypoxic insult.
Studying the functional network during the interaction between emotion and cognition is an important way to reveal the underlying neural connections in the brain and nowadays, it has become a hot topic in cognitive neuroscience. Granger causality (GC), based on multivariate autoregressive (MVAR) model, and being able to be used to analyse causal characteristic of brain regions has been widely used in electroencephalography (EEG) in event-related paradigms research. In this study, we recorded the EEGs from 13 normal subjects (6 males and 7 females) during emotional face search task. We utilized Granger causality to establish a causal model of different brain areas under different rhythms at specific stages of cognition, and then convinced the brain dynamic network topological properties in the process of emotion and cognition. Therefore, we concluded that in the alpha band, (1) negative emotion face induced larger causal effects than positive ones; (2) 100-200ms emotional signal was the most prominent ones while 300-400ms and 700-800ms would take the second place; (3) The rear brain region modulated the front in the process of causal modulation; (4) The frontal and pillow area involved in the brain causal modulation as a key brain area; and (5) Negative partiality existed in the information processing, especially during 0-100ms after the negative expression stimulation.



Psychological stress is a major risk factor for the development and progression of a number of diseases, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, arthritis, and major depression. A growing body of research suggests that long-term, stress-induced activation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis may lead to increases in inflammation, which is known to play a key role in the pathophysiology of a variety of diseases. Furthermore, the burgeoning fields of social neuroscience and health neuroscience have begun to identify the neurocognitive mechanisms by which stress may lead to these physiological changes. Here we review the literature examining the neurocognitive correlates of stress-induced SNS, HPA, and inflammatory responses. Specifically, we summarize the results of neuroimaging studies that have examined the neural correlates of stress-related increases in SNS, HPA, and inflammatory activity. A set of neural systems involved in threat processing, safety processing, and social cognition are suggested as key contributors to stress-related changes in physiology. We conclude by offering suggestions for future research in the exciting new field of health neuroscience.



AlkB homolog 1 (ALKBH1) is one of nine members of the family of mammalian AlkB homologs. Most Alkbh1(-/-) mice die during embryonic development, and survivors are characterized by defects in tissues originating from the ectodermal lineage. In this study, we show that deletion of Alkbh1 prolonged the expression of pluripotency markers in embryonic stem cells and delayed the induction of genes involved in early differentiation. In vitro differentiation to neural progenitor cells (NPCs) displayed an increased rate of apoptosis in the Alkbh1(-/-) NPCs when compared with wild-type cells. Whole-genome expression analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that ALKBH1 regulates both directly and indirectly, a subset of genes required for neural development. Furthermore, our in vitro enzyme activity assays demonstrate that ALKBH1 is a histone dioxygenase that acts specifically on histone H2A. Mass spectrometric analysis demonstrated that histone H2A from Alkbh1(-/-) mice are improperly methylated. Our results suggest that ALKBH1 is involved in neural development by modifying the methylation status of histone H2A.






Methylmercury (MeHg) is an environmental contaminant with recognized neurotoxic effects, particularly to the developing nervous system. In the present study, we show that nanomolar concentrations of MeHg can induce long-lasting effects in neural stem cells (NSCs). We investigated short-term direct and long-term inherited effects of exposure to MeHg (2.5 or 5.0 nM) using primary cultures of rat embryonic cortical NSCs. We found that MeHg had no adverse effect on cell viability but reduced NSC proliferation and altered the expression of cell cycle regulators (p16 and p21) and senescence-associated markers. In addition, we demonstrated a decrease in global DNA methylation in the exposed cells, indicating that epigenetic changes may be involved in the mechanisms underlying the MeHg-induced effects. These changes were observed in cells directly exposed to MeHg (parent cells) and in their daughter cells cultured under MeHg-free conditions. In agreement with our in vitro data, a trend was found for decreased cell proliferation in the subgranular zone in the hippocampi of adult mice exposed to low doses of MeHg during the perinatal period. Interestingly, this impaired proliferation had a measurable impact on the total number of neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Importantly, this effect could be reversed by chronic antidepressant treatment. Our study provides novel evidence for programming effects induced by MeHg in NSCs and supports the idea that developmental exposure to low levels of MeHg may result in long-term consequences predisposing to neurodevelopmental disorders and/or neurodegeneration.
Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS) is a lethal disease caused by mutations that inactivate the lysosomal trafficking regulator protein (LYST). Patients suffer from diverse symptoms including oculocutaneous albinism, recurrent infections, neutropenia and progressive neurodegeneration. These defects have been traced back to over-sized lysosomes and lysosome-related organelles (LROs) in different cell types. Here, we explore mutants in the Drosophila mauve gene as a new model system for CHS. The mauve gene (CG42863) encodes a large BEACH domain protein of 3535 amino acids similar to LYST. This reflects a functional homology between these proteins as mauve mutants also display enlarged LROs, such as pigment granules. This Drosophila model also replicates the enhanced susceptibility to infections and we show a defect in the cellular immune response. Early stages of phagocytosis proceed normally in mauve mutant hemocytes but, unlike in wild type, late phagosomes fuse and generate large vacuoles containing many bacteria. Autophagy is similarly affected in mauve fat bodies as starvation-induced autophagosomes grow beyond their normal size. Together these data suggest a model in which Mauve functions to restrict homotypic fusion of different pre-lysosomal organelles and LROs.
Gene products such as organelles, proteins and RNAs are actively transported to synaptic terminals for the remodeling of pre-existing neuronal connections and formation of new ones. Proteins described as molecular motors mediate this transport and utilize specialized cytoskeletal proteins that function as molecular tracks for the motor based transport of cargos. Molecular motors such as kinesins and dynein's move along microtubule tracks formed by tubulins whereas myosin motors utilize tracks formed by actin. Deficits in active transport of gene products have been implicated in a number of neurological disorders. We describe such disorders collectively as &quot;transportopathies&quot;. Here we review current knowledge of critical components of active transport and their relevance to neurodegenerative diseases.
The name astroglia unifies many non-excitable neural cells that act as primary homeostatic cells in the nervous system. Neuronal activity triggers multiple homeostatic responses of astroglia that include increase in metabolic activity and synthesis of neuronal preferred energy substrate lactate, clearance of neurotransmitters and buffering of extracellular K(+) ions to name but a few. Many (if not all) of astroglial homeostatic responses are controlled by dynamic changes in the cytoplasmic concentration of two cations, Ca(2+) and Na(+). Intracellular concentration of these ions is tightly controlled by several transporters and can be rapidly affected by the activation of respective fluxes through ionic channels or ion exchangers. Here, we provide a comprehensive review of astroglial Ca(2+) and Na(+) signalling.
BRAF(V600E) mutations are involved in the development of melanoma, colon cancer, and papillary thyroid carcinoma. These mutations are also found in primary brain tumors at low to moderate frequencies. In this study, we investigated a series of brain tumors to determine the prevalence and associated clinicopathologic features of BRAF(V600E) mutations. By direct sequencing, we analyzed 223 brain tumors, including 51 gangliogliomas (GGs), 45 pilocytic astrocytomas (PAs), 12 pleomorphic xanthoastrocytomas (PXAs), 35 glioblastomas (GBs), 28 anaplastic astrocytomas (AAs), 44 oligodendroglial tumors (ODGs), 3 anaplastic oligoastrocytomas, and 5 diffuse astrocytomas. Thirty-six cases (16.1%) exhibited the BRAF(V600E) mutation, including 66.7% of PXAs, 23.5% of GGs, 15.6% of PAs, and 9.7% of the malignant gliomas; the latter included 14.3% of AAs, 8.6% of GBs, and 4.5% of ODGs. Copy number aberration at the 7q34 (BRAF) locus was found in 73.1% of PAs and 50% of PXAs. 9p Homozygous deletion was found in 66.7% of PXAs, but it was not correlated with the BRAF(V600E) mutation. Patients' age, sex, histologic grade, and progression-free survival were also not correlated with the BRAF(V600E) mutation. The BRAF(V600E) mutation in brain tumors did not have prognostic value but is certainly a diagnostic marker and therapeutic target, not only for pediatric low-grade gliomas but also for malignant gliomas, even though the rate of mutation was not high. These results should be verified in a larger study with more cases and a longer follow-up period to overcome the limitation of small sample size.
The use of accelerometry to monitor activity in human stroke patients has revealed strong correlations between objective activity measurements and subjective neurological findings. The goal of our study was to assess the applicability of accelerometry-based measurements in experimental animals undergoing surgically-induced cerebral ischemia. Using a nonhuman primate cortical stroke model, we demonstrate for the first time that monitoring locomotor activity prior to and following cerebrovascular ischemic injury using an accelerometer is feasible in adult male rhesus macaques and that the measured activity outcomes significantly correlate with severity of brain injury. The use of accelerometry as an unobtrusive, objective preclinical efficacy determinant could complement standard practices involving subjective neurological scoring and magnetic resonance imaging in nonhuman primates. Similar activity monitoring devices to those employed in this study are currently in use in human clinical studies, underscoring the feasibility of this approach for assessing the clinical potential of novel treatments for cerebral ischemia.
A considerable body of evidence has accumulated over recent years on the functions of the default-mode network (DMN)--a set of brain regions whose activity is high when the mind is not engaged in specific behavioral tasks and low during focused attention on the external environment. In this review, we focus on DMN suppression and its functional role in health and disease, summarizing evidence that spans several disciplines, including cognitive neuroscience, pharmacological neuroimaging, clinical neuroscience, and theoretical neuroscience. Collectively, this research highlights the functional relevance of DMN suppression for goal-directed cognition, possibly by reducing goal-irrelevant functions supported by the DMN (e.g., mind-wandering), and illustrates the functional significance of DMN suppression deficits in severe mental illness.
Attention is strongly influenced by both external stimuli and internal goals. However, this useful dichotomy does not readily capture the ubiquitous and often automatic contribution of past experience stored in memory. We review recent evidence about how multiple memory systems control attention, consider how such interactions are manifested in the brain, and highlight how this framework for 'memory-guided attention' might help systematize previous findings and guide future research.
Recent research using model organisms such as the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has highlighted a crucial role for several conserved signaling pathways in longevity determination. Here, we review three major endocrine- and nutrient-sensing signaling pathways with influence on lifespan, the insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF), target of rapamycin (TOR), and germline signaling pathways. Although these pathways engage distinct sets of transcription factors, the three pathways appear to modulate aging in C. elegans through partially overlapping effector mechanisms, including lipid metabolism and autophagy. This review highlights the latest advances in our understanding of how the insulin/IGF-1, TOR, and germline signaling pathways utilize different transcription factors to modulate aging in C. elegans with special emphasis on the role of lipid metabolism and autophagy.
Understanding the signals that guide neuronal development and direct formation of axons, dendrites, and synapses during wiring of the brain is a fundamental challenge in developmental neuroscience. Discovery of how local signals shape developing neurons has been impeded by the inability of conventional culture methods to interrogate microenvironments of complex neuronal cytoarchitectures, where different subdomains encounter distinct chemical, physical, and fluidic features. Microfabrication techniques are facilitating the creation of microenvironments tailored to neuronal structures and subdomains with unprecedented access and control. The design, fabrication, and properties of microfluidic devices offer significant advantages for addressing unresolved issues of neuronal development. These high-resolution approaches are poised to contribute new insights into mechanisms for restoring neuronal function and connectivity compromised by injury, stress, and neurodegeneration.

Our everyday visual experience frequently involves searching for objects in clutter. Why are some searches easy and others hard? It is generally believed that the time taken to find a target increases as it becomes similar to its surrounding distractors. Here, I show that while this is qualitatively true, the exact relationship is in fact not linear. In a simple search experiment, when subjects searched for a bar differing in orientation from its distractors, search time was inversely proportional to the angular difference in orientation. Thus, rather than taking search reaction time (RT) to be a measure of target-distractor similarity, we can literally turn search time on its head (i.e. take its reciprocal 1/RT) to obtain a measure of search dissimilarity that varies linearly over a large range of target-distractor differences. I show that this dissimilarity measure has the properties of a distance metric, and report two interesting insights come from this measure: First, for a large number of searches, search asymmetries are relatively rare and when they do occur, differ by a fixed distance. Second, search distances can be used to elucidate object representations that underlie search - for example, these representations are roughly invariant to three-dimensional view. Finally, search distance has a straightforward interpretation in the context of accumulator models of search, where it is proportional to the discriminative signal that is integrated to produce a response. This is consistent with recent studies that have linked this distance to neuronal discriminability in visual cortex. Thus, while search time remains the more direct measure of visual search, its reciprocal also has the potential for interesting and novel insights.


The brain is the most intricate, energetically active, and plastic organ in the body. These features extend to its cellular elements, the neurons and glia. Understanding neurons, or nerve cells, at the cellular and molecular levels is the cornerstone of modern neuroscience. The complexities of neuron structure and function require unusual methods of culture to determine how aberrations in or between cells give rise to brain dysfunction and disease. Here we review the methods that have emerged over the past century for culturing neurons in vitro, from the landmark finding by Harrison (1910) - that neurons can be cultured outside the body - to studies utilizing culture vessels, micro-islands, Campenot and brain slice chambers, and microfluidic technologies. We conclude with future prospects for neuronal culture and considerations for advancement. We anticipate that continued innovation in culture methods will enhance design capabilities for temporal control of media and reagents (chemotemporal control) within sub-cellular environments of three-dimensional fluidic spaces (microfluidic devices) and materials (e.g., hydrogels). They will enable new insights into the complexities of neuronal development and pathology.
Synaptic function is critical for proper cognition, and synaptopathologies have been implicated in diverse neuropsychiatric disorders. STriatal-Enriched protein tyrosine Phosphatase (STEP) is a brain-enriched tyrosine phosphatase that normally opposes synaptic strengthening by dephosphorylating key neuronal signaling molecules. STEP targets include N-methyl D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs), as well as extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and the tyrosine kinase Fyn. STEP-mediated dephosphorylation promotes the internalization of NMDARs and AMPARs and the inactivation of ERK and Fyn.Regulation of STEP is complex, and recent work has implicated STEP dysregulation in the pathophysiology of several neuropsychiatric disorders. Both high levels and low levels of STEP are found in a diverse group of illnesses. This review focuses on the role of STEP in three disorders in which STEP levels are elevated: Alzheimer's disease, fragile X syndrome, and schizophrenia. The presence of elevated STEP in all three of these disorders raises the intriguing possibility that cognitive deficits resulting from diverse etiologies may share a common molecular pathway.
This study examined the trajectories of sexual risk behaviors among adolescents from ages 15 to 23, and factors associated with those trajectories. The sample was 5,419 adolescents from the 1997 National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. Using group-based trajectory modeling, five distinctive trajectory groups were identified. The High group had a high and increased risk trajectory over the observed ages. The Decreased group had a risk trajectory that accelerated before age 19, but decreased afterwards. The risk trajectories of the Increased-Early and Increased-Late groups were low at age 15, but increased significantly starting at ages 16 and 18 for the groups, respectively. Participants in the Low group remained at low risk over time. Sexual risk behaviors were also positively associated with alcohol use, marijuana use, and delinquency. Results highlight the need for intervention efforts to consider developmental timing of sexual risk behaviors and their associations with other problem behaviors.
Already from the start of PET/CT integrating positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT) in one instrument, there have been considerations how to combine PET and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) so that their complementary abilities can be utilized in a single investigation. Since classical PET electronics fail in an even weak magnetic field and PET signal processing might disturb high-frequency signals of MRI, it soon became clear that new solutions had to be found to avoid mutual interferences. During the last fifteen years a number of different approaches towards PET/MRI for small animal imaging have been developed by research groups which together with their specific features are summarized in this review. Recently, PET/MRI for human imaging became available as well - this time by industrial initiatives. First some prototypes of BrainPET/MRI were developed followed by commercial products for simultaneous and non-simultaneous whole-body PET/MRI. Although only PET/MRI integrated in one scanner offers the full diversity of complementary multiparametric imaging, there are also promising applications of non-simultaneous sequential PET/MRI. While describing the present instrumentation for human PET/MRI, this review discusses the challenges and promises related to this new imaging technology.


A 23-year-old man with a clinically isolated syndrome (right optic neuritis) diagnosed 6 months before, presented with recurrent, brief, painful, stereotyped, involuntary posturing movements of the left upper limb. The neurological examination was otherwise unremarkable (except for right optic atrophy). Intravenous methylprednisolone was initiated; the paroxysms persisted and worsened 7&amp;emsp14;days later, as the left lower limb and hemiface became affected. A video-EEG showed no epileptiform activity despite the movements. Brain MRI revealed new lesions affecting the right pyramidal tract, contralateral to the clinical manifestations. Valproate was prescribed and the paroxysms were completely resolved 5 days later. Tonic spasms are classically, although infrequently, seen in multiple sclerosis, and may clinically resemble primary paroxysmal dyskinesias or even focal motor epileptic seizures.
Low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) plays an important role in the cholesterol homeostasis. We examined the possible circadian regulation of LDLR and mechanism(s) underlying it. In mice, blood glucose and plasma triglyceride, total and high density lipoprotein cholesterol varied distinctively throughout a day. In addition, LDLR mRNA oscillated in the liver in a functional clock-dependent manner. Accordingly, analysis of human LDLR promoter sequence revealed three putative E-boxes, raising the possible regulation of LDLR expression by E-box-binding transcription factors. To test this possibility, human LDLR promoter reporter constructs were transfected into HepG2 cells and the effects of CLOCK/BMAL1, Hes1, and Hes6 expression were analyzed. It was found that positive circadian transcription factor complex CLOCK/BMAL1 upregulated human LDLR promoter activity in a serum-independent manner, while Hes family members Hes1 and Hes6 downregulated it only under serum-depleted conditions. Both effects were mapped to proximal promoter region of human LDLR, where mutation or deletion of well-known sterol regulatory element (SRE) abolished only the repressive effect of Hes1. Interestingly, hes6 and hes1 mRNA oscillated in an anti-phasic manner in the wild-type but not in the per1-/-per2 -/- mouse. Comparative analysis of mouse, rat and human hes6 genes revealed that three E-boxes are conserved among three species. Transfection and site-directed mutagenesis studies with hes6 reporter constructs confirmed that the third E-box in the exon IV is functionally induced by CLOCK/BMAL1. Taken together, these results suggest that LDLR expression is under circadian control involving CLOCK/BMAL1 and Hes family members Hes1 and Hes6.
Our recent studies suggest a unique role of p53 during the early stage of cancer development. However, how p53 activation is regulated during TPA treatment remains elusive. We used murine skin epidermal JB6 promotion-sensitive (P+) and promotion resistant (P-) cells to observe differential expression of PTEN during TPA-induced p53 activation. Total PTEN expression was decreased in only P+ cells. Nuclear expression of PTEN increased and complex formation between PTEN and p53 occurred in P+ cells treated with TPA. Knocking down PTEN expression via siRNA inhibited TPA-induced Bax expression. Similar effects were seen with the p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha. Cells that were transfected with siRNA to PTEN exhibited enhanced tumorigenicity. Our findings suggest PTEN mediates TPA-induced p53 activation.
The research literature provides evidence on the possible link between single-car accident drivers and suicidal intent, and some scholars have stressed the role of unconscious suicidal motivations in some single-car accidents. This paper review relevant literature on the topic and sheds light on neglected factors that may play a central role in reducing the number of deaths due to car accidents. We performed careful PubMed, and PsycInfo searches to identify all papers and book chapters in English during the period 1955-2011. Our overview of the literature indicates that above 2% of the traffic accidents are suicide behaviors. However, the phenomenon may be underreported, considering that suicides by car accidents may be reported as accidental in the national statistics. On the other hand, the association between accident-pronesses and unconscious self-destructive impulses is an issue that is difficult to solve.

The clinical picture, electroencephalographic, imaging and cerebrospinal fluid parameters as well as the molecular background of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease have been well explored. The diagnostic criteria, offering clinicians a fair chance to identify these patients in vivo, have recently been updated. However, the diagnosis is still a challenge in everyday neurological routine. We report on three of our Creutzfeldt-Jakob patients for calling attention to the classical and the recently defined features of the disease. We conclude that based on the rapidly progressing neuropsychiatric syndrome Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease may be suspected; follow-up EEG may reveal the typical (pseudo)-periodic pattern with progressive deterioration of the background activity. In addition, diffusion-weighted brain MRI imaging (DWI) has high diagnostic value. Detection of 14-3-3 protein in the cerebrospinal fluid supports the in vivo diagnosis.
Human gene-2 (H2) relaxin is currently in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of acute heart failure. It is a 53-amino acid insulin-like peptide comprising two chains and three disulfide bonds. It interacts with two of the relaxin family peptide (RXFP) receptors. Although its cognate receptor is RXFP1, it is also able to cross-react with RXFP2, the native receptor for a related peptide, insulin-like peptide 3. In order to understand the basis of this cross-reactivity, it is important to elucidate both binding and activation mechanisms of this peptide. The primary binding mechanism of this hormone has been extensively studied and well defined. H2 relaxin binds to the leucine-rich repeats of RXFP1 and RXFP2 using B-chain-specific residues. However, little is known about the secondary interaction that involves the A-chain of H2 relaxin and transmembrane exoloops of the receptors. We demonstrate here through extensive mutation of the A-chain that the secondary interaction between H2 relaxin and RXFP1 is not driven by any single amino acid, although residues Tyr-3, Leu-20, and Phe-23 appear to contribute. Interestingly, these same three residues are important drivers of the affinity and activity of H2 relaxin for RXFP2 with additional minor contributions from Lys-9, His-12, Lys-17, Arg-18, and Arg-22. Our results provide new insights into the mechanism of secondary activation interaction of RXFP1 and RXFP2 by H2 relaxin, leading to a potent and RXFP1-selective analog, H2:A(4-24)(F23A), which was tested in vitro and in vivo and found to significantly inhibit collagen deposition similar to native H2 relaxin.
A column-switching liquid chromatographic (LC) system was developed for the radiometabolite analysis of positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands in plasma employing direct injection. This system involves (1) micellar cleanup using a short capture column with a micellar mobile phase for submitting plasma directly into the system, (2) fast-micellar liquid chromatography utilizing a small particle size (2.5 m) analysis column under high submicellar condition for improving sensitivity, resolution and speed of analysis and (3) highly sensitive flow-through (+) detection for online measurement of radioligands and their radiometabolites. This system enabled highly sensitive radiometric analysis at the lowest detection limit of about 1 Becquerel (Bq) for (11)C-labelled compounds with a high temporal resolution of &lt;4.0 min without any pre-treatment of plasma. Finally, this novel method could be successfully applied to study the radiometabolism for various PET radioligands and provided reliable determination in both human and monkey plasma.
Nicotine can have beneficial effects on attention performance and corresponding brain function in both schizophrenia patients and healthy controls, but it remains controversial whether nicotine affects brain function differentially in patients vs. controls. The effects of nicotine on brain activity elicited by attention-requiring oddball-type tasks have not been studied in schizophrenia patients. In this study we sought to investigate the impact of nicotine on the p300 evoked potential component and corresponding fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) activation measures in schizophrenia patients and controls. Applying a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over design, the effects of 1mg nasal nicotine on brain activity elicited by a visual oddball-type task in N=14 schizophrenia and N=15 control smokers were studied with simultaneous EEG-fMRI. EEG single trial amplitudes were used to inform the fMRI analysis. We found a nicotine-associated increase in P300-informed fMRI activation in schizophrenia patients and controls, mainly in the anterior cingulate and adjacent medial frontal cortex. No group differences in the response to nicotine were found. Remarkably, averaged EEG and fMRI activation measures considered in isolation were largely unaffected by nicotine. Taken together, the effects of nicotine on P300 amplitude-associated brain activation do not seem to be fundamentally different in schizophrenic smokers and healthy controls.
In self-identified white patients with major depressive disorder (N=126) treated with open-label duloxetine (60-120 mg/d), a significant association of (P=0.020) of a composite risk score (based on SLC6A2 rs5569 [G1287A] AA, HTR1A rs6295 [C(-1019)G] GG, and COMT rs174697 AA/AG) with 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale total score change from baseline to 12 weeks was observed.
This study aimed to examine whether the same clusters of individuals with schizotypy as reported in Western samples are present in a Chinese sample. Cluster analysis was conducted on the responses of 418 individuals to the Chapman Psychosis-Proneness Scales. Results revealed that similar clusters of schizotypy exist in Chinese and Western samples, and that the emotional and neuropsychological symptoms they manifest are consistent with their cluster type.
A central challenge for cognitive and systems neuroscience is to relate the incredibly complex behavior of animals to the equally complex activity of their brains. Recently described, large-scale neural models have not bridged this gap between neural activity and biological function. In this work, we present a 2.5-million-neuron model of the brain (called &quot;Spaun&quot;) that bridges this gap by exhibiting many different behaviors. The model is presented only with visual image sequences, and it draws all of its responses with a physically modeled arm. Although simplified, the model captures many aspects of neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, and psychological behavior, which we demonstrate via eight diverse tasks.


Cellular resolution three-dimensional (3D) visualization of defined, fluorescently labeled long-range neuronal networks in the uncut adult mouse brain has been elusive. Here, a virus-based strategy is described that allowed fluorescent labeling of centrifugally projecting neuronal populations in the ventral forebrain and their directly, monosynaptically connected bulbar interneurons upon a single stereotaxic injection into select neuronal populations. Implementation of improved tissue clearing combined with light-sheet fluorescence microscopy permitted imaging of the resulting connectivity maps in a single whole-brain scan. Subsequent 3D reconstructions revealed the exact distribution of the diverse neuronal ensembles monosynaptically connected with distinct bulbar interneuron populations. Moreover, rehydratation of brains after light-sheet fluorescence imaging enabled the immunohistochemical identification of synaptically connected neurons. Thus, this study describes a method for identifying monosynaptic connectivity maps from distinct, virally labeled neuronal populations that helps in better understanding of information flow in neural systems.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia among older people. There are no effective medications currently available to prevent and treat AD and halt disease progression. Monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) is the primary enzyme metabolizing the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol in the brain. We show here that inactivation of MAGL robustly suppressed production and accumulation of -amyloid (A) associated with reduced expression of -site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) in a mouse model of AD. MAGL inhibition also prevented neuroinflammation, decreased neurodegeneration, maintained integrity of hippocampal synaptic structure and function, and improved long-term synaptic plasticity, spatial learning, and memory in AD animals. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects produced by MAGL inhibition remain to be determined, our results suggest that MAGL, which regulates endocannabinoid and prostaglandin signaling, contributes to pathogenesis and neuropathology of AD, and thus is a promising therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of AD.
The production of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from somatic cells provides a means to create valuable tools for basic research and may also produce a source of patient-matched cells for regenerative therapies. iPSCs may be generated using multiple protocols and derived from multiple cell sources. Once generated, iPSCs are tested using a variety of assays including immunostaining for pluripotency markers, generation of three germ layers in embryoid bodies and teratomas, comparisons of gene expression with embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and production of chimeric mice with or without germline contribution(2). Importantly, iPSC lines that pass these tests still vary in their capacity to produce different differentiated cell types(2). This has made it difficult to establish which iPSC derivation protocols, donor cell sources or selection methods are most useful for different applications. The most stringent test of whether a stem cell line has sufficient developmental potential to generate all tissues required for survival of an organism (termed full pluripotency) is tetraploid embryo complementation (TEC)(3-5). Technically, TEC involves electrofusion of two-cell embryos to generate tetraploid (4n) one-cell embryos that can be cultured in vitro to the blastocyst stage(6). Diploid (2n) pluripotent stem cells (e.g. ESCs or iPSCs) are then injected into the blastocoel cavity of the tetraploid blastocyst and transferred to a recipient female for gestation (see Figure 1). The tetraploid component of the complemented embryo contributes almost exclusively to the extraembryonic tissues (placenta, yolk sac), whereas the diploid cells constitute the embryo proper, resulting in a fetus derived entirely from the injected stem cell line. Recently, we reported the derivation of iPSC lines that reproducibly generate adult mice via TEC(1). These iPSC lines give rise to viable pups with efficiencies of 5-13%, which is comparable to ESCs(3,4,7) and higher than that reported for most other iPSC lines(8-12). These reports show that direct reprogramming can produce fully pluripotent iPSCs that match ESCs in their developmental potential and efficiency of generating pups in TEC tests. At present, it is not clear what distinguishes between fully pluripotent iPSCs and less potent lines(13-15). Nor is it clear which reprogramming methods will produce these lines with the highest efficiency. Here we describe one method that produces fully pluripotent iPSCs and &quot;all- iPSC&quot; mice, which may be helpful for investigators wishing to compare the pluripotency of iPSC lines or establish the equivalence of different reprogramming methods.
Dorsal horn neurons send ascending projections to both thalamic nuclei and parabrachial nuclei; these pathways are thought to be critical pathways for central processing of nociceptive information. Afferents from the corneal surface of the eye mediate nociception from this tissue which is susceptible to clinically important pain syndromes. This study examined corneal afferents to the trigeminal dorsal horn and compared inputs to thalamic- and parabrachial-projecting neurons. We used anterograde tracing with cholera toxin B subunit to identify corneal afferent projections to trigeminal dorsal horn, and the retrograde tracer FluoroGold to identify projection neurons. Studies were conducted in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Our analysis was conducted at two distinct levels of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (Vc) which receive corneal afferent projections. We found that corneal afferents project more densely to the rostral pole of Vc than the caudal pole. We also quantified the number of thalamic- and parabrachial-projecting neurons in the regions of Vc that receive corneal afferents. Corneal afferent inputs to both groups of projection neurons were also more abundant in the rostral pole of Vc. Finally, by comparing the frequency of corneal afferent appositions to thalamic- versus parabrachial-projecting neurons, we found that corneal afferents preferentially target parabrachial-projecting neurons in trigeminal dorsal horn. These results suggest that nociceptive pain from the cornea may be primarily mediated by a non-thalamic ascending pathway.
Glomus cells in the carotid body are responsible for detecting changes in the partial pressure of blood oxygen (PO(2)). These glomus cells have recently been found to express leptin receptors and are activated by intermittent hypoxia (IH) and systemic leptin injections, although the function of leptin within the carotid body remains unknown. The present study was done to investigate whether IH activates leptin signalling pathways within leptin-expressing carotid body glomus cells. Rats were subjected to IH (120-s normoxia, 80-s hypoxia for 8h) or normoxia (8h). Exposure to IH increased plasma leptin levels almost sixfold compared to normoxic controls. Additionally, IH was found to increase leptin, ERK1/2 and Fra-1/2 immunoreactivity within glomus cells. Systemic leptin injections evoked similar effects on leptin, ERK1/2 and Fra-1/2 immunoreactivity within the glomus cells. Furthermore, using Western blot analysis, IH was found to increase protein expression of leptin, the short form of the leptin receptor (Ob-R(100)kDa) and suppressor of cytokine signalling 3. On the other hand, IH induced a decrease in long form of leptin receptors (Ob-Rb) protein expression. Taken together, these data suggest that the increased levels of leptin within the circulation and those within the glomus cells induced by IH may alter carotid bodies chemosensitivity to hypoxic stimuli.
Musculoskeletal pain conditions, particularly those associated with temporomandibular disorders (TMD) affect a large percentage of the population. Identifying mechanisms underlying hyperalgesia could contribute to the development of new treatment strategies for the management of TMD and other muscle pain conditions. In this study, we provide evidence of functional interactions between two ligand-gated channels, P2X(3) and transient receptor potential V1 (TRPV1), in trigeminal sensory neurons, and propose that the interactions serve as an underlying mechanism for the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. Mechanical sensitivity of the masseter muscle was assessed in lightly anesthetized rats via an electronic anesthesiometer (Ro et al., 2009). Direct intramuscular injection of a selective P2X(3) agonist, alpha,beta-methylene adenosine triphosphate (meATP), induced a dose- and time-dependent hyperalgesia. Mechanical sensitivity in the contralateral muscle was unaffected suggesting local P2X(3) mediate hyperalgesia. Anesthetizing the overlying skin had no effect on meATP-induced hyperalgesia confirming the contribution of P2X(3) from the muscle. Importantly, the meATP-induced hyperalgesia was prevented by pretreatment of the muscle with a TRPV1 antagonist, AMG9810. P2X(3) was co-expressed with TRPV1 in the masseter muscle afferents confirming the possibility for intracellular interactions. Additionally, in a subpopulation of P2X(3)/TRPV1 positive neurons, capsaicin-induced Ca(2+) transients were significantly amplified following P2X(3) activation. Finally, activation of P2X(3) induced phosphorylation of serine, but not threonine, residues in TRPV1 in trigeminal ganglia cultures. Significant phosphorylation was observed at 15min, the time point at which behavioral hyperalgesia was prominent. Previously, activation of either P2X(3) or TRPV1 had been independently implicated in the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. Our data propose P2X(3) and TRPV1 interact in a facilitatory manner, which could contribute to the peripheral sensitization known to underlie masseter hyperalgesia.
This study examined the relationship between head and trunk sway and between pelvis and leg sway during quiet stance in subjects with long-standing bilateral peripheral vestibular loss (BVLs) comparing these relationships to those of age-matched healthy controls (HCs). All subjects performed three different stance tasks: standing quietly on a firm or foam support surface, with eyes closed (ECF or eyes closed on normal) and on foam with eyes open. Data were recorded with four pairs of body-worn gyroscopes to measure roll and pitch angular velocities at the head, upper trunk, pelvis and lower-leg. These velocities were spectrally analysed and integrated for angle correlation analysis in three frequency bands: below 0.7Hz (low pass, LP), above 3Hz (high pass, HP) and in between (band pass, BP). For both groups head motion was greater than trunk and pelvis motion except for BVL subjects (BVLs) under ECF conditions. BVLs had greater motion than HCs at all measurement locations for ECF conditions. Angle correlation analysis indicated that the head was almost &quot;locked&quot; to the trunk for BVLs over the LP and BP frequency bands. Head movements for both groups were relatively independent of the trunk in the HP band. Power spectral density ratios, and transfer functions showed a similar result - head relative to trunk movements were less up to 3Hz in all tests for BVLs. The resonant frequency of head-on-trunk motion was shifted to a higher frequency for BVLs: from 3.2 to 4.3Hz in pitch, 4.6 to 5.4Hz in roll. Both groups show greater lower-leg than pelvis motion. These data indicate that during quiet stance BVLs change the characteristics of their head on shoulder motion, reducing relative motion of the head below 3Hz and increasing head resonant frequency. Presumably these changes are accomplished with increased use of proprioceptive neck reflexes.
Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMAT) are involved in presynaptic storage and release of neurotransmitters. While it was thought initially that only VMAT2 is brain expressed and VMAT1 is present only in the periphery, recent data have challenged the exclusive expression of VMAT2 in the brain. To further elucidate the role of VMAT1 brain expression and its potential role in neuropsychiatric disorders, we have investigated mice lacking VMAT1. Comparison of wildtype and knock-out (KO) mice using qPCR and immunohistochemistry documents the expression of VMAT1 in the brain. Deletion of VMAT1 leads to increased hippocampal apoptosis and reduced neurogenesis as assessed by caspase-3-labeling and 5-bromo-deoxy-uridine-labeling. Behavioral data show that mice lacking VMAT1 have neurocognitive deficits. VMAT2 expression is not altered in VMAT1 KO mice, suggesting a distinct role of VMAT1. Our data support VMAT1 brain expression and suggest that VMAT1 plays a key role in survival of hippocampal neurons and thus might contribute to neurocognitive deficits observed in neuropsychiatric disorders.


The cell surface marker CD133 has been proposed as a brain tumor stem cell marker. However, there have been substantial controversies regarding the necessity and role of CD133 in tumorigenesis. This study aimed to characterize CD133(+) cells in brain tumors. Human brain tumor specimens and whole blood were collected from the same patients (N=12). We carried out dual FACS staining for CD133/CD34 and functional tumorigenesis and angiogenesis analyses of CD133(+) cells from different origins. We also investigated the in vivo tumorigenic potential and histological characteristics of four distinct groups on the basis of expression of CD133/CD34 markers (CD133(+), CD133(+)/CD34(+), CD133(+)/CD34(-), and CD133(-)). CD133(+) brain tumor cells coexpressed significantly higher positivity for CD34 (70.75.2% in CD133(+) vs. 12.34.2% in CD133(-) cells, P&lt;0.001). CD133(+) brain tumor cells formed neurosphere-like spheroids and differentiated into multiple nervous system lineages unlike CD133(+) blood cells. They showed biological characteristics of endothelial cells, including vWF expression, LDL uptake and tube formation in vitro, unlike CD133(-) brain tumors cells. Pathologic analysis of brains implanted with CD133(+) cells showed large, markedly hypervascular tumors with well-demarcated boundary. CD133(+)/CD34(-) cells produced smaller but highly infiltrative tumors. Notably, pure angiogenic cell fractions (CD133(+)/CD34(+)) and CD133(-) tumor cells did not generate tumors in vivo. Our data suggest the presence of a distinct subpopulation of CD133(+) cells isolated from human brain tumors, with characteristics of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs).
Suicide gene therapy is based on the introduction into tumor cells of a viral or a bacterial gene, which allows the conversion of a non-toxic compound into a lethal drug. Although suicide gene therapy has been successfully used in a large number of in vitro and in vivo studies, its application to cancer patients has not reached the desirable clinical significance. However, recent reports on pre-clinical cancer models demonstrate the huge potential of this strategy when used in combination with new therapeutic approaches. In this review, we summarize the different suicide gene systems and gene delivery vectors addressed to cancer, with particular emphasis on recently developed systems and associated bystander effects. In addition, we review the different strategies that have been used in combination with suicide gene therapy and provide some insights into the future directions of this approach, particularly towards cancer stem cell eradication.
We discuss whether a new paradigm, quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP), based on computational neuroscience modeling combined with proper drug target engagement and pharmacology, human pathology, imaging studies, and calibration and validation using clinical studies in human subjects might improve the success rate of central nervous systems research and development (CNS R&amp;D) projects. We suggest that an improved understanding of neuronal circuit interactions using a humanized computer-based integration of physiology and pharmacology knowledge can substantially de-risk new CNS projects.CPT: Pharmacometrics &amp; Systems Pharmacology (2012) 1, e16; doi:10.1038/psp.2012.17; advance online publication 28 November 2012.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive brain stimulation technique that can alter cortical excitability in human subjects for hours beyond the stimulation period. It thus has potential as a therapeutic tool in neuropsychiatric disorders associated with alterations in cortical excitability. However, rTMS-induced neural plasticity remains insufficiently understood at the cellular level. To learn more about the effects of repetitive magnetic stimulation (rMS), we established an in vitro model of rMS using mouse organotypic entorhino-hippocampal slice cultures. We assessed the outcome of a high-frequency (10 Hz) rMS protocol on functional and structural properties of excitatory synapses in mature hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, immunohistochemistry, and time-lapse imaging techniques revealed that rMS induces a long-lasting increase in glutamatergic synaptic strength, which is accompanied by structural remodeling of dendritic spines. The effects of rMS on spine size were predominantly seen in small spines, suggesting differential effects of rMS on subpopulations of spines. Furthermore, our data indicate that rMS-induced postsynaptic changes depend on the NMDA receptor-mediated accumulation of GluA1-containing AMPA receptors. These results provide first experimental evidence that rMS induces coordinated functional and structural plasticity of excitatory postsynapses, which is consistent with a long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission.
Dysregulation of histone modifying enzymes has been associated with numerous psychiatric disorders. Alterations in G9a (Ehmt2), a histone methyltransferase that catalyzes the euchromatic dimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 9 (H3K9me2), has been implicated recently in mediating neural and behavioral plasticity in response to chronic cocaine administration. Here, we show that chronic morphine, like cocaine, decreases G9a expression, and global levels of H3K9me2, in mouse nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region. In contrast, levels of other histone methyltransferases or demethylases, or of other methylated histone marks, were not affected in NAc by chronic morphine. Through viral-mediated gene transfer and conditional mutagenesis, we found that overexpression of G9a in NAc opposes morphine reward and locomotor sensitization and concomitantly promotes analgesic tolerance and naloxone-precipitated withdrawal, whereas downregulation of G9a in NAc enhances locomotor sensitization and delays the development of analgesic tolerance. We identified downstream targets of G9a by providing a comprehensive chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by massively parallel sequencing analysis of H3K9me2 distribution in NAc in the absence and presence of chronic morphine. These data provide novel insight into the epigenomic regulation of H3K9me2 by chronic morphine and suggest novel chromatin-based mechanisms through which morphine-induced addictive-like behaviors arise.
The activity-regulated transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is an essential component of the molecular switch that controls the conversion of short-term into long-term forms of plasticity, including those underlying long-term memory. Previous research in acute brain slices of transgenic animals expressing constitutively active CREB variants has revealed that enhancing CREB activity increases the intrinsic excitability of neurons and facilitates the late phase of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the Schaffer collateral pathway. Here, we report similar changes in plasticity at the Schaffer collateral pathway in alert behaving mice. Forebrain expression of a strong constitutively active CREB variant, VP16-CREB, enhanced in vivo LTP evoked in the Schaffer collateral pathway and caused significant changes in the input/output curve and paired-pulse facilitation in CA3-CA1 synapses, which could be explained by the increased excitability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. In addition, classical eyeblink conditioning in transgenic mice and control littermates showed larger conditioned responses in mutant mice that were associated to a transient increase in the acquisition rate and in the concomitant learning-dependent change in synaptic strength. The sustained chronic activation of CREB activity, however, impaired the performance in this task. Our experiments demonstrate that the sustained enhancement of CREB function alters the physiology and plasticity of hippocampal circuits in behaving animals and that these changes have important consequences in associative learning.
Humans are able to flexibly devise and implement rules to reach their desired goals. For simple situations, we can use single rules, such as &quot;if traffic light is green then cross the street.&quot; In most cases, however, more complex rule sets are required, involving the integration of multiple layers of control. Although it has been shown that prefrontal cortex is important for rule representation, it has remained unclear how the brain encodes more complex rule sets. Here, we investigate how the brain represents the order in which different parts of a rule set are evaluated. Participants had to follow compound rule sets that involved the concurrent application of two single rules in a specific order, where one of the rules always had to be evaluated first. The rules and their assigned order were independently manipulated. By applying multivariate decoding to fMRI data, we found that the identity of the current rule was encoded in a frontostriatal network involving right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, right superior frontal gyrus, and dorsal striatum. In contrast, rule order could be decoded in the dorsal striatum and in the right premotor cortex. The nonhomogeneous distribution of information across brain areas was confirmed by follow-up analyses focused on relevant regions of interest. We argue that the brain encodes complex rule sets by &quot;decomposing&quot; them in their constituent features, which are represented in different brain areas, according to the aspect of information to be maintained.
It has been suggested that the distinctive capacity of some nonhuman primates to use tools may reflect a well-developed corticospinal system and, in particular, direct cortico-motoneuronal (CM) connections to hand muscles. We investigated the activity of corticospinal neurons in the primary motor cortex hand area during the use of a tool by two adult macaque monkeys. They used a light rake to retrieve food rewards placed in their extrapersonal space. An analysis of EMG activity showed that the rake task involved a complex interaction of muscles acting on the digits, hand, and arm. Sixty-nine corticospinal neurons were identified antidromically as pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs). When tested on the rake task, most (64 of 69; 93%) showed a significant modulation of their discharge during at least one of three task periods: grasping the rake, projecting it beyond the food reward, and then pulling it back to retrieve the reward. Discharge patterns were heterogeneous, and many PTNs showed significant suppression of discharge during raking. Seventeen of the 69 PTNs recorded during the rake task were further identified as CM cells, exerting clear postspike facilitation on digit muscles, demonstrating that the CM system contributes to the skilled use of tools. We compared the activity of each PTN on the rake task with that during precision grip. Most PTNs (90%) modulated their activity significantly for both tasks, demonstrating that PTNs activated by a task involving fractionated movements of the digits are also recruited during rake use, although there were often contrasting patterns of PTN recruitment and muscle activity for the two tasks.
Spike-timing variability has a large effect on neural information processing. However, for many systems little is known about the noise sources causing the spike-response variability. Here we investigate potential sources of spike-response variability in auditory receptor neurons of locusts, a classic insect model system. At low-spike frequencies, our data show negative interspike-interval (ISI) correlations and ISI distributions that match the inverse Gaussian distribution. These findings can be explained by a white-noise source that interacts with an adaptation current. At higher spike frequencies, more strongly peaked distributions and positive ISI correlations appear, as expected from a canonical model of suprathreshold firing driven by temporally correlated (i.e., colored) noise. Simulations of a minimal conductance-based model of the auditory receptor neuron with stochastic ion channels exclude the delayed rectifier as a possible noise source. Our analysis suggests channel noise from an adaptation current and the receptor or sodium current as main sources for the colored and white noise, respectively. By comparing the ISI statistics with generic models, we find strong evidence for two distinct noise sources. Our approach does not involve any dendritic or somatic recordings that may harm the delicate workings of many sensory systems. It could be applied to various other types of neurons, in which channel noise dominates the fluctuations that shape the neuron's spike statistics.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the extracellular deposition of amyloid- (A), neurofibrillary tangle formation, and a microglial-driven inflammatory response. Chronic inflammatory activation compromises microglial clearance functions. Because peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) agonists suppress inflammatory gene expression, we tested whether activation of PPAR would also result in improved microglial A phagocytosis. The PPAR agonist pioglitazone and a novel selective PPAR/ modulator, DSP-8658, currently in clinical development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, enhanced the microglial uptake of A in a PPAR-dependent manner. This PPAR-stimulated increase of A phagocytosis was mediated by the upregulation of scavenger receptor CD36 expression. In addition, combined treatment with agonists for the heterodimeric binding partners of PPAR, the retinoid X receptors (RXRs), showed additive enhancement of the A uptake that was mediated by RXR activation. Evaluation of DSP-8658 in the amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 mouse model confirmed an increased microglial A phagocytosis in vivo, which subsequently resulted in a reduction of cortical and hippocampal A levels. Furthermore, DSP-8658-treated mice showed improved spatial memory performance. Therefore, stimulation of microglial clearance by simultaneous activation of the PPAR/RXR heterodimer may prove beneficial in prevention of AD.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and its receptor GFR1 are prominently expressed in the olfactory epithelium (OE) and olfactory bulb (OB), but their importance for olfactory system development is completely unknown. We have investigated the consequences of GFR1 deficiency for mouse olfactory system development and function. In the OE, GFR1 was expressed in basal precursors, immature olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), and olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), but was excluded from mature OSNs. The OE of newborn Gfra1 knock-out mice was thinner and contained fewer OSNs, but more dividing precursors, suggesting deficient neurogenesis. Immature OSN axon bundles were enlarged and associated OECs increased, indicating impaired migration of OECs and OSN axons. In the OB, GFR1 was expressed in immature OSN axons and OECs of the nerve layer, as well as mitral and tufted cells, but was excluded from GABAergic interneurons. In newborn knock-outs, the nerve layer was dramatically reduced, exhibiting fewer axons and OECs. Bulbs were smaller and presented fewer and disorganized glomeruli and a significant reduction in mitral cells. Numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase-, calbindin-, and calretinin-expressing interneurons were also reduced in newborn mice lacking Gfra1. At birth, the OE and OB of Gdnf knock-out mice displayed comparable phenotypes. Similar deficits were also found in adult heterozygous Gfra1(+/-) mutants, which in addition displayed diminished responses in behavioral tests of olfactory function. We conclude that GFR1 is critical for the development and function of the main olfactory system, contributing to the development and allocation of all major classes of neurons and glial cells.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurological disorder that is associated with mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. RTT patients suffer from mental retardation and behavioral disorders, including heightened anxiety and state-dependent breathing irregularities, such as hyperventilation and apnea. Many symptoms are recapitulated by the Mecp2-null male mice (Mecp2(-/y)). To characterize developmental progression of the respiratory phenotype and explore underlying mechanisms, we examined Mecp2(-/y) and wild-type (WT) mice from presymptomatic periods to end-stage disease. We monitored breathing patterns of unrestrained mice during wake-sleep states and while altering stress levels using movement restraint or threatening odorant (trimethylthiazoline). Respiratory motor patterns generated by in situ working heart-brainstem preparations (WHBPs) were measured to assess function of brainstem respiratory networks isolated from suprapontine structures. Data revealed two general stages of respiratory dysfunction in Mecp2(-/y) mice. At the early stage, respiratory abnormalities were limited to wakefulness, correlated with markers of stress (increased fecal deposition and blood corticosterone levels), and alleviated by antalarmin (corticotropin releasing hormone receptor 1 antagonist). Furthermore, the respiratory rhythm generated by WHBPs was similar in WT and Mecp2(-/y) mice. During the later stage, respiratory abnormalities were evident during wakefulness and sleep. Also, WHBPs from Mecp2(-/y) showed central apneas. We conclude that, at early disease stages, stress-related modulation from suprapontine structures is a significant factor in the Mecp2(-/y) respiratory phenotype and that anxiolytics may be effective. At later stages, abnormalities of brainstem respiratory networks are a significant cause of irregular breathing patterns and central apneas.
Topographic maps of the receptive surface are a fundamental feature of neural organization in many sensory systems. While touch is finely mapped in the cerebral cortex, it remains controversial how precise any cortical nociceptive map may be. Given that nociceptive innervation density is relatively low on distal skin regions such as the digits, one might conclude that the nociceptive system lacks fine representation of these regions. Indeed, only gross spatial organization of nociceptive maps has been reported so far. However, here we reveal the existence of fine-grained somatotopy for nociceptive inputs to the digits in human primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Using painful nociceptive-selective laser stimuli to the hand, and phase-encoded functional magnetic resonance imaging analysis methods, we observed somatotopic maps of the digits in contralateral SI. These nociceptive maps were highly aligned with maps of non-painful tactile stimuli, suggesting comparable cortical representations for, and possible interactions between, mechanoreceptive and nociceptive signals. Our findings may also be valuable for future studies tracking the time course and the spatial pattern of plastic changes in cortical organization involved in chronic pain.
Mutations that alter signaling through the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), a well established regulator of neuronal protein synthesis, have been linked to autism and cognitive dysfunction. Although previous studies have established a role for mTORC1 as necessary for enduring changes in postsynaptic function, here we demonstrate that dendritic mTORC1 activation in rat hippocampal neurons also drives a retrograde signaling mechanism promoting enhanced neurotransmitter release from apposed presynaptic terminals. This novel mode of synaptic regulation conferred by dendritic mTORC1 is locally implemented, requires downstream synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor as a retrograde messenger, and is engaged in an activity-dependent fashion to support homeostatic trans-synaptic control of presynaptic function. Our findings thus reveal that mTORC1-dependent translation in dendrites subserves a unique mode of synaptic regulation, highlighting an alternative regulatory pathway that could contribute to the social and cognitive dysfunction that accompanies dysregulated mTORC1 signaling.
Food perception and preference formation relies on the ability to combine information from both the taste and olfactory systems. Accordingly, psychophysical investigations in humans and behavioral work in animals has shown that the taste system plays an integral role in odor processing. However, the neural basis for the influence of taste (gustation) on odor (olfaction) remains essentially unknown. Here we tested the hypothesis that gustatory influence on olfactory processing occurs at the level of primary olfactory cortex. We recorded activity from single neurons in posterior olfactory (piriform) cortex (pPC) of awake rats while presenting basic taste solutions directly to the tongue. A significant portion of pPC neurons proved to respond selectively to taste stimuli. These taste responses were significantly reduced by blockade of the gustatory epithelium, were unaffected by blockade of the olfactory epithelium, and were independent of respiration behavior. In contrast, responses to olfactory stimuli, recorded from the same area, were reduced by nasal epithelial deciliation and phase-locked to the respiration cycle. These results identify pPC as a likely site for gustatory influences on olfactory processing, which play an important role in food perception and preference formation.
Archerfish are known for their remarkable behavior of shooting water jets at prey hanging on vegetation above water. Motivated by the fish's capacity to knock down small prey as high as two meters above water level, we studied the role of the retina in facilitating their excellent visual acuity. First, we show behaviorally that archerfish (Toxotes jaculatrix) can detect visual structures with a minimum angle of resolution in the range of 0.075-0.15. Then, combining eye movement measurements with a ray tracing method, we show that the image of a target on the retina coincides with the area centralis at the ventro-temporal retina. Moving down to retinal neural circuits, we then examine the ratio by which retinal ganglion cells multiplex visual information from the photoreceptors. Measuring the anatomical densities of both cell types in the area centralis, we found photoreceptor spacing to be 5.8 m, which supports a minimum angle of resolution as low as 0.073. Similarly, the average spacing of the ganglion cells was 5.7 m. Based on electrophysiological measurements we found the smallest receptive fields of ganglion cells in that area to be in the range of 8-16 m, which translates to an angular width of 0.1-0.2. These findings indicate that retinal ganglion cells in the area centralis stream information to the brain at a comparable resolution with which it is sampled by the photoreceptors. Thus, the archerfish can be used as an animal model for studying how visual details are streamed to the brain by retinal output.
In spite of evidence to the contrary, concern that substances injected into the fourth ventricle (4V) reach forebrain structures challenges the validity of using these injections to evaluate the role of hindbrain structures. Injection of AngII into the lateral ventricle (LV) increases water intake, but a similar response is not observed after injection into the 4V. This alone suggests the requirement of forebrain structures, but the potential for a counteracting, anti-dipsogenic pressor response to hindbrain AngII allows for lingering concern that this competing effect of AngII, rather than lack of forebrain access, underlies the negative result. Here, we used a double cannulation approach (LV and 4V) to evaluate the effect of the AngII receptor antagonist, losartan, on the drinking response to AngII injected into the LV. Injections of losartan into the LV blocked the dipsogenic response to AngII given 5min later into the LV. There was no effect, however, when losartan was injected into 4V, even when we used a dose of losartan that was 25 times greater than needed when injected into the LV. Collectively, these experiments suggest that concerns about diffusion from hindbrain ventricles to forebrain structures are overstated and can be circumvented using proper dose and timing of injections. Moreover, these data provide additional support to the existing literature showing that forebrain structures are key sites in the stimulation of drinking behavior by AngII.
Dopaminergic and glutamatergic afferents simultaneously innervate median spiny neurons (MSNs) and interact to mediate basal ganglia functions. However, the association between dopaminergic and glutamatergic axons is not clear. In the present study, nigrostriatal, corticostriatal, and thalamostriatal axons were anterogradely traced with biotinylated dextran amines (BDA) in rats, and MSNs were labeled with chloromethylbenzamido-DiI for neurogeometric analysis. Results showed that nigrostriatal, but not corticostriatal or thalamostriatal, axons were biased to a target on dendritic spines of the MSNs. In addition, the MSN dendritic spines, which were innervated by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) axons and vesicular glutamate transporter 1 or 2-immunoreactive (VGluT-IR) terminals, were significantly larger than dendritic spines innervated by VGluT-IR terminals alone. Under electron microscopy, glutamatergic synapses on the dendritic spines were located with TH-IR terminals and displayed longer postsynaptic density. In addition, these synapses were more perforated than those on dendritic spines lacking innervated TH-IR terminals. These results demonstrated that dopaminergic axons were biased to a target and preferred to innervate dendritic spines with hyperactive and high-efficacy glutamatergic synapses in the striatum.
ABSTRACT: INTRODUCTION: Daily interruption of sedation (IS) has been implemented in 30 to 40% of intensive care units worldwide and may improve outcome in medical intensive care patients. Little is known about the benefit of IS in acutely brain-injured patients. METHODS: This prospective observational study was performed in a neuroscience intensive care unit in a tertiary-care academic center. Twenty consecutive severely brain-injured patients with multimodal neuromonitoring were analyzed for levels of brain lactate, pyruvate and glucose, intracranial pressure (ICP), cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) and brain tissue oxygen tension (PbtO2) during IS trials. RESULTS: Of the 82 trial days, 54 IS-trials were performed as interruption of sedation and analgesics were not considered safe on 28 days (34%). An increase in the FOUR Score (Full Outline of UnResponsiveness score) was observed in 50% of IS-trials by a median of three (two to four) points. Detection of a new neurologic deficit occurred in one trial (2%), and in one-third of IS-trials the trial had to be stopped due to an ICP-crisis (&gt; 20 mmHg), agitation or systemic desaturation. In IS-trials that had to be aborted, a significant increase in ICP and decrease in PbtO2 (P &lt; 0.05), including 67% with critical values of PbtO2 &lt; 20 mmHg, a tendency to brain metabolic distress (P &lt; 0.07) was observed. CONCLUSIONS: Interruption of sedation revealed new relevant clinical information in only one trial and a large number of trials could not be performed or had to be stopped due to safety issues. Weighing pros and cons of IS-trials in patients with acute brain injury seems important as related side effects may overcome the clinical benefit.





The anti-epileptic drug zonisamide is reported to exert beneficial effects in patients with Parkinson's disease. To elucidate the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the anti-parkinsonism effects of zonisamide, we examined the effect of zonisamide co-administered with levodopa in the striata of rats with 6-hydoroxydopamine hemiparkinsonism by using a DNA microarray for genome-wide gene expression profiling. We found that the expression of some genes related to metabolism and nervous system development and function were upregulated by zonisamide; expression of these genes was downregulated by levodopa. Furthermore, many genes related to the immune system and inflammation were downregulated by zonisamide, and their expression was upregulated by levodopa. These results indicate that zonisamide has a protective effect when co-administered with levodopa.

Perivascular adult stem cells have been isolated from several tissues, including the adult human brain. They have unique signatures resembling both pericytes and mesenchymal stem cells. Understanding the nature of these cells in their specific vascular niches is important to determine their clinical potential as a new adult stem cell source. Indeed, they have promising features in vitro in terms of multipotency, immunomodulation and secretion of growth factors and cytokines. However, their in vivo function is less known as yet. Recent emerging data show a crucial role of perivascular mesenchymal stem cells in tissue homeostasis and repair. Furthermore, these cells may play an important role in adult stem cell niche regulation and in neurodegeneration. Here we review the recent literature on perivascular mesenchymal stem cells, discuss their different in vitro functions and highlight especially the specific properties of brain-derived perivascular mesenchymal stem cells. We summarize current evidence that suggests an important in vivo function of these cells in terms of their regenerative potential that may indicate a new target cell for endogenous tissue regeneration and repair.


Lateral prefrontal and posterior parietal cortical areas exhibit task-dependent activation during working memory tasks in humans and monkeys. Neurons in these regions become synchronized during attention-demanding tasks, but the contribution of these interactions to working memory is largely unknown. Using simultaneous recordings of neural activity from multiple areas in both regions, we find widespread, task-dependent, and content-specific synchronization of activity across the fronto-parietal network during visual working memory. The patterns of synchronization are prevalent among stimulus-selective neurons and are governed by influences arising in parietal cortex. These results indicate that short-term memories are represented by large-scale patterns of synchronized activity across the fronto-parietal network.
Poly-glutamine (polyQ) diseases are neurodegenerative disorders characterised by expanded CAG repeats in the causative genes whose proteins form inclusion bodies. Various E3 ubiquitin ligases are implicated in neurodegenerative disorders. We report that dysfunction of the SCF (Skp1-Cul1-F-box protein) complex, one of the most well-characterised ubiquitin ligases, is associated with pathology in polyQ diseases like Huntington's disease (HD) and Machado-Joseph disease (MJD). We found that Cullin1 (Cul1) and Skp1, core components of the SCF complex, are reduced in HD mice brain. A reduction in Cul1 levels was also observed in cellular HD model and fly models of both HD and MJD. We show that Cul1 is able to genetically modify mutant huntingtin aggregates because its silencing results in increased aggregate load in cultured cells. Moreover, we demonstrate that silencing dCul1 and dSkp1 in Drosophila results in increased aggregate load and enhanced polyQ-induced toxicity. Our results imply that reduced levels of SCF complex might contribute to polyQ disease pathology.

It is generally assumed that hierarchical phrase structure plays a central role in human language. However, considerations of simplicity and evolutionary continuity suggest that hierarchical structure should not be invoked too hastily. Indeed, recent neurophysiological, behavioural and computational studies show that sequential sentence structure has considerable explanatory power and that hierarchical processing is often not involved. In this paper, we review evidence from the recent literature supporting the hypothesis that sequential structure may be fundamental to the comprehension, production and acquisition of human language. Moreover, we provide a preliminary sketch outlining a non-hierarchical model of language use and discuss its implications and testable predictions. If linguistic phenomena can be explained by sequential rather than hierarchical structure, this will have considerable impact in a wide range of fields, such as linguistics, ethology, cognitive neuroscience, psychology and computer science.
The M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor is thought to play an important role in memory and cognition, making it a potential target for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and schizophrenia. Moreover, M(1) interacts with BACE1 and regulates its proteosomal degradation, suggesting selective M(1) activation could afford both palliative cognitive benefit as well as disease modification in AD. A key challenge in targeting the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors is achieving mAChR subtype selectivity. Our lab has previously reported the M(1) selective positive allosteric modulator ML169. Herein we describe our efforts to further optimize this lead compound by preparing analogue libraries and probing novel scaffolds. We were able to identify several analogues that possessed submicromolar potency, with our best example displaying an EC(50) of 310 nM. The new compounds maintained complete selectivity for the M(1) receptor over the other subtypes (M(2)-M(5)), displayed improved DMPK profiles, and potentiated the carbachol (CCh)-induced excitation in striatal MSNs. Selected analogues were able to potentiate CCh-mediated nonamyloidogenic APPs release, further strengthening the concept that M(1) PAMs may afford a disease-modifying role in the treatment of AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia among the elderly. In AD patients, memory loss is accompanied by the formation of beta-amyloid plaques and the appearance of tau in a pathological form. Given the lack of effective treatments for AD, the development of new management strategies for these patients is critical. The continued failure to find effective therapies using molecules aimed at addressing the anti-beta amyloid pathology has led researchers to focus on other non-amyloid-based approaches to restore memory function. Promising non-amyloid related candidate targets include phosphosdiesterases (PDEs), and indeed, Rolipram, a specific PDE4 inhibitor, was the first compound found to effectively restore cognitive deficits in animal models of AD. More recently, PDE5 inhibitors have also been shown to effectively restore memory function. Accordingly, inhibitors of other members of the PDE family may also improve memory performance in AD and non-AD animal models. Hence, in this review, we will summarize the data supporting the use of PDE inhibitors as cognitive enhancers and we will discuss the possible mechanisms of action underlying these effects. We shall also adopt a medicinal chemistry perspective that leads us to propose the most promising PDE candidates on the basis of inhibitor selectivity, brain distribution, and mechanism of action.




The properties of glycine receptors (GlyRs) depend upon their subunit composition. While the prevalent adult forms of GlyRs are heteromers, previous reports suggested functional  homomeric receptors in mature nervous tissues. Here we show two functionally different GlyRs populations in the rat medial nucleus of trapezoid body (MNTB). Postsynaptic receptors formed 1/-containing clusters on somatodendritic domains of MNTB principal neurons, colocalizing with glycinergic nerve endings to mediate fast, phasic IPSCs. In contrast, presynaptic receptors on glutamatergic calyx of Held terminals were composed of dispersed, homomeric 1 receptors. Interestingly, the parent cell bodies of the calyces of Held, the globular bushy cells of the cochlear nucleus, expressed somatodendritic receptors (1/ heteromers) and showed similar clustering and pharmacological profile as GlyRs on MNTB principal cells. These results suggest that specific targeting of GlyR -subunit produces segregation of GlyR subtypes involved in two different mechanisms of modulation of synaptic strength.
During visual search, the working memory (WM) representation of the search target guides attention to matching items in the visual scene. However, we can hold multiple items in WM. Do all these items guide attention at the same time? Using a new functional magnetic resonance imaging visual search paradigm, we found that items in WM can attain two different states that influence activity in extrastriate visual cortex in opposite directions: whereas the target item in WM enhanced processing of matching visual input, other &quot;accessory&quot; items in memory suppressed activity. These results imply that the representation of task-relevant and (currently) task-irrelevant representations in WM differs, revealing new insights into the organization of human visual WM. The suppressive influence of irrelevant WM items may complement the attention-guiding influence of task-relevant WM items, helping us to focus on task-relevant information without getting distracted by irrelevant memory content.
How autobiographical memories are represented in the human brain and whether this changes with time are questions central to memory neuroscience. Two regions in particular have been consistently implicated, the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and the hippocampus, although their precise contributions are still contested. The key question in this debate, when reduced to its simplest form, concerns where information about specific autobiographical memories is located. Here, we availed ourselves of the opportunity afforded by multivoxel pattern analysis to provide an alternative to conventional neuropsychological and fMRI approaches, by detecting representations of individual autobiographical memories in patterns of fMRI activity. We examined whether information about specific recent (two weeks old) and remote (10 years old) autobiographical memories was represented in vmPFC and hippocampus, and other medial temporal and neocortical regions. vmPFC contained information about recent and remote autobiographical memories, although remote memories were more readily detected there, indicating that consolidation or a change of some kind had occurred. Information about both types of memory was also present in the hippocampus, suggesting it plays a role in the retrieval of vivid autobiographical memories regardless of remoteness. Interestingly, we also found that while recent and remote memories were both represented within anterior and posterior hippocampus, the latter nevertheless contained more information about remote memories. Thus, like vmPFC, the hippocampus too respected the distinction between recent and remote memories. Overall, these findings clarify and extend our view of vmPFC and hippocampus while also informing systems-level consolidation and providing clear targets for future studies.
Previous studies of feature-selective attention have focused on situations in which attention is directed to one of two spatially superimposed stimuli of equal salience. While such overlapping stimuli should maximize stimulus interactions, it is still unknown how bottom-up biases favoring one or the other stimulus influence the efficiency of feature-selective attention. We examined the integration of bottom-up contrast and top-down feature-selection biases on stimulus processing. Two fully overlapping random dot kinematograms (RDKs) of light and dark dots were presented on a gray background of intermediate luminance. On each trial, human participants attended one RDK to detect brief coherent motion targets, while ignoring any events in the unattended RDK. Concurrently, through changes in background luminance, stimulus contrast could be set to five different levels: the stimuli could either be equal, or one of the two stimuli could have twice or four times the contrast of the other stimulus. This manipulation introduced a bottom-up bias toward the stimulus with the higher contrast while keeping the difference between the stimuli constant. Stimulus processing was measured by means of steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs). SSVEP amplitudes generally increased with higher contrast of the driving stimulus. At earlier levels of processing, attention increased the slope of this linear relation, i.e., attention multiplicatively enhanced SSVEP amplitudes. However, at later levels of processing, attention had an additive effect. These effects of attention can be attributed to the differential integration of gain enhancement and inhibitory stimulus competition at different levels of the visual processing hierarchy.
Neural activity plays an important role in development and maturation of visual circuits in the brain. Activity can be instructive in refining visual projections by directly mediating formation and elimination of specific synaptic contacts through competition-based mechanisms. Alternatively, activity could be permissive-regulating production of factors that create a favorable environment for circuit refinement. Here we used the Xenopus laevis tadpole visual system to test whether activity is instructive or permissive for shaping development of the retinotectal circuit. In vivo spike output was dampened in a small subgroup of tectal neurons, starting from developmental stages 44-46, by overexpressing Shaker-like Xenopus Kv1.1 potassium channels using electroporation. Tadpoles were then reared until stage 49, a time period when significant refinement of the retinotectal map occurs. Kv1.1-expressing neurons had significantly decreased spike output in response to both current injection and visual stimuli compared to untransfected controls, with spiking occurring during a more limited time interval. We found that Kv1.1-expressing neurons had larger visual receptive fields, decreased receptive field sharpness, and more persistent recurrent excitation than control neurons, all of which are characteristics of immature neurons. Transfected cells, however, had normal spontaneous excitatory synaptic currents and dendritic arbors. These results suggest that spike output of a tectal neuron plays an important instructive role in development of its receptive field properties and refinement of local circuits. However, other activity-dependent processes, such as synaptogenesis and dendritic growth, remain unaffected due to the permissive environment created by otherwise normal network activity.
Amid controversy, the cellular form of the prion protein PrP(c) has been proposed to mediate oligomeric amyloid- (A)-induced deficits. In contrast, there is consistent evidence that the Src kinase Fyn is activated by A oligomers and leads to synaptic and cognitive impairment in transgenic animals. However, the molecular mechanism by which soluble A activates Fyn remains unknown. Combining the use of human and transgenic mouse brain tissue as well as primary cortical neurons, we demonstrate that soluble A binds to PrP(c) at neuronal dendritic spines in vivo and in vitro where it forms a complex with Fyn, resulting in the activation of the kinase. Using the antibody 6D11 to prevent oligomeric A from binding to PrP(c), we abolished Fyn activation and Fyn-dependent tau hyperphosphorylation induced by endogenous oligomeric A in vitro. Finally, we showed that gene dosage of Prnp regulates A-induced Fyn/tau alterations. Together, our findings identify a complete signaling cascade linking one specific endogenous A oligomer, Fyn alteration, and tau hyperphosphorylation in cellular and animal models modeling aspects of the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
It has recently been shown that the ventrolateral part of the periaqueductal gray (VLPAG) and the adjacent dorsal deep mesencephalic nucleus (dDpMe) contain GABAergic neurons gating paradoxical sleep (PS) onset by means of their projection to the glutamatergic PS-on neurons of the sublaterodorsal tegmental nucleus (SLD). To determine the mechanisms responsible for the cessation of activity of these GABAergic PS-off neurons at the onset and during PS, we combined the immunostaining of c-FOS, a marker of neuronal activation, with cholera toxin b subunit (CTb) retrograde tracing from the VLPAG/dDpMe in three groups of rats (control, PS deprived, and PS hypersomniac). We found that the lateral hypothalamic area (LH) is the only brain structure containing a very large number of neurons activated during PS hypersomnia and projecting to the VLPAG/dDpMe. We further demonstrated that 44% of these neurons express the neuropeptide melanin concentrating hormone (MCH). We then showed that bilateral injections in the LH of two inhibitory compounds, clonidine (an -2 adrenergic agonist) and muscimol (a GABAa agonist) induce an inhibition of PS. Furthermore, after muscimol injections in the LH, the VLPAG/dDpMe contained a large number of activated neurons, mostly GABAergic, and projecting to the SLD. Altogether, our results indicate for the first time that the activation of a population of LH neurons, in part MCH containing, is necessary for PS to occur. Furthermore, our results strongly suggest that these neurons trigger PS by means of their inhibitory projection to the PS-off GABAergic neurons located in the VLPAG/dDpMe.
In the hippocampus, extracellular carbonic anhydrase (Car) speeds the buffering of an activity-generated rise in extracellular pH that impacts H(+)-sensitive NMDA receptors (NMDARs). We studied the role of Car14 in this brain structure, in which it is expressed solely on neurons. Current-clamp responses were recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons in wild-type (WT) versus Car14 knock-out (KO) mice 2 s before (control) and after (test) a 10 pulse, 100 Hz afferent train. In both WT and KO, the half-width (HW) of the test response, and its number of spikes, were augmented relative to the control. An increase in presynaptic release was not involved, because AMPAR-mediated EPSCs were depressed after a train. The increases in HW and spike number were both greater in the Car14 KO. In 0 Mg(2+) saline with picrotoxin (using a 20 Hz train), the HW measures were still greater in the KO. The Car inhibitor benzolamide (BZ) enhanced the test response HW in the WT but had no effect on the already-prolonged HW in the KO. With intracellular MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate], the curtailed WT and KO responses were indistinguishable, and BZ caused no change. In contrast, the extracellular alkaline changes evoked by the train were not different between WT and KO, and BZ amplified these alkalinizations similarly. These data suggest that Car14 regulates pH transients in the perisynaptic microenvironment and govern their impact on NMDARs but plays little role in buffering pH shifts in the broader, macroscopic, extracellular space.
Neuropsychological investigations of patients with Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, or attention deficit disorder converge with psychopharmacological studies in animals and healthy volunteers to implicate dopamine (DA) pathways in timing. In parallel, single-cell recording and functional neuroimaging studies have highlighted the importance of basal ganglia, prefrontal cortex, and supplementary motor area (SMA) for timing. In a placebo-controlled, within-subject design, we combined event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging with a DA manipulation (acute phenylalanine/tyrosine depletion; APTD) in healthy volunteers to pinpoint the neuroanatomical and functional substrates of the DA modulation of timing. Behaviorally, APTD selectively impaired accuracy of perceptual timing, with no effect on performance of a color-control task matched for difficulty, working memory (WM), and attentional demands. Neurally, APTD attenuated timing-specific activity in the putamen and SMA. Notably, APTD-induced decreases in brain activity were directly correlated to APTD-induced impairments in timing performance. Moreover, APTD modulated timing-specific activity selectively during initial storage of the sample duration, but had no effect during its subsequent retrieval or comparison to a probe. Our results do not simply reflect DA modulation of WM since the color task controlled for the WM updating process necessary for timing of durations in the seconds range. Moreover, preliminary evidence indicated APTD effects on putamen and SMA were greater for subsecond (540 ms) than suprasecond (1080 ms) durations, when WM demands would actually be lower. Instead, we show for the first time in healthy humans that DA manipulation perturbs timing by attenuating the activity in putamen and SMA that mediates initial storage of temporal information into WM.
Individual risk preferences have a large influence on decisions, such as financial investments, career and health choices, or gambling. Decision making under risk has been studied both behaviorally and on a neural level. It remains unclear, however, how risk attitudes are encoded and integrated with choice. Here, we investigate how risk preferences are reflected in neural regions known to process risk. We collected functional magnetic resonance images of 56 human subjects during a gambling task (Preuschoff et al., 2006). Subjects were grouped into risk averters and risk seekers according to the risk preferences they revealed in a separate lottery task. We found that during the anticipation of high-risk gambles, risk averters show stronger responses in ventral striatum and anterior insula compared to risk seekers. In addition, risk prediction error signals in anterior insula, inferior frontal gyrus, and anterior cingulate indicate that risk averters do not dissociate properly between gambles that are more or less risky than expected. We suggest this may result in a general overestimation of prospective risk and lead to risk avoidance behavior. This is the first study to show that behavioral risk preferences are reflected in the passive evaluation of risky situations. The results have implications on public policies in the financial and health domain.
Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule, or DSCAM, has been implicated in many neurodevelopmental processes including axon guidance, dendrite arborization, and synapse formation. Here we show that DSCAM plays an important role in regulating the morphogenesis of cortical pyramidal neurons in the mouse. We report that DSCAM expression is developmentally regulated and localizes to synaptic plasma membranes during a time of robust cortical dendrite arborization and spine formation. Analysis of mice that carry a spontaneous mutation in DSCAM (DSCAM(del17)) revealed gross morphological changes in brain size and shape in addition to subtle changes in cortical organization, volume, and lamination. Early postnatal mutant mice displayed a transient decrease in cortical thickness, but these reductions could not be attributed to changes in neuron production or cell death. DSCAM(del17) mutants showed temporary impairments in the branching of layer V pyramidal neuron dendrites at P10 and P17 that recovered to normal by adulthood. Defects in DSCAM(del17) dendrite branching correlated with a temporal increase in apical branch spine density and lasting changes in spine morphology. At P15 and P42, mutant mice displayed a decrease in the percentage of large, stable spines and an increase in the percentage of small, immature spines. Together, our findings suggest that DSCAM contributes to pyramidal neuron morphogenesis by regulating dendrite arborization and spine formation during cortical circuit development.
Previous studies have investigated the effects of acetylcholine (ACh) on neuronal tuning, coding, and attention in primary visual cortex, but its contribution to coding in extrastriate cortex is unexplored. Here we investigate the effects of ACh on tuning properties of macaque middle temporal area MT neurons and contrast them with effects of gabazine, a GABA(A) receptor blocker. ACh increased neuronal activity, it had no effect on tuning width, but it significantly increased the direction discriminability of a neuron. Gabazine equally increased neuronal activity, but it widened tuning curves and decreased the direction discriminability of a neuron. Although gabazine significantly reduced response reliability, ACh application had little effect on response reliability. Finally, gabazine increased noise correlation of simultaneously recorded neurons, whereas ACh reduced it. Thus, both drugs increased firing rates, but only ACh application improved neuronal tuning and coding in line with effects seen in studies in which attention was selectively manipulated.
Synaptic communication requires the controlled release of synaptic vesicles from presynaptic axon terminals. Release efficacy is regulated by the many proteins that comprise the presynaptic release apparatus, including Ca(2+) channels and proteins that influence Ca(2+) channel accumulation at release sites. Here we identify Drosophila RIM (Rab3 interacting molecule) and demonstrate that it localizes to active zones at the larval neuromuscular junction. In Drosophila RIM mutants, there is a large decrease in evoked synaptic transmission because of a significant reduction in both the clustering of Ca(2+) channels and the size of the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles at active zones. Hence, RIM plays an evolutionarily conserved role in regulating synaptic calcium channel localization and readily releasable pool size. Because RIM has traditionally been studied as an effector of Rab3 function, we investigate whether RIM is involved in the newly identified function of Rab3 in the distribution of presynaptic release machinery components across release sites. Bruchpilot (Brp), an essential component of the active zone cytomatrix T bar, is unaffected by RIM disruption, indicating that Brp localization and distribution across active zones does not require wild-type RIM. In addition, larvae containing mutations in both RIM and rab3 have reduced Ca(2+) channel levels and a Brp distribution that is very similar to that of the rab3 single mutant, indicating that RIM functions to regulate Ca(2+) channel accumulation but is not a Rab3 effector for release machinery distribution across release sites.
After its release into the synaptic cleft, dopamine exerts its biological properties via its pre- and post-synaptic targets(1). The dopamine signal is terminated by diffusion(2-3), extracellular enzymes(4), and membrane transporters(5). The dopamine transporter, located in the peri-synaptic cleft of dopamine neurons clears the released amines through an inward dopamine flux (uptake). The dopamine transporter can also work in reverse direction to release amines from inside to outside in a process called outward transport or efflux of dopamine(5). More than 20 years ago Sulzer et al. reported the dopamine transporter can operate in two modes of activity: forward (uptake) and reverse (efflux)(5). The neurotransmitter released via efflux through the transporter can move a large amount of dopamine to the extracellular space, and has been shown to play a major regulatory role in extracellular dopamine homeostasis(6). Here we describe how simultaneous patch clamp and amperometry recording can be used to measure released dopamine via the efflux mechanism with millisecond time resolution when the membrane potential is controlled. For this, whole-cell current and oxidative (amperometric) signals are measured simultaneously using an Axopatch 200B amplifier (Molecular Devices, with a low-pass Bessel filter set at 1,000 Hz for whole-cell current recording). For amperometry recording a carbon fiber electrode is connected to a second amplifier (Axopatch 200B) and is placed adjacent to the plasma membrane and held at +700 mV. The whole-cell and oxidative (amperometric) currents can be recorded and the current-voltage relationship can be generated using a voltage step protocol. Unlike the usual amperometric calibration, which requires conversion to concentration, the current is reported directly without considering the effective volume(7). Thus, the resulting data represent a lower limit to dopamine efflux because some transmitter is lost to the bulk solution.
Autapse is an unusual type of synapse generated by a neuron on itself. The ability to monitor axonal growth of single neurons and autapse formation in three-dimensions (3D) may provide fundamental information relating to many cellular processes, such as axonal development, synaptic plasticity and neural signal transmission. However, monitoring such growth is technically challenging due to the requirement for precise capture and long-term analysis of single neurons in 3D. Herein, we present a simple two-step photolithography method to efficiently capture single cells in microscale gelatin methacrylate hydrogel rings. We applied this method to capture and culture single neurons. The results demonstrated that neural axons grew and consequently formed axonal circles, indicating that our method could be an enabling tool to analyze axonal development and autapse formation. This method holds great potential for impact in multiple areas, such as neuroscience, cancer biology, and stem cell biology.

Neural activity in orbitofrontal cortex has been linked to flexible representations of stimulus-outcome associations. Such value representations are known to emerge with learning, but the neural mechanisms supporting this phenomenon are not well understood. Here, we provide evidence for a causal role for NMDA receptors (NMDARs) in mediating spike pattern discriminability, neural plasticity, and rhythmic synchronization in relation to evaluative stimulus processing and decision making. Using tetrodes, single-unit spike trains and local field potentials were recorded during local, unilateral perfusion of an NMDAR blocker in rat OFC. In the absence of behavioral effects, NMDAR blockade severely hampered outcome-selective spike pattern formation to olfactory cues, relative to control perfusions. Moreover, NMDAR blockade shifted local rhythmicsynchronization to higher frequencies and degradedits linkage to stimulus-outcome selective coding.These results demonstrate the importance of NMDARs for cue-outcome associative coding in OFC during learning and illustrate how NMDAR blockade disrupts network dynamics.
Relating the function of neuronal cell types to information processing and behavior is a central goal of neuroscience. In the hippocampus, pyramidal cells in CA1 and the subiculum process sensory and motor cues to form a cognitive map encoding spatial, contextual, and emotional information, which they transmit throughout the brain. Do these cells constitute a single class or are there multiple cell types with specialized functions? Using unbiased cluster analysis, we show that there are two morphologically and electrophysiologically distinct principal cell types that carry hippocampal output. We show further that these two cell types are inversely modulated by the synergistic action of glutamate and acetylcholine acting on metabotropic receptors that are central to hippocampal function. Combined with prior connectivity studies, our results support a model of hippocampal processing in which the two pyramidal cell types are predominantly segregated into two parallel pathways that process distinct modalities of information.
Transmembrane semaphorins (Semas) serve evolutionarily conserved guidance roles, and some function as both ligands and receptors. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the transduction of these signals to the cytoskeleton remain largely unknown. We have identified two direct regulators of Rho family small GTPases, pebble (a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor [GEF]) and RhoGAPp190 (a GTPase activating protein [GAP]), that show robust interactions with the cytoplasmic domain of the Drosophila Sema-1a protein. Neuronal pebble and RhoGAPp190 are required to control motor axon defasciculation at specific pathway choice points and also for target recognition during Drosophila neuromuscular development. Sema-1a-mediated motor axon defasciculation is promoted by pebble and inhibited by RhoGAPp190. Genetic analyses show that opposing pebble and RhoGAPp190 functions mediate Sema-1a reverse signaling through the regulation of Rho1 activity. Therefore, pebble and RhoGAPp190 transduce transmembrane semaphorin-mediated guidance cue information that regulates the establishment of neuronal connectivity during Drosophila development.
This Perspective considers the influential notion of a canonical (cortical) microcircuit in light of recent theories about neuronal processing. Specifically, we conciliate quantitative studies of microcircuitry and the functional logic of neuronal computations. We revisit the established idea that message passing among hierarchical cortical areas implements a form of Bayesian inference-paying careful attention to the implications for intrinsic connections among neuronal populations. By deriving canonical forms for these computations, one can associate specific neuronal populations with specific computational roles. This analysis discloses a remarkable correspondence between the microcircuitry of the cortical column and the connectivity implied by predictive coding. Furthermore, it provides some intuitive insights into the functional asymmetries between feedforward and feedback connections and the characteristic frequencies over which they operate.
The striatum plays an important role in the initiation and learning of skilled motor behavior [6] and receives topographic input from most areas of the cortex. Cortical afferents make divergent contact with many striatal medium spiny neurons while individual medium spiny neurons receive tens of thousands of these glutamatergic synapses [13]. Temporal filtering of frequency information within synaptic fields plays an important role in the processing of neuronal signals. We have previously shown differential filtering characteristics within CA1, CA3, and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus [26] and have now extended these studies to the cortical input to the dorsal striatum in order to address the network filtering characteristics in this important synaptic field. We measured field potentials of striatal medium spiny neurons in response to layer V cortical input over a range of stimulus frequencies from 2Hz to 100Hz. The average population spike amplitude in response to these stimulus trains exhibited a non-linear relationship to frequency, with characteristics of a low pass filter. In order to assess potential modulation of these filter properties, we examined the frequency response in the presence of antagonists to CB1, D2, nACh, and GABA(A) receptors, which are all known to be expressed at these synapses [13]. Of these, only GABA(A) receptor antagonists significantly modulated the frequency filtering characteristics over the examined frequency range. High frequency stimulation induces long term plasticity at corticostriatal synapses [4] and this process is strengthened when GABA(A) receptors are blocked [7,20,29]. Our results suggest a model whereby a temporary decrease in GABA level would modulate the filtering parameters of the corticostriatal circuit, allowing a more robust induction of high frequency-dependent plasticity.
The dopamine, serotonin, and kynurenine metabolic pathways play pivotal roles on brain function, and their disturbances are closely related to various neurological diseases. Comprehensive measurements of these metabolites is thus essential for monitoring the global neurochemical responses to pathological challenges or drug intervention. However, simultaneous measurement of various neurochemcial metabolites represents a great challenge. We developed herein an original and feasible method using high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). A chemical derivatization approach using benzoyl chloride (benzoylation) was developed to achieve better chromatographic behavior and mass-detecting sensitivity. The developed method enables a rapid quantification of 11 metabolites spanning dopamine, serotonin, and kynurenine metabolic pathways within 10.5 min. With this method, we were able to simultaneously monitor inflammation induced alternations of all these metabolites in a rat brain and in particular their dynamics in plasma matrix. The balance between the serotonin and kynurenine branches of tryptophan metabolism was disrupted by lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation, characterized with the overproduction of neurotoxic metabolite 3-hydroxykynurenine and decreased levels of serotonin. The measured levels of this panel of neurotransimtters ranged from 4.3 ng to 10.6 g per gram of brain tissue. All these results suggest that the presently developed method is sufficiently sensitive and robust to simultaneously monitor a large panel of metabolites with diverse properties and a large range of concentration differences. Therefore, this method will be expected to be highly useful for comprehensive studies of the pathophysiological roles and mechanisms of these critical neurotransmitters.

More than 75% of patients with mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) report chronic pain whose potential detrimental effects on cognitive recovery need to be identified. The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between pain, performance on a working memory task, gray matter density, and mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (mid-DLPFC) activation in subjects with a MTBI. For comparison purposes, we performed identical correlation analyses with a group of subjects without MTBI who sustained sports injuries. Twenty-four subjects who experienced a MTBI in the past 12 months, 16 control subjects, and 29 subjects with sport injuries were included. One hour prior to entering the magnetic resonance scanner, the subjects were asked to fill out the pain Visual Analogue Scale. Subsequently, a high-resolution T1-weighted image was acquired followed by a functional magnetic resonance imaging session using the visual externally ordered working memory task. Results showed that MTBI subjects reporting severe pain in the hour preceding the testing had reduced mid-DLPFC activation during the working memory task and poorer performance on the task. Subjects with sport injuries and severe levels of pain showed the reverse pattern: pain was associated with higher activation in the mid-DLPFC and did not correlate with performance. Gray matter density measures were independent of pain level. This study showed that behavioral performance and cerebral functioning are affected by pain after a MTBI. Moreover, this study suggests that pain, cognition, and cerebral functioning interactions could not easily be generalized from one clinical population to another.
We investigated the role of the axon guidance molecule EphA4 following traumatic brain injury (TBI) in mice. Neutralization of EphA4 improved motor function and axonal regeneration following experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). We hypothesized that genetic absence of EphA4 could improve functional and histological outcome following TBI. Using qRT-PCR in wild-type (WT) mice, we evaluated the EphA4 mRNA levels following controlled cortical impact (CCI) TBI or sham injury and found it to be downregulated in the hippocampus (p&lt;0.05) but not the cortex ipsilateral to the injury at 24h post-injury. Next, we evaluated the behavioral and histological outcome following CCI using WT mice and Emx1-Cre-driven conditional knockout (cKO) mice. In cKO mice, EphA4 was completely absent in the hippocampus and markedly reduced in the cortical regions from embryonic day 16, which was confirmed using Western blot analysis. EphA4 cKO mice had similar learning and memory abilities at 3 weeks post-TBI compared to WT controls, although brain-injured animals performed worse than sham-injured controls (p&lt;0.05). EphA4 cKO mice performed similarly to WT mice in the rotarod and cylinder tests of motor function up to 29 days post-injury. TBI increased cortical and hippocampal astrocytosis (GFAP immunohistochemistry, p&lt;0.05) and hippocampal sprouting (Timm stain, p&lt;0.05) and induced a marked loss of hemispheric tissue (p&lt;0.05). EphA4 cKO did not alter the histological outcome. Although our results may argue against a beneficial role for EphA4 in the recovery process following TBI, further studies including post-injury pharmacological neutralization of EphA4 are needed to define the role for EphA4 following TBI.



Object perception and categorization can occur so rapidly that behavioral responses precede or co-occur with the firing rate changes in the object-selective neocortex. Phase coding could, in principle, support rapid representation of object categories, whereby the first spikes evoked by a stimulus would appear at different phases of an oscillation, depending on the object category. To determine whether object-selective regions of the neo-cortex demonstrate phase coding, we presented images of faces and objects to two monkeys while recording local field potentials (LFP) and single unit activity from object-selective regions in the upper bank superior temporal sulcus. Single units showed preferred phases of firing that depended on stimulus category, emerging with the initiation of spiking responses after stimulus onset. Differences in phase of firing were seen below 20 Hz and in the gamma and high-gamma frequency ranges. For all but the &lt;20-Hz cluster, phase differences remained category-specific even when controlling for stimulus-locked activity, revealing that phase-specific firing is not a simple consequence of category-specific differences in the evoked responses of the LFP. In addition, we tested for firing rate-to-phase conversion. Category-specific differences in firing rates accounted for 30-40% of the explained variance in phase occurring at lower frequencies (&lt;20 Hz) during the initial response, but was limited (&lt;20% of the explained variance) in the 30- to 60-Hz frequency range, suggesting that gamma phase-of-firing effects reflect more than evoked LFP and firing rate responses. The present results are consistent with theoretical models of rapid object processing and extend previous observations of phase coding to include object-selective neocortex.
A genome-wide association study identified a strong correlation between body mass index and the presence of a 21-kb copy number variation upstream of the human GPRC5B gene; however, the functional role of GPRC5B in obesity remains unknown. We report that GPRC5B-deficient mice were protected from diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance because of reduced inflammation in their white adipose tissue. GPRC5B is a lipid raft-associated transmembrane protein that contains multiple phosphorylated residues in its carboxyl terminus. Phosphorylation of GPRC5B by the tyrosine kinase Fyn and the subsequent direct interaction with Fyn through the Fyn Src homology 2 (SH2) domain were critical for the initiation and progression of inflammatory signaling in adipose tissue. We demonstrated that a GPRC5B mutant lacking the direct binding site for Fyn failed to activate a positive feedback loop of nuclear factor B-inhibitor of B kinase  signaling. These findings suggest that GPRC5B may be a major node in adipose signaling systems linking diet-induced obesity to type 2 diabetes and may open new avenues for therapeutic approaches to diabetic progression.
A dysregulated immune system influencing pathways for cytokine regulation and growth factor expression is implicated in the pathophysiology of several neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytokines and growth factors with an ultra-sensitive immunoassay system in 43 medication-free suicide attempters and 20 healthy male volunteers. CSF vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and CSF interleukin-8 (IL-8) levels were significantly lower in suicide attempters compared with healthy controls. Further, CSF VEGF showed a significant negative correlation with depression severity. CSF IL-6 levels did not differ between suicide attempters and healthy controls. Low CSF levels of VEGF may represent a lack of trophic support to neurons and downregulation of neurogenesis in the hippocampus reflecting more severe depressive states. IL-8 has also been reported as important in neuroprotection as well as having chemokine activity in the innate immune response. The results support a role for an impaired innate immunity and dysregulation of neuroprotection in the pathophysiology of depression and suicidal behavior.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) and the orphan nuclear receptor tailless homolog (TLX) are key regulators of hippocampal neurogenesis, which has been reported to be dysregulated in both neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. Inflammation is also implicated in the neuropathology of these disorders because of increased levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the brain. At elevated levels, IL-1 signaling through the IL-1 receptor type 1 has been shown to be detrimental to hippocampal neurogenesis. TLX is required to maintain neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) in an undifferentiated state and is involved in NSPC fate determination, while GSK-3 negatively regulates Wnt signaling, a vital pathway promoting neurogenesis. This study shows that GSK-3 inhibition using a small-molecule inhibitor and the mood stabilizer lithium restores the IL-1-induced decrease in NSPC proliferation and neuronal differentiation of embryonic rat hippocampal NSPCs to control levels. The IL-1-induced effect on NSPCs is paralleled by a decrease in TLX expression that can be prevented by GSK-3 inhibition. The present results suggest that GSK-3 ameliorates the anti-proliferative and pro-gliogenic effects of IL-1, and that TLX is vulnerable to inflammatory insult. Strategies to reduce GSK-3 activity or to increase TLX expression may facilitate the restoration of hippocampal neurogenesis in neuroinflammatory conditions where neurogenesis is impaired.
Smoking is the leading preventable cause of disease, disability, and premature death. Nicotine, the main psychoactive drug in tobacco, is one of the most heavily used addictive substances, and its continued use is driven through activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Despite harmful consequences, it is difficult to quit smoking because of its positive effects on mood and cognition that are strong reinforcers contributing to addiction. Furthermore, a formidable challenge for the treatment of nicotine addiction is the high vulnerability to relapse after abstinence. There is no currently available smoking cessation product able to achieve a &gt;20% smoking cessation rate after 52 wk, and there are no medications that directly target the relapse process. We report here that the 7nAChR forms a protein complex with the NMDA glutamate receptor (NMDAR) through a direct protein-protein interaction. Chronic nicotine exposure promotes 7nAChR-NMDAR complex formation. Interestingly, administration of an interfering peptide that disrupts the 7nAChR-NMDAR complex decreased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity and blocked cue-induced reinstatement of nicotine seeking in rat models of relapse, without affecting nicotine self-administration or locomotor activity. Our results may provide a novel therapeutic target for the development of medications for preventing nicotine relapse.

Tinnitus is the perception of sound in the absence of a physical sound stimulus. It is thought to arise from aberrant neural activity within central auditory pathways that may be influenced by multiple brain centers, including the somatosensory system. Auditory-somatosensory (bimodal) integration occurs in the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN), where electrical activation of somatosensory regions alters pyramidal cell spike timing and rates of sound stimuli. Moreover, in conditions of tinnitus, bimodal integration in DCN is enhanced, producing greater spontaneous and sound-driven neural activity, which are neural correlates of tinnitus. In primary auditory cortex (A1), a similar auditory-somatosensory integration has been described in the normal system (Lakatos et al., 2007), where sub-threshold multisensory modulation may be a direct reflection of subcortical multisensory responses (Tyll et al., 2011). The present work utilized simultaneous recordings from both DCN and A1 to directly compare bimodal integration across these separate brain stations of the intact auditory pathway. Four-shank, 32-channel electrodes were placed in DCN and A1 to simultaneously record tone-evoked unit activity in the presence and absence of spinal trigeminal nucleus (Sp5) electrical activation. Bimodal stimulation led to long-lasting facilitation or suppression of single and multi-unit responses to subsequent sound in both DCN and A1. Immediate (bimodal response) and long-lasting (bimodal plasticity) effects of Sp5-tone stimulation were facilitation or suppression of tone-evoked firing rates in DCN and A1 at all Sp5-tone pairing intervals (10, 20, and 40 ms), and greater suppression at 20 ms pairing-intervals for single unit responses. Understanding the complex relationships between DCN and A1 bimodal processing in the normal animal provides the basis for studying its disruption in hearing loss and tinnitus models. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
It has long been known that subjective tinnitus, a constant or intermittent phantom sound perceived by 10 to 15% of the adult population, is not a purely auditory phenomenon but is also tied to limbic-related brain regions. Supporting evidence comes from data indicating that stress and emotion can modulate tinnitus, and from brain imaging studies showing functional and anatomical differences in limbic-related brain regions of tinnitus patients and controls. Recent studies from our lab revealed altered blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses to stimulation at the tinnitus frequency in the ventral striatum (specifically, the nucleus accumbens) and gray-matter reductions (i.e., anatomical changes) in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), of tinnitus patients compared to controls. The present study extended these findings by demonstrating functional differences in vmPFC between 20 tinnitus patients and 20 age-matched controls. Importantly, the observed BOLD response in vmPFC was positively correlated with tinnitus characteristics such as subjective loudness and the percent of time during which the tinnitus was perceived, whereas correlations with tinnitus handicap inventory scores and other variables known to be affected in tinnitus (e.g., depression, anxiety, noise sensitivity, hearing loss) were weaker or absent. This suggests that the observed group differences are indeed related to the strength of the tinnitus percept and not to an affective reaction to tinnitus. The results further corroborate vmPFC as a region of high interest for tinnitus research.This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
Tinnitus is a heterogeneous disorder with respect to its etiology and phenotype. Thus, the identification of sub-types implicates high relevance for treatment recommendations. For this aim, we used cluster analysis of patients for which clinical data, positron-emission tomography (PET) data and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) data were available. 44 patients with chronic tinnitus were included in this analysis. On a phenotypical level, we used tinnitus distress, duration, and laterality for clustering. To correct PET and VBM data for age, gender, and hearing, we built up a design matrix including these variables as regressors and extracted the residuals. We applied Ward's clustering method and forced cluster analysis to divide the data into two groups for both imaging and phenotypical data. On a phenotypical level the clustered groups differed only in tinnitus laterality (uni- vs. bilateral tinnitus), but not in tinnitus duration, distress, age, gender, and hearing. For grey matter volume, groups differed mainly in frontal, cingulate, temporal, and thalamic areas. For glucose metabolism, groups differed in temporal and parietal areas. The correspondence of classification was near chance level for the interrelationship of all three data set clusters. Thus, we showed that clustering according to imaging data is feasible and might depict a new approach for identifying tinnitus sub-types. However, it remains an open question to what extent the phenotypical and imaging levels may be interrelated. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
The auditory response to an acoustic stimulus will usually be suppressed, or masked, by a preceding sound. Here, we show that forward acoustic masking at a high frequency can boost the auditory brainstem response (ABR) in rats injected with a high dose of sodium salicylate (NaSal), a tinnitus inducer. The forward narrow band noise caused a decrease in the amplitude of the ABR to a probe tone burst in normal rats, but caused an unexpected increase in the amplitude at 16 kHz in rats treated with NaSal (300 mg/kg). The observed effect could be manifested in normal rats presented with a background tone added to the masker and the probe, suggesting an underlying mechanism associated with tinnitus. We hypothesize that in NaSal-treated rats, tinnitus can &quot;internally&quot; mask the ABR in a similar way as an external background sound does and the &quot;unmasking&quot; effect of forward masking can result in a rebound of the otherwise suppressed ABR. Our study raises the possibility of using the ABR as an objective indicator for NaSal-induced tinnitus in animals. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
Thirteen chronic tinnitus patients and fifteen age-matched healthy controls were studied on a 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner during resting condition (i.e. eyes closed, no task performance). The auditory resting-state component was selected using an automatic component selection approach. Functional connectivity (correlations/anti-correlations) in the extracted network was portrayed by integrating the independent component analysis (ICA) approach with a graph theory method. Tinnitus and control groups showed different graph connectivity patterns. In the control group, the connectivity graph was divided into two distinct anti-correlated networks. The first one encompassed the auditory cortices and the insula. The second one encompassed frontoparietal and anterior cingulate cortices, brainstem, amygdala, basal ganglia/nucleus accumbens and parahippocampal regions. In the tinnitus group, only one of the two previously described networks was observed, encompassing the auditory cortices and the insula. Direct group comparison showed, in the tinnitus group, an increased functional connectivity between auditory cortices and the left parahippocampal region surviving multiple comparisons. We investigated a possible correlation between four tinnitus relevant measures (tinnitus handicap inventory (THI) and tinnitus questionnaire (TQ) scores, tinnitus duration and tinnitus intensity during the scanning session) and the connectivity pattern in the tinnitus population. We observed a significant positive correlation between the beta values of the posterior cingulate/precuneus region and the THI score. Our results show a modified functional connectivity pattern in tinnitus sufferers and highlight the role of the parahippocampal region in tinnitus physiopathology. They also point out the importance of the activity and connectivity pattern of the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus region to the development of the tinnitus associated distress. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
Recently prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex (ASR) became a popular technique for tinnitus assessment in laboratory animals. This method confers a significant advantage over the previously used time-consuming behavioral approaches utilizing basic mechanisms of conditioning. Although this technique has been successfully used to assess tinnitus in different laboratory animals, many of the finer details of this methodology have not been described enough to be replicated, but are critical for tinnitus assessment. Here we provide detail description of key procedures and methodological issues that provide guidance for newcomers with the process of learning to correctly apply gap detection techniques for tinnitus assessment in laboratory animals. The major categories of these issues include: refinement of hardware for best performance, optimization of stimulus parameters, behavioral considerations, and identification of optimal strategies for data analysis. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
Tinnitus, the perception of a phantom sound, is a common consequence of damage to the auditory periphery. A major goal of tinnitus research is to find the loci of the neural changes that underlie the disorder. Crucial to this endeavor has been the development of an animal behavioral model of tinnitus, so that neural changes can be correlated with behavioral evidence of tinnitus. Three major lines of evidence implicate the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) in tinnitus. First, elevated spontaneous activity in the DCN is correlated with peripheral damage and tinnitus. Second, there are somatosensory inputs to the DCN that can modulate spontaneous activity and might mediate the somatic-auditory interactions seen in tinnitus patients. Third, we have found a subpopulation of DCN neurons in the adult rat that express doublecortin, a plasticity-related protein. The expression of this protein may reflect a role of these neurons in the neural reorganization causing tinnitus. However, there is a problem in extending the findings in the rodent DCN to humans. Classic studies state that the structure of the primate DCN is quite different from that of rodents, with primates lacking granule cells, the recipients of somatosensory input. To address the possibility of major species differences in DCN organization, we compared Nissl-stained sections of the DCN in five different species. In contrast to earlier reports, our data suggest that the organization of the primate DCN is not dramatically different from that of the rodents, and validate the use of animal data in the study of tinnitus. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
The amygdala, important in forming and storing memories of aversive events, is believed to play a major role in debilitating tinnitus and hyperacusis. To explore this hypothesis, we recorded from the lateral amygdala (LA) and auditory cortex (AC) before and after treating rats with a dose of salicylate that induces tinnitus and hyperacusis-like behavior. Salicylate unexpectedly increased the amplitude of the local field potential (LFP) in the LA making it hyperactive to sounds60 dB SPL. Frequency receptive fields (FRFs) of multiunit (MU) clusters in the LA were also dramatically altered by salicylate. Neuronal activity at frequencies below 10 kHz and above 20 kHz was depressed at low intensities, but was greatly enhanced for stimuli between 10 and 20 kHz (frequencies near the pitch of the salicylate-induced tinnitus in the rat). These frequency-dependent changes caused the FRF of many LA neurons to migrate towards 10-20 kHz thereby amplifying activity from this region. To determine if salicylate-induced changes restricted to the LA would remotely affect neural activity in the AC, we used a micropipette to infuse salicylate (20 l, 2.8 mM) into the amygdala. Local delivery of salicylate to the amygdala significantly increased the amplitude of the LFP recorded in the AC and selectively enhanced the neuronal activity of AC neurons at the mid-frequencies (10-20 kHz), frequencies associated with the tinnitus pitch. Taken together, these results indicate that systemic salicylate treatment can induce hyperactivity and tonotopic shift in the amygdala and infusion of salicylate into the amygdala can profoundly enhance sound-evoked activity in AC, changes likely to increase the perception and emotional salience of tinnitus and loud sounds. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
Tinnitus perception depends on the presence of its neural correlates within the auditory neuraxis and associated structures. Targeting specific circuits and receptors within the central nervous system in an effort to relieve the perception of tinnitus and its impact on one's emotional and mental state has become a focus of tinnitus research. One approach is to upregulate endogenous inhibitory neurotransmitter levels (e.g., glycine and GABA) and selectively target inhibitory receptors in key circuits to normalize tinnitus pathophysiology. Thus, the basic functional and molecular properties of two major ligand-gated inhibitory receptor systems, the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) and glycine receptor (GlyR) are described. Also reviewed is the rationale for targeting inhibition, which stems from reported tinnitus-related homeostatic plasticity of inhibitory neurotransmitter systems and associated enhanced neuronal excitability throughout most central auditory structures. However, the putative role of the medial geniculate body (MGB) in tinnitus has not been previously addressed, specifically in terms of its inhibitory afferents from inferior colliculus and thalamic reticular nucleus and its GABA(A)R functional heterogeneity. This heterogeneous population of GABA(A)Rs, which may be altered in tinnitus pathology, and its key anatomical position in the auditory CNS make the MGB a compelling structure for tinnitus research. Finally, some selective compounds, which enhance tonic inhibition, have successfully ameliorated tinnitus in animal studies, suggesting that the MGB and, to a lesser degree, the auditory cortex may be their primary locus of action. These pharmacological interventions are examined in terms of their mechanism of action and why these agents may be effective in tinnitus treatment. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
Hyperacusis, a marked intolerance to normal environmental sound, is a common symptom in patients with tinnitus, Williams syndrome, autism, and other neurologic diseases. It has been suggested that an imbalance of excitation and inhibition in the central auditory system (CAS) may play an important role in hyperacusis. Recent studies found that noise exposure, one of the most common causes of hearing loss and tinnitus, can increase the auditory cortex (AC) response, presumably by increasing the gain of the AC. However, it is not clear whether the increased cortical response will affect sound sensitivity and induce hyperacusis. In this experiment, we studied the effects of noise exposure (narrow band noise, 12 kHz, 120 dB SPL, 1 hour) on the physiological response of the inferior colliculus (IC) and the AC, and the behavioral sound reaction in conscious Sprague Dawley rats. Noise exposure induced a decrease of sound evoked potential in the IC. However, significant increases of AC response including sound evoked potentials and the spike firing rates of AC neurons were recorded right after the noise exposure. These results suggest that noise exposure induces hyperexcitability of AC presumably by increasing the post-synaptic response of AC neurons. The behavioral consequence of the noise exposure on sound perception was measured by the amplitude of the acoustic startle response before and after noise exposure in a separate group of rats. Although noise exposure caused a moderate hearing loss, the acoustic startle amplitude at the super-threshold level was significantly increased. These results suggest that noise exposure can cause exaggerated the sound reaction which may be related with the enhanced responsiveness of the AC neurons. This phenomenon may be related with noise induced hyperacusis.This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Tinnitus Neuroscience.
The serotonin transporter (SERT) controls synaptic serotonin levels and is the primary target for antidepressants, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (e.g. (S)-citalopram) and tricyclic antidepressants (e.g. clomipramine). In addition to a high affinity binding site, SERT possesses a low affinity allosteric site for antidepressants. Binding to the allosteric site impedes dissociation of antidepressants from the high affinity site, which may enhance antidepressant efficacy. Here we employ an induced fit docking/molecular dynamics protocol to identify the residues that may be involved in the allosteric binding in the extracellular vestibule located above the central substrate binding (S1) site. Indeed, mutagenesis of selected residues in the vestibule reduces the allosteric potency of (S)-citalopram and clomipramine. The identified site is further supported by the inhibitory effects of Zn(2+) binding in an engineered site and the covalent attachment of benzocaine-methanethiosulfonate to a cysteine introduced in the extracellular vestibule. The data provide a mechanistic explanation for the allosteric action of antidepressants at SERT and suggest that the role of the vestibule is evolutionarily conserved among neurotransmitter:sodium symporter proteins as a binding pocket for small molecule ligands.
Pinpointing the precise age when young animals begin to form memories of aversive events is valuable for understanding the onset of anxiety and mood disorders and for detecting early cognitive impairment in models of childhood-onset disorders. Although these disorders are most commonly modeled in mice, we know little regarding the development of learning and memory in this species because most previous studies have been restricted to rats. Therefore, in the present study, we constructed an ontogenetic timeline of contextual fear memory ranging from infancy to adulthood in mice. We found that the ability of mice to form long-term context-shock associations emerged 13-14 d of age, which is several days earlier than previously reported for rats. Although the ability to form contextual fear memories remained stable from infancy into adulthood, infant mice had shorter-lasting memories than adolescent and adult mice. Furthermore, we found that mice subjected to fetal alcohol exposure showed a delay in the developmental emergence of contextual fear memory, illustrating the utility of this ontogenetic approach in detecting developmental delays in cognitive function stemming from maladaptive early life experience.
Intestinofugal neurons sense and receive information regarding mechanical distension of the bowel and transmit this information to postganglionic sympathetic neurons in the prevertebral ganglia. Previous studies have demonstrated that trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis is associated with a loss of myenteric neurons that occurs within the first 12 h following the inflammatory insult. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that intestinofugal neurons are among the myenteric neurons lost during TNBS-induced colitis. The retrograde tracing dye Fast Blue was used to label intestinofugal neurons, and immunohistochemical staining for the RNA-binding proteins HuC/D was used to count all myenteric neurons. Ongoing synaptic input to neurons in the guinea pig inferior mesenteric ganglion (IMG) was recorded via conventional intracellular electrophysiology. In control preparations, intestinofugal neurons account for 0.25% of myenteric neurons. In the distal colon of TNBS-treated animals, the proportion of intestinofugal neurons was reduced to 0.05% (an 80% reduction) within the region of inflammation where 20-25% of myenteric neurons were lost. Neither intestinofugal neurons specifically nor myenteric neurons were reduced in more proximal uninflamed regions. There is a reduction in the frequency of ongoing synaptic potentials in visceromotor neurons of the IMG at 12 and 24 h and 6 and 56 days after TNBS. Collectively, the results of this study suggest that intestinofugal neurons are among the myenteric neurons lost during inflammation and may be selectively targeted. Because intestinofugal neurons are a major driver of sympathetic output to the gut, the loss of intestinofugal neurons may have a profound pathophysiological significance.






A series of (N-benzyl-N-phenylsulfonamido)alkyl amides were developed from classic and parallel synthesis strategies. Compounds with good in vitro and in vivo -secretase activity were identified and described.
Maternal separation (MS) induces depressive-like behavior and long-term changes in cognition in rats. Escitalopram is an antidepressant drug shown to reverse the depressive-like features caused by this stress model. However, it is not known if it can ameliorate the affected cognition. We now characterized the effect of escitalopram on hippocampal-dependent memory in rats submitted to the MS protocol. Male Wistar rats were assigned either to control (CTR) or maternal separated (MS) group. MS were separated from their dams between 2-14 postnatal days (PND) for 180min daily. Escitalopram was given in food pellets (0.34g/kg/day first 2 weeks and 0.41g/kg/day the subsequent period, average dose 25mg/kg) from PND 43 onwards, during 1 month. Depressive behavior was assessed in the forced swimming test (FST), and memory performance in the Morris water maze (MWM). Escitalopram significantly improved the FST's latency to despair in the MS group (n=6), but did not change the immobility time. All groups showed a significant learning effect in the MWM over time, but no differences have been found upon treatment (n=6). However, escitalopram treatment significantly increased the time spent on the platform quadrant in the probe trial in the MS group. We report here that chronic treatment with escitalopram is able to improve hippocampal dependent memory in a chronic stress model, while not changing the learning ability. Moreover, this is accompanied by an amelioration of the depressive like behavior. These results support the use of escitalopram to tackle underlying cognitive deficits caused by stress in early-life.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a CAG repeat disorder affecting the HD gene, which encodes for huntingtin (Htt) and is characterized by prominent cell death in the striatum. Oxidative stress was previously implicated in HD neurodegeneration, but the role of the major endogenous antioxidant system, the glutathione redox cycle, has been less studied following expression of full-length mutant Htt (FL-mHtt). Thus, in this work we analyzed the glutathione system in striatal cells derived from HD knock-in mice expressing mutant Htt versus wild-type cells. Mutant cells showed increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and caspase-3 activity, which were significantly prevented following treatment with glutathione ethyl ester. Interestingly, mutant cells exhibited an increase in intracellular levels of both reduced and oxidized forms of glutathione, and enhanced activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GRed). Furthermore, glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and -glutamyl transpeptidase (-GT) activities were also increased in mutant cells. Nevertheless, glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) and glutathione synthetase (GS) activities and levels of GCL catalytic subunit were decreased in cells expressing FL-mHtt, highly suggesting decreased de novo synthesis of glutathione. Enhanced intracellular total glutathione, despite decreased synthesis, could be explained by decreased extracellular glutathione in mutant cells. This occurred concomitantly with decreased mRNA expression levels and activity of the multidrug resistance protein 1 (Mrp1), a transport protein that mediates cellular export of glutathione disulfide and glutathione conjugates. Additionally, inhibition of Mrp1 enhanced intracellular GSH in wild-type cells only. These data suggest that FL-mHtt affects the export of glutathione by decreasing the expression of Mrp1. Data further suggest that boosting of GSH-related antioxidant defense mechanisms induced by FL-mHtt is insufficient to counterbalance increased ROS formation and emergent apoptotic features in HD striatal cells.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is implicated in aging and degenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Continuous fission and fusion of mitochondria shapes their morphology and is essential to maintain oxidative phosphorylation. Loss-of-function mutations in PTEN-induced kinase1 (PINK1) or Parkin cause a recessive form of PD and have been linked to altered regulation of mitochondrial dynamics. More specifically, the E3 ubiquitin ligase Parkin has been shown to directly regulate the levels of mitofusin 1 (Mfn1) and Mfn2, two homologous outer membrane large GTPases that govern mitochondrial fusion, but it is not known whether this is of relevance for disease pathophysiology. Here, we address the importance of Mfn1 and Mfn2 in midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons in vivo by characterizing mice with DA neuron-specific knockout of Mfn1 or Mfn2. We find that Mfn1 is dispensable for DA neuron survival and motor function. In contrast, Mfn2 DA neuron-specific knockouts develop a fatal phenotype with reduced weight, locomotor disturbances and death by 7 weeks of age. Mfn2 knockout DA neurons have spherical and enlarged mitochondria with abnormal cristae and impaired respiratory chain function. Parkin does not translocate to these defective mitochondria. Surprisingly, Mfn2 DA neuron-specific knockout mice have normal numbers of midbrain DA neurons, whereas there is a severe loss of DA nerve terminals in the striatum, accompanied by depletion of striatal DA levels. These results show that Mfn2, but not Mfn1, is required for axonal projections of DA neurons in vivo.
Schizophrenia is a debilitating psychiatric disease with a strong genetic contribution, potentially linked to altered glutamatergic function in brain regions such as the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Here, we report converging evidence to support a functional candidate gene for schizophrenia. In post-mortem PFC from patients with schizophrenia, we detected decreased expression of MKK7/MAP2K7-a kinase activated by glutamatergic activity. While mice lacking one copy of the Map2k7 gene were overtly normal in a variety of behavioural tests, these mice showed a schizophrenia-like cognitive phenotype of impaired working memory. Additional support for MAP2K7 as a candidate gene came from a genetic association study. A substantial effect size (odds ratios: ~1.9) was observed for a common variant in a cohort of case and control samples collected in the Glasgow area and also in a replication cohort of samples of Northern European descent (most significant P-value: 3  10(-4)). While some caution is warranted until these association data are further replicated, these results are the first to implicate the candidate gene MAP2K7 in genetic risk for schizophrenia. Complete sequencing of all MAP2K7 exons did not reveal any non-synonymous mutations. However, the MAP2K7 haplotype appeared to have functional effects, in that it influenced the level of expression of MAP2K7 mRNA in human PFC. Taken together, the results imply that reduced function of the MAP2K7-c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signalling cascade may underlie some of the neurochemical changes and core symptoms in schizophrenia.
Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC) is a childhood onset neurodegenerative disorder arising from lipid-trafficking defects caused by mutations in the NPC1 or NPC2 gene. Marked accumulation of autophagosomes is a prominent feature of NPC cells, yet a detailed understanding of the disease-associated alterations in autophagy and their role in pathogenesis has been lacking. Prior studies have shown that lipid storage in NPC disease induces autophagy. Here, we additionally show that the clearance of autophagosomes in NPC1 deficiency is impaired due to inhibition of lysosomal protease activity by stored lipids. We also demonstrate that the autophagic pathway is a source of stored cholesterol in the NPC lysosome, thus creating a positive feedback loop wherein autophagy induction exacerbates the disease via increased lipid storage. Inhibition of autophagy reduces cholesterol storage and restores normal lysosomal proteolysis in NPC1-deficient cells, supporting a model in which activation of the autophagic pathway promotes disease pathogenesis.
The 7 acetylcholine nicotinic receptor (7) is an important mediator of cholinergic transmission during brain development. Here we present an intracellular signaling mechanism for the 7 receptor. Proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated 7 subunits reveals an interaction with a G protein pathway complex (GPC) comprising G(i/o), GAP-43 and G protein regulated inducer of neurite outgrowth 1 (Gprin1) in differentiating cells. Morphological studies indicate that 7 receptors regulate neurite length and complexity via a Gprin1-dependent mechanism that directs the expression of 7 to the cell surface. 7-GPC interactions were confirmed in embryonic cortical neurons and were found to modulate the growth of axons. Taken together, these findings reveal a novel intracellular pathway of signaling for 7 within neurons, and suggest a role for its interactions with the GPC in brain development.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating disease of the CNS that is presumably mediated by CD4(+) autoimmune T cells. Although both Th1 and Th17 cells have the potential to cause inflammatory CNS pathology in rodents, the identity of pathogenic T cells remains unclear in human MS. Given that each Th cell subset preferentially expresses specific chemokine receptors, we were interested to know whether T cells defined by a particular chemokine receptor profile play an active role in the pathogenesis of MS. In this article, we report that CCR2(+)CCR5(+) T cells constitute a unique population selectively enriched in the cerebrospinal fluid of MS patients during relapse but not in patients with other neurologic diseases. After polyclonal stimulation, the CCR2(+)CCR5(+) T cells exhibited a distinct ability to produce matrix metalloproteinase-9 and osteopontin, which are involved in the CNS pathology of MS. Furthermore, after TCR stimulation, the CCR2(+)CCR5(+) T cells showed a higher invasive potential across an in vitro blood-brain barrier model compared with other T cells. Of note, the CCR2(+)CCR5(+) T cells from MS patients in relapse are reactive to myelin basic protein, as assessed by production of IFN-. We also demonstrated that the CCR6(-), but not the CCR6(+), population within CCR2(+)CCR5(+) T cells was highly enriched in the cerebrospinal fluid during MS relapse (p &lt; 0.0005) and expressed higher levels of IFN- and matrix metalloproteinase-9. Taken together, we propose that autoimmune CCR2(+)CCR5(+)CCR6(-) Th1 cells play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of MS.
Lack of adherence, inaccessibility to viral reservoirs, long-term drug toxicities, and treatment failures are limitations of current antiretroviral therapy (ART). These limitations lead to increased viral loads, medicine resistance, immunocompromise, and comorbid conditions. To this end, we developed long-acting nanoformulated ART (nanoART) through modifications of existing atazanavir, ritonavir, and efavirenz suspensions in order to establish cell and tissue drug depots to achieve sustained antiretroviral responses. NanoART's abilities to affect immune and antiviral responses, before or following human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection were tested in nonobese severe combined immune-deficient mice reconstituted with human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Weekly subcutaneous injections of drug nanoformulations at doses from 80 mg/kg to 250 mg/kg, 1 day before and/or 1 and 7 days after viral exposure, elicited drug levels that paralleled the human median effective concentration, and with limited toxicities. NanoART treatment attenuated viral replication and preserved CD4(+) Tcell numbers beyond that seen with orally administered native drugs. These investigations bring us one step closer toward using long-acting antiretrovirals in humans.
Gene association with HLA suggests involvement of immune mediated mechanisms in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Only a small number of studies have found differences between circulating leukocyte populations in PD patients compared to controls, with conflicting results. To clarify whether there is a circulating leukocyte PD phenotype, we assessed the numbers of T, B and natural killer cells, and monocytes and found a small reduction (15-25%) in CD4+ T and CD19+ B cells in PD. These findings suggest some compromise in immune cells in PD and have potential implications for immune function and the progression of PD.
IL-1RA has been used intra-cerebrally to ameliorate neuroinflammatory responses. The present study explored the possibility that the bioactivity of IL-1RA administered intra-cerebrally may be prolonged in the CNS. hIL-1RA was detected in hippocampus from 2h to 14d post-ICM treatment. hIL-1RA ameliorated both the hippocampal cytokine (TNF and NFBI) and sickness response to peripheral LPS administered 4d after hIL-1RA. Four days post treatment, hIL-1RA reduced the basal expression of IL-1R1, Iba-1, MHCII, and TLR4 and blunted the microglial IL-1 and IL-6 response to LPS ex vivo. IL-1RA might be administered prophylactically to prevent the neuroinflammatory effects of trauma.
To be able to live a good, independent life cognitive functions need to be intact. Dementia, stroke and neuropsychiatric disorders are the major disorders underlying disability. Stroke is usually a consequence of an underlying vessel wall disease that has lasted for a longer period. This vessel wall disease is commonly silent or without prominent symptoms. Damage to the small penetrating arterioles of the brain, arteriolosclerosis, induced by aging and hypertension, as well as other factors such as diabetes and genetic vulnerability, plays an important role in the origin of white matter changes. The pathological vascular wall process leads to lumen constriction, impaired ability to change lumen diameter according to metabolic needs and possible ischemic-hypoxic tissue damage in the vulnerable vascular architectural terminal areas of the long penetrating arteries. The arteriolosclerotic blood vessels are associated with inflammation and remodelling of the extracellular matrix. Enzymes connected to this process have also been found to be involved in demyelination and blood brain barrier opening but also in the repair process of angiogenesis and neurogenesis. Biochemical changes reflecting these processes might be early indicators of small vessel disease and hence increase the knowledge about the disease characteristic mechanisms. Moreover, monitoring disease modifying treatment effects can be an important application for small vessel disease specific biochemical markers.


We have reported earlier that tight-junction proteins are detectable by standard immunohistochemistry in the brain parenchyma, namely in the cell bodies of neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Here we show, by projection to latent structures - discriminate analysis (PLS-DA), that the immunohistochemical detection profile of tight junction proteins clearly distinguishes the AD cases from healthy aging controls and from the cases of dementia with a predominantly vascular pathology underlying the symptoms (vascular dementia, VaD; cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy, CADASIL; and cerebral amyloid angiopathy, CAA). Our findings might be valuable in the perspective of developing biomarkers for AD.
Carbon fiber electrodes (CFE) are commonly used for in vivo detection of catecholamines due to their excellent electrochemical properties and biocompatibility. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) combined with CFEs permits the detection of catecholamines such as dopamine (DA) with high specificity and reliability. However, advances in neuroscience constantly demand sensors with greater sensitivities and selectivities. This study investigated an untreated CFE of 32 m diameter and 300 m exposed length for detection of DA using FSCV. Despite the larger area of the working electrode, we observed only a small increase in the background current in comparison with the commonly used CFE of 7 m diameter and 100 m exposed length. The sensitivity of the 32 m CFE was 9 times greater than that of the 7 m CFE. These larger electrodes exhibited good linearity and a 6 fold higher signal-to-noise ratio than 7 m CFEs in vitro. The 32 m CFE showed significantly better selectivity for DA in preference to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid than the 7 m CFE and similar selectivity to the 7 m CFE for ascorbic and homovanillic acid. The electrodes displayed good temporal resolution and electrochemical stability in both in vitro and in vivo tests.
Ischemic stroke accounts for over 80% in total human stroke which mostly affect middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory. Embolic stroke models induced by injection of homologous clots into the internal carotid artery and MCA closely mimic human stroke and have been commonly used in stroke research. Studies indicate that the size and composition of clots are critical for the reproducibility of the stroke model. In the present study, we modified the homologous clots formation by addition of thrombin and fibrinogen which produced even distribution of fibrin with tight cross linkage of red blood cells. We optimized the embolic MCA occlusion model in rats using different size of the mixed clots. A precise lodgment of the clots at the MCA bifurcation and highly reproducible ischemic lesion in the MCA territory were demonstrated in the embolic MCA occlusion model induced by injection of 10 pieces of 1-mm long mixed clots made in PE-60 catheter. We further tested the effect of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) in this embolic MCA occlusion model. rtPA induced thrombolysis, improved neurological outcome, and significantly reduced ischemic lesion volume when administered at 1h after embolism as compared with control. In summary, we have established a reproducible embolic MCA occlusion model using clots made of homologous blood, thrombin and fibrinogen. The mixed clots enable precise lodgment at the MCA bifurcation which is responsive to thrombolytic therapy of rtPA.
Over the last decade there has been a tremendous advance in the analytical tools available to neuroscientists to understand and model neural function. In particular, the point process - generalized linear model (PP-GLM) framework has been applied successfully to problems ranging from neuro-endocrine physiology to neural decoding. However, the lack of freely distributed software implementations of published PP-GLM algorithms together with problem-specific modifications required for their use, limit wide application of these techniques. In an effort to make existing PP-GLM methods more accessible to the neuroscience community, we have developed nSTAT--an open source neural spike train analysis toolbox for Matlab. By adopting an object-oriented programming (OOP) approach, nSTAT allows users to easily manipulate data by performing operations on objects that have an intuitive connection to the experiment (spike trains, covariates, etc.), rather than by dealing with data in vector/matrix form. The algorithms implemented within nSTAT address a number of common problems including computation of peri-stimulus time histograms, quantification of the temporal response properties of neurons, and characterization of neural plasticity within and across trials. nSTAT provides a starting point for exploratory data analysis, allows for simple and systematic building and testing of point process models, and for decoding of stimulus variables based on point process models of neural function. By providing an open-source toolbox, we hope to establish a platform that can be easily used, modified, and extended by the scientific community to address limitations of current techniques and to extend available techniques to more complex problems.

Fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS is mediated mainly by AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs), whose biophysical properties are dramatically modulated by the presence of transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins (TARPs). To help construct a kinetic model that will realistically describe native AMPAR/TARP function, we have examined the single-channel properties of homomeric GluA1 AMPARs in combination with the TARPs, -2, -4 and -5. In a saturating concentration of agonist, each of these AMPAR/TARP combinations gave rise to single-channel currents with multiple conductance levels that appeared intrinsic to the receptor-channel complex, and showed long-lived subconductance states. The open time and burst length distributions of the receptor complexes displayed multiple dwell-time components. In the case of -2- and -4-associated receptors, these distributions included a long-lived component lasting tens of milliseconds that was absent from both GluA1 alone and -5-associated receptors. The open time distributions for each conductance level required two dwell-time components, indicating that at each conductance level the channel occupies a minimum of two kinetically distinct open states. We have explored how these data place novel constraints on possible kinetic models of TARP-associated AMPARs that may be used to define AMPAR-mediated synaptic transmission.
The amygdala plays an important role in the processing of emotional events. This information processing is altered by development, but little is known about the development of electrophysiological properties of neurons in the amygdala. We studied the postnatal development of electrophysiological properties of neurons in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from BLA pyramidal neurons in brain slices prepared from developing and adult marmosets, and electrophysiological properties known to change during development in rats were analysed. Two passive electrical properties of the neuronal membrane - the input resistance (R(in)) and the membrane time constant () - significantly decreased with postnatal development. In contrast, the action potential only showed a slight decrease in duration during the first month of life, whereas the amplitude did not change after birth. Passive electrical properties and action potentials in neurons of 4-week-old marmosets were similar to those in neurons of 4-year-old marmosets. The development of the action potential duration was not correlated with the development of R(in) or , whereas the development of R(in) and was correlated with each other. Abundant spontaneous and noradrenaline-induced GABAergic currents were present immediately after birth and did not change during postnatal development. These results suggest that newborn infant marmoset BLA pyramidal neurons possess relatively mature action potentials and receive vigorous GABAergic synaptic inputs, and that they acquire adult-like electrophysiological properties by the fourth week of life.
Spreading depolarizations (SDs) are slowly propagating waves of near-complete neuronal and glial depolarization. SDs have been recorded in patients with brain injury, and the incidence of SD significantly correlates with outcome severity. Although it is well accepted that the ionic dyshomeostasis of SD presents a severe metabolic burden, there is currently limited understanding of SD-induced injury processes at a cellular level. In the current study we characterized events accompanying SD in the hippocampal CA1 region of murine brain slices, using whole-cell recordings and single-cell Ca(2+) imaging. We identified an excitatory phase that persisted for approximately 2 min following SD onset, and accompanied with delayed dendritic ionic dyshomeostasis. The excitatory phase coincided with a significant increase in presynaptic glutamate release, evidenced by a transient increase in spontaneous EPSC frequency and paired-pulse depression of evoked EPSCs. Activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) during this late excitatory phase contributed to the duration of individual neuronal depolarizations and delayed recovery of extracellular slow potential changes. Selectively targeting the NMDAR activation following SD onset (by delayed pressure application of a competitive NMDAR antagonist) significantly decreased the duration of cellular depolarizations. Recovery of dendritic Ca(2+) elevations following SD were also sensitive to delayed NMDA antagonist application. Partial inhibition of neuronal energy metabolism converted SD into an irrecoverable event with persistent Ca(2+) overload and membrane compromise. Delayed NMDAR block was sufficient to prevent these acute injurious events in metabolically compromised neurons. These results identify a significant contribution of a late component of SD that could underlie neuronal injury in pathological circumstances.
In neuronal systems, excitation and inhibition must be well balanced to ensure reliable information transfer. The cone/horizontal cell (HC) interaction in the retina is an example of this. Because natural scenes encompass an enormous intensity range both in temporal and spatial domains, the balance between excitation and inhibition in the outer retina needs to be adaptable. How this is achieved is unknown. Using electrophysiological techniques in the isolated retina of the goldfish, it was found that opening Ca(2+)-dependent Cl(-) channels in recorded cones reduced the size of feedback responses measured in both cones and HCs. Furthermore, we show that cones express Cl(-) channels that are gated by GABA released from HCs. Similar to activation of I(Cl(Ca)), opening of these GABA-gated Cl(-) channels reduced the size of light-induced feedback responses both in cones and HCs. Conversely, application of picrotoxin, a blocker of GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors, had the opposite effect. In addition, reducing GABA release from HCs by blocking GABA transporters also led to an increase in the size of feedback. Because the independent manipulation of Ca(2+)-dependent Cl(-) currents in individual cones yielded results comparable to bath-applied GABA, it was concluded that activation of either Cl(-) current by itself is sufficient to reduce the size of HC feedback. However, additional effects of GABA on outer retinal processing cannot be excluded. These results can be accounted for by an ephaptic feedback model in which a cone Cl(-) current shunts the current flow in the synaptic cleft. The Ca(2+)-dependent Cl(-) current might be essential to set the initial balance between the feedforward and the feedback signals active in the cone HC synapse. It prevents that strong feedback from HCs to cones flood the cone with Ca(2)(+). Modulation of the feedback strength by GABA might play a role during light/dark adaptation, adjusting the amount of negative feedback to the signal to noise ratio of the cone output.
Most of the mammalian genome is transcribed. This generates a vast repertoire of transcripts that includes protein-coding messenger RNAs, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and repetitive sequences, such as SINEs (short interspersed nuclear elements). A large percentage of ncRNAs are nuclear-enriched with unknown function. Antisense lncRNAs may form sense-antisense pairs by pairing with a protein-coding gene on the opposite strand to regulate epigenetic silencing, transcription and mRNA stability. Here we identify a nuclear-enriched lncRNA antisense to mouse ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (Uchl1), a gene involved in brain function and neurodegenerative diseases. Antisense Uchl1 increases UCHL1 protein synthesis at a post-transcriptional level, hereby identifying a new functional class of lncRNAs. Antisense Uchl1 activity depends on the presence of a 5' overlapping sequence and an embedded inverted SINEB2 element. These features are shared by other natural antisense transcripts and can confer regulatory activity to an artificial antisense to green fluorescent protein. Antisense Uchl1 function is under the control of stress signalling pathways, as mTORC1 inhibition by rapamycin causes an increase in UCHL1 protein that is associated to the shuttling of antisense Uchl1 RNA from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Antisense Uchl1 RNA is then required for the association of the overlapping sense protein-coding mRNA to active polysomes for translation. These data reveal another layer of gene expression control at the post-transcriptional level.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the perceived direction of motion of a visual stimulus can be decoded from the pattern of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) responses in occipital cortex using multivariate analysis methods (Kamitani and Tong, 2006). One possible mechanism for this is a difference in the sampling of direction selective cortical columns between voxels, implying that information at a level smaller than the voxel size might be accessible with fMRI. Alternatively, multivariate analysis methods might be driven by the organization of neurons into clusters or even orderly maps at a much larger scale. To assess the possible sources of the direction selectivity observed in fMRI data, we tested how classification accuracy varied across different visual areas and subsets of voxels for classification of motion-direction. To enable high spatial resolution functional MRI measurements (1.5mm isotropic voxels), data were collected at 7T. To test whether information about the direction of motion is represented at the scale of retinotopic maps, we looked at classification performance after combining data across different voxels within visual areas (V1-3 and MT+/V5) before training the multivariate classifier. A recent study has shown that orientation biases in V1 are both necessary and sufficient to explain classification of stimulus orientation (Freeman et al., 2011). Here, we combined voxels with similar visual field preference as determined in separate retinotopy measurements and observed that classification accuracy was preserved when averaging in this 'retinotopically restricted' way, compared to random averaging of voxels. This insensitivity to averaging of voxels (with similar visual angle preference) across substantial distances in cortical space suggests that there are large-scale biases at the level of retinotopic maps underlying our ability to classify direction of motion.
Converging evidence suggests that visual brain regions are part of a widespread network that signals forthcoming reward. However, the precise temporal dynamics underlying the interaction between reward and visual information processing remain unclear. To further investigate this issue, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) in combination with two versions of a face/scene discrimination task followed by a recognition memory test. In experiment 1, the distinction between faces and scenes was associated with monetary reward prospect, whereas in experiment 2 subjects distinguished between both categories in the absence of reward. In both experiments characteristic neural category effects (i.e., differences between faces and scenes) were observed in the event-related magnetic fields (ERF) at ~100 ms (M100) and ~170 ms (M170) after stimulus onset. Importantly, both ERF components (M100 and M170) were amplified in the context of reward (i.e., experiment 1) and this interaction could be source localized to the lateral occipital cortex (~100 ms) and fusiform gyrus (~170 ms). Furthermore, neural effects of reward prediction emerged over frontal sensors at ~300 ms after stimulus onset which reliably correlated with subsequent recognition memory performance. These results demonstrate that reward motivation can modulate early neural computations of complex visual information, possibly by tuning sensory neurons within the visual cortex.
Pain is known to comprise sensory, cognitive, and affective aspects. Despite numerous previous fMRI studies, however, it remains open which spatial distribution of activity is sufficient to encode whether a stimulus is perceived as painful or not. In this study, we analyzed fMRI data from a perceptual decision-making task in which participants were exposed to near-threshold laser pulses. Using multivariate analyses on different spatial scales, we investigated the predictive capacity of fMRI data for decoding whether a stimulus had been perceived as painful. Our analysis yielded a rank order of brain regions: during pain anticipation, activity in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) afforded the most accurate trial-by-trial discrimination between painful and non-painful experiences; whereas during the actual stimulation, primary and secondary somatosensory cortex, anterior insula, dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, and OFC were most discriminative. The most accurate prediction of pain perception from the stimulation period, however, was enabled by the combined activity in pain regions commonly referred to as the 'pain matrix'. Our results demonstrate that the neural representation of (near-threshold) pain is spatially distributed and can be best described at an intermediate spatial scale. In addition to its utility in establishing structure-function mappings, our approach affords trial-by-trial predictions and thus represents a step towards the goal of establishing an objective neuronal marker of pain perception.
Perceptual decision-making entails the transformation of graded sensory signals into categorical judgments. Often, there is a direct mapping between these judgments and specific motor responses. However, when stimulus-response mappings are fixed, neural activity underlying decision-making cannot be separated from neural activity reflecting motor planning. Several human neuroimaging studies have reported changes in brain activity associated with perceptual decisions. Nevertheless, to date it has remained unknown where and how specific choices are encoded in the human brain when motor planning is decoupled from the decision process. We addressed this question by having subjects judge the direction of motion of dynamic random dot patterns at various levels of motion strength while measuring their brain activity with fMRI. We used multivariate decoding analyses to search the whole brain for patterns of brain activity encoding subjects' choices. To decouple the decision process from motor planning, subjects were informed about the required motor response only after stimulus presentation. Patterns of fMRI signals in early visual and inferior parietal cortex predicted subjects' perceptual choices irrespective of motor planning. This was true across several levels of motion strength and even in the absence of any coherent stimulus motion. We also found that the cortical distribution of choice-selective brain signals depended on stimulus strength: While visual cortex carried most choice-selective information for strong motion, information in parietal cortex decreased with increasing motion coherence. These results demonstrate that human visual and inferior parietal cortex carry information about the visual decision in a more abstract format than can be explained by simple motor intentions. Both brain regions may be differentially involved in perceptual decision-making in the face of strong and weak sensory evidence.
Presentation of a face stimulus for several seconds at a periodic frequency rate leads to a right occipito-temporal evoked steady-state visual potential (SSVEP) confined to the stimulation frequency band. According to recent evidence (Rossion and Boremanse, 2011), this face-related SSVEP is largely reduced in amplitude when the exact same face is repeated at every stimulation cycle as compared to the presentation of different individual faces. Here this SSVEP individual face repetition effect was tested in 20 participants stimulated with faces at a 4 Hz rate for 84 s, in 4 conditions: faces upright or inverted, normal or contrast-reversed (22 design). To study the temporal dynamics of this effect, all stimulation sequences started with 15s of identical faces, after which, in half of the sequences, different faces were introduced. A larger response to different than identical faces at the fundamental (4 Hz) and second harmonic (8 Hz) components was observed for upright faces over the right occipito-temporal cortex. Weaker effects were found for inverted and contrast-reversed faces, two stimulus manipulations that are known to greatly affect the perception of facial identity. Addition of the two manipulations further decreased the effect. The phase of the fundamental frequency SSVEP response was delayed for inverted and contrast-reversed faces, to the same extent as the latency delay observed at the peak of the face-sensitive N170 component observed at stimulation sequence onset. Time-course analysis of the entire sequence of stimulation showed an immediate increase of 4Hz amplitude at the onset (16th second) of different face presentation, indicating a fast, large and frequency-specific release to individual face adaptation in the human brain. Altogether, these observations increase our understanding of the characteristics of the human steady-state face potential response and provide further support for the interest of this approach in the study of the neurofunctional mechanisms of face perception.
Neuroimaging research has identified several brain systems sensitive to statistical regularities within environmental input. However, the continuous input impinging on sensory organs is rarely stationary and its degree of regularity may itself change over time. The goals of the current fMRI study were to identify systems sensitive to changes in statistical regularities within an ongoing stimulus, and determine to what extent sensitivity to such changes depends on intentional monitoring of order. We predicted that changes in regularity would be coded for in systems previously associated with statistical coding (hippocampus and middle frontal regions) or event segmentation (posterior medial regions). Participants listened to a rapid train of four different tones whose order levels fluctuated over time. In an active task, participants monitored the tones and indicated when they perceived a change in regularity; in a passive task, they performed a concurrent visuo-motor task and could ignore the auditory input. Behavioral responses in the active task were used to define points of consensus between participants regarding changes in regularity. Activity in 7.5s epochs that preceded these order-change points was contrasted with activity during matched-length epochs where no participant indicated a change in order. We found that brain regions differentiating these two types of epochs matched those identified in prior research as mediating event segmentation in narratives and movies. These consisted mainly of medial posterior parietal and occipital regions, with limited involvement of temporal and lateral frontal cortices and no hippocampal involvement. In both tasks, order-change epochs were associated with a higher BOLD response than stable-order epochs, but the specific regions showing this pattern varied across tasks. We suggest that partitioning an input stream on the basis of statistical shifts constitutes a basic neural function underlying the ability to segment both semantic and non-semantic inputs. We further discuss the implications of these findings for neurobiological theories of statistical coding and event segmentation.
Cultivation of an active cognitive lifestyle, including diverse and challenging educational, occupational and cognitively-loaded leisure activities may be protective against development of dementia but the mechanisms underlying this link are not clear. We used the Lifetime Experiences Questionnaire (LEQ) to assess the structural brain correlates of cognitive lifestyle in the Sydney Memory and Aging Study, a large population-based cohort of originally 1037 non-demented elderly aged over 70 years of age. After excluding those without structural Magnetic Resonance Image data or Mild Cognitive Impairment at their most recent assessment, 151 cognitively intact subjects were studied. Whole-brain voxel based morphometric analysis found that higher total Lifetime Experiences Questionnaire scores are linked with increased grey matter volume in the medial temporal lobe, especially in the hippocampus. Through a series of more specific analyses, we found that supervisory and managerial experience in midlife was the dominant contributor to this effect. Furthermore, in those with longitudinal neuroimaging data (N=91), we measured hippocampal structural changes over a 2-3 year period by gold-standard manual tracing. The rate of hippocampal atrophy in late-life in those with high level supervisory experience in midlife was five-times slower than those with no midlife supervisory experience (p&lt;0.001). Individual differences in intracranial volume, age, gender, physical activity, depressive symptoms, or apolipoprotein 4 genetic status could not explain these findings, nor could specific lifestyle patterns in late life. For the first time, we reveal that managerial and supervisory experience during our working life is connected to hippocampal integrity after retirement, some 20-30 years later. Our results stimulate several questions about the nature of work-related effects on longterm behaviour, structural neuroplasticity and neuroprotection, and may help explain differences in dementia-risk based on cognitive lifestyle.
Cognitive control is necessary to navigating through an uncertain world. With the stop signal task (SST), we measure how cognitive control functions in a controlled environment. There has been conflicting evidence on whether trait impulsivity might reflect differences in cognitive control during the SST. While some studies find that trait impulsivity relates to measures of response inhibition, such as the stop signal reaction time (SSRT), other studies do not. Here, in 92 young adult participants (58 females; age 25  4 years), we examined whether trait impulsivity, measured by the Barratt impulsivity scale (BIS-11), is associated with differences in performance and regional brain activations for the component processes of cognitive control during the SST. Across participants, trait impulsivity showed a trend-level correlation with SSRT (F(1.90)=3.18, p&lt;.07; Pearson regression). In simple regressions, activation of the right anterior dorsal insula and middle frontal cortex (MFC) during stop as compared to go trials negatively correlated with motor and non-planning impulsivity score. Using the generalized form of psychophysiological interaction (gPPI), we showed that functional connectivity of the right insula and MFC with the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and bilateral visual areas were also negatively correlated with impulsivity. None of the other component processes of cognitive control, including response inhibition, error processing, post-error slowing, were significantly related to Barratt impulsivity. These results suggest that trait impulsivity as measured by BIS-11 may have distinct effects on saliency processing in adult individuals.
The estimation of event-related single trial EEG activity is notoriously difficult but is of growing interest in various areas of cognitive neuroscience, such as multimodal neuroimaging and EEG-based brain computer interfaces. However, an objective evaluation of different approaches is lacking. The present study therefore compared four frequently-used single-trial data filtering procedures: raw sensor amplitudes, regression-based estimation, bandpass filtering, and independent component analysis (ICA). High-density EEG data were recorded from 20 healthy participants in a face recognition task and were analyzed with a focus on the face-selective N170 single-trial event-related potential. Linear discriminant analysis revealed significantly better single-trial estimation for ICA compared to raw sensor amplitudes, whereas the other two approaches did not improve classification accuracy. Further analyses suggested that ICA enabled extraction of a face-sensitive independent component in each participant, which led to the superior performance in single trial estimation. Additionally, we show that the face-sensitive component does not directly represent activity from a neuronal population exclusively involved in face-processing, but rather the activity of a network involved in general visual processing. We conclude that ICA effectively facilitates the separation of physiological trial-by-trial fluctuations from measurement noise, in particular when the process of interest is reliably reflected in components representing the neural signature of interest.
Discovering functional connectivity between and within brain regions is a key concern in neuroscience. Due to the noise inherent in fMRI data, it is challenging to characterize the properties of individual voxels, and current methods are unable to flexibly analyze voxel-level connectivity differences. We propose a new functional connectivity method which incorporates a spatial smoothness constraint using regularized optimization, enabling the discovery of voxel-level interactions between brain regions from the small datasets characteristic of fMRI experiments. We validate our method in two separate experiments, demonstrating that we can learn coherent connectivity maps that are consistent with known results. First, we examine the functional connectivity between early visual areas V1 and VP, confirming that this connectivity structure preserves retinotopic mapping. Then, we show that two category-selective regions in ventral cortex - the Parahippocampal Place Area (PPA) and the Fusiform Face Area (FFA) - exhibit an expected peripheral versus foveal bias in their connectivity with visual area hV4. These results show that our approach is powerful, widely applicable, and capable of uncovering complex connectivity patterns with only a small amount of input data.
A novel method for the quantification of heterogeneity and spatial correlation in 3D MP-RAGE images of white matter is presented. The technique is based on the variogram, a tool commonly used in geosciences for the analysis of spatial data, and was tailored to the special requirements of MR image analysis. Influences from intensity non-uniformities, noise and arbitrary greyscale were quantified and considered in the calculations. The obtained variograms were fitted with spherical model functions to infer parameters that quantify heterogeneity and size of the correlation structures of the tissue. Numerically generated samples with well-defined correlation properties were employed to validate the estimation process and to provide an interpretation of the parameters obtained. It is shown that the method gives reliable results in an interval of correlation structures sized between 2mm and 20mm. The method was applied to 24 MP-RAGE datasets of healthy female volunteers ranging in age from 19 to 73 years. White matter was found to have two prominent correlation structures with sizes of approximately 3mm and 23 mm. The heterogeneity of the smaller structure increases significantly with age (r=0.83, p&lt;10(-6)).
One important goal of cognitive neuroscience is to discover and explain properties common to all human brains. The traditional solution for comparing functional activations across brains in fMRI is to align each individual brain to a template brain in a Cartesian coordinate system (e.g., the Montreal Neurological Institute template). However, inter-individual anatomical variability leads to decreases in sensitivity (ability to detect a significant activation when it is present) and functional resolution (ability to discriminate spatially adjacent but functionally different neural responses) in group analyses. Subject-specific functional localizers have been previously argued to increase the sensitivity and functional resolution of fMRI analyses in the presence of inter-subject variability in the locations of functional activations (e.g., Brett et al., 2002; Fedorenko and Kanwisher, 2009, 2011; Fedorenko et al., 2010; Kanwisher et al., 1997; Saxe et al., 2006). In the current paper we quantify this dependence of sensitivity and functional resolution on functional variability across subjects in order to illustrate the highly detrimental effects of this variability on traditional group analyses. We show that analyses that use subject-specific functional localizers usually outperform traditional group-based methods in both sensitivity and functional resolution, even when the same total amount of data is used for each analysis. We further discuss how the subject-specific functional localization approach, which has traditionally only been considered in the context of ROI-based analyses, can be extended to whole-brain voxel-based analyses. We conclude that subject-specific functional localizers are particularly well suited for investigating questions of functional specialization in the brain. An SPM toolbox that can perform all of the analyses described in this paper is publicly available, and the analyses can be applied retroactively to any dataset, provided that multiple runs were acquired per subject, even if no explicit &quot;localizer&quot; task was included.
The present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment aims at clarifying the role of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) in the evaluation of feedback in a deterministic environment. We tested, in particular, the response of the rACC to the detection of different types of feedback, and to varying levels of outcome expectancy. We used a problem-solving task in which subjects had to discover, in successive trials, which one of the four presented stimuli was associated with a positive feedback, the other ones being associated with error feedback. In this task, two periods alternated: 1. an exploratory period in which error feedback indicated to adapt the following response appropriately (and continue to explore), and first positive feedback indicated to change strategy (i.e. to shift from explorative to exploitative behavior), and 2. an exploitative period in which subjects had to repeat the correct choice. The rACC is recruited in the exploratory period during the analysis of both error and first correct positive feedback. In addition, the rACC activity was modulated by positive reward prediction error values (i.e. the difference between obtained and expected feedback). Altogether, these results reveal the critical role of the rACC in the evaluation of salient feedback for learning optimal strategies.
Atrazine, one of the most commonly used herbicides worldwide, acts as an endocrine disruptor, but the mechanism of its action has not been characterized. In this study, we show that atrazine rapidly increases cAMP levels in cultured rat pituitary and testicular Leydig cells in a concentration-dependent manner, but less effectively than 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, a competitive non-specific inhibitor of phosphodiesterases (PDEs). In forskolin (an activator of adenylyl cyclase)- and probenecid (an inhibitor of cyclic nucleotide transporters)-treated cells, but not in 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine-treated cells, atrazine further increased cAMP levels, indicating that inhibition of PDEs accounts for accumulation of cAMP. In contrast to cAMP, atrazine did not alter cGMP levels, further indicating that it inhibits cAMP-specific PDEs. Atrazine-induced changes in cAMP levels were sufficient to stimulate prolactin release in pituitary cells and androgen production in Leydig cells, indicating that it acts as an endocrine disrupter both in cells that secrete by exocytosis of prestored hormones and in cells that secrete by de novo hormone synthesis. Rolipram abolished the stimulatory effect of atrazine on cAMP release in both cell types, suggesting that it acts as an inhibitor of PDE4s, isoforms whose mRNA transcripts dominate in pituitary and Leydig cells together with mRNA for PDE8A. In contrast, immortalized lacto-somatotrophs showed low expression of these mRNA transcripts and several fold higher cAMP levels compared to normal pituitary cells, and atrazine was unable to further increase cAMP levels. These results indicate that atrazine acts as a general endocrine disrupter by inhibiting cAMP-specific PDE4s.

Serotonin (5-HT) is a critical neurotransmitter in the control of autonomic functions. 5-HT(3) receptors participate in vagal afferent feedback to decrease food intake and regulate cardiovascular reflexes; however, the phenotype of the solitary tract nucleus (NTS) neurons involved is not known. A(2)/C(2) catecholamine (CA) neurons in the NTS are directly activated by visceral afferents and are important for the control of food intake and cardiovascular function, making them good candidates to respond to and mediate the effects of serotonin at the level of the NTS. This study examines serotonin's effects on NTS-CA neurons using patch-clamp techniques and transgenic mice expressing an enhanced green fluorescent protein driven by the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter (TH-EGFP) to identify catecholamine neurons. Serotonin increased the frequency of spontaneous glutamate excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in &gt;90% of NTS-TH-EGFP neurons, an effect blocked by the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron and mimicked by the 5-HT(3) receptor agonists SR5227 and mCPBG. In contrast, 5-HT(3) receptor agonists increased sEPSCs on a minority (&lt;30%) of non-TH neurons. 5-HT(3) receptor agonists increased the frequency, but not the amplitude, of mini-EPSCs, suggesting that their actions are presynaptic. 5-HT(3) receptor agonists increased the firing rate of TH-EGFP neurons, an effect dependent on the increased spontaneous glutamate inputs as it was blocked by the ionotropic glutamate antagonist NBQX, but independent of visceral afferent activation. These results demonstrate a cellular mechanism by which serotonin activates NTS-TH neurons and suggest a pathway by which it can increase catecholamine release in target regions to modulate food intake, motivation, stress, and cardiovascular function.
Impaired clearance of amyloid- (A) is a major pathogenic event for Alzheimer's disease (AD). A depositions in brain parenchyma as senile plaques and along cerebrovasculature as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) are hallmarks of AD. A major pathway that mediates brain A clearance is the cerebrovascular system where A is eliminated through the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and/or degraded by cerebrovascular cells along the interstitial fluid drainage pathway. An A clearance receptor, the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), is abundantly expressed in cerebrovasculature, in particular in vascular smooth muscle cells. Previous studies have indicated a role of LRP1 in endothelial cells in transcytosing A out of the brain across the BBB; however, whether this represents a significant pathway for brain A clearance remains controversial. Here, we demonstrate that A can be cleared locally in the cerebrovasculature by an LRP1-dependent endocytic pathway in smooth muscle cells. The uptake and degradation of both endogenous and exogenous A were significantly reduced in LRP1-suppressed human brain vascular smooth muscle cells. Conditional deletion of Lrp1 in vascular smooth muscle cell in amyloid model APP/PS1 mice accelerated brain A accumulation and exacerbated A deposition as amyloid plaques and CAA without affecting A production. Our results demonstrate that LRP1 is a major A clearance receptor in cerebral vascular smooth muscle cell and a disturbance of this pathway contributes to A accumulation. These studies establish critical functions of the cerebrovasculature system in A metabolism and identify a new pathway involved in the pathogenesis of both AD and CAA.
Animals respond to changing contingencies to maximize reward. The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is important for flexible responding when established contingencies change, but the underlying cognitive mechanisms are debated. We tested rats with sham or OFC lesions in radial maze tasks that varied the frequency of contingency changes and measured both perseverative and non-perseverative errors. When contingencies were changed rarely, rats with sham lesions learned quickly and performed better than rats with OFC lesions. Rats with sham lesions made fewer non-perseverative errors, rarely entering non-rewarded arms, and more win-stay responses by returning to recently rewarded arms compared with rats with OFC lesions. When contingencies were changed rapidly, however, rats with sham lesions learned slower, made more non-perseverative errors and fewer lose-shift responses, and returned more often to non-rewarded arms than rats with OFC lesions. The results support the view that the OFC integrates reward history and suggest that the availability of outcome expectancy signals can either improve or impair adaptive responding depending on reward stability.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are the most widely prescribed drugs targeting the CNS with acute and chronic effects in cognitive, emotional and behavioral processes. This suggests that microcircuits of the human cerebral cortex are powerfully modulated by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, however, direct measurements of serotonergic regulation on human synaptic interactions are missing. Using multiple whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from neurons in acute cortical slices derived from nonpathological human samples of the prefrontal cortex, we show that neuronal assemblies triggered by single action potentials of individual neurons in the human cortex are suppressed by therapeutic doses of fluoxetine (Prozac). This effect is boosted and can be mimicked by physiological concentrations of serotonin through 5HT-2A and 5HT-1A receptors. Monosynaptic excitatory connections from pyramidal cells to interneurons were suppressed by application of serotonin leaving the monosynaptic output of GABAergic cells unaffected. Changes in failure rate, in paired-pulse ratio, and in the coefficient of variation of the amplitude of EPSPs suggest a presynaptic action of serotonin. In conclusion, activation of neuronal assemblies, which were suggested as building blocks of high order cognitive processes, are effectively downregulated by the acute action of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin at the site of pyramidal output in human microcircuits.
The right intraparietal sulcus (rIPS) is a key region for the endogenous control of selective visual attention in the human brain. Previous studies suggest that the rIPS is especially involved in top-down control and spatial distribution of attention across both visual hemifields. We further explored these attentional functions using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of the rIPS to modulate behavioral performance in a partial report task. Performance was analyzed according to the theory of visual attention (TVA) (Bundesen, 1990), which provides a computational framework to investigate different parameters of visuo-attentional processing such as top-down control, attentional weighting, capacity of visual short term memory, and processing speed. We investigated the effects of different tDCS current strengths (1 mA and 2 mA) in two experiments: 1 mA tDCS (anodal, cathodal, sham) did not affect any of the TVA parameters, but cathodal 2 mA stimulation significantly enhanced top-down control as evidenced by a reduction of the  parameter of TVA, regardless of hemifield. This differential impact on the top-down control component of attentional processing suggests that the horizontal rIPS is mainly involved in attentional selection as none of the spatial or resource variables of TVA were altered. Furthermore, the data add evidence to previous work highlighting (1) the importance of using appropriate current strength in stimulation protocols, and (2) that the often reported inhibitory effect of cathodal stimulation in e.g., motor tasks might not extend to cognitive paradigms.
Mouse chromaffin cells (MCCs) fire spontaneous action potentials (APs) at rest. Ca(v)1.3 L-type calcium channels sustain the pacemaker current, and their loss results in depolarized resting potentials (V(rest)), spike broadening, and remarkable switches into depolarization block after BayK 8644 application. A functional coupling between Ca(v)1.3 and BK channels has been reported but cannot fully account for the aforementioned observations. Here, using Ca(v)1.3(-/-) mice, we investigated the role of Ca(v)1.3 on SK channel activation and how this functional coupling affects the firing patterns induced by sustained current injections. MCCs express SK1-3 channels whose tonic currents are responsible for the slow irregular firing observed at rest. Percentage of frequency increase induced by apamin was found inversely correlated to basal firing frequency. Upon stimulation, MCCs build-up Ca(v)1.3-dependent SK currents during the interspike intervals that lead to a notable degree of spike frequency adaptation (SFA). The major contribution of Ca(v)1.3 to the subthreshold Ca(2+) charge during an AP-train rather than a specific molecular coupling to SK channels accounts for the reduced SFA of Ca(v)1.3(-/-) MCCs. Low adaptation ratios due to reduced SK activation associated with Ca(v)1.3 deficiency prevent the efficient recovery of Na(V) channels from inactivation. This promotes a rapid decline of AP amplitudes and facilitates early onset of depolarization block following prolonged stimulation. Thus, besides serving as pacemaker, Ca(v)1.3 slows down MCC firing by activating SK channels that maintain Na(V) channel availability high enough to preserve stable AP waveforms, even upon high-frequency stimulation of chromaffin cells during stress responses.
We tested cerebellar degeneration in human patients in a task designed to isolate different aspects of motor planning and found a specific relationship between their ability to do inverse kinematic transformation and sparing of Crus I. Our approach was based on an experimental design introduced by Sober and Sabes (2003, 2005). Their paradigm allows behavioral deficits in planning of movement direction to be dissociated from deficits in generation of motor commands and also allows for the relative role played by visual and proprioceptive information to be quantified. Perturbation of visual information about hand position affected cerebellar degeneration patients (N = 12) and age-matched controls equally in determining movement direction, but had less of an effect in both groups in the transformation of movement direction to motor command. However, when provided with vision of the joints, control participants were more affected in generating the motor command in perturbed trials, and cerebellar degeneration participants were not. Thus, cerebellar patients were less able to use visual information about the joints in generating motor commands. Voxel-based morphometric analysis showed that this inability was primarily correlated with degeneration of Crus I. These results show that the cerebellum plays a role in motor planning, and specifically in the generation of inverse kinematic models for sensorimotor processing. The involvement of Crus I is consistent with an emerging picture in which increasingly posterior lobules of the anterior cerebellar cortex are associated with increasingly complex and abstract aspects of motor behavior.
Adolescence is a crucial developmental period characterized by specific behaviors reflecting the immaturity of decision-making abilities. However, the maturation of precise cognitive processes and their neurobiological correlates at this period remain poorly understood. Here, we investigate whether a differential developmental time course of dopamine (DA) pathways during late adolescence could explain the emergence of particular executive and motivational components of goal-directed behavior. First, using a contingency degradation protocol, we demonstrate that adolescent rats display a specific deficit when the causal relationship between their actions and their consequences is changed. When the rats become adults, this deficit disappears. In contrast, actions of adolescents remain sensitive to outcome devaluation or to the influence of a pavlovian-conditioned stimulus. This aspect of cognitive maturation parallels a delayed development of the DA system, especially the mesocortical pathway involved in action adaptation to rule changes. Unlike in striatal and nucleus accumbens regions, DA fibers and DA tissue content continue to increase in the medial prefrontal cortex from juvenile to adult age. Moreover, a sustained overexpression of DA receptors is observed in the prefrontal region until the end of adolescence. These findings highlight the relationship between the emergence of specific cognitive processes, in particular the adaptation to changes in action consequences, and the delayed maturation of the mesocortical DA pathway. Similar developmental processes in humans could contribute to the adolescent vulnerability to the emergence of several psychiatric disorders characterized by decision-making deficits.
Neural progenitor cells, neurons, and glia of the normal vertebrate brain are diversely aneuploid, forming mosaics of intermixed aneuploid and euploid cells. The functional significance of neural mosaic aneuploidy is not known; however, the generation of aneuploidy during embryonic neurogenesis, coincident with caspase-dependent programmed cell death (PCD), suggests that a cell's karyotype could influence its survival within the CNS. To address this hypothesis, PCD in the mouse embryonic cerebral cortex was attenuated by global pharmacological inhibition of caspases or genetic removal of caspase-3 or caspase-9. The chromosomal repertoire of individual brain cells was then assessed by chromosome counting, spectral karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and DNA content flow cytometry. Reducing PCD resulted in markedly enhanced mosaicism that was comprised of increased numbers of cells with the following: (1) numerical aneuploidy (chromosome losses or gains); (2) extreme forms of numerical aneuploidy (&gt;5 chromosomes lost or gained); and (3) rare karyotypes, including those with coincident chromosome loss and gain, or absence of both members of a chromosome pair (nullisomy). Interestingly, mildly aneuploid (&lt;5 chromosomes lost or gained) populations remained comparatively unchanged. These data demonstrate functional non-equivalence of distinguishable aneuploidies on neural cell survival, providing evidence that somatically generated, cell-autonomous genomic alterations have consequences for neural development and possibly other brain functions.
-Opioid receptors (MORs) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are pivotally involved in addictive behavior. While MORs are typically activated by opioids, they can also become constitutively active in the absence of any agonist. In the current study, we present evidence that MOR constitutive activity is highly relevant in the mouse VTA, as it regulates GABAergic input to dopamine neurons. Specifically, suppression of MOR constitutive activity with the inverse agonist KC-2-009 enhanced GABAergic neurotransmission onto VTA dopamine neurons. This inverse agonistic effect was fully blocked by the specific MOR neutral antagonist CTOP, which had no effect on GABAergic transmission itself. We next show that withdrawal from chronic morphine further increases the magnitude of inverse agonistic effects at the MOR, suggesting enhanced MOR constitutive activity. We demonstrate that this increase can be an adaptive response to the detrimental elevation in cAMP levels known to occur during morphine withdrawal. These findings offer important insights in the physiological occurrence and function of MOR constitutive activity, and have important implications for therapeutic strategies aimed at normalizing MOR signaling during addiction and opioid overdose.
In the present study we investigated whether the neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), previously implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, also affects L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. In striatal slices of naive rodents, N/OFQ (0.1-1 m) prevented the increase of ERK phosphorylation and the loss of depotentiation of synaptic plasticity induced by the D1 receptor agonist SKF38393 in spiny neurons. In vivo, exogenous N/OFQ (0.03-1 nmol, i.c.v.) or a synthetic N/OFQ receptor agonist given systemically (0.01-1 mg/Kg) attenuated dyskinesias expression in 6-hydroxydopamine hemilesioned rats primed with L-DOPA, without causing primary hypolocomotive effects. Conversely, N/OFQ receptor antagonists worsened dyskinesia expression. In vivo microdialysis revealed that N/OFQ prevented dyskinesias simultaneously with its neurochemical correlates such as the surge of nigral GABA and glutamate, and the reduction of thalamic GABA. Regional microinjections revealed that N/OFQ attenuated dyskinesias more potently and effectively when microinjected in striatum than substantia nigra (SN) reticulata, whereas N/OFQ receptor antagonists were ineffective in striatum but worsened dyskinesias when given in SN. Quantitative autoradiography showed an increase in N/OFQ receptor binding in striatum and a reduction in SN of both unprimed and dyskinetic 6-hydroxydopamine rats, consistent with opposite adaptive changes of N/OFQ transmission. Finally, the N/OFQ receptor synthetic agonist also reduced dyskinesia expression in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated dyskinetic macaques without affecting the global parkinsonian score. We conclude that N/OFQ receptor agonists may represent a novel strategy to counteract L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. Their action is possibly mediated by upregulated striatal N/OFQ receptors opposing the D1 receptor-mediated overactivation of the striatonigral direct pathway.

Studies have demonstrated that AMPHs produce long-term damage to the brain dopaminergic, serotoninergic and glutamatergic regions. Prefrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus and striatum appear to be involved in the toxicity and behavioral changes induced by AMPHs. A single dose of AMPH causes mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in rat brain. The goal of the present study was thus to investigate the potency of two amphetamines, dextroamphetamine (d-AMPH) and methamphetamine (m-AMPH), on the behavior and energetic dysfunction in the brain of rats. d-AMPH and m-AMPH increased the crossing and rearing behaviors. The numbers of visits to the center were increased by d-AMPH and m-AMPH only at 2mg/kg. Likewise, at a high dose (2 mg/kg), the injection of m-AMPH increased the amount of sniffing. The AMPHs significantly decreased the activities of Krebs cycle enzymes (citrate synthase and succinate dehydrogenase) and mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes (I-IV); nevertheless, this effect varied depending on the brain region evaluated. In summary, this study demonstrated that at high doses, m-AMPH, increased stereotyped (sniffing) behavior in rats, but d-AMPH did not. However, this study shows that d-AMPH and m-AMPH seem to have similar effects on the brains energetic metabolism.
Alterations in the structure and physiology of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) have been found in different psychiatric disorders and some of them involve inhibitory networks, especially in schizophrenia and major depression. Changes in the structure of these networks may be mediated by the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a molecule related to neuronal structural plasticity, expressed in the PFC exclusively by interneurons. Different studies have found that PSA-NCAM expression in the hippocampus and the amygdala is altered in schizophrenia, major depression and animal models of these disorders, in parallel to changes in the expression of molecules related to inhibitory neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. We have analyzed post-mortem sections of the dorsolateral PFC from the Stanley Neuropathology Consortium, which includes controls, schizophrenia, bipolar and major depression patients, to check whether similar alterations occur. PSA-NCAM was found in neuronal somata and neuropil puncta, many of which corresponded to interneurons. PSA-NCAM expression was only reduced significantly in schizophrenic patients, in parallel to a decrease in glutamic acid-decarboxylase-67 (GAD67) and to an increased expression of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) in the white matter. Depressed patients showed significant decreases in synaptophysin (SYN) and VGLUT1 expression. Whereas in bipolar patients, decreases in VGLUT1 expression have also been found, together with a reduction of GAD67. These results indicate that the expression of synaptic proteins is altered in the PFC of patients suffering from these disorders and that, particularly in schizophrenia, abnormal PSA-NCAM and GAD67 expression may underlie the alterations observed in inhibitory neurotransmission.


Coordinated migration and placement of interneurons and projection neurons lead to functional connectivity in the cerebral cortex; defective neuronal migration and the resultant connectivity changes underlie the cognitive defects in a spectrum of neurological disorders. Here we show that primary cilia play a guiding role in the migration and placement of postmitotic interneurons in the developing cerebral cortex and that this process requires the ciliary protein, Arl13b. Through live imaging of interneuronal cilia, we show that migrating interneurons display highly dynamic primary cilia and we correlate cilia dynamics with the interneuron's migratory state. We demonstrate that the guidance cue receptors essential for interneuronal migration localize to interneuronal primary cilia, but their concentration and dynamics are altered in the absence of Arl13b. Expression of Arl13b variants known to cause Joubert syndrome induce defective interneuronal migration, suggesting that defects in cilia-dependent interneuron migration may in part underlie the neurological defects in Joubert syndrome patients.
IRE1, the most conserved transducer of the unfolded protein response, plays critical roles in many biological processes and cell fate decisions. Reporting in Science, Upton etal. (2012) broadened our understanding of IRE1 as a cell-death executioner, showing that upon ER stress, IRE1 degrades microRNAs to promote translation of caspase-2.
Parkinson's disease is a common and debilitating condition, caused by aberrant activity in a complex basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuit. Therapeutic advances rely on characterising interactions in this circuit. However, recording electrophysiological responses over the entire circuit is impractical. Dynamic causal modelling offers large-scale models of predictive value based on a limited or partial sampling of complex networks. Using dynamic causal modelling, we determined the network changes underlying the pathological excess of beta oscillations that characterise the Parkinsonian state. We modelled data from five patients undergoing surgery for deep brain stimulation of more than one target. We found that connections to and from the subthalamic nucleus were strengthened and promoted beta synchrony, in the untreated compared to the treated Parkinsonian state. Dynamic causal modelling was able to replicate the effects of lesioning this nucleus and may provide a new means of directing the search for therapeutic targets.

The amygdala is a key structure of the brain's reward system. Existing theories view its role in decision-making as restricted to an early valuation stage that provides input to decision mechanisms in downstream brain structures. However, the extent to which the amygdala itself codes information about economic choices is unclear. Here, we report that individual neurons in the primate amygdala predict behavioral choices in an economic decision task. We recorded the activity of amygdala neurons while monkeys chose between saving liquid reward with interest and spending the accumulated reward. In addition to known value-related responses, we found that activity in a group of amygdala neurons predicted the monkeys' upcoming save-spend choices with an average accuracy of 78%. This choice-predictive activity occurred early in trials, even before information about specific actions associated with save-spend choices was available. For a substantial number of neurons, choice-differential activity was specific for free, internally generated economic choices and not observed in a control task involving forced imperative choices. A subgroup of choice-predictive neurons did not show relationships to value, movement direction, or visual stimulus features. Choice-predictive activity in some amygdala neurons was preceded by transient periods of value coding, suggesting value-to-choice transitions and resembling decision processes in other brain systems. These findings suggest that the amygdala might play an active role in economic decisions. Current views of amygdala function should be extended to incorporate a role in decision-making beyond valuation.
Although the cerebellar interpositus nuclei are known to be involved in cognitive functions, such as associative motor learning, no anatomical evidence has been available for this issue. Here we used retrograde transneuronal transport of rabies virus to identify neurons in the cerebellar nuclei that project via the thalamus to area 46 of the prefrontal cortex of macaques in comparison with the projections to the primary motor cortex (M1). After rabies injections into area 46, many neurons in the restricted region of the posterior interpositus nucleus (PIN) were labeled disynaptically via the thalamus, whereas no neuron labeling was found in the anterior interpositus nucleus (AIN). The distribution of the labeled neurons was dorsoventrally different from that of PIN neurons labeled from the M1. This defines an anatomical substrate for the contribution of medial cerebellar output to cognitive functions. Like the dentate nucleus, the PIN has dual motor and cognitive channels, whereas the AIN has a motor channel only.
Neurons secrete neuropeptides from dense core vesicles (DCVs) to modulate neuronal activity. Little is known about how neurons manage to differentially regulate the release of synaptic vesicles (SVs) and DCVs. To analyze this, we screened all Caenorhabditis elegans Rab GTPases and Tre2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC) domain containing GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) for defects in DCV release from C. elegans motoneurons. rab-5 and rab-10 mutants show severe defects in DCV secretion, whereas SV exocytosis is unaffected. We identified TBC-2 and TBC-4 as putative GAPs for RAB-5 and RAB-10, respectively. Multiple Rabs and RabGAPs are typically organized in cascades that confer directionality to membrane-trafficking processes. We show here that the formation of release-competent DCVs requires a reciprocal exclusion cascade coupling RAB-5 and RAB-10, in which each of the two Rabs recruits the other's GAP molecule. This contributes to a separation of RAB-5 and RAB-10 domains at the Golgi-endosomal interface, which is lost when either of the two GAPs is inactivated. Taken together, our data suggest that RAB-5 and RAB-10 cooperate to locally exclude each other at an essential stage during DCV sorting.
There is increasing recognition that mitochondrial dysfunction may have a critical role in the pathophysiology of major psychiatric illnesses. Patients with mitochondrial disorders offer a unique window through which we can begin to understand the association between psychiatric symptoms and mitochondrial dysfunction in vivo. Using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS), we investigated metabolic indices in mitochondrial patients in regions of the brain that have been implicated in psychiatric illness: the caudate, cingulate cortex and hippocampus. In all, 15 patients with mitochondrial disorders and 15 age- and sex-matched controls underwent a comprehensive psychiatric assessment, including the administration of standardized psychiatric rating scales, followed by single voxel (1)H-MRS of the caudate, cingulate cortex and hippocampus to measure N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), creatine (Cr), glycerophosphocholine (GPC), myoinositol and glutamate+glutamine (Glx). Pearson's correlation coefficients were used to determine correlations between metabolites and the psychiatric rating scales. Anxiety symptoms in these patients correlated with higher GPC, Glx, myoinositol and Cr in the hippocampus. Impaired level of function as a result of psychiatric symptoms correlated with higher Glx and GPC in the cingulate cortex. In summary, we found remarkably consistent, and statistically significant, correlations between anxiety and metabolic indices in the hippocampus in patients with mitochondrial disorders, while overall impairment of functioning due to psychiatric symptoms correlated with metabolic markers in the cingulate cortex. These findings lend support to the notion that mitochondrial dysfunction in specific brain regions can give rise to psychiatric symptoms. In particular, they suggest that metabolic processes in the hippocampus may have an important role in the neurobiology of anxiety.
Considerable animal and human research has been dedicated to the effects of parenting on structural brain development, focusing on hippocampal and prefrontal areas. Conversely, although functional imaging studies suggest that the neural reward circuitry is involved in parental affection, little is known about mothers' interpersonal qualities in relation to their children's brain structure and function. Moreover, gender differences concerning the effect of maternal qualities have rarely been investigated systematically. In 63 adolescents, we assessed structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging as well as interpersonal affiliation in their mothers. This allowed us to associate maternal affiliation with gray matter density and neural responses during different phases of the well-established Monetary Incentive Delay task. Maternal affiliation was positively associated with hippocampal and orbitofrontal gray matter density. Moreover, in the feedback of reward hit as compared with reward miss, an association with caudate activation was found. Although no significant gender effects were observed in these associations, during reward feedback as compared with baseline, maternal affiliation was significantly associated with ventral striatal and caudate activation only in females. Our findings demonstrate that maternal interpersonal affiliation is related to alterations in both the brain structure and reward-related activation in healthy adolescents. Importantly, the pattern is in line with typical findings in depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, suggesting that a lack of maternal affiliation might have a role in the genesis of mental disorders.
Dendrimers and their less well-defined cousins, hyperbranched polymers, are widely investigated as scaffold materials in tissue engineering, as drug delivery agents, and in diagnostic imaging applications. Despite the large interest of using these unique materials as polymer-based nanoparticles in biomedical applications, a clear understanding of the cellular uptake and transport of these polyester-based nanoparticles is still lacking. The objective of this study is to evaluate the cellular uptake profiles and intracellular trafficking of polymer micelles built from the hyperbranched polyester Boltorn, fitted with poly(ethylene glycol) and fluorescent groups in MDA-MB468 breast cancer cells. Results show that the uptake of these nanoparticles correlated positively to both time and concentration, and that the uptake of the nanoparticles was energy dependent. These polyesterbased nanoparticles appear to translocate across cells via clathrin- and macropinocytosis-mediated endocytosis. Observations of the intracellular trafficking of the nanoparticles indicate that particles could be released from early endosomes after being internalized, and the particles exhibit perinuclear localization. The uptake behavior of the nanoparticles was further evaluated in a range of cell lines. These results allow the generation of the knowledge base required to design polyester-based nanocarriers that can be used efficiently and specifically for drug delivery applications and imaging applications.
Agnoprotein is required for the successful completion of the JC virus (JCV) life cycle and was previously shown to interact with JCV large T-antigen (LT-Ag). Here, we further characterized agnoprotein's involvement in viral DNA replication. Agnoprotein enhances the DNA binding activity of LT-Ag to the viral origin (Ori) without directly interacting with DNA. The predicted amphipathic -helix of agnoprotein plays a major role in this enhancement. All three phenylalanine (Phe) residues of agnoprotein localize to this -helix and Phe residues in general are known to play critical roles in protein-protein interaction, protein folding and stability. The functional relevance of all Phe residues was investigated by mutagenesis. When all were mutated to alanine (Ala), the mutant virus (F31AF35AF39A) replicated significantly less efficiently than each individual Phe mutant virus alone, indicating the importance of Phe residues for agnoprotein function. Collectively, these studies indicate a close involvement of agnoprotein in viral DNA replication.
Mutations that cause intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are commonly found in genes that encode for synaptic proteins. However, it remains unclear how mutations that disrupt synapse function impact intellectual ability. In the SYNGAP1 mouse model of ID/ASD, we found that dendritic spine synapses develop prematurely during the early postnatal period. Premature spine maturation dramatically enhanced excitability in the developing hippocampus, which corresponded with the emergence of behavioral abnormalities. Inducing SYNGAP1 mutations after critical developmental windows closed had minimal impact on spine synapse function, whereas repairing these pathogenic mutations in adulthood did not improve behavior and cognition. These data demonstrate that SynGAP protein acts as a critical developmental repressor of neural excitability that promotes the development of life-long cognitive abilities. We propose that the pace of dendritic spine synapse maturation in early life is a critical determinant of normal intellectual development.
In the retina information decoding is dependent on excitatory neurotransmission and is critically modulated by AMPA glutamate receptors. The Src-tyrosine kinase has been implicated in modulating neurotransmission in CNS. Thus, our main goal was to correlate AMPA-mediated excitatory neurotransmission with the modulation of Src activity in retinal neurons. Cultured retinal cells were used to access the effects of AMPA stimulation on nitric oxide (NO) production and Src phosphorylation. 4-Amino-5-methylamino-2',7'-difluorofluorescein diacetate fluorescence mainly determined NO production, and immunocytochemistry and Western blotting evaluated Src activation. AMPA receptors activation rapidly up-regulated Src phosphorylation at tyrosine 416 (stimulatory site) and down-regulated phosphotyrosine 527 (inhibitory site) in retinal cells, an effect mainly mediated by calcium-permeable AMPA receptors. Interestingly, experiments confirmed that neuronal NOS was activated in response to calcium-permeable AMPA receptor stimulation. Moreover, data suggest NO pathway as a key regulatory signaling in AMPA-induced Src activation in neurons but not in glial cells. The NO donor SNAP (S-nitroso-N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine) and a soluble guanylyl cyclase agonist (YC-1) mimicked AMPA effect in Src Tyr-416 phosphorylation, reinforcing that Src activation is indeed modulated by the NO pathway. Gain and loss-of-function data demonstrated that ERK is a downstream target of AMPA-induced Src activation and NO signaling. Furthermore, AMPA stimulated NO production in organotypic retinal cultures and increased Src activity in the in vivo retina. Additionally, AMPA-induced apoptotic retinal cell death was regulated by both NOS and Src activity. Because Src activity is pivotal in several CNS regions, the data presented herein highlight that Src modulation is a critical step in excitatory retinal cell death.
Previous research has shown that personality characteristics, such as sensation seeking (SS), are strong predictors of risk-taking behavior during adolescence. However, the relationship between levels of SS and brain response has not been studied during this time period. Given the prevalence of risky behavior during adolescence, it is important to understand neurobiological differences in reward sensitivity between youth with high and low SS personalities. To this end, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine differences in brain activity in an adolescent sample that included 27 high (HSS) and 27 low sensation seekers (LSS), defined by the Impulsive Sensation Seeking scale of the Zuckerman-Kuhlman Personality Questionnaire (Zuckerman et al., 1993). In the scanner, participants played a modified Wheel of Fortune decision-making task (Cservenka and Nagel, 2012) that resulted in trials with monetary Wins or No Wins. We compared age- and sex-matched adolescent HSS and LSS (mean age=13.941.05) on brain activity by contrasting Win vs. No Win trials. Our findings indicate that HSS show greater bilateral insular and prefrontal cortex (PFC) brain response on Win vs. No Win compared to LSS. Analysis of simple effects showed that while LSS showed comparable brain activity in these areas during Wins and No Wins, HSS showed significant differences in brain response to winning (activation) vs. not winning (deactivation), with between-group comparison suggesting significant differences in brain response, largely to reward absence. Group differences in insular activation between reward receipt and absence may suggest weak autonomic arousal to negative outcomes in HSS compared with LSS. Additionally, since the PFC is important for goal-directed behavior and attention, the current results may reflect that HSS allocate fewer attentional resources to negative outcomes than LSS. This insensitivity to reward absence in HSS may lead to a greater likelihood of maladaptive choices when negative consequences are not considered, and may be an early neural marker of decreased loss sensitivity that has been seen in addiction. This neurobiological information may ultimately be helpful in establishing prevention strategies aimed at reducing youth risk-taking and suggests value in further examination of neural associations with personality characteristics during adolescence.


This work illustrates a procedure to assess the overall accuracy associated with Gamma Knife treatment planning using plugging. The main role of source plugging or blocking is to create dose falloff in the junction between a target and a critical structure. We report the use of MAGAT gel dosimeter for verification of an experimental treatment plan based on plugging. The polymer gel contained in a head-sized glass container simulated all major aspects of the treatment process of Gamma Knife radiosurgery. The 3D dose distribution recorded in the gel dosimeter was read using a 1.5T MRI scanner. Scanning protocol was: CPMG pulse sequence with 8 equidistant echoes, TR = 7 s, echo step = 14 ms, pixel size = 0.5mm  0.5mm, and slice thickness of 2 mm. Using a calibration relationship between absorbed dose and spin-spin relaxation rate (R2), we converted R2 images to dose images. Volumetric dose comparison between treatment planning system (TPS) and gel measurement was accomplished using an in-house MATLAB-based program. The isodose overlay of the measured and computed dose distribution on axial planes was in close agreement. Gamma index analysis of 3D data showed more than 94% voxel pass rate for different tolerance criteria of 3%/2 mm, 3%/1 mm and 2%/2 mm. Film dosimetry with GAFCHROMIC EBT 2 film was also performed to compare the results with the calculated TPS dose. Gamma index analysis of film measurement for the same tolerance criteria used for gel measurement evaluation showed more than 95% voxel pass rate. Verification of gamma plan calculated dose on account of shield is not part of acceptance testing of Leksell Gamma Knife (LGK). Through this study we accomplished a volumetric comparison of dose distributions measured with a polymer gel dosimeter and Leksell GammaPlan (LGP) calculations for plans using plugging. We propose gel dosimeter as a quality assurance (QA) tool for verification of plug-based planning.
-Secretase 1 (BACE-1) is an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment and prevention of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Herein, we describe the discovery of a novel class of BACE-1 inhibitors represented by sulfamide 14g, using a medicinal chemistry strategy to optimize central nervous system (CNS) penetration by minimizing hydrogen bond donors (HBDs) and reducing P-glycoprotein (P-gp) mediated efflux. We have also taken advantage of the combination of structure based drug design (SBDD) to guide the optimization of the sulfamide analogues and the in silico tool WaterMap to explain the observed SAR. Compound 14g is a potent inhibitor of BACE-1 with excellent permeability and a moderate P-gp liability. Administration of 14g to mice produced a significant, dose-dependent reduction in central A(X-40) levels at a free drug exposure equivalent to the whole cell IC(50) (100 nM). Furthermore, studies of the P-gp knockout mouse provided evidence that efflux transporters affected the amount of A lowering versus that observed in wild-type (WT) mouse at an equivalent dose.
6-[(3S,4S)-4-Methyl-1-(pyrimidin-2-ylmethyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl]-1-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1,5-dihydro-4H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-one (PF-04447943) is a novel PDE9A inhibitor identified using parallel synthetic chemistry and structure-based drug design (SBDD) and has advanced into clinical trials. Selectivity for PDE9A over other PDE family members was achieved by targeting key residue differences between the PDE9A and PDE1C catalytic site. The physicochemical properties of the series were optimized to provide excellent in vitro and in vivo pharmacokinetics properties in multiple species including humans. It has been reported to elevate central cGMP levels in the brain and CSF of rodents. In addition, it exhibits procognitive activity in several rodent models and synaptic stabilization in an amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mouse model. Recent disclosures from clinical trials confirm that it is well tolerated in humans and elevates cGMP in cerebral spinal fluid of healthy volunteers, confirming that it is a quality pharmacological tool for testing clinical hypotheses in disease states associated with impairment of cGMP signaling or cognition.
Neural activity in mesolimbic brain regions scales with stimulus novelty but the mechanistic role of neurotransmitters in this process remains unclear. Here, we used magnetoencephalography together with psychopharmacological stimulation in healthy humans to demonstrate that the neuronal dynamics of novelty processing are temporally adaptive and flexible. In particular, enhanced dopaminergic (150mg levodopa) - but not cholinergic (8mg galantamine) - neurotransmission accelerated the onset of novelty signals within the medial temporal lobe (MTL) from ~300 to &lt;100ms. Cholinergic stimulation, on the other hand, led to a shift in underlying neural substrates from medial temporal to prefrontal brain regions. Our findings indicate a causal role of dopamine in regulating the processing speed of novelty sensitive MTL neurons. Moreover, they suggest that the influence of MTL and prefrontal brain regions in novelty processing is mediated by the balance of dopamine and acetylcholine levels.
Claims of gene-behavior associations are complex and sometimes difficult to replicate because these relationships involve many downstream endogenous and environmental processes that mediate genetic effects. Knowing these mediating processes is critical to understanding the links between genes and behavior and how these factors differ between people. We identified and characterized the effects of a gene on neurochemistry and neural networks to elucidate the mechanism, at the systems level, whereby genes influence cognition. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) degrades dopamine in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and is polymorphic with alleles differing in enzymatic activity. We found that COMT genotype determined dopamine synthesis, such that individuals with greater COMT activity synthesized more dopamine. Dopamine synthesis in the midbrain and ventral striatum affected functional connectivity in the default mode network, likely through the mesocorticolimbic pathway, in an inverted-U pattern with greater functional connectivity in medial PFC associated with intermediate levels of COMT activity and dopamine. Greater functional connectivity correlated with greater deactivation during performance of a set-shifting task that engaged the PFC. Greater deactivation was in turn associated with better performance. The integration of these results yields a model whereby COMT affects prefrontal function by a mechanism involving dopaminergic modulation of the default mode network. The model features the well-known inverted-U function between dopamine and performance and supports the hypothesis that dopamine and the default mode network shift attentional resources to influence prefrontal cognition.
Primates are remarkably adept at ranking each other within social hierarchies, a capacity that is critical to successful group living. Surprisingly little, however, is understood about the neurobiology underlying this quintessential aspect of primate cognition. In our experiment, participants first acquired knowledge about a social and a nonsocial hierarchy and then used this information to guide investment decisions. We found that neural activity in the amygdala tracked the development of knowledge abouta social, but not a nonsocial, hierarchy. Further, structural variations in amygdala gray matter volume accounted for interindividual differences in social transitivity performance. Finally, the amygdala expressed a neural signal selectively coding for social rank, whose robustness predicted the influence of rank on participants' investment decisions. In contrast, we observed that the linear structure of both social and nonsocial hierarchies was represented at a neural level in the hippocampus. Our study implicates the amygdala in the emergence and representation of knowledge about social hierarchies and distinguishes the domain-general contribution of the hippocampus.
