


Evaluating medications in animal laboratory paradigms can reveal whether the compound is effective in an established alcoholism model, at clinically relevant doses and exposure conditions, when administered orally (or transdermally) and without serious limiting side effects. Positive outcomes constitute a possible discovery for relevance to alcoholism and, under favorable marketing conditions, encourage further development. Medication testing using animal models of alcoholism might also guide clinical testing by discriminating clinically effective from clinically ineffective compounds. This ability rests on whether there are tests or, more reasonably, batteries of tests having this discriminative ability. The present paper examines this possibility. Effects of naltrexone and acamprosate in animal paradigms which model behavioral aspects of alcoholism are reviewed and compared with the effects of compounds which have limited effects in alcoholics. It is not clear at present whether any single paradigm or combination of paradigms differentiates clinically effective from clinically limited compounds. Steps are suggested to improve the use of preclinical laboratory tests to predict which compounds are likely to be effective medications for reducing drinking and sustaining abstinence in human alcoholics.

St. John's Wort contains a protein that inhibits HIV-1 replication, according to new research. Investigators who have spent more than a decade studying the mechanism of development of neurological disorders in AIDS patients decided to look at the impact St. John's Wort might have on neuronal cells, says Kamel Khalili, PhD, director of the Center for Neurovirology, professor, and acting chair of the department of neuroscience at Temple University's School of Medicine in Philadelphia, PA.

Various agents are utilized in the operating room to produce anesthetic effects. These include barbiturates, halogenated inhalation agents, narcotics, non-barbiturate induction agents, and benzodiazepines. These agents have variable effects upon the EEG and EP (evoked potential) waveforms at different anesthetic levels. Metabolic changes such as body temperature and blood pressure can also elicit changes in the EEG and EPs.

In cathepsin D-deficient (CD-/-) and cathepsins B and L double-deficient (CB-/-CL-/-) mice, abnormal vacuolar structures accumulate in neurons of the brains. Many of these structures resemble autophagosomes in which part of the cytoplasm is retained but their precise nature and biogenesis remain unknown. We show here how autophagy contributes to the accumulation of these vacuolar structures in neurons deficient in cathepsin D or both cathepsins B and L by demonstrating an increased conversion of the molecular form of MAP1-LC3 for autophagosome formation from the cytosolic form (LC3-I) to the membrane-bound form (LC3-II). In both CD-/- and CB-/-CL-/- mouse brains, the membrane-bound LC3-II form predominated whereas MAP1-LC3 signals accumulated in granular structures located in neuronal perikarya and axons of these mutant brains and were localized to the membranes of autophagosomes, evidenced by immunofluorescence microscopy and freeze-fracture-replica immunoelectron microscopy. Moreover, as in CD-/- neurons, autofluorescence and subunit c of mitochondrial ATP synthase accumulated in CB-/-CL-/- neurons. This suggests that not only CD-/- but also CB-/-CL-/- mice could be useful animal models for neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis/Batten disease. These data strongly argue for a major involvement of autophagy in the pathogenesis of Batten disease/lysosomal storage disorders.
The volume-sensitive chloride current (ICl,swell) is found in the mammalian myocardium and is activated by osmotic swelling. The goal of this study was to examine the importance of the tyrosine kinases focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and Src kinase in cardiac ICl,swell regulation. Neonatal rat ventricular myocytes were cultured on collagen membranes and infected with adenovirus expressing beta-galactosidase (AdLacZ), FAK, or FAK-related nonkinase. FAK-related nonkinase (FRNK) is an endogenous cardiac protein, which functions as an inhibitor of FAK. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings demonstrated that osmotic swelling was associated with the activation of an outward rectifying current in uninfected and AdLacZ-infected cells. Consistent with the properties of ICl,swell, this current displayed a reversal potential close to the equilibrium potential for Cl-; was inhibited by the Cl- channel blockers 4,4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)-benzoic acid, and tamoxifen; and was eliminated in hypertonic solution. In addition to activating ICl,swell, hypotonic swelling enhanced the tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple cardiac proteins including those in the range of 68-70 and 120-130 kDa. Pretreatment of the cells with the drug 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine, an inhibitor of FAK and Src, diminished swelling-induced phosphorylation of these proteins but paradoxically increased ICl,swell. Furthermore, overexpression of FRNK but not FAK caused a twofold augmentation in I(Cl,swell) and increased the rate of current activation. Thus the tyrosine kinases FAK and Src contribute to the regulation of ICl,swell.
Studies have shown that the severity of bladder hyperreflexia induced by acute bladder inflammation varies with the ovarian cycle. These results suggest that the hyperreflexia is modulated by ovarian hormones. Other studies have suggested that such modulation involves the bladder's sympathetic innervation. These hypotheses were tested by assessing the development of bladder hyperreflexia in urethane-anesthetized rats subjected to different hormonal manipulations with or without bilateral hypogastric neurectomy (HYPX). The groups included sham ovariectomy (sham OVX), ovariectomy (OVX), OVX with estradiol replacement (OVX+E), OVX+HYPX, and OVX+HYPX+E. Assessments were performed using repeated cystometrograms (CMGs) to measure micturition thresholds (MT) before and hourly for 3 h after intravesicular treatment with 50% turpentine oil (or olive oil in an OVX+E control group). In the uninflamed bladder, treatment with estradiol increased MTs in the OVX+E group compared with the OVX group. As expected, bladder inflammation induced bladder hyperreflexia in sham OVX rats (studied in estrus). This hyperreflexia was eliminated by OVX and restored by either estradiol replacement or HYPX. Combining estradiol replacement and HYPX (i.e., OVX+E+HYPX) did not increase the severity of bladder hyperreflexia compared with either manipulation alone. These results indicate that the bladder hyperreflexia that is induced by bladder inflammation requires the presence of estradiol and suggest that this hormonal modulation is exerted via the sympathetic control of the bladder, possibly via an increase of beta-adrenergic inhibitory actions on the detrusor muscle. Similar mechanisms may contribute to bladder disorders in postmenopausal women.
Here we demonstrate differences in the relative performance of 15 callitrichids tested in a series of color visual discrimination experiments. Munsell color chips were chosen as stimuli based on their use in earlier experiments with human dichromats. We show behavioral evidence for the existence of four distinct kinds of color-vision phenotypes, each of which has slightly different color discrimination abilities. The different phenotypes may offer different advantages. The data are in accordance with the existence of a visual polymorphism in callitrichids.
Large-field trichromacy is a general feature of protanope and deuteranope humans, provided that the stimuli size extends to an 8 degrees visual angle. In this study we compared the performance of five male and three female tufted capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) in discriminating pairs of Munsell color papers. Human subjects were also studied in two-choice discrimination tests, using the same stimuli and apparatus employed for the monkeys. The results show that although the dichromatic humans showed improved discrimination with larger versions of the stimuli, the dichromatic monkeys exhibited the same performance for both stimuli sizes. Thus, Cebus apella apparently do not present large-field trichromacy-at least for the conditions in the present experiments.
Color-vision polymorphism in New World monkeys occurs because of an allelic polymorphism of the single-copy red-green middle-to-long-wavelength-sensitive (M/LWS) opsin gene on the X chromosome. Because color-vision types can readily be estimated from allelic types of the M/LWS opsin gene, this polymorphic system offers researchers an excellent opportunity to study the association between vision and behavior. As a prerequisite for such studies, genetically determined color-vision types must be concordant with phenotypes determined directly by behavioral criteria (e.g., by a color discrimination test). However, such correlations between genotypes and phenotypes have been studied only for callitrichine species. Using genetic, electrophysiological, and behavioral approaches, we evaluated the color vision of brown capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella), a representative non-callitrichine model animal for physiology and behavior. Two allelic M/LWS opsins-P545 and P530-were identified in the studied captive population. Females had one or both of the alleles, and males had either one. The retinal sensitivity in P530 dichromats was short-wave shifted relative to that in P545 dichromats, whereas that in P530/P545 trichromats was between the two groups. In a discrimination task using Ishihara pseudo-isochromatic plates, P530/P545 trichromats were successful in discriminating stimuli that P530 and P545 dichromats were unable to discriminate. In a food-search task, P530/P545 trichromats were able to locate red targets among green distracters as quickly as among white distracters, whereas both types of dichromats took longer. These results demonstrate the mutual consistency between genotypes and phenotypes of color vision, and provide a solid genetic basis on which the ecology and evolution of color vision can be investigated.
Due to a middle- to long-wavelength-sensitive (M/LWS) cone opsin polymorphism, there is considerable phenotypic variation in the color vision of New World monkeys. Many females have trichromatic vision, whereas some females and all males have dichromatic vision. The selective pressures that maintain this polymorphism are unclear. In the present study we compared the performance of dichromats and trichromats in a discrimination task. We examined tri- and dichromatic individuals of two species: brown capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) and long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis). We also examined one protanomalous chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes). The subjects' task was to discriminate a circular pattern from other patterns in which textural elements differed in orientation and thickness from the background. After they were trained with stimuli of a single color, the subjects were presented with color-camouflaged stimuli with a green/red mosaic overlaid onto the pattern. The dichromatic monkeys and the protanomalous chimpanzee selected the correct stimulus under camouflaged conditions at rates significantly above chance levels, while the trichromats did not. These findings demonstrate that dichromatic nonhuman primates possess a superior visual ability to discriminate color-camouflaged stimuli, and that such an ability may confer selective advantages with respect to the detection of cryptic foods and/or predators.

This article traces the evolution of graduate study in psychology in the United States and Canada during the past 3 decades. The authors summarize the 2003-2004 characteristics of graduate programs and departments in psychology and compare these data to those obtained in 1970-1971, 1979-1980, and 1992-1993. The most recent data were obtained from the 2005 edition of Graduate Study in Psychology and were based on 495 institutions, 601 departments, and 1,970 graduate programs. Information is presented for both entire departments (e.g., faculty characteristics, student profiles, admission criteria, Graduate Record Examination and grade point averages, tuition costs, financial assistance) and individual graduate programs (e.g., areas of study, number of applicants, acceptance rates, enrollment statistics, retention rates). Particular attention is devoted to the emergence of PsyD programs in professional psychology, the ascendancy of neuroscience programs in academic psychology, and the steady rise in acceptance rates across programs over the past 33 years.
We have reviewed all the published clinical trials of ALS and, from those considered sufficiently large, and containing a control group, we have evaluated their methodology with regard to statistical power. This implies a critical analysis of the endpoint measurements. We have concluded that clinical endpoints used in clinical trials of ALS have frequently been insufficiently sensitive, non-linear, or even not intuitively highly relevant to the disease. We suggest that the ALS-FRS, perhaps also MUNE and the Neurophysiological Index, may be the best measures currently available. These techniques have complementary characteristics that allow them to be used to address different aspects of the disease and its treatment in various trials designs. In the past some trials may have failed to demonstrate a treatment effect because the chosen endpoint measures and the trial design were inappropriate.
Brain imaging research with MRI spans a wide area, covering both structure and function, and ranging from basic research through clinical research to drug design and clinical trials. In recent years there has been a trend towards the collection of very large MRI databases which can allow for the detection of very small group-dependent effects. However, the logistical challenges of analysing such large datasets presents new challenges. This paper describes the &quot;pipeline&quot; framework developed at the Montreal Neurological Institute for the fully automated morphometric analysis of large brain imaging databases. The potential use of these techniques is illustrated by examples of their applications in multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and pediatric development.
The inferior parietal lobule (IPL) of the macaque monkey integrates sensory information as a prerequisite for reaching and grasping movements. Electrophysiological data suggest that the convexity of the IPL is heterogeneous along its rostro-caudal axis. Cytoarchitecture reflects this functional diversity. However, various parcellations have been proposed so far, ranging from one homogeneous region to four areas. In order to obtain a more valid anatomical map of the IPL, we studied the distribution pattern of serotonin 5-HT1A binding sites (i.e., the domain of synaptic transmission and cortical information processing) and cytoarchitecture with an observer-independent technique (thus avoiding the subjectivity inherent in visually guided microstructural parcellations). We cut with a cryostat microtome four unfixed macaque hemispheres and processed sections for 5-HT1A binding sites with [3H]8-OH-DPAT receptor autoradiography or for cell bodies with a modified silver stain. We digitized the autoradiographs and the histological sections and extracted from the cortex of the IPL equidistant density profiles oriented vertically to the cortical layers. We then compared groups of neighboring profiles with multivariate statistics expecting to see a significant difference in profile shape at the interface between two cortical areas. These positions were compared between 5-HT1A autoradiographs (neurochemical borders) and adjacent histological sections (cytoarchitectonic borders). Neurochemical and cytoarchitectonic borders showed a good topographical correspondence and revealed three areas arranged in a rostro-caudal sequence along the convexity of the IPL. Dorsally, the areas extend approximately 1 mm into the depth of the lateral bank of the intraparietal sulcus. Their ventral border lies on the convexity of the IPL close to the shoulder of the lateral sulcus. The three areas are in close agreement with areas PF, PFG, and PG as defined by Pandya and Seltzer (J Comp Neurol 204:196-210, 1982) and Gregoriou et al. (Program No. 919.5, Abstract Viewer/Itinerary Planner, Washington, Society for Neuroscience, 2003). The neurochemical and cytoarchitectonic data show that a complex structural framework underlies the functional heterogeneity along the rostro-caudal axis of the IPL, e.g., the representation of different types of arm and hand actions in different sectors of the monkey's workspace.
Samuel Thomas Soemmerring (1755-1830) was an encyclopaedic anatomist and one of the most experienced and renowned neuro-anatomists in the late eighteenth century. His description and illustration of the brainstem with its still accepted classification of cranial nerves (1778), the discovery of the acervulus in the epiphysis (1785), his demonstration of the crossing of the optic nerve fibres (1788), and of the macula lutea in the retina of the eye he had discovered in 1791, won him great recognition. Probably, unaware of Francesco Gennari's (1750-1797) and Flix Vicq d'Azyr's (1748-1794) observation, Soemmerring in the final years of the eighteenth century saw the broad white line running through the calcarine cortex of the occipital lobe. Soemmerring's comprehensive textbooks on the nervous system Vom Hirn and Rckenmark, 1788/1792, and Hirn- und Nervenlehre as part of his anatomical handbook Vom Baue des menschlichen Krpers, 1791/2nd edn, 1800, comprise all the knowledge in the field of neuro-anatomy at his time. Although the structure-function relationships mentioned are generally hypothetical, Soemmerring was convinced that mental faculties are executed in certain brain regions. In his treatise Uber das Organ der Seele, 1796, he localized the functions of the soul within the cerebrospinal fluid, which should come into close contact with the demonstrated and presumed nerve endings in the walls of the ventricular cavities. This last attempt of a synthesis of anatomy and metaphysics provoked passionate discussions and was criticised for epistemological reasons. Nevertheless, Soemmerring had moved the brain into the centre of the science of man what led to far-reaching consequences in the complexity of the discourse about man.
In human brain imaging studies, it is common practice to use the Talairach stereotaxic reference system for signifying the convergence of brain function and structure. In nearly all neuroimaging reports, the studied cortical areas are specified further with a Brodmann Area (BA) number. This specification is based upon macroscopic extrapolation from Brodmann's projection maps into the Talairach atlas rather than upon a real microscopic cytoarchitectonic study. In this review we argue that such a specification of Brodmann area(s) via the Talairach atlas is not appropriate. Cytoarchitectonic studies reviewed in this paper show large interindividual differences in 3-D location of primary sensory cortical areas (visual cortex) as well as heteromodal associational areas (prefrontal cortical areas), even after correction for differences in brain size and shape. Thus, the simple use of Brodmann cortical areas derived from the Talairach atlas can lead to erroneous results in the specification of pertinent BA. This in turn can further lead to wrong hypotheses on brain system(s) involved in normal functions or in specific brain disorders. In addition, we will briefly discuss the different 'Brodmann' nomenclatures which are in use for the cerebral cortex.
Cytoarchitectonic delineation of areas in post-mortem human brains provides the precise location of these areas. It has been possible to study the size and location of areas between post-mortem brains with multi-subject cytoarchitectonic data. If the structure-function relationship is assumed to be a one-to-one mapping for the purposes of inter-subject variability, then functional areas in the cortex will also adhere to the structure, and therefore, the location and size of cytoarchitectonic areas in the brain. Thus, it is possible to use the cytoarchitectonic data as being representative of the size and location of functional activations. Under this assumption, we simulated activations in cytoarchitectonic areas from ten post-mortem brains in this study. We then treated these data as we would a normal PET experiment. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate a standard PET image analysis on a simulated ten-subject PET study using cytoarchitecture to localize the activations. By doing so, we simulate activations with real inter-subject variability with the size and location of each area. Significant activations were obtained for activations simulated in areas 3a and 3b. A voxel-wise conjunction between simulated data and experimental data was made to better determine the underlying areas activated by the experimental tasks. This study presents a novel technique for demonstrating the effect of standard image analysis on the location and size of simulated activations as determined by cytoarchitectonic data from multiple subjects. Furthermore, this technique has been applied to better determine the underlying areas activated in an experiment.
The Atlantic bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus), a marine mammal found off the Atlantic coast, has become the focus of considerable attention because of an increasing number of mortality events witnessed in this species over the last several years along the southeastern United States. Assessment of the impact of environmental stressors on bottlenose dolphins (BND) has been difficult because of the protected status of these marine mammals. The studies presented herein focused on establishing epidermal cell cultures and cell lines as tools for the in vitro evaluation of environmental stressors on BND skin. Epidermal cell cultures were established from skin samples obtained from Atlantic BND and subjected to karyotype analysis. These cultures were further characterized using immunohistochemical methods demonstrating expression of cytokeratins. By two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE), we observed that the proteomic profile of BND skin tissue samples shared distinct similarities with that of skin-derived cultures. Epidermal cell cultures were transfected with a plasmid encoding the SV40 small t- and large T-antigens, as well as the neomycin-resistance gene. Five neomycin-resistant clones were isolated and expanded, and all of them proliferated at a faster rate than nontransfected BND epidermal cultures, which exhibited signs of senescence. Cell lysates prepared from two transfected clones were shown to express, by Western blot analysis, both SV40 tumor antigens. These experimental results are consistent with the concept that transfected clones expressing SV40 tumor antigens represent immortalized BND cell lines. Epidermal cell lines derived from Tursiops truncatus will provide a unique tool for studying key features of the interaction occurring between dolphins and the environment in which they live at their most crucial interface: the skin.

Sleep, like breathing, is a biologic rhythm that is actively generated by the brain. Neuronal networks that have evolved to regulate naturally occurring sleep preferentially modulate traits that define states of sedation and anesthesia. Sleep is temporally organized into distinct stages that are characterized by a unique constellation of physiologic and behavioral traits. Sleep and anesthetic susceptibility are genetically modulated, heritable phenotypes. This review considers 40 yr of research regarding the cellular and molecular mechanisms contributing to arousal state control. Clinical and preclinical data have debunked and supplanted the primitive view that sleep need is a weakness. Sleep deprivation and restriction diminish vigilance, alter neuroendocrine control, and negatively impact immune function. There is overwhelming support for the view that decrements in vigilance can negatively impact performance. Advances in neuroscience provide a foundation for the sea change in public and legal perspectives that now regard a sleep-deprived individual as impaired.
Musicians and nonmusicians listened to major, minor, and dissonant musical chords while their BOLD brain responses were registered with functional magnetic resonance imaging. In both groups of listeners, minor and dissonant chords, compared with major chords, elicited enhanced responses in several brain areas, including the amygdala, retrosplenial cortex, brain stem, and cerebellum, during passive listening but not during memorization of the chords. The results indicate that (1) neural processing in emotion-related brain areas is activated even by single chords, (2) emotion processing is enhanced in the absence of cognitive requirements, and (3) musicians and nonmusicians do not differ in their neural responses to single musical chords during passive listening.
The integration of auditory feedback with the vocal motor system is essential for singing, because precise control of vocal pitch is necessary to produce notes and melodies accurately. We used singing tasks with fMRI to determine the neural substrates involved in audiovocal integration. In tasks that specifically required monitoring of auditory feedback and pitch control, neural activity increased in the anterior cingulate cortex and insula, which suggests that these regions may play a special role in audiovocal integration.
Voxel-based morphometry is used to examine differences in cerebral morphology between musicians and nonmusicians. Principal results show differences in gray matter concentration in the right auditory cortex.
Music reading offers a unique perspective on the acquisition of a notational system. Many people cannot read music, but a large proportion are motivated to learn. Musical literacy is therefore amenable to studies of acquisition in a way that language literacy is not. The studies reviewed here investigate how musical symbols on the page are decoded into a musical response. The studies address the nature of the mental representations used in music reading, as well as their instantiation within the brain. The results of a musical Stroop paradigm are described, in which musical notation was present but irrelevant for task performance. The presence of musical notation produced systematic effects on reaction time, demonstrating that reading of the written note, like the written word, is obligatory for those who are musically literate. Spatial interference tasks are also described that suggest that music reading, at least for the pianist, can be characterized as a set of vertical to horizontal mappings. These behavioral findings are mirrored by the results of an fMRI training study in which musically untrained adults were taught to read music and play piano keyboard over a period of three months. Specific learning-related changes were seen in the superior parietal cortex and fusiform gyrus, for melody reading and rhythm reading, respectively. These changes are suggested to correspond to the acquisition of processes that deal with the extraction of spatial and featural properties of notation, respectively.
The understanding of music's role and function in therapy and medicine is undergoing a rapid transformation, based on neuroscientific research showing the reciprocal relationship between studying the neurobiological foundations of music in the brain and how musical behavior through learning and experience changes brain and behavior function. Through this research the theory and clinical practice of music therapy is changing more and more from a social science model, based on cultural roles and general well-being concepts, to a neuroscience-guided model based on brain function and music perception. This paradigm shift has the potential to move music therapy from an adjunct modality to a central treatment modality in rehabilitation and therapy.
In a series of experiments, we have begun to investigate the effect of music as a mnemonic device on learning and memory and the underlying plasticity of oscillatory neural networks. We used verbal learning and memory tests (standardized word lists, AVLT) in conjunction with electroencephalographic analysis to determine differences between verbal learning in either a spoken or musical (verbal materials as song lyrics) modality. In healthy adults, learning in both the spoken and music condition was associated with significant increases in oscillatory synchrony across all frequency bands. A significant difference between the spoken and music condition emerged in the cortical topography of the learning-related synchronization. When using EEG measures as predictors during learning for subsequent successful memory recall, significantly increased coherence (phase-locked synchronization) within and between oscillatory brain networks emerged for music in alpha and gamma bands. In a similar study with multiple sclerosis patients, superior learning and memory was shown in the music condition when controlled for word order recall, and subjects were instructed to sing back the word lists. Also, the music condition was associated with a significant power increase in the low-alpha band in bilateral frontal networks, indicating increased neuronal synchronization. Musical learning may access compensatory pathways for memory functions during compromised PFC functions associated with learning and recall. Music learning may also confer a neurophysiological advantage through the stronger synchronization of the neuronal cell assemblies underlying verbal learning and memory. Collectively our data provide evidence that melodic-rhythmic templates as temporal structures in music may drive internal rhythm formation in recurrent cortical networks involved in learning and memory.
We present original results and review literature from the past fifty years that address the role of primate auditory cortex in the following perceptual capacities: (1) the ability to perceive small differences between the pitches of two successive tones; (2) the ability to perceive the sign (i.e., direction) of the pitch difference [higher (+) vs. lower (-)]; and (3) the ability to abstract pitch constancy across changes in stimulus acoustics. Cortical mechanisms mediating pitch perception are discussed with respect to (1) gross and microanatomical distribution; and (2) candidate neural coding schemes. Observations by us and others suggest that (1) frequency-selective neurons in primary auditory cortex (A1) and surrounding fields play a critical role in fine-grained pitch discrimination at the perceptual level; (2) cortical mechanisms that detect pitch differences are neuroanatomically dissociable from those mediating pitch direction discrimination; (3) cortical mechanisms mediating perception of the &quot;missing fundamental frequency (F0)&quot; are neuroanatomically dissociable from those mediating pitch perception when F0 is present; (4) frequency-selective neurons in both right and left A1 contribute to pitch change detection and pitch direction discrimination; (5) frequency-selective neurons in right A1 are necessary for normal pitch direction discrimination; (6) simple codes for pitch that are based on single- and multiunit firing rates of frequency-selective neurons face both a &quot;hyperacuity problem&quot; and a &quot;pitch constancy problem&quot;-that is, frequency discrimination thresholds for pitch change direction and pitch direction discrimination are much smaller than neural tuning curves predict, and firing rate patterns change dramatically under conditions in which pitch percepts remain invariant; (7) cochleotopic organization of frequency-selective neurons bears little if any relevance to perceptual acuity and pitch constancy; and (8) simple temporal codes for pitch capable of accounting for pitches higher than a few hundred hertz have not been found in the auditory cortex. The cortical code for pitch is therefore not likely to be a function of simple rate profiles or synchronous temporal patterns. Studies motivated by interest in the neurophysiology and neuroanatomy of music perception have helped correct longstanding misconceptions about the functional role of auditory cortex in frequency discrimination and pitch perception. Advancing knowledge about the neural coding of pitch is of fundamental importance to the future design of neurobionic therapies for hearing loss.
Although considerable progress has been made recently in our understanding of the coding of complex sounds in the cerebral cortex, the processing and storage of tone sequences is still poorly understood. We have used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify brain mechanisms involved in the encoding and retrieval of melodies by studying the anticipation of familiar music. The results suggest a specific role for each of the following brain structures: the anterior part of the right superior temporal cortex, the right inferior frontal cortex and anterior insula, the left anterior prefrontal cortex, the lateral cerebellum, and the anterior cingulate. In a separate study, we investigated single-neuron responses in the auditory cortex of awake behaving monkeys to alternating tone sequences that in humans evoke the perception of &quot;streaming.&quot; Depending on the frequency separation between the tones, an initial single stream may segregate into two streams after a build-up period of several seconds. The neural responses in the monkeys' primary auditory cortex (A1) mirror the psychophysical time course extremely well, suggesting that habituation within A1 may be one reason for stream segregation. However, the higher auditory and prefrontal areas found to be activated by musical melodies are expected to interact with primary areas in both bottom-up and top-down fashion to bring about the perceptual organization of sound sequences.
By mere exposure to musical pieces in everyday life, Western listeners acquire sensitivity to the regularities of the tonal system and to the context dependency of musical sounds. This implicitly acquired tonal knowledge allows nonmusician listeners to perceive relationships among musical events and to develop expectations for future events that then influence the processing of these events. The musical priming paradigm is one method of the indirect investigation of listeners' tonal knowledge. It investigates the influence of a preceding context (with its musical structures and relationships) on the processing of a musical target event, without asking participants for direct evaluations. Behavioral priming data have provided evidence for facilitated processing of musically related events in comparison to unrelated and less-related events. The sensitivity of implicit investigations is further shown by I.R., a patient with severe amusia, showing spared implicit knowledge of music. Finally, the priming paradigm allows us to investigate the neural correlates of musical structure processing. Two fMRI studies reported the implication of inferior frontal regions in musical priming, contrasting related and unrelated events, as well as finer structural manipulations contrasting in-key events.
We use novel noise-like sound stimuli to identify cortical areas in which the functional magnetic resonance signal covaries with spectral and temporal acoustic complexity. The results support a model of hemispheric functional asymmetry for fine-grained spectral and fast temporal processing.
One approach to comparing the neural bases of language and music is through the use of song, which is a unique and ecological combination of these two cognitive domains. In song, language and music are merged into one acoustic signal with two salient dimensions. By manipulating either the linguistic or musical dimensions (or both) of song and studying their relationships, it is possible to gain important information about the neural networks underlying language and music cognition. We will present a brief review followed by recent behavioral, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging studies concerned with the functional and structural relationships of music and language. These results, together with the previous studies in the field, help understanding whether the different levels of music and language processing are independent or interactive.
Two new empirical studies address the relationship between music and language. The first focuses on melody and uses research in phonetics to investigate the long-held notion that instrumental music reflects speech patterns in a composer's native language. The second focuses on syntax and addresses the relationship between musical and linguistic syntactic processing via the study of aphasia, an approach that has been explored very little. The results of these two studies add to a growing body of evidence linking music and language with regard to structural patterns and brain processing.
Calcium/phospholipid-regulated protein kinase C (PKC) signalling is known to be involved in cellular functions relevant to brain health and disease, including ion channel modulation, receptor regulation, neurotransmitter release, synaptic plasticity, and survival. Brain aging is characterized by altered neuronal molecular cascades and interneuronal communication in response to various stimuli. In the last few years we have provided evidence that in rodents, despite no changes in PKC isoform levels (both calcium dependent and calcium independent), the activation/translocation process of the calcium-dependent and -independent kinases and the content of the adaptor protein RACK1 (receptor for activated C kinase-1) are deficient in physiological brain aging. Moreover, human studies have shown that PKC and its adaptor protein RACK1 are also interdependent in pathological brain aging (e.g., Alzheimer's disease); in fact, calcium-dependent PKC translocation and RACK1 levels are both deficient in an area-selective manner. These data point to the notion that, in addition to a well-described lipid environment alteration, changes in protein-protein interactions may impair the mechanisms of PKC activation in aging. It is interesting to note that interventions to counteract the age-related functional loss also restore PKC activation and the adaptor protein machinery expression. A better insight into the factors controlling PKC activation may be important not only to elucidate the molecular basis of signal transmission, but also to identify new strategies to correct or even to prevent age-dependent alterations in cell-to-cell communication.
Schizophrenia is a serious and disabling mental disorder that affects approximately 1% of the general population, with often devastating effects on the psychological and financial resources of the patient, family, and larger community. The etiology of schizophrenia is not known, although it likely involves several interacting biological and environmental factors that predispose an individual to schizophrenia. However, although the underlying pathology remains unknown, it has been believed that brain abnormalities would ultimately be linked to the etiology of schizophrenia. This theory was rekindled in the 1970s, when the first computer-assisted tomography (CT) study showed enlarged lateral ventricles in schizophrenia. Since that time, there have been many improvements in MR acquisition and image processing, including the introduction of positron emission tomography (PET), followed by functional MR (fMRI), and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). These advances have led to an appreciation of the critical role that brain abnormalities play in schizophrenia. While structural MRI has proven to be useful in investigating and detecting gray matter abnormalities in schizophrenia, the investigation of white matter has proven to be more challenging as white matter appears homogeneous on conventional MRI and the fibers connecting different brain regions cannot be appreciated. With the development of DTI, we are now able to investigate white matter abnormalities in schizophrenia.
Diffusion tensor imaging and fiber tracking were used to measure fiber bundles connecting the two occipital lobes in 53 children of 7-12 years of age. Independent fiber bundle estimates originating from the two hemispheres converge onto the lower half of the splenium. This observation validates the basic methodology and suggests that most occipital-callosal fibers connect the two occipital lobes. Within the splenium, fiber bundles are organized in a regular pattern with respect to their cortical projection zones. Visual cortex dorsal to calcarine projects through a large band that fills much of the inferior half of the splenium, while cortex ventral to calcarine sends projections through a band at the anterior inferior edge of the splenium. Pathways projecting to the occipital pole and lateral-occipital regions overlap the dorsal and ventral groups slightly anterior to the center of the splenium. To visualize these pathways in a typical brain, we combined the data into an atlas. The estimated occipital-callosal fiber paths from the atlas form the walls of the occipital horn of the lateral ventricle, with dorsal paths forming the medial wall and the ventral paths bifurcating into a medial tract to form the inferior-medial wall and a superior tract that joins the lateral-occipital paths to form the superior wall of the ventricle. The properties of these fiber bundles match those of the hypothetical pathways described in the neurological literature on alexia.
The anatomy of the brain is extremely complex, and certain, even large structures, such as the corticospinal tract (CST), remain poorly understood. Diffusion tractography provides an opportunity to explore the white matter tracts in a fundamentally new way. In the current paper, we show how this technique has already added to our understanding of the anatomy of the CST. We also explore the future projects involving diffusion tractography of the motor white matter tracts that will advance this method and further our understanding of brain anatomy.
The anatomy of the corpus callosum has been described in considerable detail. Tracing studies in animals and human postmortem experiments are currently complemented by diffusion-weighted imaging, which enables noninvasive investigations of callosal connectivity to be conducted. In contrast to the wealth of anatomical data, little is known about the principles by which interhemispheric integration is mediated by callosal connections. Most importantly, we lack insights into the mechanisms that determine the functional role of callosal connections in a context-dependent fashion. These mechanisms can now be disclosed by models of effective connectivity that explain neuroimaging data from paradigms that manipulate interhemispheric interactions. In this article, we demonstrate that dynamic causal modeling (DCM), in conjunction with Bayesian model selection (BMS), is a powerful approach to disentangling the various factors that determine the functional role of callosal connections. We first review the theoretical foundations of DCM and BMS before demonstrating the application of these techniques to empirical data from a single subject.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the perceptual, motor, and cognitive capacities in humans is of increasing importance for basic and clinical neurosciences. The explanatory power of current fMRI techniques could be greatly expanded, however, if the pattern of the neuronal connections between the active cortical areas could likewise be visualized. In this study, we acquired blood-oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) fMRI signals during the stimulation of subjects with a set of localizer stimuli for cortical visual areas. Subsequently, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data from the same subjects were obtained, and the activation areas identified through fMRI were utilized as seeding points for 3D DTI fiber reconstruction algorithms. The methods developed in this study have the potential to lay a foundation for in vivo neuroanatomy and the ability for noninvasive longitudinal studies of brain development.

Stroke is a prevalent and devastating disorder, and no treatment is currently available to restore lost neuronal function after stroke. One unique therapy that improves recovery after stroke is neutralization of the neurite inhibitory protein Nogo-A. Here, we show, in a clinically relevant model, improved functional recovery and brain reorganization in the aged and adult rat when delayed anti-Nogo-A therapy is given after ischemic injury. These results support the efficacy of Nogo-A neutralization as treatment for ischemic stroke, even in the aged animal and after a 1-week delay, and implicate neuronal plasticity from unlesioned areas of the central nervous system as a mechanism for recovery.
We conducted an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment to better understand the potentially compensatory alternative brain networks activated by a clinically relevant face-name association task in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and matched control subjects. We recruited 17 healthy subjects and 12 AD patients at an early stage of the disease. They underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning in four sessions. Each of the sessions combined a &quot;study&quot; phase and a &quot;test&quot; phase. Face/name pairs were presented in each study phase, and subjects were asked to associate faces with names. In the test phase, a recognition task, faces seen in the study phase were presented each with four different names. The task required selection of appropriate previously associated names from the study phase. Responses were recorded for post hoc classification into those successfully or unsuccessfully encoded. There were significant differences between the groups in accuracy and reaction time. Comparison of correctly versus incorrectly encoded and recognized pairs in the two groups indicated bilateral hippocampal hypoactivation both when encoding and recognizing in the AD group. Moreover, patients showed bilateral hyperactivation of parts of the parietal and frontal lobes. We discuss whether hyperactivation of a frontoparietal network reflects compensatory strategies for failing associative memory in AD patients.
Mutation of the spastin gene is the single most common cause of pure hereditary spastic paraparesis. In patients with an unexplained sporadic upper motor neuron (UMN) syndrome, clinical distinction between primary lateral sclerosis and sporadic hereditary spastic paraparesis may be problematic. To investigate whether spastin mutations are present in patients with primary lateral sclerosis and sporadic hereditary spastic paraparesis, we screened the spastin gene in 99 Dutch patients with an unexplained, apparently sporadic, adult-onset UMN syndrome. We found 6 mutations, of which 4 were novel, in the subgroup of 47 patients with UMN symptoms restricted to the legs (13%). Another novel spastin mutation was found in a patient with a rapidly progressive spinal and bulbar UMN syndrome that progressed to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In the patients with arm or bulbar UMN symptoms and slow progression, no spastin mutations were found. Our study shows that spastin mutations are a frequent cause of apparently sporadic spastic paraparesis but not of primary lateral sclerosis.
9-(R)-[(2-Phosphonomethoxy)propyls]adenine (tenofovir), is an acyclic nucleoside phosphonate known to inhibit HIV replication in vitro and to reduce viremia in HIV-infected patients. Here we have investigated whether tenofovir is able to protect peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy donors against human T-cell leukemia/lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) infection in vitro. PBMCs were pre-treated with tenofovir and infected by exposure to an irradiated cell line chronically harbouring HTLV-1. Measurements of viral DNA, as well as viral gene and protein expression, at 4 weeks after infection, revealed that tenofovir at concentrations of 1 microM and higher completely protected PBMCs against HTLV-1; lower concentrations did not fully prevent HTLV-1 infection of the cultures. Nevertheless, in the long term, cell growth of infected PBMCs was inhibited in vitro even by 0.1 microM tenofovir. In addition, tenofovir directly inhibited HTLV-1 reverse transcriptase activity, in a cell-free assay that utilizes a crude preparation from HTLV-1 viral particles as a source of the enzyme. The selectivity index of tenofovir for HTLV-1, was about four times higher than that of azidothymidine. Taken together our results strongly encourage further studies to investigate the real impact of tenofovir towards HTLV-1 infection.
HIV-1 Tat is a potent transcriptional activator of the viral promoter with the ability to modulate a number of cellular regulatory circuits including apoptosis. Tat exerts its effects through interaction with viral as well as cellular proteins. Here, we studied the influence of p73, a protein that is implicated in apoptosis and cell cycle control, on Tat apoptotic function in the central nervous system. We recently demonstrated the ability of Tat to associate with p73, and that this association modulates Tat transcriptional activity (Amini et al., Mol Cell Biol 2005; 18: 8126-8138). We demonstrated that p73 interferes with Tat-mediated apoptosis by preventing the up-regulation of Bax and down-regulation of Bcl-2 proteins in astrocytes. Thus, the interplay between Tat and p73 may affect Tat contribution to apoptotic events in the brain, limiting its involvement in the neuropathology often observed in the brains of HIV-1 patients.
The use of clustering strategies in semantic and phonological fluency was tested in children in third (age 8-9) and fifth (age 10-11) grades. To analyze the development of clustering strategies in the fluency task, the latency to the first word and intervals between clustered and non-clustered words were recorded. Semantic fluency was greater than phonological fluency in both age groups. Children in fifth grade had greater semantic and phonological fluency than children in the third grade, concomitant with an increase in number of clusters, but not in cluster size. The greater facility of the children with semantic fluency was confirmed by a shorter latency to the first word, and significantly shorter intervals between clustered words compared to non-clustered words. Girls had shorter latencies to the first word and made more phonological clusters in the semantic task than boys. The increase in cluster number and concomitant increase in fluency in older children might be related to the development of cognitive flexibility. These data suggest that measurement of clustering strategies in the verbal fluency task can be used to assess executive function deficits in children with acquired or developmental neurological impairment or attention deficits.




A great deal of information can be gained from kinetic fluorescence-based measurement of cellular responses; however, until recently the use of such approaches has been limited by the manual nature of the instrumentation available. Higher-throughput kinetic studies of signaling pathways are greatly facilitated by new confocal, liquid handling-enabled, high content screening (HCS) platforms. In the present work, we have implemented one such instrument, the BD(TM) Pathway HT bioimager (BD Biosciences, Rockville, MD), for studying regulation of neuronal signaling pathways. We have established a neuronal calcium oscillation model, whereby rate of oscillation, amplitude of oscillation, and level of synchronicity across the culture can be measured. We have implemented membrane potential measurement using fluorescence resonance energy transfer-based dyes, for single cell characterization on this platform, showing the benefits of a truly flexible excitation and recording system; this dye combination cannot be readily implemented on all HCS platforms because of constraints of excitation wavelengths. We have validated long-term intracellular calcium imaging experiments, using innovative dyes and BD Pathway HT's spinning disk-based confocal excitation. To maximize both throughput and reproducibility, walk-away automation integration of this bioimaging technology has been implemented, producing an affordable, compact platform for fully automated kinetic HCS.

Many hippocampal neurons (place cells) appear to represent a particular location within an environment (their place field). This property would appear to be central to hippocampal involvement in navigation based on spatial memory. Although a navigationally useful representation might also include information about distal goals, having a place field and being able to represent a distal goal would appear to be mutually exclusive place cell properties. Our simulations demonstrate, however, that information about goal direction can be simply derived from the changes in place field density that occur when place fields shift location in a goal-directed manner. Previous reports that place fields respond dynamically to shifts in goal location may, therefore, represent the operation of such a system.
Conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) describes changes in rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) nictitating membrane responses (NMR) to an unconditioned stimulus (US) when the US is tested by itself after pairings of tone and electrodermal stimulation. Although CRM has been replicated, it is unclear whether it occurs in response systems other than that of the NMR. The authors report that CRM of rabbit heart rate (HR) can occur following HR conditioning. A US that elicits HR acceleration before conditioning can elicit HR deceleration after conditioning. The rabbits' electrocardiograms showed both HR conditioning and HR CRM were correlated with an increased PQ interval--an index of parasympathetic function mediated by the vagus. The data suggest conditioned HR deceleration can generalize from conditioned stimulus to US as a function of conditioning.
Androgen deprivation leads to a profound loss of synaptic density in the hippocampus and changes in learning and memory in animal models. The authors examined group differences in verbal memory between men on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), a commonly used treatment for prostate cancer, and healthy men. The authors found that men on ADT have a specific impairment of retention but normal encoding and retrieval processes on a word list-learning task. Speed and accuracy for both perceptual and semantic encoding, as well as retrieval at a very short retention interval, were not affected; however, recognition fell to chance after a 2-min retention interval in men on ADT. Healthy men showed only moderate forgetting, and performance was still above chance at 12 min. This pattern of preserved encoding and retrieval but impaired retention suggests that androgens play a role in hippocampally mediated memory processes, possibly having a specific affect on consolidation.
Salvinorin A is a pharmacologically active diterpene that occurs naturally in the Mexican mint Ska Maria Pastora (Salvia divinorum) and represents the first naturally occurring kappa-opioid receptor agonist. The chemical structure of salvinorin A is novel among the opioids, and thus defines a new structural class of kappa-opioid-receptor selective drugs. Few studies have examined the effects of salvinorin A in vivo, and fewer still have attempted to assess the agonist actions of this compound at mu-opioid, delta-opioid, and kappa-opioid receptors using selective antagonists. In the mouse, salvinorin A disrupted climbing behavior on an inverted screen task, indicating a rapid, but short-lived induction of sedation/motor incoordination. Similar effects were observed with the mu-agonist remifentanil and the synthetic kappa-agonist U69,593. When behaviorally equivalent doses of all three opioids were challenged with antagonists at doses selective for mu-opioid, delta-opioid, or kappa-opioid receptors, results suggested that the motoric effects of remifentanil were mediated by mu-receptors, whereas those of salvinorin A and U69,593 were mediated via kappa-receptors. Despite similar potencies and degrees of effectiveness, salvinorin A and U69,593 differed with regard to their susceptibility to antagonism by the kappa-antagonist nor-binaltorphamine. This later finding, coupled with the novel chemical structure of the compound, is consistent with recent findings that the diterpene salvinorin A may bind to the kappa-receptor in a manner that is qualitatively different from that of more traditional kappa-agonists such as the benzeneacetamide U69,593. Such pharmacological differences among these kappa-opioids raise the possibility that the development of other diterpene-based opioids may yield important therapeutic compounds.
Both opioids and cannabinoids have inhibitory effects at micromolar doses, which are mediated by activated receptors coupling to Gi/o-proteins. Surprisingly, the analgesic effects of opioids are enhanced by ultra-low doses (nanomolar to picomolar) of the opioid antagonist, naltrexone. As opioid and cannabinoid systems interact, this study investigated whether ultra-low dose naltrexone also influences cannabinoid-induced antinociception. Separate groups of Long-Evans rats were tested for antinociception following an injection of vehicle, a sub-maximal dose of the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55 212-2, naltrexone (an ultra-low or a high dose) or a combination of WIN 55 212-2 and naltrexone doses. Tail-flick latencies were recorded for 3 h, at 10-min intervals for the first hour, and at 15-min intervals thereafter. Ultra-low dose naltrexone elevated WIN 55 212-2-induced tail flick thresholds without extending its duration of action. This enhancement was replicated in animals receiving intraperitoneal or intravenous injections. A high dose of naltrexone had no effect on WIN 55 212-2-induced tail flick latencies, but a high dose of the cannabinoid 1 receptor antagonist SR 141716 blocked the elevated tail-flick thresholds produced by WIN 55 212-2+ultra-low dose naltrexone. These data suggest a mechanism of cannabinoid-opioid interaction whereby activated opioid receptors that couple to Gs-proteins may attenuate cannabinoid-induced antinociception and/or motor functioning.

Reduced insulin-mediated glucose transport in skeletal muscle is a hallmark of the pathophysiology of T2DM (Type II diabetes mellitus). Impaired intracellular insulin signalling is implicated as a key underlying mechanism. Attention has focused on early signalling events such as defective tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS1 (insulin receptor substrate-1), a major target for the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase. This is required for normal induction of signalling pathways key to many of the metabolic actions of insulin. Conversely, increased serine/threonine phosphorylation of IRS1 following prolonged insulin exposure (or in obesity) reduces signalling capacity, partly by stimulating IRS1 degradation. We now show that IRS1 levels in human muscle are actually increased 3-fold following 1 h of hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemia. Similarly, transient induction of IRS1 (3-fold) in the liver or muscle of rodents occurs following feeding or insulin injection respectively. The induction by insulin is also observed in cell culture systems, although to a lesser degree, and is not due to reduced proteasomal targeting, increased protein synthesis or gene transcription. Elucidation of the mechanism by which insulin promotes IRS1 stability will permit characterization of the importance of this novel signalling event in insulin regulation of liver and muscle function. Impairment of this process would reduce IRS1 signalling capacity, thereby contributing to the development of hyperinsulinaemia/insulin resistance prior to the appearance of T2DM.
RIM1alpha (Rab3-interacting molecule 1alpha) is a large multidomain protein that is localized to presynaptic active zones [Wang, Okamoto, Schmitz, Hofmann and Sdhof (1997) Nature (London) 388, 593-598] and is the founding member of the RIM protein family that also includes RIM2alpha, 2beta, 2gamma, 3gamma and 4gamma [Wang and Sdhof (2003) Genomics 81, 126-137]. In presynaptic nerve termini, RIM1alpha interacts with a series of presynaptic proteins, including the synaptic vesicle GTPase Rab3 and the active zone proteins Munc13, liprins and ELKS (a protein rich in glutamate, leucine, lysine and serine). Mouse KOs (knockouts) revealed that, in different types of synapses, RIM1alpha is essential for different forms of synaptic plasticity. In CA1-region Schaffer-collateral excitatory synapses and in GABAergic synapses (where GABA is gamma-aminobutyric acid), RIM1alpha is required for maintaining normal neurotransmitter release and short-term synaptic plasticity. In contrast, in excitatory CA3-region mossy fibre synapses and cerebellar parallel fibre synapses, RIM1alpha is necessary for presynaptic long-term, but not short-term, synaptic plasticity. In these synapses, the function of RIM1alpha in presynaptic long-term plasticity depends, at least in part, on phosphorylation of RIM1alpha at a single site, suggesting that RIM1alpha constitutes a 'phosphoswitch' that determines synaptic strength. However, in spite of the progress in understanding RIM1alpha function, the mechanisms by which RIM1alpha acts remain unknown. For example, how does phosphorylation regulate RIM1alpha, what is the relationship of the function of RIM1alpha in basic release to synaptic plasticity and what is the physiological significance of different forms of RIM-dependent plasticity? Moreover, the roles of other RIM isoforms are unclear. Addressing these important questions will contribute to our view of how neurotransmitter release is regulated at the presynaptic active zone.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a pleiotropic signalling molecule that subserves a wide variety of basic cellular functions and also manifests itself pathophysiologically. As regards cancer and its progression, however, the reported role of NO appears surprisingly inconsistent. In this review, we focus on metastasis, the process of cancer cell spread and secondary tumour formation. In a 'reductionist' approach, we consider the metastatic cascade to be made up of a series of basic cellular behaviours (such as proliferation, apoptosis, adhesion, secretion migration, invasion and angiogenesis). We evaluate how NO controls such behaviours, in comparison with normal cells. The available information suggests strongly that NO signalling would be expected to regulate these behaviours both positively and negatively and this probably leads to the observed apparent variability in the NO status of cancer cells and tissues. Thus, the role of NO in cancer is more complex than previously thought. A number of suggestions are made, including consideration of novel mechanisms, such as ion channels, in order to achieve a more consistent and integrated understanding of NO signalling in cancer and to realise its clinical potential.


A sensitive and rapid reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method using pre-column derivatization with 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbamate (AQC) and fluorescence detection is reported. By directly derivatizing microdialysate samples with AQC, an automatic and rapid simultaneous measurement of aspartate, serine, glutamate, glycine and histidine was developed. Excellent linearity (r2 &gt; or = 0.998) was achieved for the standard mixture used for the validation experiments. Within-day and between-day precision was less than 6.2%, and the accuracy ranged from 95 to 105.2% in standards. This method is suitable for single run analysis of a high number of small volume microdialysate samples from rat hippocampus. Amino acids from microdialysate samples were quantified with RSD for reproducibility below 2%, and at approximately 0.1% for retention time.
The detection of sound by the cochlea involves a complex mechanical interplay among components of the cochlear partition. An in vitro preparation of the second turn of the jird's cochlea provides an opportunity to measure cochlear responses with subcellular resolution under controlled mechanical, ionic, and electrical conditions that simulate those encountered in vivo. Using photodiode micrometry, laser interferometry, and stroboscopic video microscopy, we have assessed the mechanical responses of the cochlear partition to acoustic and electrical stimuli near the preparation's characteristic frequency. Upon acoustic stimulation, the partition responds principally as a rigid plate pivoting around its insertion along the spiral lamina. The radial motion at the reticular lamina greatly surpasses that of the tectorial membrane, giving rise to shear that deflects the mechanosensitive hair bundles. Electrically evoked mechanical responses are qualitatively dissimilar from their acoustically evoked counterparts and suggest the recruitment of both hair-bundle- and soma-based electromechanical transduction processes. Finally, we observe significant changes in the stiffness of the cochlear partition upon tip-link destruction and tectorial-membrane removal, suggesting that these structures contribute considerably to the system's mechanical impedance and that hair-bundle-based forces can drive active motion of the cochlear partition.
Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy presents a powerful tool in biology and biophysics because it allows the investigation of the local environment of a fluorochrome in living cells in a quantitative manner. Furthermore, imaging Frster-type resonance energy transfer (FRET) by fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy enables protein-protein interactions and intermolecular distances to be mapped under physiological conditions. Quantitative and precise data analysis methods are required to access the richness of information that is contained in FRET data on biological samples. Lifetime detection in the frequency-domain yields two lifetime estimations. The lifetime moments analysis (LiMA) provides a quantitative measure of the lifetime distribution broadness by exploiting the analytical relationship between the phase- and demodulation-lifetime estimations and relating them to the weighted average and variance of the lifetime distribution. The LiMA theoretical framework is validated by comparison with global analysis and by applying it to a constrained two-component FRET system using simulations and experiments. Furthermore, a novel LIMA-based error analysis and a more intuitive formalism for global analysis are presented. Finally, a new method to resolve a FRET system is proposed and experimentally applied to the investigation of protein-protein interactions.
In many biological systems, cells display spontaneous calcium oscillations (CaOs) and repetitive action-potential firing. These phenomena have been described separately by models for intracellular inositol trisphosphate (IP3)-mediated CaOs and for plasma membrane excitability. In this study, we present an integrated model that combines an excitable membrane with an IP3-mediated intracellular calcium oscillator. The IP3 receptor is described as an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium channel with open and close probabilities that depend on the cytoplasmic concentration of IP3 and Ca2+. We show that simply combining this ER model for intracellular CaOs with a model for membrane excitability of normal rat kidney (NRK) fibroblasts leads to instability of intracellular calcium dynamics. To ensure stable long-term periodic firing of action potentials and CaOs, it is essential to incorporate calcium transporters controlled by feedback of the ER store filling, for example, store-operated calcium channels in the plasma membrane. For low IP3 concentrations, our integrated NRK cell model is at rest at -70 mV. For higher IP3 concentrations, the CaOs become activated and trigger repetitive firing of action potentials. At high IP3 concentrations, the basal intracellular calcium concentration becomes elevated and the cell is depolarized near -20 mV. These predictions are in agreement with the different proliferative states of cultures of NRK fibroblasts. We postulate that the stabilizing role of calcium channels and/or other calcium transporters controlled by feedback from the ER store is essential for any cell in which calcium signaling by intracellular CaOs involves both ER and plasma membrane calcium fluxes.

The aim of this report is to introduce a simple modification to the free-hand frameless stereotactic placement of ventriculoperitoneal shunts in undersized ventricles. In this technical note, we describe our experience with ventricular catheter placement in two children suffering from shunt dependent idiopathic intracranial hypertension using an image-guided instrument holder with a catheter guide. In both patients, the surgical procedure proved to be easy and accurate, with good initial clinical results. The use of an image-guided instrument holder is a modification to the free-hand frameless stereotactic placement of ventriculoperitoneal shunts in undersized ventricles.
The role of trigeminal ganglion percutaneous injection and radio-frequency lesioning procedures for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia (TGN) in multiple sclerosis (MS) is well established. There is general acceptance that microvascular decompression (MVD) cannot be an appropriate treatment due to the view that the underlying aetiology is a demyelinating plaque affecting the root entry zone of the trigeminal pathway. Recently, MR-imaging has been used in the preoperative investigation of this group of patients demonstrating that neurovascular compression can occasionally be the responsible mechanism and that MVD can be the treatment of choice. We present five cases with MS and TGN. All the patients had failed to respond to medical treatment or percutaneous procedures. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated evidence of neurovascular compression in four cases. All the patients underwent MVD. Postoperatively four of the five patients made an uncomplicated recovery, were pain-free and fully satisfied with the result (mean follow-up 38.75 months; range 8-59 months). One patient developed recurrent pain 1 week following surgery and went on to have a total sensory rhizotomy. TGN in MS can be caused by neurovascular compression, which may be identified on MR-imaging. MVD has offered satisfactory short-term outcome for at least 2 years and does not inflict sensory loss. Longer follow-up will determine whether the outcome in MS patients will be as successful as in the TGN patients who do not suffer from MS.
Nicotinic drug treatment can affect the expression of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) both in vivo and in vitro through molecular mechanisms not fully understood. The present study investigated the effect of the novel cytisine dimer 1,2-bisN-cytisinylethane (CC4) on nAChR natively expressed by SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells in culture. CC4 lacked the agonist properties of cytisine and was a potent antagonist (IC50=220 nM) on nAChRs. Chronic treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with 1 mM CC4 for 48 h increased the expression of 3H-epibatidine (3H-Epi; 3-4-fold) or 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin (125I-alphaBgtx; 1.2-fold) sensitive receptors present on the cell membrane and in the intracellular pool. Comparable data were obtained with nicotine or cytisine, but not with carbamylcholine, d-tubocurarine, di-hydro-beta-erythroidine or hexametonium. Immunoprecipitation and immunopurification studies showed that the increase in 3H-Epi-binding receptors was due to the enhanced expression of alpha3beta2 and alpha3beta2beta4 subtypes without changes in subunit mRNA transcription or receptor half-life. The upregulation was not dependent on agonist/antagonist properties of the drugs, and did not concern muscarinic or serotonin receptors. Whole-cell patch clamp analysis of CC4-treated cells demonstrated larger nicotine-evoked inward currents with augmented sensitivity to the blockers alpha-conotoxin MII or methyllycaconitine. In conclusion, chronic treatment with CC4 increased the number of nAChRs containing beta2 and alpha7 subunits on the plasma membrane, where they were functionally active. In the case of beta2-containing receptors, we propose that CC4, by binding to intracellular receptors, triggered a conformational reorganisation of intracellular subunits that stimulated preferential assembly and membrane-directed trafficking of beta2-containing receptor subtypes..
Oxaliplatin, an effective cytotoxic treatment in combination with 5-fluorouracil for colorectal cancer, is associated with sensory, motor and autonomic neurotoxicity. Motor symptoms include hyperexcitability while autonomic effects include urinary retention, but the cause of these side-effects is unknown. We examined the effects on motor nerve function in the mouse hemidiaphragm and on the autonomic system in the vas deferens. In the mouse diaphragm, oxaliplatin (0.5 mM) induced multiple endplate potentials (EPPs) following a single stimulus, and was associated with an increase in spontaneous miniature EPP frequency. In the vas deferens, spontaneous excitatory junction potential frequency was increased after 30 min exposure to oxaliplatin; no changes in resting Ca(2+) concentration in nerve terminal varicosities were observed, and recovery after stimuli trains was unaffected. In both tissues, an oxaliplatin-induced increase in spontaneous activity was prevented by the voltage-gated Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX). Carbamazepine (0.3 mM) also prevented multiple EPPs and the increase in spontaneous activity in both tissues. In diaphragm, beta-pompilidotoxin (100 microM), which slows Na(+) channel inactivation, induced multiple EPPs similar to oxaliplatin's effect. By contrast, blockers of K(+) channels (4-aminopyridine and apamin) did not replicate oxaliplatin-induced hyperexcitability in the diaphragm. The prevention of hyperexcitability by TTX blockade implies that oxaliplatin acts on nerve conduction rather than by effecting repolarisation. The similarity between beta-pompilidotoxin and oxaliplatin suggests that alteration of voltage-gated Na(+) channel kinetics is likely to underlie the acute neurotoxic actions of oxaliplatin.
Autosomal dominant hereditary sensory neuropathy (HSN I) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders, and in some families it is due to mutations in the serine palmitoyltransferase (SPTLC1) gene. We have characterized two families with HSN I associated with cough and gastro-oesophageal reflux (GOR). From a large Australian family, 27 individuals and from a smaller family, 11 individuals provided clinical information and blood for genetic analysis. Affected individuals had an adult onset of paroxysmal cough, GOR and distal sensory loss. Cough could be triggered by noxious odours or by pressure in the external auditory canal (Arnold's ear-cough reflex). Other features included throat clearing, hoarse voice, cough syncope and sensorineural hearing loss. Neurophysiological and pathological studies demonstrated a sensory axonal neuropathy. Gastric emptying studies were normal, and autonomic function and sweat tests were either normal or showed distal hypohidrosis. Cough was likely to be due to a combination of denervation hypersensitivity of the upper airways and oesophagus, and prominent GOR. Most affected individuals were shown on 24 h ambulatory oesophageal pH monitoring to have multiple episodes of GOR, closely temporally associated with coughing. Hoarse voice was probably attributable to acid-induced laryngeal damage, and there was no evidence of vocal cord palsy. No other cause for cough was found on most respiratory or otorhinological studies. Linkage to chromosome 3p22-p24 has been found in both families, with no evidence of linkage to loci for known HSN I, autosomal dominant hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy, hereditary GOR or triple A syndrome. These families represent a genetically novel variant of HSN I, with a distinctive cough owing to involvement of the upper aerodigestive tract.
We have established that the frequency of LRRK2 mutations in a series of 118 cases of familial Parkinson's disease is 5.1%. In the largest family with autosomal dominant, late-onset Parkinson's disease where affected subjects share a Y1699C missense mutation we provide a detailed clinical, pathological and imaging report. The phenotype in this large British kindred included asymmetrical, levodopa-responsive parkinsonism where unilateral leg tremor at onset and foot dystonia were prominent features. There was no significant abnormality of cognition but there was prominent behavioural disorder. We observed a lower age of onset in successive generations. Histopathology in one patient showed substantia nigra cell loss and Lewy body formation, with small numbers of cortical Lewy bodies. 18F-dopa positron emission tomography (PET) in another patient showed a pattern of nigrostriatal dysfunction typical of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. 18F-dopa-PET scans in unaffected family members prior to identifying the disease locus did not detect subclinical nigrostriatal dysfunction. Olfaction was assessed in affected subjects and Lewy bodies were identified in the olfactory bulb as well as cortex and brainstem of one deceased patient. In order to assess the role of mutations in this gene in other familial cases we undertook a mutation screen of all 51 exons of LRRK2 in 117 other smaller British kindreds with familial Parkinson's disease. The commonest mutation was G2019S and we also identified two novel mutations, R1941H and T2356I, in the coding sequence. These data suggest that parkinsonism caused by mutations in LRRK2 is likely to represent the commonest locus for autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease with a phenotype, pathology and in vivo imaging similar to idiopathic, late-onset Parkinson's disease.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC) transplanted to the site of a spinal cord injury can promote axonal sparing/regeneration and functional recovery. The purpose of this study was to investigate if OEC enhance the effects of grafted dopamine-neuron-rich ventral mesencephalic tissue (VM) in a rodent model of Parkinson's disease. We co-grafted VM with either OEC or astrocytes derived from the same olfactory bulbs as the OEC to rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal system. Co-grafting fetal VM with OEC, but not with astrocytes enhanced dopamine cell survival, striatal reinnervation and functional recovery of amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotational behaviour compared with grafting embryonic VM alone. Grafting OEC or astrocytes alone had no effects. Intriguingly, only in the presence of OEC co-grafts, did dopamine neurons extend strikingly long neurites that reached peripheral striatal compartments. Comparable results were observed in a co-culture system where OEC promoted dopamine cell survival and neurite elongation through a mechanism involving both releasable factors and direct contact. Cell type analysis of fetal VM grafts suggested that dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra rather than of the ventral tegmental area were increased in the presence of OEC co-grafts. We conclude that the addition of OEC enhances efficacy of grafted immature dopamine neurons in a rat Parkinson's disease model.
Intrastriatal grafts of embryonic mesencephalic tissue can survive in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease, but the degree of symptomatic relief is highly variable and some cases develop troublesome dyskinesias. Here we explored, using clinical assessment and 18F-dopa and 11C-raclopride PET, factors which may influence the functional outcome after transplantation. We observed increased 18F-dopa uptake in the grafted putamen, signifying continued survival of the transplanted dopaminergic neurons, in parallel with a progressive reduction of 18F-dopa uptake in non-grafted regions for the whole patient group. The patients with the best functional outcome after transplantation exhibited no dopaminergic denervation in areas outside the grafted areas either preoperatively or at 1 or 2 years post-operatively. In contrast, patients with no or modest clinical benefit showed reduction of 18F-dopa in ventral striatum prior to or following transplantation, which may have limited graft-induced improvement. We obtained no evidence that dyskinesias were caused by abnormal dopamine (DA) release from the grafts. As has been observed for intrinsic dopaminergic neurons, there was a significant correlation between 18F-dopa uptake and methamphetamine-induced change of 11C-raclopride binding (as a measure of DA release) in the putamen containing the graft. Furthermore, we observed no correlation between 11C-raclopride binding in anterior, posterior or entire putamen under basal conditions or after methamphetamine, and dyskinesia severity scores in the contralateral side of the body. Withdrawal of immunosuppression at 29 months after transplantation caused no reduction of 18F-dopa uptake or worsening of UPDRS motor score, indicating continued survival and function of the graft. However, patients showed increased dyskinesia scores, which might have been caused either by growth of the graft or worsening of a low-grade inflammation around the graft. These findings indicate that poor outcome after transplantation is associated with progressive dopaminergic denervation in areas outside the grafts, a process which may have started already before surgery. Also, that the development of dyskinesias after transplantation is not associated with excessive DA release from the grafts. Finally, our data provide evidence that long-term immunosuppression can be withdrawn without interfering with graft survival or the motor recovery induced by transplantation.
Previous studies have suggested that recovery of speech comprehension after left hemisphere infarction may depend on a mechanism in the right hemisphere. However, the role that distinct right hemisphere regions play in speech comprehension following left hemisphere stroke has not been established. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate narrative speech activation in 18 neurologically normal subjects and 17 patients with left hemisphere stroke and a history of aphasia. Activation for listening to meaningful stories relative to meaningless reversed speech was identified in the normal subjects and in each patient. Second level analyses were then used to investigate how story activation changed with the patients' auditory sentence comprehension skills and surprise story recognition memory tests post-scanning. Irrespective of lesion site, performance on tests of auditory sentence comprehension was positively correlated with activation in the right lateral superior temporal region, anterior to primary auditory cortex. In addition, when the stroke spared the left temporal cortex, good performance on tests of auditory sentence comprehension was also correlated with the left posterior superior temporal cortex (Wernicke's area). In distinct contrast to this, good story recognition memory predicted left inferior frontal and right cerebellar activation. The implication of this double dissociation in the effects of auditory sentence comprehension and story recognition memory is that left frontal and left temporal activations are dissociable. Our findings strongly support the role of the right temporal lobe in processing narrative speech and, in particular, auditory sentence comprehension following left hemisphere aphasic stroke. In addition, they highlight the importance of the right anterior superior temporal cortex where the response was dissociated from that in the left posterior temporal lobe.
We found previously in a lesion study that the right-sided sector of the ventromedial prefrontal cortices (VMPCs) was critical for social/emotional functioning and decision-making, whereas the left side appeared to be less important. It so happened that all but one of the subjects in that study were men, and the one woman did not fit the pattern very well. This prompted a follow-up investigation, in which we explored the following question: Does gender play a role in the development of defects in social conduct, emotional functioning and decision-making, following unilateral VMPC damage? We culled from our Patient Registry same-sex pairs of men or women patients who had comparable unilateral VMPC damage in either the left or right hemisphere. Two male pairs and one female pair were formed, and we included two additional women with unilateral right VMPC damage (8 patients in all). The domains of measurement covered social conduct, emotional processing and personality, and decision-making. We found a systematic effect of gender on the pattern of left-right asymmetry in VMPC. In men, there were severe defects following unilateral right VMPC damage, but not following left-sided damage. In women, there were defects following unilateral left VMPC damage; following right-sided damage, however, defects were mild or absent. The findings suggest that men and women may use different strategies to solve similar problems--e.g. men may use a more holistic, gestalt-type strategy, and women may use a more analytic, verbally-mediated strategy. Such differences could reflect asymmetric, gender-related differences in the neurobiology of left and right VMPC sectors.
Musically tone-deaf individuals have psychophysical deficits in detecting pitch changes, yet their discrimination of intonation contours in speech appears to be normal. One hypothesis for this dissociation is that intonation contours use coarse pitch contrasts which exceed the pitch-change detection thresholds of tone-deaf individuals (). We test this idea by presenting intonation contours for discrimination, both in the context of the original sentences in which they occur and in a &quot;pure&quot; form dissociated from any phonetic context. The pure form consists of gliding-pitch analogs of the original intonation contours which exactly follow their pattern of pitch and timing. If the spared intonation perception of tone-deaf individuals is due to the coarse pitch contrasts of intonation, then such individuals should discriminate the original sentences and the gliding-pitch analogs equally well. In contrast, we find that discrimination of the gliding-pitch analogs is severely degraded. Thus it appears that the dissociation between spoken and musical pitch perception in tone-deaf individuals is due to a deficit at a higher level than simple pitch-change detection.

Studies evaluating temporal auditory processing among individuals with reading and other language deficits have yielded inconsistent findings due to methodological problems () and sample differences. In the current study, seven auditory masking thresholds were measured in fifty-two 7- to 10-year-old children (26 diagnosed with reading disability [RD], 26 without reading disability). Hierarchic multiple regression analyses indicated that RD status predicted performance only in the backward-bandpass noise (p&lt;.05) and backward notched-noise conditions (p&lt;.05), suggesting both temporal and spectral auditory processing deficits. These results suggest that any auditory deficit associated with RD may be more complex than previously hypothesized.
In the past decades, there have been numerous studies in the gene therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD), especially in delivering genes of enzymes for dopamine (DA) synthesis. Gene therapy in PD appears to be at the brink of the clinical study phase. However, there are many questions that need to be solved before this approach can be contemplated clinically, especially the question about the control of DA production because too much DA could cause toxicity. Until recently, few studies have investigated the relation between DA production and PD improvement and respective expressed human tyrosine hydroxylase (hTH), human GTP-cyclohydrolase 1 (hGCH1), and human aromatic acid decarboxylase (hAADC) in ex vivo gene therapy for PD. Now, we have developed a simple, fast, and reliable method to assay the activities of TH and AADC and have provided the possibility of ex vivo gene therapy for PD by genetically modifying cells with separate hTH, hGCH1, and hAADC genes. Using the method, we found though hTH, hGCH1, and hAADC genes were expressed, respectively, they could fulfil the function of DA synthesis by incubating together in vitro, and more DA was synthesized in vitro when hTH, hGCH1, and hAADC genes were expressed together rather than hTH and hAADC genes expressed or hTH expressed. The result suggests that we could easily control DA production in ex vivo gene therapy before transplantation. By combining this method and microdialysis, we also could further investigate the DA production in vitro and in vivo and then decide the optimal number and ratio of different transduced cells to improve the therapy of PD. Thus, the method has potential use in ex vivo gene therapy of PD.
The possibility of introducing eye-wiping test as a model of acute pain was examined in rat, and it was compared with the well-known hot plate test. One drop of NaCl 5 M was placed into the animal eye, and the number of eye wipes with the ipsilateral forelimb was counted during 30 s. The withdrawal latency in hot plate test was also examined. Afterward, animals were treated with morphine (1, 2, 4, 6, 8 or 10 mg/kg), imipramine (25 mg/kg), sodium salicylate (250 mg/kg) or saline (i.p). After 30 min, the animals were tested again with eye-wiping and hot plate tests. Our results showed that morphine injection dose dependently decreased the number of eye wipes and increased the response latency to hot plate tests. There was a good correlation between the analgesic effects of morphine on responses to both tests, however, morphine produced more pain relief in eye-wiping test. Imipramine significantly decreased the number of eye wipes and increased the response latency to hot plate test, while sodium salicylate and saline injection did not. It may be concluded that the eye-wiping test can be used as a reliable method in trigeminal pain studies, which is sensitive to opioid and tricyclic antidepressant in rat.
Drug-induced dyskinesias (DID) represent a troublesome, dose-limiting, and common complication of long-term pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. The pathophysiological basis and clinical nature of DID is of major interest for clinicians and neuroscientists. In this review article, we evaluate the theories of pathophysiology and molecular basis of DID, validity of various animal models used in DID related research, and electrophysiological characteristics of various basal ganglia nuclei during DID. We also discuss the relevance of various treatment strategies to the pathophysiological mechanisms.
Autoscopic phenomena (AP) are rare illusory visual experiences during which the subject has the impression of seeing a second own body in extrapersonal space. AP consist of out-of-body experience (OBE), autoscopic hallucination (AH), and heautoscopy (HAS). The present article reviews and statistically analyzes phenomenological, functional, and anatomical variables in AP of neurological origin (n = 41 patients) that have been described over the last 100 years. This was carried out in order to further our understanding of the underlying mechanisms of AP, much as previous research into the neural bases of body part illusions has demystified these latter phenomena. Several variables could be extracted, which distinguish between or are comparable for the three AP providing testable hypotheses for subsequent research. Importantly, we believe that the scientific demystification of AP may be useful for the investigation of the cognitive functions and brain regions that mediate processing of the corporeal awareness and self consciousness under normal conditions.
Describing the neural mechanisms underlying learning and memory continues to be an intensive area of study within neuroscience. Of specific interest are changes in synaptic number and structure in the neocortex, which may play a distinct role in learning and memory. As such, characterizing the structural correlates of neocortical learning and memory may be critical to understanding the link between synaptic structure and function. Towards this understanding, a meta-analysis was conducted on several well-researched paradigms of behavioral plasticity, categorized by those which enhance or deprive plasticity-inducing experience (PIE). Results revealed several distinct groups. Several variables (spine size, density of multisynaptic terminals, vesicular content) showed distinct dynamics under enhanced vs. deprived PIE, but changed consistently within these categories, regardless of the manipulation. A second set of variables (i.e., density of excitatory, inhibitory, excitatory spinuous, and inhibitory spinuous synapses) showed the same qualitative changes following both enhanced and impoverished PIE. A third group (total synapse density, total basilar branches, apical spine density, total postsynaptic density size, and total bouton size) showed significant heterogeneity that could not be accounted for by partitioning enhancement and deprivation of PIE. However, this variance was accounted for by the modality and duration of the manipulation, the delay between this manipulation and sacrifice, and the stereological/methodological rigor of the study. These data, along with suggestions for future investigation based on gaps in the literature may go far towards the goal of relating neural structure and function.
Existing evidence indicates that mu and other alpha-like rhythms are independent phenomena because of differences in source generation, sensitivity to sensory events, bilateral coherence, frequency, and power. Although mu suppression and enhancement echo sensorimotor processing in frontoparietal networks, they are also sensitive to cognitive and affective influences and likely reflect more than an idling brain state. Mu rhythms are present at early stages of human development and in other mammalian species. They exhibit adaptive and dynamically changing properties, including frequency acceleration and posterior-to-anterior shifts in focus. Furthermore, individuals can learn to control mu rhythms volitionally in a very short period of time. This raises questions about the mu rhythm's open neural architecture and ability to respond to cognitive, affective, and motor imagery, implying an even greater developmental and functional role than has previously been ascribed to it. Recent studies have suggested that mu rhythms reflect downstream modulation of motor cortex by prefrontal mirror neurons, i.e., cells that may play a critical role in imitation learning and the ability to understand the actions of others. It is proposed that mu rhythms represent an important information processing function that links perception and action-specifically, the transformation of &quot;seeing&quot; and &quot;hearing&quot; into &quot;doing.&quot; In a broader context, this transformation function results from an entrainment/gating mechanism in which multiple alpha networks (visual-, auditory-, and somatosensory-centered domains), typically producing rhythmic oscillations in a locally independent manner, become coupled and entrained. A global or 'diffuse and distributed alpha system' comes into existence when these independent sources of alpha become coherently engaged in transforming perception to action.
Psychologists have linked the personality trait extraversion both to differences in reward sensitivity and to dopamine functioning, but little is known about how these differences are reflected in the functioning of the brain's dopaminergic neural reward system. Here, we show that individual differences in extraversion and the presence of the A1 allele on the dopamine D2 receptor gene predict activation magnitudes in the brain's reward system during a gambling task. In two functional MRI experiments, participants probabilistically received rewards either immediately following a behavioral response (Study 1) or after a 7.5 s anticipation period (Study 2). Although group activation maps revealed anticipation- and reward-related activations in the reward system, individual differences in extraversion and the presence of the D2 Taq1A allele predicted a significant amount of inter-subject variability in the magnitudes of reward-related, but not anticipation-related, activations. These results demonstrate a link between stable differences in personality, genetics, and brain functioning.
According to the model hypothesized by Ntnen and Michie, the generation of the mismatch negativity (MMN) requires a mismatch detection, taking place in temporal areas, followed by the activation of frontal generators, underlying attention switching toward the deviant stimulus. We aimed at verifying whether the activation of temporal and frontal regions is dependent on the amount of attentional resources allocable toward the deviant stimulus. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) in nine healthy subjects while reading and during a demanding visual task (Multiple Features Target Cancellation, MFTC). Raw data were further evaluated by Brain Electrical Source Analysis (BESA). During the Reading condition, distraction toward the unattended auditory stimuli was reflected by the enhancement of the N1 response to frequent stimuli and by the elicitation of a P3a response to deviant ones. The MMN distribution was explained by bilateral temporal dipoles. During the MFTC condition, no P3a was detected, while source analysis showed the activation of a right frontal generator. Temporal dipoles showed no change between the two conditions: we thus conclude that the earlier mismatch detection is independent on the attentional load. By contrast, the activation of a right frontal subcomponent occurred only during the high-load task, independently on any actual attention shift reflected by the P3a component. We thus discuss the hypothesis whether the right frontal MMN generator, rather than subserving a simple attention switching toward the deviant stimulus, plays a role in modulating the auditory change detection system (&quot;contrast enhancement&quot; model).
The effects of selective attention on the neural response to the violation of musical syntax were investigated in the present study. Musical chord progressions were played to nonmusicians while Event-Related Potentials (ERPs) were recorded. The five-chord progressions included 61% harmonically expected cadences (I-I(6)-IV-V-I), 26% harmonically unexpected cadences (I-I(6)-IV-V-N(6)), and 13% with one of the five chords having an intensity fadeout across its duration. During the attended condition, subjects responded by pressing a button upon detecting a fadeout in volume; during the unattended condition, subjects were given reading comprehension materials and instructed to ignore all auditory stimuli. In response to the harmonic deviant, an Early Anterior Negativity (EAN) was observed at 150-300 ms in both attention conditions, but it was much larger in amplitude in the attended condition. A second scalp-negative deflection was also identified at 380-600 ms following the harmonic deviants; this Late Negativity onset earlier during the attended condition. These results suggest strong effects of attention on the neural processing of harmonic syntax.
Neuronal operations associated with the top-down control process of shifting attention from one locus to another involve a network of cortical regions, and their influence is deemed fundamental to visual perception. However, the extent and nature of these operations within primary visual areas are unknown. In this paper, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) in combination with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine whether, prior to the onset of a visual stimulus, neuronal activity within early visual cortex is affected by covert attentional shifts. Time/frequency analyses were used to identify the nature of this activity. Our results show that shifting attention towards an expected visual target results in a late-onset (600 ms postcue onset) depression of alpha activity which persists until the appearance of the target. Independent component analysis (ICA) and dipolar source modeling confirmed that the neuronal changes we observed originated from within the calcarine cortex. Our results further show that the amplitude changes in alpha activity were induced not evoked (i.e., not phase-locked to the cued attentional task). We argue that the decrease in alpha prior to the onset of the target may serve to prime the early visual cortex for incoming sensory information. We conclude that attentional shifts affect activity within the human calcarine cortex by altering the amplitude of spontaneous alpha rhythms and that subsequent modulation of visual input with attentional engagement follows as a consequence of these localized changes in oscillatory activity.
The sensory-action theory proposes that the neural substrates underlying action representations are related to a visuomotor action system encompassing the left ventral premotor cortex, the anterior intraparietal (AIP) and left posterior middle temporal gyrus (LPMT). Using fMRI, we demonstrate that semantic decisions on action, relative to non-action words, increased activation in the left AIP and LPMT irrespective of whether the words were presented in a written or spoken form. Left AIP and LPMT might thus play the role of amodal semantic regions that can be activated via auditory as well as visual input. Left AIP and LPMT did not distinguish between different types of actions such as hand actions and whole body movements, although a right STS region responded selectively to whole body movements.
The hippocampus is one of the more widely studied structures related with spatial memory. In this study, we assessed the effect of unilateral inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus with tetrodotoxin (TTX) on the performance displayed by Wistar rats in the spatial version of the Morris water maze. In experiment 1, we injected into the dorsal hippocampus in two different groups of rats 1 microl of saline solution or 5 ng of TTX in 1 microl of saline each day immediately after the training during four consecutive days. This procedure blocked consolidation and impaired spatial memory in the TTX group. In experiment 2, a new group of subjects was trained in the Morris water maze for 8 days and was administered 1 microl of saline on day 7 (saline session) and TTX on day 8 (TTX session) into the dorsal hippocampus 40 min before the training. Only the treatment with TTX altered the retrieval of memories. These experiments showed that unilateral interventions on the dorsal hippocampus can affect consolidation as well as retrieval of well-established spatial memories.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating form of stroke that is associated with a very high mortality rate. Both medical therapies to control blood pressure, blood sugar, temperature, and surgical therapies to remove or contain clot remain controversial. The decision when to offer medical versus surgical treatment is very challenging and uncertain. Novel therapies are currently being developed and may be successful in containing the neurological injury associated with ICH. This review will highlight the controversies underlying medical management of ICH and the current ongoing research in the field.
We have combined structural and functional approaches to investigate the role of oligomerization in the operation of the GABA transporter rGAT1. Xenopus laevis oocytes were induced to express, either separately or simultaneously, the wild-type form of rGAT1 and a mutated (Y140W) form, unable to translocate GABA and to generate transport currents, although its intramembrane charge movement properties are only slightly affected. These characteristics, together with the insensitivity of Y140W to the blocking action of SKF89976A, were used to study the possible functional interaction of the two forms in an heteromeric structure. The electrophysiological data from oocytes coexpressing wild-type and Y140W rGAT1 were consistent with a completely independent activity of the two forms. Oligomerization was also studied by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) in tsA201 cells expressing the transporters fused with cyan and yellow fluorescent proteins (ECFP and EYFP). All combinations tested (WT-ECFP/WTEYFP, Y140W-ECFP/Y140W-EYFP and WT-ECFP/ Y140W-EYFP) were able to give rise to FRET, confirming the formation of homo- as well as heterooligomers. We conclude that, although rGAT1 undergoes structural oligomerization, each monomer operates independently.
1.RNA interference (RNAi) is a recently discovered biological pathway that mediates post-transcriptional gene silencing. The process of RNAi is orchestrated by an increasingly well-understood cellular machinery. 2. The common entry point for both natural and engineered RNAi are double stranded RNA molecules known as short interfering RNAs (siRNAs), that mediate the sequence-specific identification and degradation of the targeted messenger RNA (mRNA). The study and manipulation of these siRNAs has recently revolutionized biomedical research. 3. In this review, we first provide a brief overview of the process of RNAi, focusing on its potential role in brain function and involvement in neurological disease. We then describe the methods developed to manipulate RNAi in the laboratory and its applications to neuroscience. Finally, we focus on the potential therapeutic application of RNAi to neurological disease.
Apoptotic and inflammatory processes occur in human arteriosclerotic lesions. We examined the hypothesis whether both processes are possibly associated by studying the colocalization of corresponding markers. In 11 human arteriosclerotic carotid arteries, proapoptotic markers (CPP32 (caspase-3), poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, apoptosis-inducing factor, c-Jun/AP-1, and p53) and proinflammatory markers (macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and cyclooxygenase-2) were found in macrophages (MPhi) evaluated by computer-assisted immunohistomorphometry. Double-labeling studies demonstrated a colocalization of, both, proapoptotic and proinflammatory markers in these MPhi. Moreover, these MPhi also contained oxidized low-density lipoproteins (oxLDL). Exposure of cultured human MPhi to oxLDL, C6-ceramide, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha or H2O2 resulted in a significant increase of the apoptosis rate as well as of the MIF protein expression. Our study of MPhi in arteriosclerotic carotid arteries and in vitro experiments provide evidence that markers of apoptosis and inflammation are not only significantly increased but are also coexpressed. We conclude there are reciprocal modulatory interactions between apoptotic and inflammatory pathways in human plaque MPhi, which might importantly modify plaque progression or stability.
The normal brain develops within a well-controlled stable internal &quot;milieu&quot; protected by specialised mechanisms referred to collectively as blood-brain barriers. A fundamental feature of this environment is the control of water flow in and out of the developing brain. Because of limited vascularisation of the immature brain, choroid plexuses, via the cerebrospinal fluid, have been proposed as the main route of fluid exchange between the blood and brain interfaces. We describe the temporal expression and appearance of aquaporin-1 (AQP1) which is important for water transfer across adult choroid plexuses. AQP1 expression was studied in rat embryos using real time reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction. mRNA for AQP1 was present in rat brain at embryonic day 12 (E12) one day before the protein was detectable in the fourth ventricular choroid plexus (the first plexus to appear); its relative levels increased at E13-E14 when more AQP1-immunoreactive cells appeared in all plexuses. The presence of AQP1 was determined immunocytochemically in five different mammalian species (rat, mouse, human, sheep and opossum) in all four choroid plexuses from their earliest appearance. In all five species studied, the appearance of AQP1 immunoreactivity followed the same developmental sequence: the fourth, lateral and, finally, third ventricular choroid plexus. The stage of choroid plexus development when AQP1 was first detected in all five species and in all four choroid plexuses corresponded to the transition between Stages I and II. The cellular localisation of AQP1 in all choroid plexuses, as soon as it was detectable, had the characteristic apical membrane distribution previously described in the adult; a basolateral membrane localisation was also observed.
The orbital frontal cortex appears to be involved in learning the rules of goal-directed behavior necessary to perform the correct actions based on perception to accomplish different tasks. The activity of orbitofrontal neurons changes dependent upon the specific task or goal involved, but the functional role of this activity in performance of specific tasks has not been fully determined. Here we present a model of prefrontal cortex function using networks of integrate-and-fire neurons arranged in minicolumns. This network model forms associations between representations of sensory input and motor actions, and uses these associations to guide goal-directed behavior. The selection of goal-directed actions involves convergence of the spread of activity from the goal representation with the spread of activity from the current state. This spiking network model provides a biological implementation of the action selection process used in reinforcement learning theory. The spiking activity shows properties similar to recordings of orbitofrontal neurons during task performance.
Memory of a past experience can interfere with processing during a subsequent experience, a phenomenon termed proactive interference (PI). Neuroimaging and neuropsychological evidence implicate the left mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (mid-VLPFC) in PI resolution during short-term item recognition, though the precise mechanisms await specification. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment sought to further constrain theorizing regarding PI resolution. On each trial, subjects maintained a target set of words, and then decided if a subsequent probe was contained in the target set (positive) or not (negative). Importantly, for half of the negative and half of the positive trials, the probe had been contained in the previous target set (recent). Relative to non-recent trials, negative-recent trials produced an increase in response times and error rates, behavioral markers of PI. In fMRI measures, negative recency was associated with increased activation in the left mid-VLPFC, as well as in the bilateral fronto-polar cortex, providing evidence for multiple components in PI resolution. Furthermore, recency effects were evident during both negative and positive trials, with the magnitude of the recency effect in the mid-VLPFC being greater on negative trials. Collectively, these results serve to specify and constrain proposed models of PI resolution.
Evidence is accumulating that patients with schizophrenia exhibit relatively severe deficits in early visual sensory processing within the dorsal stream, while processing within the ventral stream appears to be relatively more intact. Here, illusory contour (IC) processing was investigated in a cohort of schizophrenia patients and age-matched healthy controls using high-density visual evoked potentials (VEPs), spatiotemporal topographic analyses and the Local Auto-Regressive Average distributed linear inverse source estimation. IC processing was assessed because it is now known to be an excellent metric of early processing within regions of the ventral visual stream. Results in the present study show that IC processing (106-194 ms) is spared in patients with schizophrenia, providing strong evidence that early ventral stream processing is essentially normal. This is so despite equally strong evidence that early dorsal stream processing is severely impaired in this population, as indexed by a robust decrement in amplitude of the P1 component in patients and a large topographic difference between groups for this component (54-104 ms). Source analysis confirmed that the flow of activity into the dorsal stream was substantially decreased in patients. As such, these results suggest that some aspects of early ventral processing are not entirely reliant on intact inputs from the dorsal stream. Lastly, we show that later phases of visual processing (240-400 ms) also rely on the activity of different brain networks in controls and patients, with the latter recruiting strong frontal activity perhaps as compensation for impaired ventral stream processing during this period. We interpret the present findings in the context of a two-stage processing model. Under this model, it is suggested that the second stage of ventral stream processing is dependent on the fidelity of inputs from the dorsal visual stream and that impairment of this critical modulatory input may underlie the failure of 'higher-level' ventral stream processes in this population.
We investigated the organization of horizontal connections at two distinct hierarchical levels in the ventral visual cortical pathway of the monkey, the inferior temporal (TE) and primary visual (V1) cortices. After injections of anterograde tracers into layers 2 and 3, clusters of terminals ('patches') of labeled horizontal collaterals in TE appeared at various distances up to 8 mm from the injection site, while in V1 clear patches were distributed only within 2 mm. The size and spacing of these patches in TE were larger and more irregular than those observed in V1. The labeling intensity of patches in V1 declined sharply with distance from the injection site. This tendency was less obvious in TE; a number of densely labeled patches existed at distant sites beyond weakly labeled patches. While injections into both areas resulted in an elongated pattern of patches, the anisotropy was greater in TE than in V1 for injections of a similar size. Dual tracer injections and larger-sized injections further revealed that the adjacent sites in TE had spatially distinct horizontal projections, compared to those in V1. These area-specific characteristics of the horizontal connections may contribute to the differences in visual information processing of TE and V1.
Prefrontal cortical functioning depends on D1 family receptors and their complex signal transduction cascade, including protein phosphatase-1 (PP1). Three PP1 isoforms are prominent in the brain: PP1alpha, PP1beta and PP1gamma1. PP1 localization by a variety of scaffolding proteins is critical for dopamine-mediated modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission. We have quantified the subcellular distribution of each isoform in primate prefrontal cortex using immunoelectron microscopy. All three are found in spines, dendrites, axon terminals, axons and glia. However, PP1alpha and PP1gamma1 labeling is enriched in spines, whereas PP1beta label is enriched in dendrites. Using post-embedding immunogold labeling, we further examined the distribution of PP1alpha and PP1gamma1 within spines. PP1gamma1 is highly and specifically concentrated in the postsynaptic density (PSD) of these spines, while PP1alpha is enriched in the PSD but also found subjacent to the PSD in moderate amounts. Thus, PP1 isoforms are heterogeneously distributed in the cortical neuropil and within spines. These results suggest that each PP1 isoform has access to a different set of substrates and, furthermore, they demonstrate that the composition of signal transduction proteins varies in different parts of the neuron and even in different regions of a dendritic spine in the primate PFC.
We used multiunit electrophysiological recording techniques to examine the topographic organization of somatosensory area 3b and cortex posterior to area 3b, including area 1 and the presumptive area 5, in the New World titi monkey, Callicebus moloch. We also examined the ipsilateral and contralateral connections of these fields, as well as those in a region of cortex that appeared to be similar to both area 7b and the anterior intraparietal area (7b/AIP) described in macaque monkeys. All data were combined with architectonic analysis to generate comprehensive reconstructions. These studies led to several observations. First, area 1 in titi monkeys is not as precisely organized in terms of topographic order and receptive field size as is area 1 in macaque monkeys and a few New World monkeys. Second, cortex caudal to area 1 in titi monkeys is dominated by the representation of the hand and forelimb, and contains neurons that are often responsive to visual stimulation as well as somatic stimulation. This organization is more like area 5 described in macaque monkeys than like area 2. Third, ipsilateral and contralateral cortical connections become more broadly distributed away from area 3b towards the posterior parietal cortex. Specifically, area 3b has a relatively restricted pattern of connectivity with adjacent somatosensory fields 3a, 1, S2 and PV; area 1 has more broadly distributed connections than area 3b; and the presumptive areas 5 and 7b/AIP have highly diverse connections, including connections with motor and premotor cortex, extrastriate visual areas, auditory areas and somatosensory areas of the lateral sulcus. Fourth, the hand representation of the presumptive area 5 has dense callosal connections. Our results, together with previous studies in other primates, suggest that anterior parietal cortex has expanded in some primate lineages, perhaps in relation to manual abilities, and that the region of cortex we term area 5 is involved in integrating somatic inputs with the motor system and across hemispheres. Such connections could form the substrate for intentional reaching, grasping and intermanual transfer of information necessary for bilateral coordination of the hands.
The cerebrospinal fluid has been used in the study of normal and pathological conditions of the central nervous system for more than a century. CSF analysis has also been applied to the study of sleep and its disorders but methodological aspects have often limited the results. The discovery of the hypocretin system (also known as orexin system) and its involvement in the pathophysiology of narcolepsy has opened a new field in the diagnosis of hypersomnia by CSF analysis and has revived the interest on this subject in sleep medicine. Older and new lines of research involving CSF measurement of hypocretin and other neurotransmitters in sleep and its disorders are reviewed.
This review highlights areas of clinical research in gastroenterology and hepatology that were published during the last year and were summarized during the most recent American Gastroenterological Association Plenary Session. The topics include a comparison of the risk of recurrent bleeding in patients taking clopidogrel versus aspirin plus a proton pump inhibitor, the introduction of rifaximin for the treatment of traveler's diarrhea, and the results of an oral vaccine for cholera tested in a high endemic area where there is also a high prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus infection. In inflammatory bowel disease, the impact of a biomarker of inflammation, C-reactive protein, to the response to a new biologic therapy is identified as potentially important because it might facilitate the selection of patients for these treatments. Results of device, endoscopic, and surgical treatment of obesity are reviewed, including the evidence of significant impact of surgery-induced weight loss on comorbid diseases. In the field of cancer, colonoscopic screening results in more polyps detected, down-staging of cancers identified, and improved cancer survival. A new familial syndrome associated with a serrated adenoma/carcinoma phenotype and variability in microsatellite instability is described. A controlled study demonstrates that a urine-derived substance, ulinastatin, reduces the risk of post-endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography pancreatitis. Hepatic stellate cells are involved in the fibrogenesis associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. These areas of clinical research demonstrate the breadth of significant advances that will impact on the clinical practice of gastroenterology and hepatology.





The Stroop paradigm was used to examine the role of phonological activation in semantic access and its development in reading Chinese characters. Subjects (age 7-23 years) of different reading ability were asked to name the display color of Chinese characters. The characters were displayed in four different colors: red, yellow, blue and green. There were five types of relationships between a character and its display color: semantically congruent, phonologically congruent, semantically incongruent, phonologically incongruent and neutral. In addition to the classical Stroop effects, interference and facilitation effects from the homophones of color characters were also observed. The younger children and those with lower reading ability exhibited stronger Stroop effects. These findings suggest that phonological codes are activated automatically in Chinese character recognition. Furthermore, there is more phonological activation in the semantic retrieval of children in lower grades and those with lower reading ability.
Empathy is a lay term that is becoming increasingly viewed as a unitary function within the field of cognitive neuroscience. In this paper, a selective review of the empathy literature is provided. It is argued from this literature that empathy is not a unitary system but rather a loose collection of partially dissociable neurocognitive systems. In particular, three main divisions can be made: cognitive empathy (or Theory of Mind), motor empathy, and emotional empathy. The two main psychiatric disorders associated with empathic dysfunction are considered: autism and psychopathy. It is argued that individuals with autism show difficulties with cognitive and motor empathy but less clear difficulties with respect to emotional empathy. In contrast, individuals with psychopathy show clear difficulties with a specific form of emotional empathy but no indications of impairment with cognitive and motor empathy.
Patients with delusions of control are abnormally aware of the sensory consequences of their actions and have difficulty with on-line corrections of movement. As a result they do not feel in control of their movements. At the same time they are strongly aware of the action being intentional. This leads them to believe that their actions are being controlled by an external agent. In contrast, the normal mark of the self in action is that we have very little experience of it. Most of the time we are not aware of the sensory consequences of our actions or of the various subtle corrections that we make during the course of goal-directed actions. We know that we are agents and that we are successfully causing the world to change. But as actors we move through the world like shadows glimpsed only occasional from the corner of an eye.
In this paper, we attempt to make a distinction between egocentrism and allocentrism in social cognition, based on the distinction that is made in visuo-spatial perception. We propose that it makes a difference to mentalizing whether the other person can be understood using an egocentric (&quot;you&quot;) or an allocentric (&quot;he/she/they&quot;) stance. Within an egocentric stance, the other person is represented in relation to the self. By contrast, within an allocentric stance, the existence or mental state of the other person needs to be represented as independent from the self. We suggest here that people with Asperger syndrome suffer from a disconnection between a strong nave egocentric stance and a highly abstract allocentric stance. We argue that the currently used distinction between first-person and third-person perspective-taking is orthogonal to the distinction between an egocentric and an allocentric stance and therefore cannot serve as a critical test of allocentrism.

The contribution of the thalamus to different forms of explicit memory is poorly understood. In the current study, explicit memory performance was examined in a 40-year-old male (RG) with bilateral anterior and medial thalamic lesions. Standardized tests indicated that the patient exhibited more severe recall than recognition deficits and his performance was generally worse for verbal compared to nonverbal memory. Recognition memory tests using the remember-know (R/K) procedure and the confidence-based receiver operating characteristic (ROC) procedure were used to examine recollection- and familiarity-based recognition. These tests revealed that RG had deficits in recollection and smaller, but consistent deficits in familiarity. The results are in agreement with models indicating that the anteromedial thalamus is important for both recollection- and familiarity-based recognition memory.

Scripts sequentially link information about daily activities and event knowledge. Patients have difficulty sequencing script events following lesions of the prefrontal cortex while showing intact access to selective aspects of script knowledge. It has been suggested that the sequencing impairment is due to a deficit in an inhibitory gating mechanisms that usually enables selection of an item from competing alternatives. If this is the case, then an inhibitory task should reveal script processing impairments on a script categorization task that is not normally associated with poor performance following prefrontal damage. To test this hypothesis, we administered a simple untimed classification task and a modified Go/NoGo task in which subjects classified events from social and non-social activities (e.g., read the menu, order the food) and related semantic items (e.g., menu, order) in terms of whether they belonged to a target activity. Participants were patients with lesions of the prefrontal cortex and matched controls. The results showed that damage to the right orbitofrontal cortex was associated with social item classification errors in the simple untimed classification task. In addition, the damage to the right prefrontal cortex was associated with increased response times to respond correctly to Go trials in the modified Go/NoGo task. The data demonstrate that damage to the right orbitofrontal cortex results in impairment in the accessibility of script and semantic representations of social activities. This impairment is exacerbated by an inefficient inhibitory gating mechanism.
Working memory may be conceptualized as a multi-component system involving the active maintenance and manipulation of stored information in the service of planning/guiding behaviour. Impaired spatial working memory is a robust finding in schizophrenia patients which has been related to an impairment in frontostriatal connectivity. The purpose of this study was to examine the specificity of this impairment by comparing the mnemonic and executive aspects of working memory performance in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder with psychotic features, focusing particularly on the functional dynamics between task components. Twenty-four patients with schizophrenia, 14 patients with bipolar I disorder (manic phase) and 33 healthy control subjects were assessed using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB): including the spatial working memory (between search errors and strategy scores) spatial span (storage capacity) and spatial planning (Stockings of Cambridge: accuracy and latency) tasks. Both patient groups were impaired on the spatial span task, which requires the maintenance and retrieval of stored information. In contrast, only schizophrenia patients showed a significant deficit in between search errors, which requires both maintenance and manipulation of information in working memory. That is, they exhibited both a mnemonic and an executive dysfunction. Spatial span was particularly important to accurate planning ability in bipolar patients. In contrast, in patients with schizophrenia poor spatial working memory was a significant predictor of planning impairments, consistent with failures in goal selection, evaluation and/or execution. Furthermore, initial planning time was positively correlated with the latency to complete a planning sequence. This pattern of slow cognitive processing in schizophrenia patients only, resembled that reported previously in patients with basal ganglia disorders. These findings are discussed in terms of a possible common disturbance in fronto-parietal circuitry in the two disorders together with a specific disturbance of fronto-striatal circuitry in schizophrenia, that is not present in bipolar disorder.


Clinical trial data are beginning to emerge with respect to the therapeutic efficacy of cannabis extracts for the treatment of chronic pain. Although there is some evidence of efficacy, a major issue concerns the narrow margin between doses producing therapeutic effects and those producing the &quot;highs&quot; associated with cannabis misuse. In addition, long-term use is associated with an increased risk of psychiatric illness. These negative aspects constrain the doses of cannabis extracts and psychoactive cannabinoids that can be given to patients, and raise the risk that properly conducted clinical trials with too low dosages will impact negatively on subsequent drug development in this field. However, recent research has opened up a number of avenues whereby compounds acting directly upon cannabinoid (CB) receptors may have therapeutic potential. In this review, two such areas are discussed, namely a) the possible use of peripherally acting CB agonists and CB2 receptor-selective agonists for the treatment of pain, and b) the possible utility of CB2 receptor agonists for the prevention of stress-induced exacerbations of skin disorders such as psoriasis. A second area of drug development at present is that of CB1 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists, spearheaded by rimonabant, for the treatment of obesity and as an aid for smoking cessation. An important aspect of these compounds is their efficacy and selectivity, and this is discussed in detail in the present review.
Drug dependence is a chronically relapsing disorder, manifested as an intense desire for the drug, with impaired ability to control the urges to take the drug, even at the expense of serious adverse consequences. These behavioral abnormalities develop gradually during repeated exposure to a drug of abuse, and can persist for months or years after discontinuation of use, suggesting that this addiction can be considered a form of drug-induced neural plasticity. Many neurotransmitters, including gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, acetylcholine, dopamine, serotonin and endogenous opioid peptides, have been implicated in the effects of the various drugs of abuse. Dopamine has been consistently associated with the reinforcing effects of most of them. There is, in addition, a growing body of evidence that the endogenous cannabinoid system might participate in the motivational and dopamine-releasing effects of several drugs of abuse. This review will discuss the latest advances on the mechanisms of cannabinoid dependence and the possible role of the endocannabinoid system in the treatment of addiction, not only to marijuana but also to the other common illicit drugs.
In neuroscience, proteomic technology is being used to discover the chemical features of neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Pathologically, one hallmark feature common to these diseases is the presence of proteinaceous inclusions within affected neurons. Proteomic assessment of diseased tissues and animal models reveals that the occurrence of these protein-rich aggregations may be due to perturbed functioning of a neuron-specific ubiquitin-recycling enzyme.
The molecular modification of the pain pathway represents one of the major mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain. Recently, gene array studies have been carried out to identify the genes that are regulated at the spinal cord level after peripheral nerve injury. These studies demonstrate that peripheral nerve injury causes marked changes in gene expression in both the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and the dorsal spinal cord. The markedly regulated molecules include, for example, neuropeptides, receptors, ion channels, signal transduction molecules and synaptic vesicle proteins. Upregulation of the Ca2+ channel alpha2/delta1 subunit, gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor alpha5 subunit, Na+ channels and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the DRG and dorsal spinal cord indicates their potential roles in neuropathic pain control.
Computational models can provide useful guidance in the design of behavioral and neurophysiological experiments and in the interpretation of complex, high dimensional biological data. Because many problems faced by the primate brain in the control of movement have parallels in robotic motor control, models and algorithms from robotics research provide useful inspiration, baseline performance, and sometimes direct analogs for neuroscience.

The notion that the olivocerebellar system is crucial for motor learning is well established. In recent years, it has become evident that there can be many forms of both synaptic and non-synaptic plasticity within this system and that each might have a different role in developing and maintaining motor learning across a wide range of tasks. There are several possible molecular and cellular mechanisms that could underlie adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex and eyeblink conditioning. Although causal relationships between particular cellular processes and individual components of a learned behaviour have not been demonstrated unequivocally, an overall picture is emerging that the different types and sites of cellular plasticity relate importantly to the stage of learning and/or its temporal specifics.
Sensory cues in the environment can predict the availability of reward. Through experience, humans and animals learn these predictions and use them to guide their actions. For example, we can learn to discriminate chanterelles from ordinary champignons through experience. Assuming the development of a taste for the complex and lingering flavors of chanterelles, we therefore learn to value the same action--picking mushrooms--differentially depending upon the appearance of a mushroom. One major goal of cognitive neuroscience is to understand the neural mechanisms that underlie this sort of learning. Because the acquisition of rewards motivates much behavior, recent efforts have focused on describing the neural signals related to learning the value of stimuli and actions. Neurons in the basal ganglia, in midbrain dopamine areas, in frontal and parietal cortices and in other brain areas, all modulate their activity in relation to aspects of learning. By training monkeys on various behavioral tasks, recent studies have begun to characterize how neural signals represent distinct processes, such as the timing of events, motivation, absolute (objective) and relative (subjective) valuation, and the formation of associative links between stimuli and potential actions. In addition, a number of studies have either further characterized dopamine signals or sought to determine how such signaling might interact with target structures, such as the striatum and rhinal cortex, to underlie learning.
Both mammals and birds can flexibly organize their behavior over time. In mammals, the mental operations generating this ability are called executive functions and are associated with the prefrontal cortex. The corresponding structure in birds is the nidopallium caudolaterale. Anatomical, neurochemical, electrophysiological and behavioral studies show these structures to be highly similar. The avian forebrain displays no lamination that corresponds to the mammalian neocortex, hence lamination does not seem to be a requirement for higher cognitive functions. Because all other aspects of the neural architecture of the mammalian and the avian prefrontal areas are extremely comparable, the freedom to create different neural architectures that generate prefrontal functions seems to be very limited.
Fear extinction, the reduction of fear by repeated exposure to the object of fear, is a crucial paradigm of inhibitory learning and the acknowledged preclinical model for behavior therapy of human anxiety. Recent insights have clarified roles for infralimbic prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and periaqueductal gray in extinction learning, while maintaining a central role for the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus in the acquisition and storage of this learning. Simultaneously, molecular insights have implicated several neurotransmitter and second messenger systems in extinction learning, and revealed that extinction is surprisingly easy to improve, yielding the promise of a novel approach to improved psychiatric treatments for a variety of human anxiety disorders.






Although pharmacotherapy is the mainstay of treatment strategies for bipolar disorder, research over the last 5 years suggests that combining psychologic interventions with drug treatment increases overall effectiveness, mostly by further protecting from relapse or recurrence. We aimed at critically examining the relevance and effectiveness of psychosocial approaches to bipolar illness by doing a systematic review of the current literature. Currently, most studies show that patients receiving psychologic treatments have significantly fewer relapses, reduced hospitalization rates, and increased treatment adherence. Psychoeducation, family-focused psychoeducation, and cognitive-behavioral therapy seem to be the most efficacious interventions in the prophylaxis from recurrences in medicated bipolar patients. Recent studies have shown that psychologic approaches do not have the same &quot;weight&quot; in all bipolar patients. Pharmacologic treatment and psychologic interventions are complementary and share many goals, such as avoiding recurrences and improving clinical outcome. A wise combination of these two approaches may help bipolar patients to achieve a better symptomatic and functional recovery. Further research should focus on determining the therapeutic value of each ingredient of the tested psychologic interventions.
A recent development by neuroscience is neuroimaging, a method of looking into the &quot;black box&quot; of the brain while people are feeling, doing, and thinking in real time. The first fMRI study of bereavement has recently been published, and the present article summarizes it in non-specialist language, focusing on its theoretical and clinical applications. In an attempt to bridge the gap between bereavement researchers and neuroscientists, the author discusses how these two fields could assist each other in forwarding both fields. Three current debates in the field of bereavement research are outlined, including (a) adaptation in the normal grief process, (b) complicated grief vs. resilience, and (c) meaning-making vs. return-to-baseline models of bereavement. The potential contribution of neuroscientific data to these debates is discussed in several hypothetical examples. These examples stimulate thinking about the reciprocity between 2 questions: What can bereavement teach us about the brain? and What can the brain tell us about bereavement? This article is designed to provide enough background for investigators who are primarily concerned with the brain and those primarily concerned with bereavement to open a dialogue between both of these fields.
In Xenopus laevis, limb buds start to develop at a later point of the larval stage, prior to metamorphosis. This onset of limb development in Xenopus is totally different from that in amniotes such as birds and mammals, in which limb buds emerge at an early stage of embryogenesis, in parallel with other organogenesis. We investigated limb myogenesis in Xenopus, focusing on myogenic gene expression, myogenic ability of limb bud cells in the early stage, and the origin of myogenic precursor cells in the limb bud. The Xenopus early limb bud contains myoD/cardiac actin-positive and pax3/pax7-negative cells. Interestingly, results of transplantation experiments have revealed that this early limb bud contains myogenic precursor cells. In order to know the contribution of myogenic cells in somites to myogenic precursor cells in the early limb bud, we used a Cre-LoxP system for tracing over a long period. The results of fate tracing for myogenic cells in somites of the Xenopus embryo suggested that early-specified myogenic cells in somites do not contribute to limb muscle in Xenopus. Taken together, the results suggest that limb muscle development in Xenopus has characteristics of initiation and early events distinct from those of other vertebrate clades.
Intelligence is reported to decline after onset of moyamoya in Japanese populations, but there is less evidence for this in Western populations where the condition may be secondary to stroke and sickle cell anaemia (SCA). Preoperative longitudinal IQ data were obtained from 15 children (seven males, eight females) who developed moyamoya syndrome (MMS) following a stroke (six with SCA, nine without SCA), and 19 controls (10 males, nine females; nine healthy control participants, 10 with SCA). At baseline assessment (Time 1) median age of patients was 7 years 6 months (range 3y 7mo to 12y 5mo); median age of controls was 6 years 3 months (range 4y to 11y 6mo). At follow-up (Time 2), ages were 11 years 8 months (range 3y 7mo to 12y 5mo) and 12 years 8 months (range 6y 4mo to 16y 8mo) in patients and controls respectively. Median duration of follow-up for the patient group was 3 years (range 7 to 10y) and in controls, 4 years 1 month (range 1 to 10y). In children with SCA, Verbal and Performance IQs (VIQ and PIQ) were significantly lower than in controls at Time 1; there was an additional independent statistically significant reduction in PIQ associated with MMS (p=0.004). Although there were further significant reductions in IQ by the second assessment for patients with MMS compared with controls, IQ did not differ significantly between groups with and without SCA. While the reduction in IQ attributed to SCA does not appear to become more marked with increasing age, the difference between those with and without MMS is associated with increasing effect over time.
Mutations in the human and mouse PTF1A/Ptf1a genes result in permanent diabetes mellitus and cerebellar agenesis. We show that Ptf1a is present in precursors to GABAergic neurons in spinal cord dorsal horn as well as the cerebellum. A null mutation in Ptf1a reveals its requirement for the dorsal horn GABAergic neurons. Specifically, Ptf1a is required for the generation of early-born (dI4, E10.5) and late-born (dIL(A), E12.5) dorsal interneuron populations identified by homeodomain factors Lhx1/5 and Pax2. Furthermore, in the absence of Ptf1a, the dI4 dorsal interneurons trans-fate to dI5 (Lmx1b(+)), and the dIL(A) to dIL(B) (Lmx1b(+);Tlx3(+)). This mis-specification of neurons results in a complete loss of inhibitory GABAergic neurons and an increase in the excitatory glutamatergic neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord by E16.5. Thus, Ptf1a function is essential for GABAergic over glutamatergic neuronal cell fates in the developing spinal cord, and provides an important genetic link between inhibitory and excitatory interneuron development.
Within the nervous system, estradiol was originally characterized through its critical role in sexual maturation and reproduction. However, it is now firmly established that estradiol affects a diverse array of brain functions including learning and memory, fine motor control, pain perception and mood. In parallel with this increased scope, new mechanisms of estradiol action are being elucidated. Traditionally, estradiol was known to work through intracellular estrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta, which regulate transcription by binding to estrogen response elements (EREs). These functions, critical for sexual behavior, are termed &quot;genomic&quot; and are distinct from &quot;nongenomic&quot; effects whereby estradiol produces rapid changes in neuronal function by processes initiated at the membrane surface. Recent advances have demonstrated that these nongenomic effects are also mediated by classical estrogen receptors that are localized to the plasma membrane. Further, stimulation of estrogen receptors on the membrane surface by estradiol activates G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, which can lead to both short- and long-term changes in neuronal excitability. Related, the brain itself synthesizes estrogens, allowing for localized signaling by the steroid that is less dependent on gonadal secretion. This review outlines highlights from both established and recent findings of estrogen action, how these diverse mechanisms act in concert to regulate nervous system function, and outlines several questions that still remain regarding the effects of estrogen in brain.

Those who are physically attractive reap many benefits--from higher average wages to a wider variety of mate choices. Recent studies have investigated what constitutes beauty and how beauty affects explicit social judgments, but little is known about the perceptual or cognitive processing that is affected by aesthetic judgments of faces and why beauty affects our behavior. In this study, the authors show that beauty is perceived when information is minimized by masking or rapid presentation. Perceiving and processing beauty appear to require little attention and to bias subsequent cognitive processes. These facts may make beauty difficult to ignore, possibly leading to its importance in social evaluations.
In a face-in-the-crowd setting, the authors examined visual search for photographically reproduced happy, angry, and fearful target faces among neutral distractor faces in 3 separate experiments. Contrary to the hypothesis, happy targets were consistently detected more quickly and accurately than angry and fearful targets, as were directed compared with averted targets. There was no consistent effect of social anxiety. A facial emotion recognition experiment suggested that the happy search advantage could be due to the ease of processing happy faces. In the final experiment with perceptually controlled schematic faces, the authors reported more effective detection of angry than happy faces. This angry advantage was most obvious for highly socially anxious individuals when their social fear was experimentally enhanced.
Adrenal cortical secretion of glucocorticoids is an essential adaptive response of an organism to stress. Although the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulates the adrenal cortex via release of ACTH, there is strong evidence supporting a role for sympathetic innervation in modulating adrenal glucocorticoid secretion. The dissociation between changes in ACTH and glucocorticoids under non-stress and stress conditions has reinforced the concept that neural control of the adrenal cortex acts to modulate steroidogenic responses to circulating ACTH. A dual control of the adrenal cortex has been implicated in the prominent circadian rhythm in glucocorticoids. However, the central neural substrate for circadian changes in glucocorticoids that are mediated by peripheral neural innervation of the adrenal cortex has not been conclusively delineated. The hypothesis to be addressed is that neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus receive input from the suprachiasmatic nucleus and project to sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord to provide inhibitory and excitatory input to the adrenal cortex that drives the circadian rhythm. This review examines anatomical and physiological evidence that forms the basis for this putative neural circuit.
Glutamate, the major excitatory amino acid (EAA) transmitter in the central nervous system, has been implicated as a critical mediator in brain function. Glutamate and its receptors are found in all key hypothalamic areas critically involved in reproduction. Administration of glutamate and its agonists can bring about LH release in animals with a steroid background. Antagonists of the ionotropic glutamate receptors inhibited LH release and abolished the steroid-induced and the preovulatory LH surge. Both NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists can also inhibit pulsatile LH release in castrated animals. The preoptic area has been implicated as a primary site of action of NMDA, while non-NMDA agonists have been suggested to act primarily at the arcuate/median eminence level. While EAAs may act directly on GnRH neurons to enhance GnRH release, the majority of evidence suggests that an indirect mechanism, involving EAA activation of nitric oxide and/or catecholamines, plays a major role in the GnRH-releasing effects of EAAs. Furthermore, there is also some evidence that the tonic inhibitory effect of opioids on GnRH may also involve, at least in part, a suppression of glutamate. Finally, EAA stimulation of GnRH/LH release is markedly attenuated in middle-aged rats, suggesting that a defect in glutamate neurotransmission may underlie the attenuated LH surge observed in aging.
Iodothyronine deiodinases catalyze the conversion of the thyroid prohormone T(4) to T(3) by outer ring deiodination (ORD) of the iodothyronine molecule. The catalytic cycle of deiodinases is considered to be critically dependent on a reducing thiol cosubstrate that regenerates the selenoenzyme to its native state. The endogenous cosubstrate has still not been firmly identified; in studies in vitro the sulfhydryl reagent dithiothreitol (DTT) is commonly used to activate ORD. We now have characterized an ORD activity in the teleost gilthead seabream (Sparus auratus) that is inhibited by DTT. DTT inhibited reverse T(3) (rT(3)) ORD by 70 and 100% in kidney homogenates (IC(50) 0.4 mmol/liter) and microsomes (IC(50) 0.1 mmol/liter), respectively. The omission of DTT from the incubation medium restored renal ORD Michaelis-Menten kinetics with a Michaelis constant value of 5 mumol/liter rT(3) and unmasked the inhibition by 6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil. A putative seabream deiodinase type 1 (saD1), derived from kidney mRNA, showed high homology (&gt; or = 41% amino acid identity) with vertebrate deiodinases type 1. Features of this putative saD1 include a selenocysteine encoded by an in-frame UGA codon, consensus sequences, and a predicted secondary structure for a selenocysteine insertion sequence and an amino acid composition of the catalytic center that is identical with reported consensus sequences for deiodinase type 1. Remarkably, three of six cysteines that are present in the deduced saD1 protein occur in the predicted amino terminal hydrophobic region. We suggest that the effects of DTT on rT(3) ORD can be explained by interactions with the cysteines unique to the putative saD1 protein.
In the rat ovary, germ and somatic cells become organized into primordial follicles 48-72 h after birth. Although several genes have been implicated in the control of early follicular growth, less is known about the factors involved in the formation of primordial follicles. Using the method of differential display of mRNAs, we found several genes differentially expressed at the time of follicular assembly. One of them encodes synaptonemal complex protein-1 (SCP1), a core component of the protein complex that maintains recombining chromosomes together during prophase I of the first meiotic division in germ cells. This association, evident during the pachytene stage, ends when chromosomal desynapsis begins in the diplotene stage at the end of prophase I. Oocytes become arrested in the diplotene/dictate stage before becoming enclosed into primordial follicles, suggesting that oocytes must complete meiotic prophase I before becoming competent to direct follicle assembly. We now show that attainment of the diplotene stage results in follicular formation. In developing rat ovaries, SCP1 mRNA expression is confined to oocytes and decreases precipitously within 24 h after birth, preceding the organization of primordial follicles. The premature loss of SCP1, achieved via treatment with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide targeting SCP1 mRNA, resulted in more oocytes reaching the diplotene stage, as evidenced by a decrease in the number of oocytes containing germ cell nuclear antigen-1 (a nuclear protein whose expression ceases in diplotene) and an increase in the number of oocytes expressing MSY2 (a cytoplasmic Y box protein expressed in oocytes that have become arrested in diplotene). SCP1-deficient ovaries exhibited an increased number of newly formed follicles, suggesting that completion of meiotic prophase I endows oocytes with the ability to orchestrate follicular assembly.
MNAR/PELP1 is a recently identified scaffold protein in the human that modulates the nongenomic activity of estrogen receptors by facilitating linkage/cross talk with the Src/Erk activation cascade. We report herein the cloning of rat MNAR/PELP1 and provide new information concerning its distribution in the female rat brain and its degree of colocalization with estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) and GnRH. PCR-based cloning of MNAR/PELP1 from rat hypothalamus yielded a transcript of approximately 3.4 kb, which shows 86% homology to the published human MNAR/PELP1 sequence and retained all the key binding motifs (PXXP, LXXLL, and glutamic acid clusters) in its primary structure that are known to be critical for its interaction with Src and steroid receptors. RT-PCR revealed that the MNAR/PELP1 transcript is expressed in many regions of the brain, and immunohistochemistry studies showed intense MNAR/PELP1 immunoreactivity (MNAR/PELP1-ir) in areas such as the hypothalamus, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, and cerebellum. MNAR/PELP1-ir principally localized in the nucleus, but some cytoplasmic and plasma membrane-associated staining was also observed. MNAR/PELP1-ir was also primarily neuronal, although some localization in glia cells was observed in select brain regions. Colocalization studies revealed that a majority of ER-alpha-positive cells in the brain colocalized MNAR/PELP1-ir. In contrast, MNAR/PELP1-ir rarely colocalized in GnRH neurons. In conclusion, the current study provides evidence that MNAR/PELP1 is expressed in key neural tissues of the rat brain that are known targets of steroid action, that its expression is primarily neuronal, and that MNAR/PELP1-ir is strongly colocalized in ER-alpha, but not GnRH neurons in the rodent brain.
Targeted deletion of the gene encoding the neuronal and endocrine secreted peptide precursor called VGF (nonacronymic) produces a lean, hypermetabolic, hyperactive mouse. Because VGF mutant mice are resistant to specific forms of diet-, lesion-, and genetically induced obesity, we investigated the role that this polypeptide plays in glucose homeostasis. We report that VGF mutant mice have increased insulin sensitivity by hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp analysis, and by insulin and glucose tolerance testing. Blunted counterregulatory responses in VGF-deficient mice were likely influenced by their significantly lower liver glycogen levels. VGF deficiency lowered circulating glucose and insulin levels in several murine models of obesity that are also susceptible to adult onset diabetes mellitus, including A(y)/a agouti, ob/ob, and MC4R(-)/MC4R(-) mice. Interestingly, ablation of Vgf in ob/ob mice decreased circulating glucose and insulin levels but did not affect adiposity, whereas MC4R(-)/MC4R(-) mice that are additionally deficient in VGF have improved insulin responsiveness at 7-8 wk of age, when lean MC4R(-)/MC4R(-) mice already have impaired insulin tolerance but are not yet obese. VGF mutant mice also resisted developing obesity and hyperglycemia in response to a high-fat/high-carbohydrate diet, and after gold thioglucose treatment, which is toxic to hypothalamic glucose-sensitive neurons. Lastly, circulating adiponectin, an adipose-synthesized protein the levels of which are correlated with improved insulin sensitivity, increased in VGF mutant compared with wild-type mice. Modulation of VGF levels and/or VGF signaling may consequently represent an alternative means to regulate circulating glucose levels and insulin sensitivity.
Pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) is a chemical kindling agent used to examine the efficacy of potential anticonvulsants in rats. However, the extent to which PTZ mimics postseizure symptoms of epilepsy has not been thoroughly examined. This study assessed whether PTZ-induced seizures produce cognitive and emotional deficits that mimic those observed in many epileptic patients. Rats were given 30mg/kg PTZ or vehicle (intraperitoneally) every other day for 28 days. Those rats exhibiting consistent seizure activity were tested for learning ability and emotional reactivity, beginning 1 week following a single challenge dose of PTZ. Rats given PTZ made more reference memory errors in a radial arm water maze task, and exhibited emotional abnormalities in the forced swim test, the systematic handling test, and the open-field exploratory maze. Histological analysis revealed neuronal loss in the CA1 area and increased mossy fiber sprouting in the dentate gyrus, similar to what is observed in human epilepsy. These results indicate that PTZ kindling provides a useful model of postseizure dysfunction, which can serve as a screen for potential treatments for those cognitive, emotional, and neuropathological deficits that resemble those symptoms observed in human epilepsy.
Most women with epilepsy maintain normal reproductive cycles and sexual lives. However, a significant minority, approximately 20-30%, have some degree of sexual dysfunction, including problems with seizure exacerbation, libido, arousal, and orgasm. Fluctuating hormone levels may contribute to an array of reproductive cycling abnormalities. With regard to sexual dysfunction, there is some evidence of reduced genital blood flow in women with temporal lobe epilepsy. Other studies suggest that psychosocial factors, such as depression, feeling stigmatized, and being anxious about having seizures during sex, may contribute to the higher rates of sexual dysfunction in this patient population. Some antiepileptic drugs may adversely affect normal reproductive cycling and sexual function, particularly drugs that increase serotonergic transmission. Conversely, resective epilepsy surgery has been shown to restore sexual function. Treatments for sexual dysfunction include testosterone replacement, although transdermal testosterone replacement is not yet approved by the Food and Drug Administration for women. Given the possibility that women with epilepsy may experience inadequate vasocongestion during arousal, sildenafil may have a useful role, though it has not proved effective for women in general. This review focuses on potential sexual problems that are faced by women with epilepsy, with the suggestion that proper treatment may alleviate these problems.
The aims of this study were to examine correlates of self-reported depressive symptoms within the school area, and possible predictors of change in depressive symptom levels over a 1-year period in a large representative sample of 12 to 15-year-old adolescents in central Norway. The school variables were: school stress, class wellbeing, teacher support, and grades. Possible confounding factors were age, SES, ethnicity, and parental divorce. We also examined the strengths of these relationships. In the cross-sectional multivariate analyses of the whole sample, at time-point one (T1), all four school factors were independently associated with depressive symptom levels at small to moderate levels. In the longitudinal multivariate analyses of the whole sample, self-reported depressive symptom levels at time-point two (T2) were predicted by depressive symptom levels at T1, gender and teacher support. For girls, three of the school variables significantly predicted depressive symptom levels at T2, while this was not the case for boys. Prevention in schools might be of importance.
Disruption of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) pathways by inhibitors of PARP catalytic domain has been shown to increase the anti-tumour activity of temozolomide (TMZ). Since PARP is inhibited by poly(ADP)ribosylation, herein we tested whether inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) might enhance TMZ efficacy. The PARG inhibitor N-bis-(3-phenyl-propyl)9-oxo-fluorene-2,7-diamide (GPI 16552) was administered in combination with TMZ to mice injected subcutaneously or intracranially with B16 melanoma cells. The ability of treatment to reduce melanoma metastatic spreading and invasion of the extracellular matrix was also tested. The results indicated that combined treatment with GPI 16552 and TMZ significantly reduced melanoma growth, increased life-span of mice bearing tumour at the CNS site, and decreased the ability of melanoma cells to form lung metastases and to invade the extracellular matrix. In conclusion, PARG inhibition represents an alternative strategy to enhance TMZ efficacy against melanoma in peripheral as well as at CNS site.
Oral replacement of the near-total deficiency of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) in patients with Addison's disease (adrenal insufficiency) enhances mood and well-being and reduces fatigue. We studied the immunological effects of 12 wk of oral DHEA treatment in ten patients with Addison's disease receiving their normal mineralo- and glucocorticoid hormone replacement. We found that baseline circulating regulatory T cells were reduced in Addison's disease patients compared to controls, a hitherto unrecognised defect in this disorder. Oral DHEA treatment had a bimodal effect on naturally occurring regulatory (CD4+CD25hiFoxP3+) T cells and lymphocyte FoxP3 expression. Oral DHEA replacement restored normal levels of regulatory T cells and led to increased FoxP3 expression. These effects were probably responsible for a suppression of constitutive cytokine expression following DHEA withdrawal. In contrast, oral DHEA treatment led to reduced FoxP3 expression induced by TCR engagement and so augmented the cytokine response, but without a bias towards the Th1 or Th2 phenotype. NK and NKT cell numbers fell during DHEA treatment, and homeostatic lymphocyte proliferation was increased. We conclude that DHEA replacement in Addison's disease has significant immunomodulatory properties and propose that it has a greater impact on the human immune system than would be expected from its classification as a dietary supplement.
Enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission via the subthalamopallidal or subthalamonigral projection seems crucial for developing parkinsonian motor signs. In the present study, the possible changes in the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) were examined in the basal ganglia of a primate model for Parkinson's disease. When the patterns of immunohistochemical localization of mGluRs in monkeys administered systemically with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) were analysed in comparison with normal controls, we found that expression of mGluR1alpha, but not of other subtypes, was significantly reduced in the internal and external segments of the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata. To elucidate the functional role of mGluR1 in the control of pallidal neuron activity, extracellular unit recordings combined with intrapallidal microinjections of mGluR1-related agents were then performed in normal and parkinsonian monkeys. In normal awake conditions, the spontaneous firing rates of neurons in the pallidal complex were increased by DHPG, a selective agonist of group I mGluRs, whereas they were decreased by AIDA, a selective antagonist of group I mGluRs, or LY367385, a selective antagonist of mGluR1. These electrophysiological data strongly indicate that the excitatory mechanism of pallidal neurons by glutamate is mediated at least partly through mGluR1. The effects of the mGluR1-related agents on neuronal firing in the internal pallidal segment became rather obscure after MPTP treatment. Our results suggest that the specific down-regulation of pallidal and nigral mGluR1alpha in the parkinsonian state may exert a compensatory action to reverse the overactivity of the subthalamic nucleus-derived glutamatergic input that is generated in the disease.
A mutation in the Contactin-1 gene results in an ataxic and anorectic phenotype that is apparent by postnatal day 10 and lethal by postnatal day 19 [Berglund et al. (1999) Neuron 24, 739-750]. The resemblance of this phenotype with the anorexia (anx/anx) mouse mutation prompted us to investigate the hypothalamic neurochemistry of Contactin knock-out (KO) mice. Contactin was expressed in the hypothalamic neuropil of wild-type (WT) but not Contactin KO mice. In the KO condition, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AgRP) immunoreactivity (IR) accumulated in the somata of arcuate nucleus neurons, whereas IR for these neuropeptides as well as for alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) decreased in the corresponding axon projections. These changes in the pattern of neuropeptide expression in the Contactin-deficient hypothalamus were similar but more pronounced than those found in anx/anx mice. Increased levels of NPY and AgRP and decreased concentrations of pro-opiomelanocortin mRNA in arcuate neurons accompanied these changes. In relating these alterations a 24-h food deprivation period, we observed in 3-week-old WT mice an elevation of NPY- and AgRP-IR in the perikarya of arcuate neurons without notable reduction of NPY- or AgRP-IR in nerve fibers, suggesting that the decrease of arcuate projections can be associated with postnatal anorectic phenotype. Our data implicate Contactin in the postnatal development of the NPY/AgRP and alpha-MSH arcuate neurons and suggest that similar to anx/anx mutant mice, compromised orexigenic signaling via NPY/AgRP neurons may contribute to reduced food intake by the Contactin-mutant animals.
The thalamocortical network is modelled using the Wilson-Cowan equations for neuronal population activity. We show that this population model with biologically derived parameters possesses intrinsic nonlinear oscillatory dynamics, and that the frequency of oscillation lies within the spindle range. Spindle oscillations are an early sleep oscillation characterized by high-frequency bursts of action potentials followed by a period of quiescence, at a frequency of 7-14 Hz. Spindles are generally regarded as being generated by intrathalamic circuitry, as decorticated thalamic slices and the isolated thalamic reticular nucleus exhibit spindles. However, the role of cortical feedback has been shown to regulate and synchronize the oscillation. Previous modelling studies have mainly used conductance-based models and hence the mechanism relied upon the inclusion of ionic currents, particularly the T-type calcium current. Here we demonstrate that spindle-frequency oscillatory activity can also arise from the nonlinear dynamics of the thalamocortical circuit, and we use bifurcation analysis to examine the robustness of this oscillation in terms of the functional range of the parameters used in the model. The results suggest that the thalamocortical circuit has intrinsic nonlinear population dynamics which are capable of providing robust support for oscillatory activity within the frequency range of spindle oscillations.
A morphologically identifiable type of olfactory sensillum on the antenna of the American cockroach contains a pair of ON and OFF cells that responds oppositely to changes in the concentration of fruit odours. The odour of lemon oil was used to study the accuracy with which these cells can discriminate between rapid step-like, ramp-like and oscillating changes in odour concentration. The discharge rates of both cells are not only affected by the actual concentration at particular instants in time (instantaneous concentration) but also by the rate at which concentration changes. The impulse frequency of the fruit odour ON cell is high when odour concentration is high, but higher still when odour concentration is also rising. Conversely, the impulse frequency of the fruit odour OFF cell is high when odour concentration is low and higher still when odour concentration is also falling. Thus, the effect of odour concentration on the responses of both cells is reinforced by the rate of change. Sensitivity to the rate of concentration change becomes greater when the rate is low. Because of the high sensitivity to low rates of change, these cells are optimized to detect fluctuations in fruit odour concentration. Whereas the ON cell signals the arrival and presence of fruit odour, the OFF cell detects its termination and absence. These cells provide excitatory responses for both increase and decrease in fruit odour concentration and may therefore reinforce contrast information.
In mammals a subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs), express the photopigment melanopsin, and play an important role in the regulation of the nonimage-forming visual system. We have recently reported that melanopsin mRNA and protein levels in the rat retina are under photic and circadian control. The aim of the present work was to investigate the mechanisms that control melanopsin expression in the rat retina. We discovered that dopamine (DA) is involved in the regulation of melanopsin mRNA, possibly via dopamine D2 receptors that are located on these ipRGCs. Interestingly, we also discovered that pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) mRNA levels are affected by DA. Dopamine synthesis and release in the retina are regulated by the rod and the cone photoreceptors via retinal circuitry; our new data indicate that DA controls melanopsin expression, indicating that classical photoreceptors may modulate the transcription of this new photopigment. Our study also suggests that DA may have an important role in mediating the light signals that are used for circadian entrainment and for other responses that are mediated by the nonimage-forming visual system.
Hippocampal interneurons are generally more resistant than pyramidal cells to excitotoxic insults. Because NMDA receptors play a crucial role in neurodegeneration, we have compared the response to exogenous NMDA in CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons of the stratum oriens using combined whole-cell patch-clamp recording and ratiometric Ca2+ imaging. In voltage-clamp, current-clamp or in nominally Mg2+-free medium, NMDA (10 microM; 3-5 min exposure in the presence of tetrodotoxin) induced a markedly larger inward current and Ca2+ rise in pyramidal cells than in interneurons. Pyramidal cells also showed a more pronounced voltage dependence in their response to NMDA. We hypothesized that this enhanced response to NMDA receptor activation in pyramidal cells could underlie their increased vulnerability to excitotoxicity. Using loss of dye as an indicator of degenerative membrane disruption, interneurons tolerated continuous exposure to a high concentration of NMDA (30 microM) for longer periods than pyramidal cells. This acute neurodegeneration in pyramidal cells was independent of intracellular Ca2+, because high intracellular BAPTA (20 mM) did not prolong survival time. Thus, a plausible explanation for the enhanced sensitivity of pyramidal neurons to excitotoxic insults associated with cerebral ischemia is their greater response to NMDA receptor activation, which may reflect differences in NMDA receptor expression and/or subunit composition.
Nestin is a protein that is thought to be expressed in neural stem cells; however, there is a paucity of data on nestin expression in vivo, and little is known of the relationship between nestin and mitotically active cell populations in the subventricular zones (SVZ). In this study, the subventricular zone of the third ventricle contained a high proportion of cells that expressed nestin, while there were significantly fewer cells that expressed nestin in the SVZ of the lateral ventricles. In contrast, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunoreactivity was the diametric opposite, being higher in the SVZ of the lateral ventricle than in the SVZ of the third ventricle. Morphological and anatomical evidence suggests that nestin-expressing cells in these two areas may be different cell types. In a separate set of experiments, an acute localized lesion was induced adjacent to one of the ventricles. While the number of BrdU cells and Ki-67 cells in the SVZs increased with this manipulation, the number of nestin-expressing cells did not change significantly. These data indicate that the expression of nestin does not correlate with mitotic activity in cells of the SVZs under either normal or inflammatory conditions. It is hypothesized that nestin-expressing cells in the SVZs may give way to transit amplifying cells that in turn give way to immature neurons or glia. These transit-amplifying cells may have a much higher rate of mitosis than nestin-positive cells and may react to neural damage by increasing their rate of proliferation.
We tested whether regeneration of transected rubrospinal tract (RST) axons is facilitated by a prolonged electrical stimulation of these axons. A peripheral nerve was grafted to the transected RST at the cervical level (C4/5) of adult rats, providing a permissive environment for regeneration of rubrospinal axons. Direct antidromic stimulation of the RST was applied immediately after grafting through a microwire inserted just rostral to the RST lesion, using a 1-h 20-Hz supramaximal stimulation protocol. Stimulation caused no direct damage to rubrospinal axons, and was sufficient to recruit the entire rubrospinal tract. In control animals that had a nerve graft and implanted microwire with no stimulation, there were 42.7 +/- 10.2 rubrospinal neurons regenerated into the graft at 8 weeks, as assessed by retrograde labelling. In test animals that were stimulated there were 28.2 +/- 7.4 back-labelled neurons, not significantly different from control, indicating that this stimulation did not improve the regenerative capacity of rubrospinal neurons. Furthermore, reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and/or growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) expression in rubrospinal neurons revealed no significant difference between stimulated and unstimulated groups at 48 h after injury, with either 1 or 8 h of stimulation. In summary, direct stimulation of the injured RST axons for the periods tested does not increase expression of GAP-43 and BDNF, and ultimately does not promote regeneration of these central nervous system axons.
Calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) is a calcium-dependent serine-threonine phosphatase. It has diverse roles and is centrally involved in synaptic plasticity. The catalytic A subunit of calcineurin has three isoforms, alpha, beta and gamma. Their expression and ontogeny in the brain has not been systematically investigated; such data become important with a report that PPP3CC, the gene encoding calcineurin Agamma, is a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia, and the finding that its expression is decreased in the disorder. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry to measure the relative transcript abundance of calcineurin Agamma and the other catalytic isoforms, Aalpha and Abeta, during development of the Sprague-Dawley rat hippocampus and cerebellum. All three isoforms are present in both regions at all time points [embryonic day 19 (E19) to postnatal day 42 (P42)] and undergo developmental regulation, but differ in their ontogenic profile. Calcineurin Aalpha and Abeta mRNAs increased from E19 through to adulthood, whereas Agamma mRNA was most highly expressed during early developmental stages. Calcineurin Aalpha and Abeta mRNAs positively correlated with synaptophysin mRNA (a synaptic marker), whilst Agamma mRNA was either unrelated to, or negatively correlated, with this transcript. These data confirm that all three calcineurin A subunits are expressed in the rodent brain, and indicate that calcineurin Agamma may have different roles than Aalpha and Abeta. The data also suggest a potential importance of calcineurin Agamma in neurodevelopment, and in the genetically influenced neurodevelopmental disturbance that is thought to underlie schizophrenia.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous messenger that has been shown to affect growth cone motility and neurite outgrowth in several model systems, but how NO brings about its effects is not understood. We have previously demonstrated that global and long-term application of NO to Helisoma trivolvis B5 neurons results in a transient increase in filopodial length, decrease in filopodial number and decrease in neurite outgrowth, all of which are mediated via soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) and involve an increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration [S. Van Wagenen &amp; V. Rehder (1999)Journal of Neurobiology, 39, 168-185; K.R. Trimm &amp; V. Rehder (2004) European Journal of Neuroscience, 19, 809-818]. The goal of the current study was twofold: to investigate the effects of short-term NO exposure on individual growth cones and to further elucidate the downstream pathway through which NO exerts its effects. Local application of the NO donor NOC-7 for 10-20 ms via puffer micropipette resulted in a transient increase in filopodial length and a small decrease in filopodial number. We show evidence that these effects of NO are mediated via sGC, protein kinase G and cyclic ADP ribose, resulting in the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores, probably of the ryanodine-sensitive type. These results suggest that growth cones expressing sGC are highly sensitive to local and short-term exposure to NO, which they may experience during pathfinding, and that the stereotyped response of transient filopodial elongation seen in B5 neurons in response to NO requires intracellular Ca2+ release.
The effect of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation on the phenotype of progeny derived from expanded E18 rat striatal precursors was examined. BrdU was administered to cultures for 24 h prior to differentiation. Results revealed that there was selective toxicity of this compound to developing TuJ1+ neurons, but not glia, at concentrations used in most labelling studies. Therefore, a BrdU dose-response curve from 0.2 microM to 10 microM was established. The optimum dose of BrdU for labelling cells was 0.2 microM, well below the 1-10 microm recommended concentration. This dose resulted in the survival of significantly more newborn BrdU/TuJ1+ double-labelled neurons and eliminated the toxic effects of BrdU. Administration of 10 microm BrdU resulted in a significant decrease in extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation compared with untreated cultures, this could be completely restored by the administration of either N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists such as MK801 or the nitric oxide synthesis inhibitor L-methyl-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Our results show that high levels of BrdU are selectively toxic to neurons through a mechanism that activates classical cell death pathways. This has implications for labelling studies both in vivo and in vitro.
Novel stimuli in all sensory modalities are highly effective in attracting and focusing attention. Stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) and brain activity evoked by novel stimuli have been studied using population measures such as imaging and event-related potentials, but there have been few studies at the single-neuron level. In this study we compare SSA across different populations of neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of the rat and show that a subclass of neurons with rapid and pronounced SSA respond selectively to novel sounds. These neurons, located in the dorsal and external cortex of the IC, fail to respond to multiple repetitions of a sound but briefly recover their excitability when some stimulus parameter is changed. The finding of neurons that respond selectively to novel stimuli in the mammalian auditory midbrain suggests that they may contribute to a rapid subcortical pathway for directing attention and/or orienting responses to novel sounds.
Fractalkine is a chemokine that is tethered to the extracellular surface of neurons. Fractalkine can be released, forming a diffusible signal. Spinal fractalkine (CX3CL1) is expressed by sensory afferents and intrinsic neurons, whereas its receptor (CX3CR1) is predominantly expressed by microglia. Pain enhancement occurs in response both to intrathecally administered fractalkine and to spinal fractalkine endogenously released by peripheral neuropathy. The present experiments examine whether fractalkine-induced pain enhancement is altered by a microglial inhibitor (minocycline) and/or by antagonists/inhibitors of three putative glial products implicated in pain enhancement: interleukin-1 (IL1), interleukin-6 (IL6) and nitric oxide (NO). In addition, it extends a prior study that demonstrated that intrathecal fractalkine-induced mechanical allodynia is blocked by a neutralizing antibody to the rat fractalkine receptor, CX3CR1. Here, intrathecal anti-CX3CR1 also blocked fractalkine-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Furthermore, blockade of microglial activation with minocycline prevented both fractalkine-induced mechanical allodynia (von Frey test) and thermal hyperalgesia (Hargreaves test). Microglial activation appears to lead to the release of IL1, given that pretreatment with IL1 receptor antagonist blocked both fractalkine-induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. IL1 is not the only proinflammatory cytokine implicated, as a neutralizing antibody to rat IL6 also blocked fractalkine-induced pain facilitation. Lastly, NO appears to be importantly involved, as l-NAME, a broad-spectrum NO synthase inhibitor, also blocked fractalkine-induced effects. Taken together, these data support that neuronally released fractalkine enhances pain via activation of spinal cord glia. Thus, fractalkine may be a neuron-to-glia signal triggering pain facilitation.
Astrocytes are, as normal constituents of the brain, promising vehicles for ex vivo gene delivery to the central nervous system. In the present study, we have used a lentiviral vector encoding glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) to transduce rat-derived primary astrocytes, in order to evaluate their potential for long-term transgene expression in vivo and neuroprotection in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Following transplantation of GDNF-transduced astrocytes to the intact striatum, the level of released GDNF was 2.93 +/- 0.28 ng/mg tissue at 1 week post-grafting, reduced to 0.42 +/- 0.12 ng/mg tissue at 4 weeks, and thereafter was maintained at this level throughout the experiment (12 weeks; 0.53 +/- 0.068 ng/mg tissue). Similarly, grafting to the substantia nigra (SN) resulted in a significant overexpression of GDNF ( approximately 0.20 ng/mg tissue) at 1 week. Intact animals receiving transplants of GDNF-transduced astrocytes displayed an increased contralateral turning (5.39 +/- 1.19 turns/min) in the amphetamine-induced rotation test, which significantly correlated with the GDNF tissue levels measured in the striatum, indicating a stimulatory effect of GDNF on the dopaminergic function. Transplantation of GDNF-transduced astrocytes to the SN 1 week prior to an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion provided a significant protection of nigral tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells. By contrast, when the cells were transplanted to the striatum, the level of released GDNF was not sufficient to rescue the striatal fibers and, hence, to protect the nigral dopaminergic neurons. Overall, our results suggest that genetically modified astrocytes expressing GDNF can provide neuroprotection in a rat model of Parkinson's disease following transplantation to the SN.
We examined the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of the thalamocortical pathway in the cerebral neocortex of normal and reeler mutant mice. During normal development of the mouse neocortex, thalamic axons immunoreactive for the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 rarely invaded the cortical plate and ran centered in the subplate which is immunoreactive for neurocan, a brain-specific chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. On the other hand, in homozygous reeler mutant mice, thalamic axons took an aberrant course to run obliquely through the cortical plate. Injection of bromodeoxyuridine at embryonic day 11 specifically labeled subplate neurons in normal mice, whilst in the reeler neocortex it labeled cells scattered in the cortical plate as well as in the superficial layer (superplate). Neurocan immunoreactivity was associated with the bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells in the superplate, as well as being present in oblique bands within the cortical plate, along which L1-bearing thalamic axons preferentially ran. The present results support our previous hypothesis proposed for normal rats that a heterophilic molecular interaction between L1 and neurocan is involved in determining the thalamocortical pathway within the neocortical anlage [T. Fukuda et al. (1997) Journal of Comparative Neurology, 382, 141-152].
Molecular imaging aims to assess non-invasively disease-specific biological and molecular processes in animal models and humans in vivo. Apart from precise anatomical localisation and quantification, the most intriguing advantage of such imaging is the opportunity it provides to investigate the time course (dynamics) of disease-specific molecular events in the intact organism. Further, molecular imaging can be used to address basic scientific questions, e.g. transcriptional regulation, signal transduction or protein/protein interaction, and will be essential in developing treatment strategies based on gene therapy. Most importantly, molecular imaging is a key technology in translational research, helping to develop experimental protocols which may later be applied to human patients. Over the past 20 years, imaging based on positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been employed for the assessment and &quot;phenotyping&quot; of various neurological diseases, including cerebral ischaemia, neurodegeneration and brain gliomas. While in the past neuro-anatomical studies had to be performed post mortem, molecular imaging has ushered in the era of in vivo functional neuro-anatomy by allowing neuroscience to image structure, function, metabolism and molecular processes of the central nervous system in vivo in both health and disease. Recently, PET and MRI have been successfully utilised together in the non-invasive assessment of gene transfer and gene therapy in humans. To assess the efficiency of gene transfer, the same markers are being used in animals and humans, and have been applied for phenotyping human disease. Here, we review the imaging hallmarks of focal and disseminated neurological diseases, such as cerebral ischaemia, neurodegeneration and glioblastoma multiforme, as well as the attempts to translate gene therapy's experimental knowledge into clinical applications and the way in which this process is being promoted through the use of novel imaging approaches.
Fetal cell transplantation for the treatment of Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases has been developed over the past two decades and is now in early clinical testing phase. Direct assessment of the graft's survival, integration into the host brain and impact on neuronal functions requires advanced in vivo neuroimaging techniques. Owing to its high sensitivity, positron emission tomography is today the most widely used tool to evaluate the viability and function of the transplanted tissue in the brain. Nuclear magnetic resonance techniques are opening new possibilities for imaging neurochemical events in the brain. The ultimate goal will be to use the combination of multiple imaging modalities for complete functional monitoring of the repair processes in the central nervous system.
Acetaldehyde, the first product of ethanol metabolism, has been suggested to play a major role in many behavioral effects of ethanol. However, very few studies have directly tested the behavioral effects of the acute administration of acetaldehyde. In particular, the role of this metabolite in ethanol-induced anxiolytic effects has never been extensively tested. The aim of the present study was to characterize the anxiolytic effects of acetaldehyde in two strains of mice, C57BL/6J and CD1 mice with the elevated plus-maze procedure. The results show that acute injections of ethanol (1-2 g/kg) induced significant dose-dependent anxiolytic effects in both strains of mice. In contrast, acetaldehyde failed to produce any anxiolytic effect, although it induced a significant hypolocomotor effect at the highest doses. In an independent experiment, cyanamide, an aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor, prevented the locomotor stimulant effects of ethanol, although it failed to alter its anxiolytic effects. Together, the results of the present study indicate that acetaldehyde is not involved in ethanol-induced anxiolytic effects, although it may be involved in its sedative/hypolocomotor effects.
After prolonged stepping in place relative to space over the center of a rotating turntable, blindfolded subjects cannot step on the stationary platform without unknowingly turning themselves relative to space, a phenomenon termed podokinetic after rotation (PKAR). We asked what role the resulting vestibular stimulation might play in the expression of this form of PKAR. A method of servo-stabilizing the body relative to space during PKAR was devised to compare PKAR expression with and without significant vestibular stimulation. Simulated estimates of average central vestibular response profiles were obtained by passing the averaged unidirectional body angular velocity profiles relative to space through a first-order model of the canal system (tau=15 s). Such simulation results suggested that during normal PKAR performed on a stationary platform, the average central vestibular response would likely rise to peak levels equivalent to that induced by about 9 degrees /s within the frequency range of natural head movement. In the servo-stabilized condition, the simulated response was reduced to insignificant levels. Experimental results demonstrated that in the unstabilized condition the rate of rise of PKAR angular velocity was roughly four times slower than in the stabilized condition. We conclude that the normal expression of PKAR conducted on a stationary platform tends to be substantially slowed by interaction with an unperceived vestibular response.
The auditory mismatch negativity (MMN) is an event-related potential that reflects early processing of changes in acoustic stimulus features. Although the MMN has been well characterized by previous work, the number, roles, and anatomical locations of its cortical generators remain unresolved. Here, we report that the MMN elicited by occasional deviations in sound location is comprised of two temporally and anatomically distinct phases: an early phase with a generator posterior to auditory cortex and contralateral to the deviant stimulus, and a later phase with generators that are more frontal and bilaterally symmetric. The posterior location of the early-phase generator suggests the engagement of neurons within a putative &quot;where&quot; pathway for processing spatial auditory information.
Previous research has shown that saccadic reaction times (SRTs) are shorter when a stimulus is flashed on the same side as the observed gaze direction of another individual. The gaze imitation hypothesis contends that observed gaze evokes the preparation of a saccade toward the same direction. Previous studies of this phenomenon have employed pro-saccade tasks in which the instructed saccade is directed toward the stimulus. In agreement with previous findings, we found that SRTs on pro-saccade trials were shorter when the stimulus appeared in the same direction as observed gaze. Here we also included anti-saccade trials in which subjects were required to look-away from a stimulus and toward its mirror position in the opposite visual field. The gaze imitation hypothesis predicts that subjects will have shorter SRTs on anti-saccade trials in which the stimulus appears opposite the observed gaze direction because they will have prepared already a saccade in that direction. However, contrary to the prediction of the gaze imitation hypothesis, we found that subjects had shorter SRTs on anti-saccade trials when the stimulus appeared in the same direction as observed gaze. Moreover, subjects also made more pro-saccade errors on anti-saccade trials in which the stimulus was presented opposite the observed gaze direction. The results of our study indicate that subjects prepared a saccade in the same direction as observed gaze on pro-saccade trials but opposite the observed gaze direction on anti-saccade trials. These findings suggest that the effect of social gaze cues on SRTs is task dependent.
Previous work from this laboratory has shown that activity in the dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) relates strongly to global hindlimb kinematics variables during passive displacements of the hindlimb. A linear relationship to limb axis orientation and length variables accounts for most of the response variance for passive limb positioning and movement. Here we extend those observations to more natural movements by examining the information carried by the DSCT during passive stepping movements on a treadmill, and we compare it to information transmitted during passive robot-driven hindlimb movements. Using a principal component analysis approach, we found that a linear relationship between the responses and hindlimb kinematics was comparable across experimental conditions. We also observed systematic non-linearities in this relationship for both types of movement that could be attributed to events corresponding to the touch-down and lift-off phases of the movement. We concluded that proprioceptive information transmitted to the cerebellum by the DSCT during locomotion has at least two major components. One component is associated with limb kinematics (limb orientation) and may be more or less related to the metrics of the step (stride length, for example) or its velocity. The other component is associated with limb length and/or limb loading, and it may signal some aspect of limb stiffness.
Curcumin, an extract from the plant Curcuma longa with well-known antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, was tested as protective agent against excitotoxicity in rat retinal cultures. A 24 h-treatment with curcumin reduced N-methyl-D: -aspartate (NMDA)-mediated excitotoxic cell damage, estimated as decrease of cell viability and increase in apoptosis. The protection was associated with decrease of NMDA receptor-mediated Ca(2+) rise and reduction in the level of phosphorylated NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor. These results enlighten a new pharmacological action of the plant extract, possibly mediated by a modulation of NMDA receptor activity.
We compared the effect on reaction times of transient interference with function of the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) using a pair (25-ms interval) of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) pulses with long-term interference produced by a new repetitive TMS paradigm known as &quot;theta burst stimulation&quot; (TBS). Pairs of TMS pulses over left PMd increased choice but not simple reaction times of the right hand if given at the onset of the reaction interval. There was no effect of stimulation over right PMd or at a midline parietal control site (Pz). In contrast, TBS over either left or right PMd increased choice RTs of both hands for at least 5-10 min after the end of TBS. Pairs of TMS pulses over left PMd also increased error rates whereas TBS had no effect on error rates despite the effect on RTs. We suggest that TBS leads to widespread changes in activity and more complex effects on behaviour than expected from the paired pulse TMS and conclude that transient and long-term forms of interference with function may influence behavioural tasks in subtly different ways.
Understanding the physiological and psychological factors that contribute to healthy and pathological balance control in man has been made difficult by the confounding effects of the perturbations used to test balance reactions. The present study examined how postural responses were influenced by the acceleration-deceleration interval of an unexpected horizontal translation. Twelve adult males maintained balance during unexpected forward and backward surface translations with two different acceleration-deceleration intervals and presentation orders (serial or random). &quot;SHORT&quot; perturbations consisted of an initial acceleration (peak acceleration 1.3 m s(-2); duration 300 ms) followed 100 ms later by a deceleration. &quot;LONG&quot; perturbations had the same acceleration as SHORT perturbations, followed by a 2-s interval of constant velocity before deceleration. Surface and intra-muscular electromyography (EMG) from the leg, trunk, and shoulder muscles were recorded along with motion and force plate data. LONG perturbations induced larger trunk displacements compared to SHORT perturbations when presented randomly and larger EMG responses in proximal and distal muscles during later (500-800 ms) response intervals. During SHORT perturbations, activity in some antagonist muscles was found to be associated with deceleration and not the initial acceleration of the support surface. When predictable, SHORT perturbations facilitated the use of anticipatory mechanisms to attenuate early (100-400 ms) EMG response amplitudes, ankle torque change and trunk displacement. In contrast, LONG perturbations, without an early deceleration effect, did not facilitate anticipatory changes when presented in a predictable order. Therefore, perturbations with a short acceleration-deceleration interval can influence triggered postural responses through reactive effects and, when predictable with repeated exposure, through anticipatory mechanisms.
Bright light triggers biphasic photoreceptor nuclear DNA fragmentation, suggesting a DNA-repair response (Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 43:3511; 2002; Adv Med Biol 533:229-240; Mol Neurobiol 28:111-122). Here, we demonstrate a remarkable increase in expression of the mitochondrial DNA-repair enzymes, DNA polymerase gamma and 8-oxoguanine-DNA-glycosylase, following bright light treatment in rats. DNA polymerase gamma and 8-oxoguanine, the product of guanine oxidation, were selectively localized in photoreceptor synaptic terminals only within the superior central retinal region, where most light damage occurred. All induced DNA polymerase gamma was localized in photoreceptor synaptic terminals after 5 hr of light exposure, despite the fact that most photoreceptor cell mitochondria are confined to the inner segments. The neuroprotective platelet-activating factor-receptor antagonist LAU-0901 decreased mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma up-regulation, suggesting that its neuroprotective effect is exerted upstream from this event. During aging, the ability to repair damaged photoreceptor DNA greatly declines. Thus, DNA-repair enzymes such as polymerase gamma and 8-oxoguanine-DNA-glycosylase may provide novel pharmacologic targets to promote DNA repair and rescue photoreceptors in retinal degenerative diseases.

Granule cell (GC) neurogenesis increases following seizures, and some newborn GCs develop in abnormal locations within the hilus. These ectopic GCs (EGCs) display robust spontaneous and evoked excitatory activity. However, the pattern of afferent input they receive has not been fully defined. This study used electron microscopic immunolabeling to quantitatively evaluate mossy fiber (MF) input to EGCs since MFs densely innervate the hilus normally and undergo sprouting in many animal models of epilepsy. EGC dendrites were examined in tissue from epileptic rats that had initially been treated with pilocarpine to induce status epilepticus and subsequently had spontaneous seizures. MF terminals were labeled with a zinc transporter-3 antibody, and calbindin immunoreactivity was used to label hilar EGCs and GC layer GCs. The pattern of input provided by sprouted MF terminals to EGC dendrites was then compared to the pattern of MF input to GC dendrites in the inner molecular layer (IML), where most sprouted fibers are thought to project. Analysis of EGC dendrites demonstrated that MF terminals represented their predominant source of afferent input: they comprised 63% of all terminals and, on average, occupied 40% and 29% of the dendritic surface in the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus, respectively, forming frequent synapses. These measures of connectivity were significantly greater than comparable values for MF innervation of GC dendrites located in the IML of the same tissue sections. Thus, EGCs develop a pattern of synaptic connections that could help explain their previously identified predisposition to discharge in epileptiform bursts and suggest that they play an important role in the generation of seizure activity in the dentate gyrus.
After spinal cord injury (SCI), apoptosis of neurons and oligodendrocytes is associated with axonal degeneration and loss of neurological function. Recent data have suggested a potential role for FAS death receptor-mediated apoptosis in the pathophysiology of SCI. In this study, we examined the effect of FAS deficiency on SCI in vitro and in vivo. FAS(Lpr/lpr) mutant mice and wildtype background-matched mice were subjected to a T5-6 clip compression SCI, and complementary studies were done in an organotypic slice culture model of SCI. Post-traumatic apoptosis in the spinal cord, which was seen in neurons and oligodendrocytes, was decreased in the FAS-deficient mice both in vivo and in vitro particularly in oligodendrocytes. FAS deficiency was also associated with improved locomotor recovery, axonal sparing and preservation of oligodendrocytes and myelin. However, FAS deficiency did not result in a significant increase in surviving neurons in the spinal cord at 6 weeks after injury, likely reflecting the importance of other cell death mechanisms for neurons. We conclude that inhibition of the FAS pathway may be a clinically attractive neuroprotective strategy directed towards oligodendroglial and axonal preservation in the treatment of SCI and neurotrauma.
Loss of dorsal root ganglion neuron, or injury to dorsal roots, induces permanent somatosensory defect without therapeutic option. We explored an approach to restoring hind limb somatosensory innervation after elimination of L4, L5 and L6 dorsal root ganglion neurons in rats. Somatosensory pathways were reconstructed by connecting L4, L5 and L6 lumbar dorsal roots to T10, T11 and T12 intercostal nerves, respectively, thus allowing elongation of thoracic ganglion neuron peripheral axons into the sciatic nerve. Connection of thoracic dorsal root ganglion neurons to peripheral tissues was documented 4 and 7 months after injury. Myelinated and unmyelinated fibers regrew in the sciatic nerve. Nerve terminations expressing calcitonin-gene-related-peptide colonized the footpad skin. Retrograde tracing showed that T10, T11 and T12 dorsal root ganglion neurons expressing calcitonin-gene-related-peptide or the neurofilament RT97 projected axons to the sciatic nerve and the footpad skin. Recording of somatosensory evoked potentials in the upper spinal cord indicated connection between the sciatic nerve and the central nervous system. Hind limb retraction in response to nociceptive stimulation of the reinnervated footpads and reversion of skin lesions suggested partial recovery of sensory function. Proprioceptive defects persisted. Delayed somatosensory reinnervation of the hind limb after destruction of lumbar dorsal root neurons in rats indicates potential approaches to reduce chronic disability after severe injury to somatosensory pathways.
Previous evidence has shown that stromal cell-derived inducing activity (SDIA), produced by the mouse PA6 stromal cell line, promotes dopaminergic differentiation of mouse, monkey and human embryonic stem cells in vitro. To examine whether PA6 stromal cells can enhance the yield of dopaminergic differentiation from neural progenitors, we generated neurospheres from embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) (midbrain and forebrain) and E14.5 (ventral mesencephalon and cortex) rat embryos and allowed them to differentiate in co-culture with PA6 cells or poly-l-lysine/laminin-coated dishes. We observed that SDIA did not promote dopaminergic differentiation of E11.5 and E14.5 neurospheres but more prominently, enhanced astrocyte differentiation, cell survival and astrocyte proliferation. Our results suggest that PA6 cells do not have a general capacity to promote differentiation into dopaminergic neurons from all types of stem cells, but that they may specifically induce dopaminergic differentiation of highly uncommitted stem cells such as embryonic stem cells.
Neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) are involved in both tonic and reflex control of sympathetic outflow. Many of these neurons express the adrenaline-synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), and are designated C1 neurons. C1 neurons that contain mu-opioid receptors (MORs) are hyperpolarized by MOR activation and are activated during morphine withdrawal. The present study examined the subcellular distribution of the cloned MOR, MOR1, in rat C1 neurons following chronic morphine treatment, using RVLM sections that were dually labeled for PNMT-immunoperoxidase and MOR1-immunogold. Electron microscopic analysis of the subcellular distribution of MOR1 revealed a lower abundance of plasma membrane-associated MOR1 in C1 dendrites of rats treated with morphine, compared to placebo-treated controls, only in distal dendrites. There were no differences in the size of dual-labeled dendrites between treatment groups or in the overall density of MOR1 within PNMT immunoreactive dendrites between treatment groups. These results suggest that chronic morphine treatment leads to a decreased presence of MOR1 at the cell surface, without a significant reduction in cytoplasmic receptor density. These observations suggest that chronic morphine produces a selective internalization of MOR1 in C1 neurons, without apparent changes in receptor synthesis or trafficking. The reduction of accessible MORs on these neurons may be a mechanism for tolerance with regard to autonomic responses to opioid administration and may facilitate the profound sympathetic hyperactivity that occurs during acute opioid withdrawal.
The monosynaptic motoneuron response to stimulation of Ia afferents is known to be altered by spinal cord injury (SCI). Although the Hoffman (H)-reflex is a tool that is often used to measure this reflex in patients, there has not been a systematic study investigating the effect of SCI severity and time on the H-reflex. We used a clinically relevant model of spinal cord contusion (Mild and Moderate) as well as complete surgical transection to measure the H-reflex at 1, 4 and 8 weeks after injury. The H-reflex was recorded from rat hindpaw plantar muscles in order to measure the baseline reflex amplitude and its response to increased stimulus frequency, i.e. rate depression. We correlated the reflex amplitude at each frequency to spared white matter at the injury epicenter, hindlimb function and serotonin immunoreactivity associated with retrogradely labeled plantar muscle motoneurons. The three injury groups displayed different behavioral deficits and amount of spared white matter at all three times tested. H-reflex rate depression was abnormal in all three injury groups at all three time points. At 8 weeks, transected animals displayed more H-reflex rate depression than those with a mild contusion. Baseline H-reflex amplitude was increased in both contusion groups at 4 weeks and showed a positive linear correlation with serotonin immunoreactivity. This baseline amplitude was not increased after transection. Furthermore, in the contusion group, there was a U-shaped relationship between behavioral scores and H-reflex rate depression, suggesting that an intermediate sensitivity of the motoneuronal pool to afferent input is associated with better recovery of hindlimb function.
Human spinal cord injury (SCI) can result in progressive degeneration that may continue for many years and lead to the formation of highly septated cystic cavities. This hallmark feature has been reproduced in experimental models, but neither its pathogenesis nor clinically relevant features have been fully elucidated. Here, we show for the first time in a rodent model of chronic SCI that the septations spanning cavities contain axons.
Nitroxyl anion (NO-), and/or its conjugate acid, HNO, may be formed in the cellular milieu by several routes under both physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Since experimental evidence suggests that certain reactive nitrogen oxide species can contribute significantly to cerebral ischemic injury, we investigated the neurotoxic potential of HNO/NO- using Angeli's salt (AS), a spontaneous HNO/NO(-)-generating compound. Exposure to AS resulted in a time- and concentration-dependent increase in neural cell death that progressed markedly following the initial exposure. Coadministration of the donor with Tempol (1 mM), a one-electron oxidant that converts NO- to NO, prevented its toxic effect, as did the concomitant addition of Fe(III)TPPS. Media containing various chelators, catalase, Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase, or carboxy-PTIO did not ameliorate AS-mediated neurotoxicity, ruling out the involvement of transition metal complexes, H2O2, O2-, and NO, respectively. A concentration-dependent increase in supernatant protein 3-nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity was observed when cultures were exposed to AS under aerobic conditions, an effect lost in the absence of oxygen. A bell-shaped curve for augmented AS-mediated nitration was observed with increasing Fe(III)TPPS concentration, which contrasted with its linear effect on abating cytotoxicity. Finally, addition of glutamate receptor antagonists, MK-801 (10 microM) and CNQX (30 microM) to the cultures abrogated toxicity when given during, but not following, AS exposure; as did pretreatment with the exocytosis inhibitor, tetanus toxin (300 ng/ml). Taken together, our data suggest that under aerobic conditions, AS toxicity is initiated via HNO/NO- but progresses via secondary excitotoxicity.
Cognitive, behavioral, and motor impairments, during progressive human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, are linked to activation of brain mononuclear phagocytes (MP; perivascular macrophages and microglia). Activated MPs effect a giant cell encephalitis and neuroinflammatory responses that are mirrored in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice injected with human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM). Whether activated human MDMs positioned in the basal ganglia affect hippocampal neuronal plasticity, the brain subregion involved in learning and memory, is unknown. Thus, immunohistochemical techniques were used for detection of newborn neurons (polysialylated neuronal cell adhesion molecule [PSA-NCAM]) and cell proliferation (Ki-67) to assay MDM effects on neuronal development in mouse models of HIV-1 encephalitis. Immunodeficient (C.B.-17/SCID and nonobese diabetic/SCID, NOD/SCID) and immune competent (C.B.-17) mice were injected with uninfected or HIV-1-infected MDM. Sham-operated or unmanipulated mice served as controls. Neuronal plasticity was evaluated in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) at days 7 and 28. By day 7, increased numbers of Ki-67+ cells, PSA-NCAM+ cells and dendrites in DG were observed in sham-operated animals. In contrast, significant reductions in neuronal precursors and altered neuronal morphology paralleled increased microglial activation in both HIV-1-infected and uninfected MDM-injected animals. DG cellular composition was restored at day 28. We posit that activated MDM induce inflammation and diminish DG neuronal plasticity. These data provide novel explanations for the cognitive impairments manifested during advanced HIV-1 infection.
Human glial fibrillary acidic protein-delta (GFAP-delta) is a GFAP protein isoform that is encoded by an alternative splice variant of the GFAP-gene. As a result, GFAP-delta protein differs from the predominant splice form, GFAP-alpha, by its C-terminal protein sequence. In this study, we show that GFAP-delta protein is not expressed by all GFAP-expressing astrocytes but specifically by a subpopulation located in the subpial zone of the cerebral cortex, the subgranular zone of the hippocampus, and, most intensely, by a ribbon of astrocytes following the ependymal layer of the cerebral ventricles. Therefore, at least in the sub ventricular zone (SVZ), GFAP-delta specifically marks the population of astrocytes that contain the neural stem cells in the adult human brain. Interestingly, the SVZ astrocytes actively splice GFAP-delta transcripts, in contrast to astrocytes adjacent to this layer. Furthermore, we show that GFAP-delta protein, unlike GFAP-alpha, is not upregulated in astrogliosis. Our data therefore indicate a different functional role for GFAP-delta in astrocyte physiology. Finally, transfection studies showed that GFAP-delta protein expression has a negative effect on GFAP filament formation, and therefore could be important for modulating intermediate filament cytoskeletal properties, possibly facilitating astrocyte motility. Further studies on GFAP-delta and the cells that express it are important for gaining insights into its function during differentiation, migration and during health and disease.
Octave-circular pitch perception, the repetition of pitch scale qualities when surpassing the octave interval, has been observed in behavioral data from humans and monkeys, but the underlying anatomy and physiology is still unknown. Here we analyze octave circularity in a concert pianist with absolute pitch, both under medication with the neurotropic drug carbamazepine (CBZ) and without medication. Analysis of 4619 responses in a pitch identification task revealed an internal tone-scale representation, based on the norm-tone scale re A4=440 Hz, with an octave-circular pattern of strongly and weakly represented tones. CBZ caused a global down-shift of pitch (ca. 1 semitone at 500 Hz), but no down-shift of the octave-circular pattern of tone characteristics. This pattern was similar in the six tested octave ranges (32.7-2093 Hz), both under the control and the CBZ condition. Pattern repetition always occurred at octave intervals and did not reflect the stretched octaves of piano tuning. The results indicate that CBZ influences pitch detection peripheral of an octave-circular pitch representation. Thus they support previous evidence for pitch detection in the auditory midbrain and for octave-circular pitch mapping in the auditory thalamus.
The preoptic area of the mammalian forebrain is a critical substrate for the development and maintenance of many sexually dimorphic behaviors relevant to reproduction. Normal development of the male rodent brain requires completion of two processes: (1) masculinization-induction of the male phenotype, and (2) defeminization-removal of the female phenotype. Both processes, although distinct, are largely directed by the same steroid, estradiol. Whether estradiol achieves both ends via the same or separate mechanisms has been unknown. Here, we report that prostaglandin-E(2) (PGE(2)) acting downstream of estradiol, is necessary and sufficient to masculinize sexual behavior but does not affect defeminization of sexual behavior or maternal behavior. Moreover, the volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area predicts defeminization of sexual behavior, but not masculinization of sexual behavior. Another sexually dimorphic cellular endpoint regulated by estradiol, spinophilin protein expression in the mediobasal hypothalamus, was not affected by PGE(2). Thus, PGE(2) is a key divergence point in the downstream actions of estradiol to simultaneously masculinize and defeminize sexual behavior.
Orientation of physiology and behavior in time is a major adaptation common to many organisms and represents a significant challenge. In the face of predictable seasonal changes in climatic factors, and as a result of natural selection, many mammals now restrict their reproductive efforts to the fraction of the year when conditions of temperature, food, and water are most favorable for successful weaning of offspring. Changes in day length figure prominently in the synchronization of mammalian seasonal reproductive cycles. In summer breeders (e.g., several hamster, vole, and mouse species), decreasing summer day lengths induce reproductive involution. During this interval, neuroendocrine mechanisms analogous to a simple reference memory permit discrimination of stimulatory from inhibitory photoperiods. The non-reproductive phenotype is sustained for several months thereafter by the inhibitory short days of late summer, autumn, and early winter. Mid-winter reactivation of the reproductive system is triggered after 20-25 weeks of exposure to decreasing or short days by an interval timer that renders the reproductive neuroendocrine system refractory to short days. Recent work that has explored formal and physiological properties of this photorefractoriness interval timer has identified sex differences, neural substrates, and changes in hypothalamic gene expression that may participate in the measurement of seasonal time.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) regulates aggression in male Syrian hamsters. In this study, we used radioligand receptor autoradiography to examine whether changes in agonistic behavior following acute and repeated social defeat are accompanied by changes in AVP V1a receptor binding. Social defeat produced high levels of submissive behavior and a loss of territorial aggression when hamsters were subsequently tested with a novel intruder, and repeated agonistic encounters produced similar behavioral changes in subordinates. AVP V1a receptor binding was not reduced by acute social defeat but was affected by repeated agonistic encounters. Dominants had significantly more AVP V1a receptor binding in lateral portions of the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMHL) than did their subordinate opponents, but subordinates were no different from controls. In contrast, receptor binding did not differ in most other brain regions examined. The changes in receptor binding appear to be independent of testosterone levels, as testosterone levels did not differ among dominants, subordinates, and controls. Our results suggest that changes in AVP V1a receptors do not account for the changes in agonistic behavior produced by acute social defeat but AVP V1a binding in the VMHL correlates with, and may modulate, the behavioral changes that occur following repeated experiences of victory.
The relationship between neocortical structure and function is a key area of research in neuroscience. Most studies of neural function, whether using neurophysiology or neuroimaging methods, are interpreted with relation to the underlying cortical myelo- and cytoarchitecture. For functional neuroimaging studies this often means using cytoarchitectonic maps based on the study of a limited number of brains, despite evidence for substantial interindividual variation. Improvements in MR technology, resulting in wider availability of high-field MRI systems, have led to an increase in the achievable resolution in MR scans. Several groups have reported the in vivo detection of myelination patterns within the cortex, consistent with those observed in postmortem tissue. This leads to the possibility of predefining areas for fMRI analysis based on the cortical architecture. To do this it is essential to know, in a quantitative way, how reliably myeloarchitectonic areas and boundaries can be detected using MRI. Here we investigate the striate cortex, known to be coincident with V1, to assess the detectability of the stria of Gennari across V1 and across subjects. Under optimal conditions, 80% of the stria of Gennari was visualized using our methodology, although there was considerable variability in the level of detection across subjects. We discuss the limitations of the methodology and propose ways to improve the detection level of cortical myeloarchitecture more generally.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is caused by mutations in the gene encoding methyl CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Although MeCP2 shows widespread expression in both neuronal and non-neuronal tissues, the symptoms of RTT are largely neurological. Herein, we have identified the regulatory region of the mouse Mecp2 gene that is sufficient for its restricted expression in neurons. A segment of the Mecp2 gene (-677/+56) exhibited strong promoter activity in neuronal cell lines and cortical neurons, but was inactive in non-neuronal cells and glia. The region necessary for neuronal-specific promoter activity was located within a 19 bp region (-63/-45). Several nuclear factors were found to bind to this region and some of these factors were enriched in nuclear extracts prepared from the brain. To examine the activity of the Mecp2 promoter in vivo, we generated transgenic mice expressing the LacZ reporter driven by the -677/+56 region of the Mecp2 gene. The transgene was expressed in the mesencephalon as early as embryonic day 10 and in the hindbrain and spinal cord by E12. Interestingly, a marked induction of transgene expression was observed postnatally throughout the brain, similar to that of endogenous MeCP2. However, expression of the transgene was absent in non-neuronal tissues that are known to express Mecp2. Taken together, these data indicate that the -677/+56 region of the Mecp2 promoter partially recapitulates the native expression pattern of the Mecp2 gene, which possesses restricted expression in neurons of the central nervous system.
In this paper, we compare seven models on their ability to fit isometric muscle force. We stimulated the ankle dorsiflexors of eight subjects at seven ankle angles (85 degrees-120 degrees). Three different stimulation patterns (twitch, triangular, and random) were applied at all ankle angles. Four additional patterns (doublets, steady rates, &quot;catch property,&quot; and walking-like) were applied at 95 degrees. Parameter values were optimized for each model at each angle. Parameters for the general linear model were calculated using a novel least-squares algorithm. A linear, second-order critically damped model gave the poorest fits (average root mean square (rms) error: 15 N). The models of Ding et al. (2002) and Bobet and Stein (1998) gave the best fits (average rms errors: 9.2 and 9.4 N). The other models (general linear second-order model, Wiener model, Zhou et al. (1995) model, general linear model) gave intermediate results. Results were similar at all ankle angles. We conclude that the Ding and Bobet-Stein models are the best overall for isometric contractions, that no linear model of any kind will give an error less than 9% of maximum force, and that the models tested are consistent across lengths.
The intracellular mechanisms involved in the early phase of dendritic cell (DC) activation upon contact with chemical sensitizers are not well known. The strong skin sensitizer 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) was shown to induce the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) in DC. In the present study, we investigated a putative role for oxidative stress in DNFB-induced MAPK activation and upregulation of the costimulatory molecule CD40. In a DC line generated from fetal mouse skin, DNFB induced a significant increase in protein oxidation, measured by the formation of carbonyl groups, while it had almost no effect on lipid peroxidation. The antioxidants glutathione and vitamin E, which inhibit protein and lipid oxidation, respectively, were used to assess the role of oxidative stress in DNFB-induced MAPK activation. Glutathione, but not vitamin E, inhibited DNFB-induced p38 MAPK and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, whereas none of the antioxidants interfered significantly with the DNFB-induced upregulation of CD40 protein levels. Taken together, these results indicate that DNFB activates p38 MAPK and ERK1/2 via production of reactive oxygen species, and that protein oxidation plays an important role in MAPK activation.
The altered glycolipid ligand OCH is a selective inducer of T(h)2 cytokines from NKT cells and a potent therapeutic reagent for T(h)1-mediated autoimmune diseases. Although we have previously shown the intrinsic molecular mechanism of preferential IL-4 production by OCH-stimulated NKT cells, little is known about the extrinsic regulatory network for IFN-gamma production. Here we demonstrate that OCH induces lower production of IFN-gamma, not only by NKT cells but also by NK cells compared with alpha-galactosylceramide. OCH induced lower IL-12 production due to ineffective primary IFN-gamma and CD40 ligand expression by NKT cells, and resulted in lower secondary IFN-gamma induction. Co-injection of a sub-optimal dose of IFN-gamma and stimulatory anti-CD40 mAb compensates for the lower induction of IL-12 by OCH administration. IL-12 converts OCH-induced cytokine expression from IL-4 predominance to IFN-gamma predominance. Furthermore, CpG oligodeoxynucleotide augmented IL-12 production when co-administrated with OCH, resulting in increased IFN-gamma production. Taken together, the lower IL-12 production and subsequent lack of secondary IFN-gamma burst support the effective T(h)2 polarization of T cells by OCH. In addition, highlighted in this study is the characteristic property of OCH that can induce the differential production of IFN-gamma or IL-4 according to the availability of IL-12.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a fatal prion disease characterized by rapid neurodegeneration. The clinical diagnosis is difficult and reliable diagnostic markers are highly desired. Here, we assess the sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tests for 14-3-3 protein and total tau (T-tau)/phospho-tau (P-tau) ratio among 36 patients with clinically suspected CJD. Nine of the 36 patients had CJD. These cases were all autopsy-proven. The 14-3-3 test was positive in 4 of the 9 CJD cases and falsely positive in 7 of the 27 patients with other diagnoses. The resulting figures for sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values were 44%, 74%, 36% and 80%, respectively. The best result for distinguishing CJD from other diagnoses was obtained using a combined test for T-tau and T-tau/P-tau ratio and cut-off values of &gt;1,400 pg/ml and &gt;25, respectively. The resulting figures for sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values were 78%, 93%, 78% and 93%, respectively. The achieved accuracy (89%) was significantly higher than that for the 14-3-3 test (67%; P=0.023). The high predictive values achieved by the combined tau test suggest that it could be used in conjunction with other diagnostic methods for accurate intra vitam diagnosis of CJD.
Alcoholism is a lifelong disease often associated with emotional disturbances and a high risk of relapse even years after detoxification. To explore if cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus might be important for alcohol-induced brain adaptation, we analysed hippocampal neurogenesis and gliogenesis in adult C57BL/6 mice that consumed moderate levels of ethanol (~6 g/kg.d) in a two-bottle free-choice model during ~10 wk. The mice developed a 53% preference for ethanol vs. water and displayed a blood ethanol concentration of 0.24 per thousand at the time of sacrifice. Bromo-deoxy-uridine (BrdU) was administered in different regimes to analyse proliferation, survival, cell distribution and differentiation of new cells in the dentate gyrus. Moderate ethanol consumption increased the proliferation of cells, which survived and developed a neural phenotype. Ethanol consumption did not induce apoptosis, neither did it change differentiation or the distribution patterns of the newly formed cells. The cell proliferation rate in the dentate gyrus returned to basal levels 3 d after ethanol withdrawal. We conclude that voluntary ethanol intake by mice can change the rate of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus. These observations add to the emerging picture of dentate gyrus neurogenesis as a highly regulated process. Since there was no increase in apoptosis concomitant with the ethanol-induced increase in neurogenesis, it is possible that the new cells in the dentate gyrus may contribute to the long-lasting changes of brain function after ethanol consumption.






Human serum albumin (HSA), the most prominent protein in plasma, binds different classes of ligands at multiple sites. HSA provides a depot for many compounds, affects pharmacokinetics of many drugs, holds some ligands in a strained orientation providing their metabolic modification, renders potential toxins harmless transporting them to disposal sites, accounts for most of the antioxidant capacity of human serum, and acts as a NO-carrier. The globular domain structural organization of monomeric HSA is at the root of its allosteric properties which are reminiscent of those of multimeric proteins. Here, structural, functional, biotechnological, and biomedical aspects of ligand binding to HSA are summarized.
Noise that is amplitude modulated at rates ranging from 40 to 850 Hz can elicit a sensation of pitch. Here, the processing of this temporally based pitch was investigated using a perceptual-learning paradigm. Nine listeners were trained (1 hour per day for 6-8 days) to discriminate a standard rate of sinusoidal amplitude modulation (SAM) from a faster rate in a single condition (150 Hz SAM rate, 5 kHz low-pass carrier). All trained listeners improved significantly on that condition. These trained listeners subsequently showed no more improvement than nine untrained controls on pure-tone and rippled-noise discrimination with the same pitch, and on SAM-rate discrimination with a 30 Hz rate, although they did show some improvement with a 300 Hz rate. In addition, most trained, but not control, listeners were worse at detecting SAM at 150 Hz after, compared to before training. These results indicate that listeners can learn to improve their ability to discriminate SAM rate with multiple-hour training and that the mechanism that is modified by learning encodes (1) the pitch of SAM noise but not that of pure tones and rippled noise, (2) different SAM rates separately, and (3) differences in SAM rate more effectively than cues for SAM detection.

The mammalian adult central nervous system (CNS) is known to respond rapidly to demyelinating insults by regenerating oligodendrocytes for remyelination from a dividing precursor population. A widespread population of cells exists within the adult CNS that is thought to belong to the oligodendrocyte lineage, but which do not express proteins characteristic of mature myelinating oligodendrocytes, such as myelin basic protein (MBP) and 2,3-cyclic nucleotide 3-phosphodiesterase (CNP). Instead, these cells have phenotypic characteristics of a more immature stage of the oligodendrocyte lineage. They express the NG2 chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan, in addition to O4 and the platelet-derived growth factor alpha-receptor, all widely accepted as markers for oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) throughout development. However, NG2+ cells residing in the adult CNS do not resemble embryonic or neonatal NG2+ cells in terms of their morphology or proliferation characteristics, but instead represent a unique type of glial cell that has the ability to react rapidly to CNS damage. In this review, we present the evidence that adult NG2+ cells are part of the oligodendrocyte lineage and are capable of giving rise to new oligodendrocytes under both normal and demyelinating conditions. We also review the literature that these cells may have multiple functional roles within the adult CNS, notwithstanding their primary role as OPCs.
A randomized, controlled study compared the effects of wound compression with drainage after primary total hip arthroplasty. In 51 patients, an inflatable cuff was placed over the wound underneath a girdle (System Calmed, Calmed AB, Askim, Sweden). Control patients had wound drainage (n = 54). Preoperative and intraoperative variables did not differ between groups. Total blood loss was calculated using hemoglobin balance; with compression it was 1510 +/- 656 mL (mean +/- SD) and in controls 1695 +/- 712 mL (P = .13). However, less blood was transfused in the compression group (P = .05). Wound infection was seen in 2 patients with compression and in 3 controls. Deep venous thrombosis occurred in 3 controls. Wound discharge was more frequent in controls (19/54 vs 8/51; P = .04). Thus, wound compression had no obvious negative effects and reduced wound discharge and need for transfusion. It may replace drainage after total hip arthroplasty.
The target-derived factors necessary for promoting initial outgrowth from the statoacoustic ganglion (SAG) to the inner ear have not been fully characterized. In the present study, conditioned medium from embryonic Immortomouse inner ear cell lines that maintain many characteristics of developing inner ear sensory epithelia were screened for neurite-promoting activity. Conditioned medium found to be positive for promoting SAG neurite outgrowth and neuronal survival was then tested for the presence of chemokines, molecules that have not previously been investigated for promoting SAG outgrowth. One candidate molecule, monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1), was detected in the conditioned medium and subsequently localized to mouse hair cells by immunocytochemistry. In vitro studies demonstrated that function-blocking MCP-1 antibodies decreased the amount of SAG neurite outgrowth induced by the conditioned medium and that subsequent addition of MCP-1 protein was able to promote outgrowth when added to the antibody-treated conditioned medium. The use of the Immortomouse cell lines proved valuable in identifying this candidate cofactor that promotes outgrowth of early-stage SAG nerve fibers and is expressed in embryonic hair cells.
We cloned cDNA and genomic DNA containing exon 1 of mouse Neil3. Neil3 spans 52.4 kb and consists of 10 exons. Northern blot analysis revealed that Neil3 mRNA was selectively expressed in thymus, spleen and bone marrow. High levels of Neil3 mRNA were also detected in various mouse B cell lines by RT-PCR. Immunofluorescence microscopy using anti-NEIL3 revealed that recombinant mouse NEIL3 is localized in the nuclei. In mouse splenocytes, the level of Neil3 mRNA significantly increased after mitogen stimulation in vitro. We established NEIL3-null mice, which are viable and fertile. We found candidate sequences for NEIL3 orthologues in a DNA database from dog and zebrafish in addition to human and mouse, but not invertebrates. NEIL3 may function exclusively in vertebrates, such as mammals.
Laboratory populations of grass rats (Arvicanthis niloticus) housed with a running wheel show considerable variation in patterns of locomotor activity. At the extremes are &quot;day-active&quot; (DA) animals with a monophasic distribution of running throughout the light phase and &quot;night-active&quot; (NA) animals exhibiting a biphasic pattern with an extended peak at the beginning of the dark phase and a brief peak shortly before lights-on. Here, the authors use this intraspecific variation to explore interactions between circadian and homeostatic influences on sleep and the effects of these interactions on the activity of brain regions involved in sleep regulation. Male animals were singly housed with running wheels in a 12:12 LD cycle, videotaped for 24 h, and perfused at ZT 4 or 16. Behavioral sleep was scored from the videotapes, and brains were processed for cFos immunoreactivity (cFos-ir). Sleep duration within the light and dark phases was higher in NA and DA animals, respectively, but these groups did not differ with respect to total sleep. In both groups, sleep bouts were shortest in the light phase and longest between ZT 20 and ZT 23. In the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO), cFos-ir was higher at ZT 16 than at ZT 4 in DA but not NA grass rats, and it was correlated with behavioral sleep at ZT 16 but not ZT 4. In OXA neurons, cFos-ir was high at ZT 4 in DA grass rats and at ZT 16 in NA grass rats, and it was correlated with behavioral sleep at both times. In the lower subparaventricular zone (LSPV), cFos-ir was higher at ZT 16 in both DA and NA animals, and it was unrelated to behavioral sleep. Thus, patterns of cFos-ir in the LSPV and OXA neurons were most tightly linked to time and sleep, respectively, whereas cFos-ir in the VLPO was influenced by an interaction between these 2 variables.
The retinohypothalamic tract (RHT), a monosynaptic retinal projection to the SCN, is the major path by which light entrains the circadian system to the external photoperiod. The circadian system of rodents effectively integrates or counts photons, and the magnitude of the rhythm phase response is proportional to the total energy of the photic stimulus. In the present studies, responsiveness to light and integrative capacity of the circadian system were tested in hamsters after reduction of retinal photoreceptor input by 50%. At CT 19, animals in constant darkness with or without unilateral retinal occlusion were exposed to 1 of 6 irradiances of 5-min white-light pulses ranging from 0.0011 to 70 microW/cm(2) or 5 white-light pulses of 0.6 microW/cm(2) with durations ranging from 0.25 to 150.0 min. Assessment of light-induced circadian rhythm phase response and Fos expression in the SCN by these animals revealed that a 50% reduction in input from photoreceptors stimulated directly with light caused a decrease in responsiveness to the longest duration and highest irradiance pulses presented. Despite this effect, both the magnitude of Fos induction in the SCN and phase-shift response remained directly proportional to the total energy in the photic stimuli. The results support the view that a reciprocal relationship between stimulus irradiance and duration persists despite the 50% reduction in retinal photoreceptor input. The mechanism of integration neither resides in the retina nor in the RHT.
Efforts to develop novel methods for recording from ion channels have been receiving increased attention in recent years. In this study, the authors report a unique &quot;inside-out&quot; whole-cell configuration of patch-clamp recording that has been developed. This method entails adding cells into a standard patch pipette and, with positive pressure, obtaining a gigaseal recording from a cell at the inside tip of the electrode. In this configuration, the cell may be moved through the air, first rupturing part of the cellular membrane and enabling bath access to the intracellular side of the membrane, and then into a series of wells containing differing solutions, enabling robotic control of all the steps in an experiment. The robotic system developed here fully automates the electrophysiological experiments, including gigaseal formation, obtaining whole-cell configuration, data acquisition, and drug application. Proof-of-principle experiments consisting of application of intracellularly acting potassium channel blockers to K+ channel cell lines resulted in a very rapid block, as well as block reversal, of the current. This technique allows compound application directly to the intracellular side of ion channels and enables the dissociation of compound in activities due to cellular barrier limitations. This technique should allow for parallel implementation of recording pipettes and the future development of larger array-based screening methods.
Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) by the IP3 receptors (IP3Rs) crucially regulates diverse cell signalling processes from reproduction to apoptosis. Release from the IP3R may be modulated by endogenous proteins associated with the receptor, such as the 12 kDa FK506-binding protein (FKBP12), either directly or indirectly by inhibition of the phosphatase calcineurin. Here, we report that, in addition to calcineurin, FKPBs modulate release through the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a kinase that potentiates Ca2+ release from the IP3R in smooth muscle. The presence of FKBP12 was confirmed in colonic myocytes and co-immunoprecipitated with the IP3R. In aortic smooth muscle, however, although present, FKBP12 did not co-immunoprecipitate with IP3R. In voltage-clamped single colonic myocytes rapamycin, which together with FKBP12 inhibits mTOR (but not calcineurin), decreased the rise in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]c) evoked by IP3R activation (by photolysis of caged IP3), without decreasing the SR luminal Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]l) as did the mTOR inhibitors RAD001 and LY294002. However, FK506, which with FKBP12 inhibits calcineurin (but not mTOR), potentiated the IP3-evoked [Ca2+]c increase. This potentiation was due to the inhibition of calcineurin; it was mimicked by the phosphatase inhibitors cypermethrin and okadaic acid. The latter two inhibitors also prevented the FK506-evoked increase as did a calcineurin inhibitory peptide (CiP). In aortic smooth muscle, where FKBP12 was not associated with IP3R, the IP3-mediated Ca2+ release was unaffected by FK506 or rapamycin. Together, these results suggest that FKBP12 has little direct effect on IP3-mediated Ca2+ release, even though it is associated with IP3R in colonic myocytes. However, FKBP12 might indirectly modulate Ca2+ release through two effector proteins: (1) mTOR, which potentiates and (2) calcineurin, which inhibits Ca2+ release from IP3R in smooth muscle.
The pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA1 region are essential for cognitive functions such as spatial learning and memory, and are selectively destroyed after cerebral ischemia. To analyze whether degenerated CA1 neurons are replaced by new neurons and whether such regeneration is associated with amelioration in learning and memory deficits, we have used a rat global ischemia model that provides an almost complete disappearance (to approximately 3% of control) of CA1 neurons associated with a robust impairment in spatial learning and memory at two weeks after ischemia. We found that transient cerebral ischemia can evoke a massive formation of new neurons in the CA1 region, reaching approximately 40% of the original number of neurons at 90 days after ischemia (DAI). Co-localization of the mature neuronal marker neuronal nuclei with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine in CA1 confirmed that neurogenesis indeed had occurred after the ischemic insult. Furthermore, we found increased numbers of cells expressing the immature neuron marker polysialic acid neuronal cell adhesion molecule in the adjacent lateral periventricular region, suggesting that the newly formed neurons derive from this region. The reappearance of CA1 neurons was associated with a recovery of ischemia-induced impairments in spatial learning and memory at 90 DAI, suggesting that the newly formed CA1 neurons restore hippocampal CA1 function. In conclusion, these results show that the brain has an endogenous capacity to form new nerve cells after injury, which correlates with a restoration of cognitive functions of the brain.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of enriched environment on motor function after experimental stroke in mice, and to determine whether time in enriched environment affects functional recovery. Earlier investigations have shown that rats placed in an enriched environment after focal ischemia, remarkably improve motor function, but similar observations in mice have not been reported. In this study, we show that placing mice in an enriched environment for 3 h daily for 2 weeks, after transient (50 mins) occlusion of the middle cerebral artery, enhanced neurologic outcome. Continuous postischemic housing in the enriched environment likewise improved motor function, but mortality increased. Two weeks exposure to enriched environment followed by housing the mice in standard cages for 2 weeks, resulted in a loss of the improved motor function. In contrast, 4 weeks exposure to enriched environment led to an improved motor function and to a better maintenance of neurologic recovery. The expression levels of the immediate-early gene nerve growth factor-induced gene A at 2 to 3 weeks of recovery decreased in animals housed in enriched environment, implying this transcription factor in the recovery process. We conclude that housing mice in an enriched environment after experimental stroke improves functional outcome. Also, the presented experimental procedure is useful for further studies of the genomics of functional recovery after experimental stroke.
Periventricular leukomalacia is a form of white-matter injury that occurs in the setting of either primary or secondary hypoxia-ischemia in the premature infant. Hypoxia-ischemia induces increases in cerebral extracellular glutamate levels, thereby activating glutamate receptors on a variety of cell types within the white matter. This review examines the evidence of a role for glutamate receptors in white-matter injury and periventricular leukomalacia. Multiple glutamate receptor subtypes exist, and these appear to play differential roles depending on cell type and time after injury. Glutamate receptors are developmentally regulated on neurons and glia, and certain subtypes are transiently overexpressed in developing rodent brain and are expressed on immature oligodendrocytes in human white matter in the premature period. Pharmacologic agents acting on glutamate receptors might represent age-specific therapeutic strategies for the treatment of periventricular leukomalacia.
Ghrelin, produced in the stomach, acts on growth hormone secretagogue receptors (GHSRs) in hypothalamic neurons to potently increase food intake. However, male mice with deletions of ghrelin (Ghrl-/- mice) or GHSR (Ghsr-/- mice) display normal growth and regulation of food intake. Furthermore, adult Ghrl-/- mice display a normal sensitivity to high-fat diet-induced obesity. These findings from early studies raised the question as to whether the ghrelin system is an essential component for the regulation of food intake and body weight homeostasis. However, recent studies by Wortley et al. and Zigman et al. demonstrate that Ghrl-/- and Ghsr-/- mice are resistant to diet-induced obesity when fed a high-fat diet during the early post-weaning period. This commentary highlights 3 key issues raised by these 2 reports: (a) the impact of ghrelin on the development of metabolic systems; (b) the constitutive activity of GHSR; and (c) gender differences in the sensitivity to deletion of the ghrelin signaling system.

Our previous studies have shown that the peripheral auditory system of the toadfish encodes the direction of a sound source. Here, we compare directional responses of peripheral saccular afferents, cells in the descending octaval nucleus (DON) of the medulla, and the torus semicircularis (TS) of the midbrain. Recording locations in the brain were labeled with neurobiotin to confirm the site. To compare directional responses among cells, we calculated an index [sharpening ratio (SR)] that weights the relative strength of responses to the best direction for that cell and to the adjacent stimulus angles tested. Unsharpened saccular afferents tend to have a cosinusoidal directional response pattern (DRP) with an expected SR of 0.87. In DON, more than 60% of the cells exhibited directional sharpening (defined as SR &lt;0.8). In TS, more than 80% of the cells exhibited directional sharpening. We conclude that directional auditory sharpening first occurs in DON and some additional sharpening occurs in the ascending pathway to the midbrain, particularly in azimuth. The sharpening of directional selectivity is likely to be an important component of the neural computations underlying directional hearing.

Thyroid hormones (THs) are small, lipophilic signaling molecules built from tyrosine and iodine. TH action is well characterized in vertebrates, where these molecules play a fundamental role as regulators of development, metabolism, growth and differentiation. Increasing evidence suggests that THs also function in a variety of invertebrate species. Two alternative sources of hormone for animals are exogenous (from food items) and endogenous synthesis. We propose that exogenous THs can convey environmental information as well as regulate metabolism, revealing new communication avenues between organisms from different kingdoms. While such modes of cross-kingdom communication have been previously considered for fatty acid-based signaling and steroid hormones in plant-animal interactions, this is the first attempt to explore such a mode of action for TH signaling. We suggest that exogenous sources of TH (from food) may have been ancestral, while the ability to synthesize TH endogenously may have evolved independently in a variety of metazoans, resulting in a diversity of signaling pathways and, possibly, morphological structures involved in TH-signaling.
C. elegans advances up a chemical gradient by modulating the probability of occasional large, course-correcting turns called pirouettes. However, it remains uncertain whether C. elegans also uses other behavioral strategies for chemotaxis. Previous observations of the unusual, spiral-shaped chemotaxis tracks made by the bent-head mutant unc-23 point to a different strategy in which the animal continuously makes more subtle course corrections. In the present study we have combined automated tracking of individual animals with computer modeling to test the hypothesis that the pirouette strategy is sufficient on its own to account for the spiral tracks. Tracking experiments showed that the bent-head phenotype causes a strong turning bias and disrupts pirouette execution but does not disrupt pirouette initiation. A computer simulation of disrupted pirouette behavior and turning bias reproduced the spiral tracks of unc-23 chemotaxis behavior, showing that the pirouette strategy is sufficient to account for the mutant phenotype. In addition, the simulation reproduced higher order features of the behavior such as the relationship between the handedness of the spiral and the side to which the head was bent. Our results suggest that the pirouette mechanism is sufficient to account for a diverse range of chemotaxis trajectories.
Ormia ochracea (Diptera, Tachinidae) are acoustic parasitoids of crickets that have one of the most directionally sensitive auditory systems known. We studied dynamic characteristics of walking phonotaxis in these flies in response to variations in sound source azimuth, and compared phonotaxis of flies in freely walking conditions to tethered flies walking on a treadmill. Motor patterns at the initiation of phonotaxis are not stereotyped even for similar stimulus conditions. Flies respond to directional sound sources by walking in a tight curve that combines rotation and forward translation until they are oriented towards the source direction, then continue on a straight path. Translational velocity accelerates throughout the duration of the stimulus then decelerates following stimulus offset. In contrast, rotational velocity accelerates and then decelerates within the duration of the stimulus such that flies have completed the rotational component of the response and reached their final heading before the end of the stimulus. Rotational velocity is the only response parameter that varies systematically with sound source direction (azimuth). Differences in the amplitude of rotational velocity as a function of source azimuth determine the directional orientation of phonotactic responses. The relationship between rotational velocity and source azimuth is similar to a neural measure of auditory directionality (interaural latency). There were some differences between freely walking and tethered conditions, although both showed qualitatively similar responses. Flies accelerated more slowly and attained lower maximum velocities on the treadmill, consistent with the greater inertia of the treadmill sphere relative to the flies. Also, flies tended to continue walking longer on the treadmill following cessation of the stimulus.
Encephalopathy, brain edema and intracranial hypertension are neurological complications responsible for substantial morbidity/mortality in patients with acute liver failure (ALF), where, aside from liver transplantation, there is currently a paucity of effective therapies. Mirroring its cerebro-protective effects in other clinical conditions, the induction of mild hypothermia may provide a potential therapeutic approach to the management of ALF. A solid mechanistic rationale for the use of mild hypothermia is provided by clinical and experimental studies showing its beneficial effects in relation to many of the key factors that determine the development of brain edema and intracranial hypertension in ALF, namely the delivery of ammonia to the brain, the disturbances of brain organic osmolytes and brain extracellular amino acids, cerebro-vascular haemodynamics, brain glucose metabolism, inflammation, subclinical seizure activity and alterations of gene expression. Initial uncontrolled clinical studies of mild hypothermia in patients with ALF suggest that it is an effective, feasible and safe approach. Randomized controlled clinical trials are now needed to adequately assess its efficacy, safety, clinical impact on global outcomes and to provide the guidelines for its use in ALF.

Henry Head, the English neurologist, received the main parts of his academic education in Cambridge and in London. In addition, he spent two years in Prague where he worked in the physiology department of the German university under the guidance of Ewald Hering. He was interested in the nervous control of breathing and worked out a new method of recording the tension and the contractions of the diaphragm in anaesthetised animals. His results substantiated the experimental basis of the Hering-Breuer reflexes and included the discovery of a new reflex now named Head's paradoxical reflex. Head not only wrote an extensive paper about his scientific work, the recollections of his time in Prague also formed a considerable part of his autobiographical notes. These were written some forty years later and still expressed a deep affection for his teacher and mentor.

Human plasma contains low, but physiologically significant, concentrations of morphine that can increase following trauma or exercise. We now demonstrate that normal, human white blood cells (WBC), specifically polymorphonuclear cells, contain and have the ability to synthesize morphine. We also show that WBC express CYP2D6, an enzyme capable of synthesizing morphine from tyramine, norlaudanosoline, and codeine. Significantly, we also show that morphine can be synthesized by another pathway via l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA). Finally, we show that WBC release morphine into their environment. These studies provide evidence that 1) the synthesis of morphine by various animal tissues is more widespread than previously thought and now includes human immune cells. 2) Moreover, another pathway for morphine synthesis exists, via L-DOPA, demonstrating an intersection between dopamine and morphine pathways. 3) WBC can release morphine into the environment to regulate themselves and other cells, suggesting involvement in autocrine signaling since these cells express the mu3 opiate receptor subtype.
This was a retrospective analysis of 7-year (January 1995-December 2001) hospital-based in-patient medical records of stroke cases (subarachnoid haemorrhage excluded) who arrived from various parts of West Bengal. The total number of cases was 801 out of whom 792 had neuro-imaging. There were 399 caes of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) and 393 cases of cerebral infarct (CI). The CI: ICH ratio was 0.98. Less than 25% patients reached hospital within 3 hours of stroke onset. Twenty-nine per cent of cases presented with mild stroke (Canadian stroke score &gt; 8.5). Hypertension was observed in 77.3% of ICH cases. The striking finding of this study was a remarkably high number of ICH among the admitted patients. This indicates the need of population-based studies to be conducted at different parts of West Bengal to determine whether them is truly a high prevalence and incidence of ICH in this Indian state.
The uptake of the oxidation products of two oxovanadium(IV) compounds, [N,N'-ethylenebis(pyridoxylaminato)]oxovanadium(IV), V(IV)O(Rpyr(2)en), and bis-[3-hydroxy-1,2-dimethyl-4-pyridinonato]oxovanadium(IV), V(IV)O(dmpp)(2), by human erythrocytes was studied using (51)V and (1)H NMR and EPR spectroscopy. V(IV)O(Rpyr(2)en) in aerobic aqueous solution is oxidized to its V(V) counterpart and the neutral form slowly enters the cells by passive diffusion. In aerobic conditions, V(IV)O(dmpp)(2) originates V(V) complexes of 1:1 and 1:2 stoichiometry. The neutral 1:1 species is taken up by erythrocytes through passive diffusion in a temperature-dependent process; its depletion from the extracellular medium promotes the dissociation of the negatively charged 1:2 species, and the protonation of the negatively charged 1:1 species. The identity of these complexes is not maintained inside the cells, and the intracellular EPR spectra suggest N(2)O(2) or NO(3) intracellular coordinating environments. The oxidative stress induced by the oxovanadium compounds in erythrocytes was not significant at 1mM concentration, but was increased by both vanadate and oxidized V(IV)O(dmpp)(2) at 5mM. Only 1mM oxidized V(IV)O(dmpp)(2) significantly stimulated erythrocytes glucose intake (0.75+/-0.13 against 0.37+/-0.17mM/h found for the control, p&lt;0.05).
Brain Computer Interface (BCI) technology is one of the most rapidly developing areas of modern science; it has created numerous significant crossroads between Neuroscience and Computer Science. The goal of BCI technology is to provide a direct link between the human brain and a computerized environment. The objective of recent BCI approaches and applications have been designed to provide the information flow from the brain to the computerized periphery. The opposite or alternative direction of the flow of information (computer to brain interface, or CBI) remains almost undeveloped. The BrainPort is a CBI that offers a complementary technology designed to support a direct link from a computerized environment to the human brain - and to do so non-invasively. Currently, BrainPort research is pursuing two primary goals. One is the delivery of missing sensory information critical for normal human behavior through an additional artificial sensory channel around the damaged or malfunctioning natural sensory system. The other is to decrease the risk of sensory overload in human-machine interactions by providing a parallel and supplemental channel for information flow to the brain. In contrast, conventional CBI strategies (e.g., Virtual Reality), are usually designed to provide additional or substitution information through pre-existing sensory channels, and unintentionally aggravate the brain overload problem.
Type I interferons (IFNs) induce the transcription of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) through activation of the Jak-Stat pathway. Although some determinants of specificity are dictated by the Jak-Stat components, recent observations indicate that the system incorporates other components for selectivity and flexibility, whose mechanisms remain to be defined. We identified a gene, beta-R1, which was induced relatively selectively by IFN-beta as compared with numerous IFN-alpha subtypes. Because all type I IFNs equally activate Jak-Stat signaling to IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3), this observation implied the existence of accessory signals for IFN-induced gene expression. We have used beta-R1 as a model system to examine this accessory signaling. In addition to Jak-Stat signaling for mediating IFN-induced cellular responses, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), phosphoinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), the IkappaB kinases (IKKs), and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) are some of the accessory components identified as required for the induction of certain IFN-beta-induced genes. This review focuses on the roles of accessory components in IFN-beta-mediated signaling, mechanisms of accessory signal generation, and how they modulate gene induction.
The principles of cerebral perfusion imaging by the method of dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging (DSC-MRI) (bolus tracking) are described. The MRI signals underlying DSC-MRI are discussed. Tracer kinetics procedures are defined to calculate images of cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral blood flow (CBF), and mean transit time (MTT). Two general categories of numerical procedures are reviewed for deriving CBF from the residue function. Procedures that involve deconvolution, such as Fourier deconvolution or singular value decomposition (SVD), are classified as model-independent methods because they do not require a model of the microvascular hemodynamics. Those methods in principle also yield a measure of the tissue impulse response function and the residue function, from which microvascular hemodynamics can be characterized. The second category of methods is the model-dependent methods, which use models of tracer transport and retention in the microvasculature. These methods do not yield independent measures of the residue function and may introduce bias when the physiology does not follow the model. Statistical methods are sometimes used, which involve treating the residue function as a deconvolution kernel and optimizing (fitting) the kernel from the experimental data using procedures such as maximum likelihood. Finally, other hemodynamic indices that can be measured from DSC-MRI data are described.
Social desirability was previously seen as a nuisance in assessment, but today it is regarded as a personality trait with an influence on health. The aim was to explore relations between social desirability and health in former burn patients. Eighty-four burn patients injured on average 3.8 years ago responded to a questionnaire booklet. Social desirability was assessed with the social desirability subscale of the Swedish universities Scales of Personality, which is standardized in a normative sample. The results showed that a subgroup with high degree of social desirability displayed significantly poorer perceived health on the burn-specific health subscales heat sensitivity, work, and body image than normal responders did. There were no differences regarding age, education, injury-related variables, sick leave, or symptoms of anxiety and depression. In conclusion, participants with high social desirability were characterized by postburn problems in outdoor and work-related situations, and more self-consciousness about appearance.

Rapid advances in neuroscience have sparked numerous efforts to study the neural correlate of consciousness. Prominent subjects include higher sensory area, distributed assemblies bound by synchronization of neuronal activity and neurons in specific cortical laminae. In contrast, it has been suggested that the quality of sensory awareness is determined by systematic change of afferent signals resulting from behaviour and knowledge thereof. Support for such skill-based theories of perception is provided by experiments on sensory substitution. Here, we pursue this line of thought and create new sensorimotor contingencies and, hence, a new quality of perception. Adult subjects received orientation information, obtained by a magnetic compass, via vibrotactile stimulation around the waist. After six weeks of training we evaluated integration of the new input by a battery of tests. The results indicate that the sensory information provided by the belt (1) is processed and boosts performance, (2) if inconsistent with other sensory signals leads to variable performance, (3) does interact with the vestibular nystagmus and (4) in half of the experimental subjects leads to qualitative changes of sensory experience. These data support the hypothesis that new sensorimotor contingencies can be learned and integrated into behaviour and affect perceptual experience.
The nervous system of C. elegans has a remarkable abundance of flp genes encoding FMRFamide-like (FLP) neuropeptides. To provide insight into the physiological relevance of this neuropeptide diversity, we have tested more than 30 FLPs (encoded by 23 flps) for bioactivity on C. elegans pharynx. Eleven flp genes encode peptides that inhibit pharyngeal activity, while eight flp genes encode peptides that are excitatory. Three potent peptides (inhibitory, FLP-13A, APEASPFIRFamide; excitatory, FLP-17A, KSAFVRFamide; excitatory, FLP-17B, KSQYIRFamide) are encoded by flp genes, which, according to reporter gene constructs, are expressed in pharyngeal motoneurons. Thus, they may act through receptors localized on the pharyngeal muscle. The two other potent peptides, FLP-8 (excitatory AF1, KNEFIRFamide,) and FLP-11A (inhibitory, AMRNALVRFamide), appear to be expressed in extrapharyngeal neurons and are therefore likely to act either indirectly or as neurohormones. Intriguingly, a single neuron can express peptides that have potent but opposing biological activity in the pharynx. Only five flp genes encode neuropeptides that have no observable effect on the pharynx, but none of these have shown reporter gene expression in the pharyngeal nervous system. To examine the roles of multiple peptides produced from single precursors, a comparison was made between the bioactivity of different neuropeptides for five flp genes (flp-3, flp-13, flp-14, flp-17, and flp-18). For all but one gene (flp-14), the effects of peptides encoded by the same gene were similar. Overall, this study demonstrates the impressive neurochemical complexity of the simple circuit that regulates feeding in the nematode, C. elegans.
The ZENK gene, depending upon singing activity, is transcribed within all the telencephalic nuclei controlling vocal behavior in songbirds. We show here that singing by deafened or completely isolated adult zebra finches induced high levels of ZENK transcription. This mRNA however, was not translated into high levels of ZENK protein. Instead, high levels of singing-driven ZENK protein translation were found in socially interactive birds. This dissociation between ZENK mRNA and ZENK protein was regionally specific to the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA), a region that is well known for its control of vocal-motor behavior in birds. Our results suggest cooperation between motor and sensory processes for regulating mRNA induction and subsequent protein synthesis in socially active songbirds.
Nurr1 (NR4A2) is an orphan nuclear receptor required for the development and maintenance of the dopaminergic phenotype in neurons of the ventral midbrain. This study demonstrates that multiple splice variants of nurr1 are produced in rat and human dopamine neurons. Formed by alternative RNA splicing in exon 7, nurr1a has a truncated carboxy-terminus, nurr1b has an internal deletion in the ligand-binding domain and nurr1c, newly identified in this study, has a novel carboxy-terminus produced by a frame shift downstream of the splice junction. Alternative RNA splicing in exon 3 produces the isoform known as the transcriptionally-inducible nuclear receptor (TINUR), lacking the amino-terminus. Nurr2 and the newly identified nurr2c are produced by utilization of both exon 3 and exon 7 alternative splice sites. In rat midbrain, variants other than full-length nurr1 constitute 20-35% of NR4A2 transcripts. Transfection studies in dopaminergic SK-N-AS cells demonstrate that nurr1a, nurr1b, nurr1c and TINUR have significantly reduced transcriptional activities compared with full-length nurr1, while nurr2 and nurr2c are inactive. Furthermore, in these experiments, nurr2 and nurr2c both act as dominant negatives. Production of these nurr1 variants in vivo as demonstrated here could represent a novel regulatory mechanism of nurr1 transcriptional activity and therefore, dopaminergic phenotype.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a potent anti-epileptic and effective mood stabilizer. It is known that VPA enhances central GABAergic activity and activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK-ERK) pathway. It can also inhibit various isoforms of the enzyme, histone deacetylase (HDAC), which is associated with modulation of gene transcription. Recent in vivo studies indicate a neuroprotective role for VPA, which has been found to up-regulate the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the rat brain. Given the interaction between the pineal hormone, melatonin, and GABAergic systems in the central nervous system, the effects of VPA on the expression of the mammalian melatonin receptor subtypes, MT1 and MT2, were examined in rat C6 glioma cells. The effects of VPA on the expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and BDNF were also examined. RT-PCR studies revealed a significant induction of melatonin MT1 receptor mRNA in C6 cells following treatment with 3 or 5 mm VPA for 24 h or 5 mm VPA for 48 h. Western analysis and immunocytochemical detection confirmed that the VPA-induced increase in MT1 mRNA results in up-regulation of MT1 protein expression. Blockade of the MAPK-ERK pathway by PD98059 enhanced the effect of VPA on MT1 expression, suggesting a negative role for this pathway in MT1 receptor regulation. In addition, significant increases in BDNF, GDNF and HDAC mRNA expression were observed after treatment with VPA for 24 or 48 h. Taken together, the present findings suggest that the neuroprotective properties of VPA involve modulation of neurotrophic factors and receptors for melatonin, which is also thought to play a role in neuroprotection. Moreover, the foregoing suggests that combinations of VPA and melatonin could provide novel therapeutic strategies in neurological and psychiatric disorders.
Activation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (Gsk3beta) has been shown to be a key component in signaling pathways that underlie neurodegeneration and neurodegenerative disease. Conversely, inactivation of Gsk3beta by phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt is an important neuroprotective mechanism. Previous studies have shown that agonist activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) can increase neuronal survival and prevent apoptosis. However, little is known about the signaling pathways that couple mGluR5 to neuroprotection. In this report, we investigated whether activation of the PI3K/Akt/Gsk3beta pathway, which has been shown to have an important neuroprotective mechanism, is required for mGluR5 activation mediated neuroprotection against beta-amyloid. We found that brief incubations of mouse hippocampal slices with (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) resulted in increased phosphorylation of Akt and Gsk3beta. The PI3K inhibitors, LY294002 and wortmannin, blocked the DHPG-induced increased phosphorylation of Akt and Gsk3beta. Similar results were observed in rat primary hippocampal cultures. Finally, we found that the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 can block (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) mediated neuroprotection against beta-amyloid. Thus, these findings suggest that mGluR5 can modulate the PI3K/Akt/Gsk3beta pathway in the hippocampus, and that modulation of this signaling pathway can reverse beta-amyloid-induced neuronal toxicity.
To investigate the functional consequences of cross-talk between multiple effectors of serotonin (5-HT) 1A receptor, we employed transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells. Activation of 5-HT 1A receptor stimulated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, Akt and nuclear transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Stimulation of cells with 5-HT 1A receptor agonist induced a rapid but transient ERK1/2 phosphorylation followed by increased phosphorylation of Akt. Elevated Akt activity in turn suppressed Raf activity and induced a decline in ERK activation. The activation of ERK and Akt downstream of 5-HT 1A receptor was sensitive to inhibitors of Ras, Raf and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Stimulation of 5-HT 1A receptor also resulted in activation of NF-kappaB through a decrease in inhibitor of nuclear transcription factor-kappaB. In support of the importance of 5-HT 1A receptor signaling for cell survival, inhibition of NF-kappaB facilitated caspase 3 activation and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, while treatment of cells with agonist inhibited caspase 3, DNA fragmentation and cell death. Both agonist-dependent NF-kappaB activation and cell survival were decreased by Akt Inhibitor II or by overexpression of dominant-negative Akt. These findings suggest a role for 5-HT 1A receptor signaling in the Ras/Raf-dependent regulation of multiple intracellular signaling pathways that include ERK and PI3K/Akt. Of these, only PI3K/Akt and NF-kappaB activation were required for 5-HT 1A receptor-dependent cell survival, implying that the relative distribution of signals between competing transduction pathways determines the functional outcome of 5-HT 1A receptor activation.
Repeated cocaine administration to rats outside their home cages sensitizes the behavioral effects of the drug, and enhances induction of the immediate early gene product Fos in nucleus accumbens. We hypothesized that the same treatment regimen would also enhance cocaine-induced activation of intracellular signaling kinases that phosphorylate cyclic AMP-regulated element-binding protein (CREB), an important mediator of c-fos transcription. Phosphorylation levels of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), calcium/calmodulin kinases (CaMKs) II and IV, and CREB were used to assess endogenous functional activity of these signaling molecules in rats behaviorally sensitized outside their home cages. Protein kinase A (PKA)-specific phosphorylation of Ser845 in the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 was used to assess endogenous functional activity of PKA. Using western blots and immunohistochemistry, we detected cocaine-induced CREB phosphorylation after repeated cocaine administration, but not after repeated saline administration. Using western blots and MAPK activity assays, we found that cocaine-induced phosphorylation and activation of ERK, but not of CaMKs II or IV or GluR1, was augmented in nucleus accumbens of cocaine-sensitized rats. Unilateral infusions of the MAPK kinase inhibitor U0126 into nucleus accumbens attenuated cocaine-induced ERK and CREB phosphorylation in cocaine-sensitized rats. In contrast, unilateral infusions of the PKA inhibitor Rp-isomer of adenosine-3',5'-cyclicmonophosphorothioate (Rp-cAMPs) did not affect cocaine-induced CREB phosphorylation. Therefore, enhanced activation of ERK, but not PKA, enables and mediates cocaine-induced CREB phosphorylation in nucleus accumbens of rats that are sensitized by repeated cocaine administration outside their home cages.
The present study shows that activation of microglial NADPH oxidase and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is associated with thrombin-induced degeneration of nigral dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Seven days after thrombin injection in the rat substantia nigra (SN), tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry showed a significant loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons. This cell death was accompanied by localization of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated fluorecein UTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) staining within dopaminergic neurons. This neurotoxicity was antagonized by the semisynthetic tetracycline derivative, minocycline, and the observed neuroprotective effects were associated with the ability of minocycline to suppress NADPH oxidase-derived ROS production and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, including interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase, from activated microglia. These results suggest that microglial NADPH oxidase may be a viable target for neuroprotection against oxidative damage.
Immunocytochemical and electron microscopic methods were used to study the GABAergic innervation in adult cat periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). A mouse monoclonal antibody against gamma -aminobutyric acid (GABA) was used to visualize the inhibitory neuronal system of PAG. At light microscopy, GABA-immunopositive (GABA(IP)) neurons formed two longitudinally oriented columns in the dorsolateral and ventrolateral PAG that accounted for 36% of the neuronal population of both PAG columns; their perikaryal cross-sectional area was smaller than that of unlabeled (UNL) neurons found in the same PAG subdivisions. At electron microscopic level, patches of GABA immunoreactivity were readily detected in neuronal cell bodies, proximal and distal dendrites, axons and axon terminals. Approximately 35-36% of all terminals were GABA(IP); they established symmetric synapses with dendrites (84.72% of the sample in the dorsolateral PAG and 86.09% of the sample in the ventrolateral PAG) or with cell bodies (7-10% of the sample). Moreover, 49.15% of GABA(IP) axon terminals in the dorsolateral and 52.16% in the ventrolateral PAG established symmetric synapses with GABA(IP) dendrites. Immunopositive axon terminals and unlabeled terminals were also involved in the formation of a complex synaptic arrangment, i.e. clusters of synaptic terminals in close contact between them that were often observed in the PAG neuropil. Moreover, a fair number of axo-axonic synapses between GABA(IP) and/or UNL axon terminals were present in both PAG subdivisions. Several dendro-dendritic synapses between labeled and unlabeled dendrites were also observed in both PAG subdivisions. These results suggest that in the cat PAG there exist at least two classes of GABArgic neurons. The first class could exert a tonic control on PAG projecting neurons, the second could act on those GABAergic neurons that in turn keep PAG projecting neurons under tonic inhibition. The functional implications of this type of GABAergic synapse organization are discussed in relation to the dishinibitory processes that take place in the PAG.
Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone responses to cholinergic stimulation are greater in male rats and mice than in females. To explore the role of M(2) muscarinic receptors in this sex difference, we administered the nonselective muscarinic agonist, oxotremorine, the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine, and saline (a mild stressor) to male and female M(2) receptor knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice of the same genetic background. Because M(2) receptors function primarily as presynaptic autoreceptors, we hypothesized that their absence in M(2) KO mice would increase the sensitivity of hormone responses to cholinergic stimulation in these groups. Both male and female M(2) KO mice were significantly more responsive to the stress of saline injection than were their WT counterparts. Oxotremorine and physostigmine increased ACTH and corticosterone in all four groups, but to a significantly greater degree in KO males compared to WT males, KO females, and WT females. The increase in ACTH also was significantly greater in WT males compared to WT females. By contrast, the increase in corticosterone was significantly more in females compared to males, independent of genotype. Following pretreatment with the nonselective muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, ACTH and corticosterone responses to oxotremorine and to saline in the M(2) KO mice were comparable with those of their WT counterparts. These findings suggest that the M(2) muscarinic receptor subtype influences male and female pituitary-adrenal responses following stimulation by both mild stress and cholinergic drugs. The M(2) receptor appears to regulate ACTH responses to cholinergic stimulation in males but not in females; however, other muscarinic receptors may be involved because corticosterone responses were higher in females compared to males. Because ACTH and corticosterone responses were greater in male and female M(2) KO mice, the M(2) receptor appears to dampen the stress response.
During puberty, the agonistic behaviour of male golden hamsters undergoes a transition from play fighting to adult aggression. Repeated exposure to social stress early in puberty accelerates this transition. The present study investigated the possible role of glucocorticoids on the maturation of agonistic behaviour. First, we compared serum cortisol levels following a 20-min restraint stress during early puberty, mid-puberty or adulthood. Across puberty, animals exhibited a two-fold increase in post-restraint cortisol levels. We also compared corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) immunoreactive fibres projecting to the median eminence between animals in early puberty and adulthood. The CRH fibre density was two-fold greater in adults compared to juveniles. Furthermore, we investigated the effects of stress hormones on the maturation of agonistic behaviour. Male hamsters were injected daily with dexamethasone, a corticosteroid receptor type II agonist (0, 10 or 40 microg/100 g), early in puberty from postnatal day 31 (P-31) to P-36. When paired with a smaller and younger intruder on P-37, attack frequency did not differ between groups. However, dexamethasone-treated animals showed a dose-dependent decrease in the percentage of play-fighting attacks and an increase in the percentage of adult attacks. In summary, puberty can be described as a period of increasing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity in male golden hamsters. Moreover, increasing glucocorticoid levels influence the maturation of agonistic behaviour. These data shed new light on the neuroendocrine mechanisms that regulate the maturation of social behaviours during puberty.
Brain atrophy, neurologic and psychiatric (NP) manifestations are common complications in the systemic autoimmune disease, lupus erythematosus (SLE). Here we show that the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from autoimmune MRL-lpr mice and a deceased NP-SLE patient reduce the viability of brain cells which proliferate in vitro. This detrimental effect was accompanied by periventricular neurodegeneration in the brains of autoimmune mice and profound in vivo neurotoxicity when their CSF was administered to the CNS of a rat. Multiple ionic responses with microfluorometry and protein peaks on electropherograms suggest more than one mechanism of cellular demise. Similar to the CSF from diseased MRL-lpr mice, the CSF from a deceased SLE patient with a history of psychosis, memory impairment, and seizures, reduced viability of the C17.2 neural stem cell line. Proposed mechanisms of cytotoxicity involve binding of intrathecally synthesized IgG autoantibodies to target(s) common to different mammalian species and neuronal populations. More importantly, these results indicate that the viability of proliferative neural cells can be compromised in systemic autoimmune disease. Antibody-mediated lesions of germinal layers may impair the regenerative capacity of the brain in NP-SLE and possibly, brain development and function in some forms of CNS disorders in which autoimmune phenomena have been documented.

We report our observations in an Australian family with spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA 14). We describe a novel mutation in exon 5 of the PRKCG gene, altering a highly conserved cysteine to a phenylalanine at codon 150, and record the detailed clinical observations in six affected family members.

Although many challenges lie ahead, there has been definite progress made in the management of childhood brain tumors. Some of these advances have increased progression-free and overall survival. Other advances, while not improving survival, have resulted in a better quality of life for long-term survivors. Probably the best example of progress is manifest in the outcome of children with medulloblastoma. Seventy percent, and in some subsets as high as 80% of children with this disease can be expected to be cured, compared to approximately 50% three decades ago. This improvement in disease control has been associated with a reduction in the dose of radiotherapy for many patients and possibly an improved quality of survival. For other tumor types, especially brain stem gliomas, there has been little progress made. A primary challenge in the years ahead will be how to integrate biologic discoveries into the care of children for brain tumors, with the hope that molecular biologically based therapy will be more effective and improve the quality of life for survivors.
The aim of our study is to evaluate the extent and distribution of grey matter demyelinating lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS), addressing also neuronal loss and synaptic loss. Whole coronal sections of 6 MS brains and 6 control brains were selected. Immunohistochemistry was performed for myelin basic protein, neurofilaments, synaptophysin, ubiquitin, and activated caspase-3. Neuronal density and optical density of synaptophysin staining were estimated in cortical lesions and compared with those observed in corresponding areas of normal (i.e. nondemyelinated) cortex in the same section. Demyelinating lesions were observed in the cerebral cortex, in the thalamus, basal ganglia, and in the hippocampus. The percentage of demyelinated cortex was remarkable in 2 cases of secondary progressive MS (48% and 25.5%, respectively). Neuronal density was significantly reduced in cortical lesions (18-23% reduction), if compared with adjacent normal cortex, in the 2 cases showing the higher extent of cortical demyelination; in the same cases, very rare apoptotic neurons expressing caspase-3 were observed in cortical lesions and not in adjacent normal cortex. No significant decrease in optical density of synaptophysin staining was observed in cortical lesions. Grey matter demyelination and neuronal loss could contribute to disability and cognitive dysfunctions in MS.
Despite the extensive physiological work performed on auditory cortex, our understanding of the basic functional properties of auditory cortical neurons is incomplete. For example, it remains unclear what stimulus features are most important for these cells. Determining these features is challenging given the considerable size of the relevant stimulus parameter space as well as the unpredictable nature of many neurons' responses to complex stimuli due to nonlinear integration across frequency. Here we used an adaptive stimulus optimization technique to obtain the preferred spectral input for neurons in macaque primary auditory cortex (AI). This method uses a neuron's response to progressively modify the frequency composition of a stimulus to determine the preferred spectrum. This technique has the advantage of being able to incorporate nonlinear stimulus interactions into a &quot;best estimate&quot; of a neuron's preferred spectrum. The resulting spectra displayed a consistent, relatively simple circumscribed form that was similar across scale and frequency in which excitation and inhibition appeared about equally prominent. In most cases, this structure could be described using two simple models, the Gabor and difference of Gaussians functions. The findings indicate that AI neurons are well suited for extracting important scale-invariant features in sound spectra and suggest that they are designed to efficiently represent natural sounds.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a unique method in neuroscience used to stimulate focal regions of the human brain. As TMS gains popularity in experimental and clinical domains, techniques for controlling the extent of brain stimulation are becoming increasingly important. At present, TMS intensity is typically calibrated to the excitability of the human motor cortex, a measure referred to as motor threshold (MT). Although TMS is commonly applied to nonmotor regions, most applications do not consider the effect of changes in distance between the stimulating device and underlying neural tissue. Here we show that for every millimeter from the stimulating coil, an additional 3% of TMS output is required to induce an equivalent level of brain stimulation at the motor cortex. This abrupt spatial gradient will have crucial consequences when TMS is applied to nonmotor regions because of substantial variance in scalp-cortex distances over different regions of the head. Stimulation protocols that do not account for cortical distance therefore risk substantial under- or overstimulation. We describe a simple method for adjusting MT to account for variations in cortical distance, thus providing a more accurate calibration than unadjusted MT for the safe and effective application of TMS in clinical and experimental neuroscience.
Here we report on response properties and the roles of inhibition in three brain stem nuclei of Mexican-free tailed bats: the inferior colliculus (IC), the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) and the intermediate nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (INLL). In each nucleus, we documented the response properties evoked by both tonal and species-specific signals and evaluated the same features when inhibition was blocked. There are three main findings. First, DNLL cells have little or no surround inhibition and are unselective for communication calls, in that they responded to approximately 97% of the calls that were presented. Second, most INLL neurons are characterized by wide tuning curves and are unselective for species-specific calls. The third finding is that the IC population is strikingly different from the neuronal populations in the INLL and DNLL. Where DNLL and INLL neurons are unselective and respond to most or all of the calls in the suite we presented, most IC cells are selective for calls and, on average, responded to approximately 50% of the calls we presented. Additionally, the selectivity for calls in the majority of IC cells, as well as their tuning and other response properties, are strongly shaped by inhibitory innervation. Thus we show that inhibition plays only limited roles in the DNLL and INLL but dominates in the IC, where the various patterns of inhibition sculpt a wide variety of emergent response properties from the backdrop of more expansive and far less specific excitatory innervation.
Sensitization potentiates excitability in an interneuron, the S-cell, that is critical for this form of learning in the whole-body shortening reflex of the medicinal leech. Serotonin (5-HT) also increases S-cell excitability, and serotonergic modulation is known to be critical for sensitization of whole-body shortening, suggesting that 5-HT mediates learning-induced enhancement of S-cell excitability. In this paper, the role of 5-HT in mediating sensitization-induced potentiation of S-cell excitability was examined. Potentiation of S-cell excitability by 5-HT was blocked by the 5-HT receptor antagonist methysergide and by intracellular injection of the G-protein inhibitor GDP-beta-S, indicating that a metabotropic 5-HT receptor was involved. Bath application of Rp-cAMP, an inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), blocked 5-HT-induced potentiation of excitability, whereas db-cAMP, a cAMP analogue that activates PKA, mimicked the potentiating effects of 5-HT on the S-cell. During sensitization of the shortening reflex in semi-intact preparations, methysergide and Rp-cAMP prevented learning-induced potentiation of S-cell excitability, as well as the increase in S-cell activity that normally occurs during sensitization. Furthermore, sensitization-induced increases in the shortening reflex did not occur in preparations treated with methysergide or Rp-cAMP. These results demonstrate that sensitization-induced enhancement of S-cell excitability is mediated by 5-HT and suggests that these changes may contribute to this form of learning.
Long-term depression (LTD) of the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse in the cerebellum is a cellular model system that has been suggested to underlie certain forms of motor learning. Induction of cerebellar LTD requires a postsynaptic kinase limb involving activation of mGluR1, protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha), and phosphorylation of ser-880 on the AMPA receptor subunit GluR2. Several lines of evidence have also implicated a complementary phosphatase limb in which N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated Ca(2+) influx activates neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), the ultimate consequences of which are mediated by nitric oxide (NO), cGMP, and inhibition of postsynaptic protein phosphatases. However, the cellular localization of an NMDA/NO cascade has been complicated by the fact that neither functional NMDA receptors nor nNOS are expressed in Purkinje cells. This has lead to a proposal in which NMDA receptors activate nNOS in parallel fibers. Here, we confirm that pharmacological blockade of NMDA receptor or NO signaling blocks induction of LTD. However, no evidence was found for functional NMDA receptors in parallel fiber terminals: blockade of NMDA receptors did not alter either presynaptic Ca(2+) transients or the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. NMDA receptor blockade did abolish a slow depolarization evoked by burst stimulation of parallel fiber-stellate cell synapses. The application of NMDA evoked a Ca(2+) transient in stellate cell terminals but not in parallel fiber terminals. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that an NMDA receptor/NO cascade involved in cerebellar LTD is localized to interneurons rather than parallel fibers.
Activation of the vertebrate locomotor network is mediated by glutamatergic synaptic drive, normally initiated by the brain stem. Previous investigations have studied the role of glutamate receptors, especially NMDA receptors, in generating and regulating locomotor pattern generation. Few studies, however, have focused on the role of AMPA receptors in shaping network activity, especially with regard to their rapid desensitization. It is important to determine whether AMPA receptor desensitization plays a role in regulating neuronal network activity. We examined this question on both the network and synaptic levels in the lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis) spinal cord using a selective and potent inhibitor of AMPA receptor desensitization, cyclothiazide (CTZ). The solvent dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is commonly used to dissolve this drug, as well as many others. Unexpectedly, the vehicle alone already at 0.02%, but not at 0.01%, caused significant increases in excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitudes and NMDA-induced locomotor frequency. The results indicate that DMSO may have a profound influence when used &gt; or = 0.02%, a concentration 10-50 times less than that most commonly used. Subsequently we applied CTZ concentrations &lt; or =10 microM (DMSO &lt; or =0.01%). CTZ (1.25-5 microM) caused an appreciable and significant increase in EPSPs mediated by non-NMDA receptors and in both AMPA- and NMDA-induced locomotor frequency, but no effects on EPSPs mediated by NMDA receptors. From the effects of CTZ it is apparent that AMPA receptor desensitization plays an important role in determining locomotor frequency and that this is likely a result of its limiting function on AMPA receptor-mediated EPSPs.
Developmental changes in synaptic properties may act to limit neural and behavioral plasticity associated with sensitive periods. This study characterized synaptic maturation in a glutamatergic thalamo-cortical pathway that is necessary for vocal learning in songbirds. Lesions of the projection from medial dorsolateral nucleus of the thalamus (DLM) to the cortical nucleus lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN) greatly disrupt song behavior in juvenile birds during early stages of vocal learning. However, such lesions lose the ability to disrupt vocal behavior in normal birds at 60-70 days of age, around the time that selective auditory tuning for each bird's own song (BOS) emerges in LMAN neurons. This pattern has suggested that LMAN is involved in processing song-related information and evaluating the degree to which vocal motor output matches the tutor song to be learned. Analysis of reversed excitatory postsynaptic currents at DLM--&gt;LMAN synapses in in vitro slice preparations revealed a pronounced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated component in both juvenile and adult cells with no developmental decrease in the relative contribution of NMDARs to synaptic transmission. However, the synaptic failure rate at DLM--&gt;LMAN synapses in juvenile males during the sensitive period for song learning was significantly lower at depolarized potentials than at hyperpolarized potentials. In contrast, the failure rate at DLM--&gt;LMAN synapses did not differ at hyper- versus depolarized holding potentials in adult males that had completed the acquisition of a stereotyped song. This pattern indicates that juvenile cells have a higher incidence of silent (NMDAR-only) synapses, which are postsynaptically silent at hyperpolarized potentials due to the voltage-dependent gating of NMDARs. Thus the decreased involvement of the LMAN pathway in vocal behavior is mirrored by a decline in the incidence of silent synapses but not by changes in the relative number of NMDA and AMPA receptors at DLM--&gt;LMAN synapses. These findings suggest that a developmental decrease in silent synapses within LMAN may represent a neural correlate of behavioral plasticity during song learning.
Although the overall importance of Ca(2+) as a mediator of cell signaling and neurotransmitter release has long been appreciated, the details of Ca(2+) dynamics within the inner segments of vertebrate rod photoreceptors are just beginning to be elucidated. Even less is known regarding Ca(2+) dynamics within the rod presynaptic terminal compartment. Using fura-2 to report changes in intracellular Ca(2+), we imaged the responses of enzymatically dissociated salamander rod photoreceptors retaining intact axons and presynaptic terminals stimulated with a brief depolarizing puff of KCl (30 mM pipette concentration). In the vast majority of cells, the response was a large increase in Ca(2+) levels in the terminal compartment, but not in the soma. In contrast, rods exhibited a substantial elevation in somatic Ca(2+) levels when depolarized with a brief puff of 100 mM KCl (pipette concentration). These data are consistent with previously reported differences in Ca(2+) buffering mechanisms within the somatic and terminal compartments. Additionally, they may reflect the presence of Ca(2+) channels having distinct properties within the membranes of the two compartments. Consistent with this hypothesis, fluorescent immunocytochemistry using an antibody against the L-type Ca(2+) channel Ca(v)1.2 (alpha1C) subunit and semiquantitative confocal microscopy revealed a high concentration of immunoreactivity in the membranes of terminals of intact rods compared with the somata. Further investigations using enzymatically dissociated preparations of intact rod photoreceptors retaining their presynaptic terminals will allow further testing of these and other hypotheses regarding the compartmentalized regulation of Ca(2+) dynamics within rod photoreceptors.
N-type calcium currents are important in many neuronal functions, including cellular signaling, regulation of gene expression, and triggering of neurotransmitter release. Often the control of these diverse cellular functions is governed by the spatial and temporal patterns of calcium entry in subcellular compartments. Underlying this issue is the effectiveness of action potentials at triggering calcium channel opening. Chick ciliary ganglion neurons were used as model cells to study the activation of N-type calcium current during action potential depolarization. Several different action potential shapes were recorded, used as voltage command templates, and altered such that control action potential-evoked currents could be compared with those elicited by broadened action potential commands. Depending on the action potential shape used to activate calcium currents in chick ciliary ganglion neurons, and the temperature at which recordings were performed, varying proportions (I/I(max)) of N-type calcium current could be activated. The largest proportion measured occurred using a broad ciliary ganglion cell soma action potential to activate calcium current at 37 degrees C (100%). The smallest proportion measured occurred using a fast, high-temperature-adjusted frog motoneuron nerve terminal action potential to activate calcium current at room temperature (10%). These data are discussed with respect to the impact on cellular signaling and the regulation of transmitter release.
delta-Conotoxins are a family of small, disulfide-rich peptides found in the venoms of predatory cone snails (Conus). We examined in detail the effects of delta-conotoxin PVIA from the fish hunting cone snail Conus purpurascens on sodium currents in dissociated sympathetic neurons from the leopard frog Rana pipiens. We also compared this toxin's effects with those of delta-conotoxin SVIE from Conus striatus, another piscivorous cone snail. d-PVIA slowed the time-course of inactivation of delta sodium currents and shifted the voltage-dependence of activation and steady-state inactivation to more hyperpolarized potentials. Similar, albeit more pronounced, effects were seen with d-SVIE. While the effects of d-PVIA were reversed by washing, those of d-SVIE were largely irreversible over the time-course of these experiments. The effects of d-PVIA could be suppressed by conditioning depolarizations in a voltage- and time-dependent manner, whereas the effects of d-SVIE were largely resistant to conditioning depolarizations. Last, in intact sympathetic nervous system preparations, d-PVIA inhibited evoked trains of compound action potentials. Many of these effects of d-PVIA and d-SVIE are remarkably similar to those of toxins that bind to site 3 on voltage-gated sodium channels.
In natural behavioral situations, saccadic eye movements not only introduce new stimuli into V1 receptive fields, they also cause changes in the background. We recorded in awake macaque V1 using a fixation paradigm and compared evoked activity to small stimuli when the background was either static or changing as with a saccade. When a stimulus was shown on a static background, as in most previous experiments, the initial response was orientation selective and contrast was inversely correlated with response latency. When a stimulus was introduced with a background change, V1 neurons showed a qualitatively different temporal response pattern in which information about stimulus orientation and contrast was delayed. The delay in the representation of visual information was found with three different types of background change-luminance increment, luminance decrement, and a pattern change with fixed mean luminance. We also found that with a background change, V1 off responses were suppressed and had a shorter time course compared with the static-background situation. Our results suggest that the distribution of temporal changes across the visual field plays a fundamental role in determining V1 responses. In the static-background condition, temporal change in the visual input occurs only in a small portion of the visual field. In the changing-background condition, and presumably in natural vision, temporal changes are widely distributed. Thus a delayed representation of visual information may be more representative of natural visual situations.
In natural visual situations, unlike most psychophysical experiments, when a new stimulus appears in a portion of the visual field, the surrounding background changes simultaneously. In recordings from macaque V1, we found that a visual stimulus presented simultaneously with a background change evokes a response that is qualitatively different from the response to the same stimulus flashed on a static background. With the changing background, information about stimulus orientation and contrast is significantly delayed compared with the static-background situation. Our physiological results make several predictions that we test in the present paper with human psychophysical experiments. In a backward masking paradigm, a bar stimulus was either flashed onto a static background or presented simultaneously with a change in background luminance or pattern. Subjects discriminated bar orientation or detected that the scene changed before the mask. To achieve an equivalent contrast threshold for orientation discrimination, a longer stimulus-mask onset asynchrony (SOA) was needed in the changing than in the static-background condition; to match the orientation discrimination performance in the static and changing-background conditions at a fixed SOA, a higher bar contrast was needed when the background changed. Moreover, in the changing-background condition, a longer SOA was needed to discriminate bar orientation than to detect the scene change. These results suggest that orientation information is available more slowly when the background changes; orientation information is available earlier as stimulus contrast increases. The psychophysical findings are consistent with our physiological predictions. Compared with the common technique of flashing stimuli onto a static background, the changing-background paradigm may be more similar to natural vision in which saccades bring new stimuli and backgrounds into the visual field.
An important question in motor neuroscience is how the nervous system controls the spatiotemporal activation patterns of redundant muscles in generating accurate movements. The redundant muscles may not only underlie the flexibility of our movements but also pose the challenging problem of how to select a specific sequence of muscle activation from the huge number of possible activations. Here, we propose that noise in the motor command that has an influence on task achievement should be considered in determining the optimal motor commands over redundant muscles. We propose an optimal control model for step-tracking wrist movements with redundant muscles that minimizes the end-point variance under signal-dependent noise. Step-tracking wrist movements of human and nonhuman primates provide a detailed data set to investigate the control mechanisms in movements with redundant muscles. The experimental EMG data can be summarized by two eminent features: 1) amplitude-graded EMG pattern, where the timing of the activity of the agonist and antagonist bursts show slight variations with changes in movement directions, and only the amplitude of activity is modulated; and 2) cosine tuning for movement directions exhibited by the agonist and antagonist bursts, and the discrepancy found between a muscle's agonist preferred direction and its pulling direction. In addition, it is also an important observation that subjects often overshoot the target. We demonstrate that the proposed model captures not only the spatiotemporal activation patterns of wrist muscles but also trajectory overshooting. This suggests that when recruiting redundant muscles, the nervous system may optimize the motor commands across the muscles to reduce the negative effects of motor noise.
The aim of this study was to characterize impairment and subsequent recovery of postural control after spinal cord injuries. Experiments were carried out on rabbits with three types of lesion--a dorsal (D), lateral (L), or ventral (V) hemisection (HS) at T(12) level. The animals were maintaining equilibrium on a platform periodically tilted in the frontal plane. We assessed the postural limb/trunk configuration from video recordings and postural reflexes in the hindquarters from kinematical and electromyographic (EMG) recordings. We found that for a few days after DHS or LHS, the animals were not able to maintain the dorsal-side-up position of their hindquarters. This ability was then gradually restored, and the dynamic postural reflexes reached the prelesion value within 2-3 wk. By contrast, a VHS almost completely abolished postural reflexes, and they did not recover for &gt; or =7 wk. The DHS, LHS, and VHS caused immediate and slowly compensated changes in the postural limb/trunk configuration as well as gradually developing changes. After DHS, both hind limbs were placed in an abnormal rostral and medial position. After LHS, the limb on the undamaged side was turned inward and occurred at the abnormal medial position; LHS also caused a gradually developing twisting of the caudal trunk. VHS caused gradually developing extension of the ankle and knee joints. These findings show that ventral spinal pathways are of crucial importance for postural control. When a part of these pathways is spared, postural reflexes can be restored rapidly, but not the postural limb/trunk configuration. Spinal and supraspinal mechanisms responsible for postural deficits and their compensation are discussed.
A single-section deconvolution-derived computerized tomographic perfusion imaging was performed in 45 patients (22 male and 23 female; mean age=69.89+/-10.07 years) with acute supratentorial spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. Mean rCBF and rCBV were lower in the hemorrhagic core than in the perihematomal low density area (p&lt;0.001), and in the perihematomal low density area than in normal appearing brain parenchyma (p&lt;0.001). Mean rMTT values were higher in perihematomal low density area than in normal appearing area (p&lt;0.01) and in both hemorrhagic and perihematomal area than in controlateral ROI (p&lt;0.001). There were no differences in rMTT mean values between hemorrhagic core and perihematomal area, as well as between normal appearing and controlateral areas. We found a concentric distribution of all CT perfusion parameters characterized by an improvement from the core to the periphery, with low perihematomal rCBF and rCBV values suggesting edema formation.
Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) is a non-invasive method to quantitatively measure perfusion without the need of contrast material. Measurement of perfusion is derived from the subtraction of two consecutively acquired scans, with or without radio frequency labeling of the magnetization in the feeding arteries. So far, almost all ASL methods only allowed labeling the entire feeding artery tree of the brain simultaneously, without separation of the individual perfusion territories. In this paper, we describe a newly developed method, Regional Perfusion Imaging, allowing quantitative measurement of perfusion in the watershed of individually labeled arteries (right and left internal carotids, as well as basilar artery and the posterior circulation). Unlike conventional digital subtraction angiography, this new method is completely non-invasive, and allows to selectively measure cerebral perfusion, and not only to get angiograms of the feeding vessels. Regional perfusion was already measured in more than 70 elderly healthy volunteers and over 30 patients with internal carotid disease (severe stenoses and/or after extra-intracranial bypass surgery). A large variation among perfusion territories, even in healthy volunteers, can be appreciated. This method has the potential to increase our understanding of the relationship between collateral flow and regional perfusion in patients with neurovascular diseases.
The author describes the theoretical basis of quantification of cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and mean transit time (MTT) by the bolus tracking method: i.e.dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI using very rapid imaging to capture the first pass of intravenously injected paramagnetic contrast agent.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is one of the mediators dramatically increased after traumatic brain injury that leads to the activation, proliferation, and hypertrophy of mononuclear, phagocytic cells and gliosis. Eventually, TNF-alpha can induce both apoptosis and necrosis via intracellular signaling. This cytokine exerts its functions via interaction with two receptors: type-1 receptor (TNFR1) and type-2 receptor (TNFR2). In this work, the inflammatory response after a freeze injury (cryolesion) in the cortex was studied in wild-type (WT) animals and in mice lacking TNFR1 (TNFR1 KO) or TNFR2 (TNFR2 KO). Lack of TNFR1, but not of TNFR2, significantly decreased the inflammatory response and tissue damage elicited by the cryolesion at both 3 and 7 days postlesion, with decreased gliosis, lower IL-1beta immunostaining, and a reduction of apoptosis markers. Cryolesion produced a clear induction of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha; this induction was significantly lower in the TNFR1 KO mice. Host response genes (ICAM-1, A20, EB22/5, and GFAP) were also induced by the cryolesion, but to a lesser extent in TNFR1 KO mice. Lack of TNFR1 signaling also affected the expression of apoptosis/cell death-related genes (Fas, Rip, p53), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP3, MMP9, MMP12), and their inhibitors (TIMP1), suggesting a role of TNFR1 in extracellular matrix remodeling after injury. However, GDNF, NGF, and BDNF expression were not affected by TNFR1 deficiency. Overall, these results suggest that TNFR1 is involved in the early establishment of the inflammatory response and that its deficiency causes a decreased inflammatory response and tissue damage following brain injury.
Excitotoxicity is recognized to play a major role in cerebral ischemia-induced cell death. The main goal of the present study was to define whether our model of ischemic preconditioning (IPC) promotes a shift from excitatory to inhibitory neurotransmission during the test ischemia to diminish metabolic demand during the reperfusion phase. We also determined whether gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) played a role in IPC-induced neuroprotection. Ten minutes of cerebral ischemia was produced by tightening the carotid ligatures bilaterally following hypotension. Samples of microdialysis perfusate, representing extracellular fluid, were analyzed for amino acid content by HPLC. IPC promoted a robust release of GABA after lethal ischemia compared with control rats. We also observed that the activity of glutamate decarboxylase (the predominant pathway of GABA synthesis in the brain) was higher in the IPC group compared with control and ischemic groups. Because GABAA receptor up-regulation has been shown to occur following IPC, and GABAA receptor activation has been implicated in neuroprotection against ischemic insults, we tested the hypothesis that GABAA or GABAB receptor activation was neuroprotective during ischemia or early reperfusion by using an in vitro model (organotypic hippocampal slice culture). Administration of the GABAB agonist baclofen during test ischemia and for 1 hr of reperfusion provided significant neuroprotection. We concluded that increased GABA release in preconditioned animals after ischemia might be one of the factors responsible for IPC neuroprotection. Specific activation of GABAB receptor contributes significantly to neuroprotection against ischemia in organotypic hippocampal slices.
Nicotine has been reported to be neuroprotective in experimental and epidemiological studies. In addition to nicotine, tobacco and cigarette smoke contain cembranoids, which are antagonists of neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChR). Exposure of hippocampal slices to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) decreases the population spikes (PS). This parameter has been used as a measure of excitotoxicity. Surprisingly, both nicotine and tobacco cembranoids protected against NMDA and this neuroprotection was not blocked by methyllycaconitine (MLA), an antagonist of alpha7 nAChR. On the contrary, MLA had a neuroprotective effect of its own. We examined the effect of the tobacco cembranoid (1S,2E,4R,6R,7E,11E)-cembra-2,7,11-triene-4,6-diol (4R) on the neuroprotection against NMDA. DHbetaE, a selective antagonist of alpha4beta2 nAChR, inhibited the neuroprotection by nicotine, 4R, and MLA, suggesting the involvement of alpha4beta2 nAChRs in the neuroprotection. The cell-signaling pathways underlying the neuroprotection by 4R and by nicotine are different. The activity of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) was required in both cases; however, 4R required the activity of L-type calcium channels and CAM kinase, whereas nicotine required the extracellular signal regulated kinase-1,2 (ERK) and protein kinase C (PKC). In addition, 4R did not enhance total phospho-ERK-1/2 but increased the amount of total Akt/PKB phosphorylated on the activation site and of glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta phosphorylated on the inhibitory site. Total levels of phosphoenzymes are presented instead of the ratio of phospho- over total enzyme because in preliminary experiments total ERK-1/2 levels were slightly increased by 4R. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that there are two different nicotinic neuroprotective mechanisms mediated by alpha4beta2.
Conservative treatment is reported in a child with atlantoaxial rotatory fixation. Three-dimensional (3D) computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated the degree of dislocation and alar ligament damage. A rigid cervical collar and muscle relaxant agents without any traction allowed full recovery. Control 3D CT scanning and MR imaging findings are reported.
The authors describe a case of noncommunicating syringomyelia associated with Chiari malformation Type I in a patient in whom acute symptomatic exacerbation occurred following cervical spine trauma. Surgical stabilization and realignment of the spine resulted in marked resolution of the neurological abnormalities, and subsequent magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated persistent collapse of the syrinx. The authors review the various factors in the pathogenesis of this unusual sequence of events.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to complex secondary events that expand and exacerbate the injury. Methylprednisolone (MP) has been considered a standard of care for acute SCI. The purpose of this study was to test the effects of MP, in severe and more moderate severe clip-compression models of SCI, on the measures of neurological function and lesion sparing that we used previously to assess a highly effective anti-inflammatory therapy, a monoclonal antibody (mAb) to the CD11d integrin. Intravenous treatment with the anti-CD11d mAb blocks the infiltration of leukocytes into the lesion, limits secondary cord damage, and improves neurological outcomes. We also undertook a 2- week study of effects of these two therapies in combination. To permit direct comparison, the new findings with MP are presented together with reference to the previously published effects of the mAb. The severe SCI was at the 4(th) thoracic segment (T4), causing extensive motor dysfunction; the more moderate SCI was at T12 and caused less locomotor loss but the induction of mechanical allodynia. Neither MP alone nor the combination treatment improved Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan 21-point open-field locomotor scores at 2-12 weeks after SCI. These scores were ~4 points in the control, MP, and combination treatment groups, respectively, at 2 weeks after severe SCI at T4. By 6 weeks after T4 SCI, scores in the control and MP groups were ~7. At 12 weeks after the more moderate T12 injury, scores were ~8 in both control and MP treatment groups. MP treatment had no consistent effect on mechanical allodynia during 12 weeks after SCI. Control and MP-treated rats responded to approximately five of 10 stimuli to their backs and three of 10 stimuli to their hind paws. MP treatment increased areas of neurofilament and myelin near the injury site at T4 and T12. Thus, MP treatment spared tissue, but had no corresponding effect on neurological function. In contrast, the combination treatment did not spare myelin significantly. These neurological outcomes after treatment with MP contrast with the consistent and significant improvements after treatment with the anti-CD11d mAb. Effects of MP on the lesion were significant, but myelin sparing was less than that caused by the anti-CD11d mAb. The presence of MP in the combination therapy appeared to reverse the positive effects of the mAb. The poor neurological outcome after MP treatment may relate to the long-lasting reduction in hematogenous monocyte/macrophages within the injury site that it causes and to the prolongation of a neutrophil presence. These findings demonstrate that the non-selective and enduring effects of immunosuppressive therapy with MP not only fail to improve neurological outcomes, but also can block the beneficial actions of selective therapies such as the anti-CD11d mAb. Combination treatments that cause intense immunosuppression should be viewed with caution.
The NeuroScreen comprises two easily administered components: the Brief NeuroCognitive Screen (BNCS), designed to estimate the frequency of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated cognitive disorders; and the Brief Peripheral Neuropathy Screen (BPNS), for distal sensory polyneuropathy (DSPN) in HIV. In this study, both the NeuroScreen and a more extensive standardized validation neurodiagnostic evaluation were administered to HIV-positive subjects (N = 301) enrolled in two large cohort studies at multiple sites. BNCS performance was summarized in the form of a demographically adjusted mean z-score, the NPZ3. The area under the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve for the BNCS as compared to the reference standard neuropsychological (NP) evaluation was 0.74 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.69, 0.79). Using a cut-point of -0.33 on the NPZ3 provided a correct classification rate of 68%, with roughly balanced sensitivity (65%) and specificity (72%). Under the assumption of a 30% prevalence of cognitive impairment, the calculated positive predictive value (PPV) of the BNCS was 86%. Relative to its reference standard, a modified Total Neuropathy Score (TNS) administered by a neurologist, the BPNS gave a similar correct diagnostic classification rate of 78%; sensitivity 49% [95%, 60%]; specificity 88% [95% Cl82%, 91%]. Under the assumption of a 40% prevalence of DSPN, the PPV of the BPNS was 72%. These predictive values suggest that the NeuroScreen will be useful for tracking trends in the prevalence of HIV-associated neurologic disease in large cohorts in the era of combination antiretroviral therapy. However, because it yields substantial numbers of false positives and negatives, the NeuroScreen may be less useful in evaluating individual patients.

Ultrasound imaging of peripheral nerves is increasingly used in the clinic for a wide range of applications. Although yet unapplied for experimental neuroscience, it also has potential value in this research area. This study explores the feasibility, possibilities and limitations of this technique in rabbits, with special focus on peripheral nerve regeneration after trauma. The peroneal nerve of 25 New Zealand White rabbits was imaged at varying time intervals after a crush lesion. The ultrasonic appearance of the nerve was determined, and recordings were validated with in vivo anatomy. Nerve swelling at the lesion site was estimated from ultrasound images and compared with anatomical parameters. The peroneal nerve could reliably be identified in all animals, and its course and anatomical variations agreed perfectly with anatomy. Nerve diameters from ultrasound were related to in vivo diameters (p &lt; 0.001, R(2) = 77%), although the prediction interval was rather wide. Nerve thickenings could be visualized and preliminary results indicate that ultrasound can differentiate between neuroma formation and external nerve thickening. The value of the technique for experimental neuroscience is discussed. We conclude that ultrasound imaging of the rabbit peroneal nerve is feasible and that it is a promising tool for different research areas within the field of experimental neuroscience.
Pyrimethamine (2,4-diamino-5-p-chlorophenyl-6-ethyl-pyrimidine), a folic acid antagonist, may exert, in addition to antiprotozoan effects, immunomodulating activities, including induction of peripheral blood lymphocyte apoptosis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this proapoptotic activity remain to be elucidated. Here we show that pyrimethamine, used at a pharmacologically relevant concentration, induced per se apoptosis of activated lymphocytes via the activation of the caspase-8- and caspase-10-dependent cascade and subsequent mitochondrial depolarization. Importantly, this seems to occur independently from CD95/Fas engagement. The proapoptotic activity of pyrimethamine was further confirmed in a patient with autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, an immune disorder associated with a defect of Fas-induced apoptosis. In this patient, pyrimethamine treatment resulted in a &quot;normalization&quot; of lymphocyte apoptosis with a significant amelioration of laboratory parameters. Altogether, these results suggest a mechanism for pyrimethamine-mediated apoptosis that seems to bypass CD95/Fas engagement but fully overlaps CD95/Fas-induced subcellular pathway. On these bases, a reappraisal of the use of pyrimethamine in immune lymphoproliferative disorders characterized by defects in CD95/Fas-mediated apoptosis should be taken into account.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) activates calcium mobilization and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation in cortical astrocytes. These are independent signaling systems, and they can be differentially regulated. We recently discovered two novel selective allosteric potentiators of mGluR5, 3,3'-difluorobenzaldazine (DFB) and N-{4-chloro-2-[(1,3-dioxo-1,3-dihydro-2H-isoindol-2-yl) methyl]phenyl}-2-hydroxybenzamide (CPPHA). In studies of mGluR5 activation of calcium transients in recombinant systems, both DFB and CPPHA are without effect on baseline calcium levels, but they induce parallel leftward shifts in the concentration-response curve to agonists. However, it is conceivable that these compounds will have differential effects on different signaling pathways in native systems. Here, we examined the effects of CPPHA and DFB on mGluR5-induced calcium transients and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in cultured rat cortical astrocytes. Both potentiators induced parallel leftward shifts of the concentration-response curves of DHPG- and glutamate-induced calcium transients in astrocytes. These effects are identical to their effects on mGluR5 expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 or Chinese hamster ovary cells. DFB induced a similar shift of concentration-response curve of DHPG-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Interestingly, CPPHA induced an increase in basal mGluR5-mediated ERK1/2 phosphorylation and potentiated the effect of low concentrations of agonists. In contrast, CPPHA significantly decreased ERK1/2 phosphorylation induced by high concentrations of agonists. Thus, CPPHA has qualitatively different effects on mGluR5-mediated calcium responses and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Together, these data provide evidence that different allosteric potentiators can differentially modulate coupling of a single receptor to different signaling pathways.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the role of the hypothalamic tripeptide L-prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) and its conformationally constrained analog 3(R)-[(2(S)-pyrrolidinylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide (PAOPA) in modulating agonist binding to human dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes using human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells stably transfected with respective cDNAs. Both PLG and PAOPA enhanced agonist [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) and [3H]quinpirole binding in a dose-dependent manner to the DA D2L,D2S, and D4 receptors. However, agonist binding to the D1 and D3 receptors and antagonist binding to the D2L receptors by PLG were not significantly affected. Scatchard analysis of [3H]NPA binding to membranes in the presence of PLG revealed a significant increase in affinity of the agonist binding sites for the D2L, D2S, and D4 receptors. Analysis of agonist/antagonist competition curves revealed that PLG and PAOPA increased the population and affinity of the high-affinity form of the D2L receptor and attenuated guanosine 5'-(beta,gamma-imido)-triphosphate-induced inhibition of high-affinity agonist binding sites for the DA D2L receptor. Furthermore, direct NPA binding with D2L cell membranes pretreated with suramin, a compound that can uncouple receptor/G protein complexes, and incubated with and without DA showed that both PLG and PAOPA had only increased agonist binding in membranes pretreated with both suramin and DA, suggesting that PLG requires the D2L receptor/G protein complex to increase agonist binding. These results suggest that PLG possibly modulates DA D2S, D2L, and D4 receptors in an allosteric manner and that the coupling of D2 receptors to the G protein is essential for this modulation to occur.
Cancer chemotherapy has been one of the major medical advances in the last few decades. However, the drugs used for this therapy have a narrow therapeutic index, and often the responses produced are only just palliative as well as unpredictable. In contrast, targeted therapy that has been introduced in recent years is directed against cancer-specific molecules and signaling pathways and thus has more limited nonspecific toxicities. Tyrosine kinases are an especially important target because they play an important role in the modulation of growth factor signaling. This review focuses on small molecule inhibitors of tyrosine kinase. They compete with the ATP binding site of the catalytic domain of several oncogenic tyrosine kinases. They are orally active, small molecules that have a favorable safety profile and can be easily combined with other forms of chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Several tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been found to have effective antitumor activity and have been approved or are in clinical trials. The inhibitors discussed in this manuscript are imatinib mesylate (STI571; Gleevec), gefitinib (Iressa), erlotinib (OSI-1774; Tarceva), lapatinib (GW-572016), canertinib (CI-1033), semaxinib (SU5416), vatalanib (PTK787/ZK222584), sorafenib (BAY 43-9006), sutent (SU11248), and leflunomide (SU101). TKIs are thus an important new class of targeted therapy that interfere with specific cell signaling pathways and thus allow target-specific therapy for selected malignancies. The pharmacological properties and anticancer activities of these inhibitors are discussed in this review. Use of these targeted therapies is not without limitations such as the development of resistance and the lack of tumor response in the general population. The availability of newer inhibitors and improved patient selection will help overcome these problems in the future.
When intracellular recordings were made from the circular layer of the intact muscular wall of the isolated guinea pig gastric corpus, an ongoing regular high frequency discharge of slow waves was detected even though this region lacked myenteric interstitial cells. When slow waves were recorded from preparations consisting of both the antrum and the corpus, slow waves of identical frequency, but with different shapes, were generated in the two regions. Corporal slow waves could be distinguished from antral slow waves by their time courses and amplitudes. Corporal slow waves, like antral slow waves, were abolished by buffering the internal concentration of calcium ions, [Ca2+]i, to low levels, or by caffeine, 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate or the chloride channel blocker DIDS. Corporal preparations demonstrated an ongoing discharge of unitary potentials, as has been found in all other tissues containing interstitial cells. The experiments show that the corpus provides the dominant pacemaker activity which entrains activity in other regions of the stomach and it is suggested that this activity is generated by corporal intramuscular interstitial cells.
Purkinje cells, the sole output of the cerebellar cortex, encode the timing signals required for motor coordination in their firing rate and activity pattern. Dendrites of Purkinje cells express a high density of P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels and fire dendritic calcium spikes. Here we show that dendritic subthreshold Kv1.2 subunit-containing Kv1 potassium channels prevent generation of random spontaneous calcium spikes. With Kv1 channels blocked, dendritic calcium spikes drive bursts of somatic sodium spikes and prevent the cell from faithfully encoding motor timing signals. The selective dendritic function of Kv1 channels in Purkinje cells allows them to effectively suppress dendritic hyperexcitability without hindering the generation of somatic action potentials. Further, we show that Kv1 channels also contribute to dendritic integration of parallel fibre synaptic input. Kv1 channels are often targeted to soma and axon and the data presented support a major dendritic function for these channels.
Smooth muscle responds to IP3-generating (sarcolemma acting) neurotransmitters and hormones by releasing Ca2+ from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) via IP3 receptors (IP3Rs). This release may propagate as Ca2+ waves. The Ca2+ signal emanating from IP3 generation may be amplified by its activating further Ca2+ release from ryanodine receptors (RyRs) in the process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR). Evidence for this proposal has relied largely on the use of blocking drugs such as ryanodine, tetracaine and dantrolene, reportedly specific inhibitors of RyRs. Here we have examined whether or not Ca2+ released via IP3Rs subsequently activates RyRs. In addition, the specificity of the blocking agents has been assessed by determining the extent of their ability to block IP3-mediated Ca2+ release under conditions in which RyRs were not activated. IP3-evoked Ca2+ release and Ca2+ waves did not require or activate RyRs. However, the RyR blocking drugs inhibited IP3-mediated Ca2+ signals at concentrations thought to be selective for RyRs. In single colonic smooth muscle cells, voltage clamped in the whole cell configuration, carbachol (CCh) evoked propagating Ca2+ waves which were not inhibited by ryanodine when the sarcolemma potential was -70 mV. At -20 mV, at which potential the SR Ca2+ content was increased and RyRs activated, ryanodine inhibited the Ca2+ waves. Photolysed caged IP3 increased [Ca2+]c; ryanodine, by itself, did not reduce the IP3-evoked [Ca2+]c increase when the sarcolemma potential was maintained at -70 mV. However, after activation of RyRs by caffeine, in the continued presence of ryanodine, the IP3-evoked [Ca2+]c increase was inhibited. In other experiments, RyRs were activated (as evidenced by the occurrence of spontaneous transient outward currents) by depolarizing the sarcolemma to -20 mV and again ryanodine was effective in inhibiting IP3-evoked Ca2+ increase. Thus while ineffective by itself, ryanodine inhibited IP3-evoked Ca2+ increases, presumably by causing persistent opening of the channel and depleting the SR of Ca2+, after RyRs were activated. These experiments establish that IP3-evoked Ca2+ release and Ca2+ waves do not activate RyRs; had they done so ryanodine would have inhibited the Ca2+ increase. However, under conditions where ryanodine was ineffective against the IP3-evoked Ca2+ transient (i.e. when RyRs were not activated, e.g. at a membrane potential of -70 mV) tetracaine and dantrolene each blocked IP3-evoked Ca2+ increases. The results show that although IP3-mediated Ca2+ release does not activate RyRs, RyR blockers can inhibit IP3-mediated Ca2+ signals.
When the intended foot placement changes during a step, either due to an obstacle appearing in our path or the sudden shift of a target, visual input can rapidly alter foot trajectory. However, previous studies suggest that when intended foot placement does not change, the path of the foot is fixed after it leaves the floor and vision has no further influence. Here we ask whether visual feedback can be used to improve the accuracy of foot placement during a normal, unperturbed step. To investigate this we measured foot trajectory when subjects made accurate steps, at fast and slow speeds, to stationary floor-mounted targets. Vision was randomly occluded in 50% of trials at the point of foot-off. This caused an increase in foot placement error, reflecting lower accuracy and higher variability. This effect was greatest for slow steps. Trajectory heading analysis revealed that visually guided corrections occurred as the foot neared the target (on average 64 mm away). They occurred closer to the target for the faster movements thus allowing less time and space to execute corrections. However, allowing for a fixed reaction time of 120 ms, movement errors were detected when the foot was approximately halfway to the target. These results suggest that visual information can be used to adjust foot trajectory during the swing phase of a step when stepping onto a stationary target, even for fast movements. Such fine control would be advantageous when environmental constraints place limitations on foot placement, for example when hiking over rough terrain.
The mitral-granule reciprocal synapse shapes the response of the olfactory bulb to odour stimuli by mediating lateral and reciprocal inhibition. We investigated the short-term plasticity of both the mitral-to-granule excitatory synapse and the granule-to-mitral inhibitory synapse in rat olfactory bulb slices, using whole-cell patch clamp recordings. The granule-to-mitral inhibitory synapse invariably exhibited paired-pulse depression at interstimulus intervals of less than a second, while the mitral-to-granule excitatory synapse showed heterogeneous responses, which on average yielded a moderate facilitation. Trains of stimuli led to a much greater depression at the granule-to-mitral synapse than at the mitral-to-granule synapse. Since mitral cells commonly respond to odours by burst firing with each inhalation cycle, we used bursts of stimuli to study recovery from depression. We found that recovery from depression induced by fast trains of stimuli was more rapid at the mitral-to-granule synapse than at the granule-to-mitral synapse. In addition, depression was enhanced by higher calcium concentrations, suggesting at least partial contribution of presynaptic mechanisms to short-term depression. The observed short-term plasticity could enable mitral cells to overcome autoinhibition and increase action potential propagation along lateral dendrites by burst firing.

Long-term treatment of patients with schizophrenia remains challenging. Functional and cognitive declines associated with schizophrenia compromise patients' ability to adhere to therapy. While medications can improve outcomes, partial adherence limits effectiveness and is associated with relapse and rehospitalization. Partial adherence has been shown to be high with both oral conventional and oral atypical antipsychotic agents. While long-acting conventional antipsychotic agents provide ensured medication delivery and reduce relapse rates, they carry a substantial risk of movement disorders. A new long-acting formulation of the atypical agent risperidone has shown improved efficacy with decreased risk of adverse events. Its use, along with psychosocial approaches focused on adherence, may help, if initiated during inpatient treatment, by promoting adherence immediately postdischarge and improving long-term treatment outcomes.


There is growing evidence that cyclic alternating pattern (CAP) and arousals are woven into the basic mechanisms of sleep regulation. In the present study, the overnight sleep cycles (SC) of 20 normal subjects were analyzed according to their stage composition, CAP rate, phase A subtypes and arousals. Individual SC were then divided into 10 normalized temporal epochs. CAP parameters and arousals were measured in each epoch and averaged in relation to the SC order. Subtypes A2 and A3 of CAP in non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep, and arousals, both in REM and NREM sleep when not coincident with a A2 or A3 phases, were lumped together as fast electroencephalographic (EEG) activities (FA). Subtypes A1 of CAP, characterized by slow EEG activities (SA), were analyzed separately. The time distribution of SA and FA was compared to the mathematical model of normal sleep structure including functions representing the homeostatic process S, the circadian process C, the ultradian process generating NREM/REM cycles and the slow wave activity (SWA) resulting from the interaction between homeostatic and ultradian processes. The relationship between SA and FA and the sleep-model components was evaluated by multiple regression analysis in which SA and FA were considered as dependent variables while the covariates were the process S, process C, SWA, REM-on and REM-off activities and their squared values. Regression was highly significant (P &lt; 0.0001) for both SA and FA. SA were prevalent in the first three SC, and exhibited single or multiple peaks immediately before and in the final part of deep sleep (stages 3 + 4). The peaks of FA were delayed and prevailed during the pre-REM periods of light sleep (stages 1 + 2) and during REM sleep. SA showed an exponential decline across the successive SC, according to the homeostatic process. In contrast, the distribution of FA was not influenced by the order of SC, with periodic peaks of FA occurring before the onset of REM sleep, in accordance with the REM-on switch. The dynamics of CAP and arousals during sleep can be viewed as an intermediate level between cellular activities and macroscale EEG phenomena as they reflect the decay of the homeostatic process and the interaction between REM-off and REM-on mechanisms while are slightly influenced by circadian rhythm.
Previous studies have suggested a possible relationship between the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and some pathological manifestations of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigated the possibility that the Abeta peptides interact with the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway inside neuronal cells. The ubiquitin-proteasome activity decreased with age in the brains of Tg2576 mice while the Abeta(1-42) levels increased. In cultured neuronal cells, an extracellular treatment of Abeta markedly decreased the proteasome activity and extracellular treated Abeta peptides were found in the cytoplasmic compartment. These results suggest that the extracellular Abeta peptides enter the cell and inhibit the proteasome activity, which might play a role in the pathogenesis of AD.
We report a rare case of a giant extradural and intraabdominal ganglioneuroblastoma in a young Malay girl who presented to a paediatrician initially at 5 days of life with a palpable abdominal mass. Unfortunately, the parents refused any form of surgical intervention until the child was 3 years old. She subsequently underwent vascular embolisation followed by the removal of this large tumour both via the abdomen and through a laminectomy approach and subsequently refused chemotherapy. The c-myc amplication in this patient was absent and there were no chromosomal aberrations, During the 2 year folow-up the patient remained well, and ambulatory with no tumour recurrence.
Benzodiazepine receptor ligands are suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Accumulation of these ligands in brain was suggested to explain in part the notion of&quot;increased GABAergic tone,&quot; the rational for which arose initially from reports of a beneficial effect of the selective benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in HE patients. It was suggested on the basis of the effect of flumazenil in human HE that liver failure may result in alterations of the density and/or affinity of the benzodiazepine-associated GABA-A receptor site. Subsequent controlled-clinical trials showed that fumazenil had a transient beneficial effect in only a subpopulation of HE patients. In contrast to the antagonists, partial inverse agonists of the benzodiazepine receptor have unequivocal beneficial effects on behavioral and electro-physiological performance in all experimental models of HE studied so far. Benzodiazepine-associated GABA-A receptors have consistently been demonstrated to be unaltered in both human and experimental HE. Contrary to initial reports, the so-called &quot;endogenous benzodiazepines&quot; do not appear to be significantly related to the pathogenesis of HE. On the other hand, nonbenzodiazepine GABA-A receptor complex modulators, such as neuro-steroids, recently identified in brain in human and experimental HE, may provide a new mechanistic basis for this disorder and lead to novel treatments for human HE.
The availability of adequate experimental models of acute liver failure (ALF) is of prime importance to provide a better understanding of this condition and allow the development and testing of new therapeutic approaches for patients with ALF. However, the numerous etiologies and complications of ALF contribute to the complexity of this condition and render the development of an ideal experimental model of ALF more difficult than expected. Instead, a number of different models that may be used for the study of specific aspects of ALF have been developed. The most common approaches used to induce ALFin experimental animals are surgical procedures, toxic liver injury,or a combination of both. Despite the high prevalence of viral hepatitis worldwide, very few satisfactory viral models of ALF are available. Established and newly developed models of ALF are reviewed.
In an active duty population charged with handling weapons and heavy equipment, hyperhidrosis is a dangerous affliction. Surgical correction of hyperhidrosis is possible by transection of the thoracic sympathetic chain. Thoracoscopic sympathectomy should yield results similar to those of a standard open thoracotomy approach but with decreased recovery times, a more rapid return to duty, and improved job performance. Three active duty patients presented to the Naval Medical Center, San Diego, for evaluation of palmar hyperhidrosis. All patients underwent bilateral thoracoscopic sympathectomy for the treatment of palmar hyperhidrosis. They tolerated the procedure well without complications and were satisfied with their outcomes. They reported no further episodes of hyperhidrosis and have returned to full duty. This procedure is especially relevant for patients in the active duty population, whose job safety is affected by hyperhidrosis. Those treated can expect to return to full duty in a timely manner.
Sorting endosomes and the endocytic recycling compartment are critical intracellular stores for the rapid recycling of internalized membrane receptors to the cell surface in multiple cell types. However, the molecular mechanisms distinguishing fast receptor recycling from sorting endosomes and slow receptor recycling from the endocytic recycling compartment remain poorly understood. We previously reported that Rab15 differentially regulates transferrin receptor trafficking through sorting endosomes and the endocytic recycling compartment, suggesting a role for distinct Rab15-effector interactions at these endocytic compartments. In this study, we identified the novel protein Rab15 effector protein (REP15) as a binding partner for Rab15-GTP. REP15 is compartment specific, colocalizing with Rab15 and Rab11 on the endocytic recycling compartment but not with Rab15, Rab4, or early endosome antigen 1 on sorting endosomes. REP15 interacts directly with Rab15-GTP but not with Rab5 or Rab11. Consistent with its localization, REP15 overexpression and small interfering RNA-mediated depletion inhibited transferrin receptor recycling from the endocytic recycling compartment, without affecting receptor entry into or recycling from sorting endosomes. Our data identify REP15 as a compartment-specific protein for receptor recycling from the endocytic recycling compartment, highlighting that the rapid and slow modes of transferrin receptor recycling are mechanistically distinct pathways.
The question of the origins of the dog has been much debated. The dog is descended from the wolf that at the end of the last glaciation (the archaeologically hypothesized period of dog domestication) was one of the most widespread among Holarctic mammals. Scenarios provided by genetic studies range from multiple dog-founding events to a single origin in East Asia. The earliest fossil dogs, dated approximately 17-12,000 radiocarbon ((14)C) years ago (YA), were found in Europe and in the Middle East. Ancient DNA (a-DNA) evidence could contribute to the identification of dog-founder wolf populations. To gain insight into the relationships between ancient European wolves and dogs we analyzed a 262-bp mitochondrial DNA control region fragment retrieved from five prehistoric Italian canids ranging in age from approximately 15,000 to approximately 3,000 (14)C YA. These canids were compared to a worldwide sample of 547 purebred dogs and 341 wolves. The ancient sequences were highly diverse and joined the three major clades of extant dog sequences. Phylogenetic investigations highlighted relationships between the ancient sequences and geographically widespread extant dog matrilines and between the ancient sequences and extant wolf matrilines of mainly East European origin. The results provide a-DNA support for the involvement of European wolves in the origins of the three major dog clades. Genetic data also suggest multiple independent domestication events. East European wolves may still reflect the genetic variation of ancient dog-founder populations.
The cell adhesion molecule L1 is important for peripheral nerve development. Mice lacking the 6th Ig domain of L1 (L1-6D mice) lose L1 homophilic binding and RGD dependent LI-integrin binding [Itoh,K., Cheng, L., Kamei, Y., Fushiki, S., Kamiguchi, H., Gutwein, P.,Stoeck, A., Arnold, B., Altevogt, P., Lemmon, V., 2004. Brain development in mice lacking Li-L homophilic adhesion. J. Cell Biol.165, 145-154]. We examined the ultrastructure of sciatic nerves from L1-6D at postnatal day 7 and 8 weeks. Unmyelinated axons frequently detached at the edge of Schwann cells, and naked axons were observed. Myelin was thinner in L1-6D and abnormal, multiple axons wrapped in a single myelin sheath were routinely observed. Previous work has shown that L1 on axons interacts with a heterophilic binding partner on Schwann cells to facilitate normal peripheral nerve formation. Taken together, it is likely that L1 on axons binds integrins on Schwann cells, resulting in interactions between axons and Schwann cells that are essential for ensheathment and myelination.
Cell replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease depends on a reliable source of purified dopamine (DA) neurons (PDN) and the identification of factors relevant to their survival. Our goal was to genetically tag and purify by flow cytometry embryonic midbrain DA neurons from a transgenic mouse line carrying 11 kb of human tyrosine hydroxylase promoter driving expression of the enhanced green fluorescent protein(GFP) for studies in vivo and in vitro. A 99% purification of GFP+ cells was achieved. When transplanted into 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rat striatum, PDN survived, became well-integrated and produced recovery from amphetamine-induced motor behaviors. However, when grown in culture, PDN died within days of plating. No known growth factors prevented PDN death as did incubation with novel factors in glia/glial-conditioned media. We conclude that GFP-tagged DA neurons can be purified to homogeneity and can survive and function when grown with glial factors in vitro or after transplantation in vivo.
The olfactory epithelium has the unusual ability to replace its neurons.We forced replacement of mouse olfactory sensory neurons by bulbectomy. Microarray, bioinformatics, and in situ hybridization techniques detected a rapid shift in favor of pro-apoptotic proteins, a progressive immune response by macrophages and dendritic cells, and identified or predicted 439 mRNAs enriched in olfactory sensory neurons, including gene silencing factors and sperm flagellar proteins. Transcripts encoding cell cycle regulators, axonogenesis proteins, and transcription factors and signaling proteins that promote proliferation and differentiation were increased at 5-7 days after bulbectomy and were expressed by basal progenitor cells or immature neurons. The transcription factors included Nhlhl, Hes6, Lmycl, c-Myc, Mxd4, Idl,Nmycl, Cited2, c-Myb, Mybll, Tead2, Dpl, Gata2, Lmol, and Soxll. The data reveal significant similarities with embryonic neurogenesis and make several mechanistic predictions, including the roles of the transcription factors in the olfactory sensory neuron lineage.
Activation of intracellular signaling pathways involving p38 and p42/44 MAP kinases may contribute importantly to synaptic plasticity underlying spinal neuronal sensitization. Inhibitors of p38 or p42/44 pathways moderately attenuated responses of dorsal horn neurons evoked by mustard oil but not brush and alleviated the behavioral reflex sensitization seen following nerve injury. Activation of p38 and p42/44 MAP kinases in spinal cord ipsilateral to constriction injury was reduced by antagonists of NMDA, VPAC2 and NK2 (but not related) receptors, the glial inhibitor propentofylline and inhibitors of TNF-alpha. A VPAC2 receptor agonist enhanced p38 phosphorylation and caused behavioral reflex sensitization in nave animals that could be blocked by co-administration of p38 inhibitor. Conversely, an NK2 receptor agonist activated p42/44 and caused behavioral sensitization that could be prevented by co-administration of p42/44 inhibitor. Thus, spinal p38 and p42/44 MAP kinases are activated in neuropathic pain states by mechanisms involving VPAC2, NK2, NMDA receptors and glial cytokine production.

Human neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha4 subunits and an alpha4 mutant (S247Falpha4) found in autosomal-dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) were expressed along with beta2 in permanently transfected tsA201 human embryonic kidney cell lines. Their sensitivity to activation, desensitization, and up-regulation by cholinergic ligands was investigated. Up-regulation after 3 to 24 h resulted primarily from an increase in assembly of AChRs from large pools of unassembled subunits, but up-regulation also resulted from a 5-fold increase in the lifetime of AChRs in the surface membrane. Up-regulation does not require current flow through surface membrane AChRs, because up-regulation occurs in the presence of the channel blocker mecamylamine and with the alpha4 mutant, which prevents nearly all AChR function. Both membrane-permeable ligands like nicotine and much less permeable quaternary amine cholinergic ligands can act as pharmacological chaperones within the endoplasmatic reticulum to promote the assembly of AChRs. Agonists are more potent pharmacological chaperones than antagonists, presumably because activated or desensitized conformations assemble more efficiently. Assembly intermediates are disrupted by solubilization in Triton X-100, but chemical cross-linking stabilizes a putative assembly intermediate approximately the size of an alpha4beta2alpha4beta2 tetramer.
Vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) is activated by chemical ligands (e.g., capsaicin and protons) and heat. In this study, we show that (2E)-3-[2-piperidin-1-yl-6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3-yl]-N-quinolin-7-ylacrylamide (AMG6880), 5-chloro-6-[(3R)-3-methyl-4-[6-(trifluoromethyl)-4-(3,4,5-trifluorophenyl)-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl]piperazin-1-yl]pyridin-3-yl)methanol (AMG7472), and N-(4-tertiarybutylphenyl)-4-(3-chloropyridin-2-yl)tetrahydropyrazine-1(2H)-carboxamide (BCTC) are potent antagonists of rat TRPV1 activation by either capsaicin or protons (pH 5) (defined here as group A antagonists), whereas (2E)-3-(6-tert-butyl-2-methylpyridin-3-yl)-N-(1H-indol-6-yl)acrylamide (AMG0610), capsazepine, and (2E)-3-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(3-methoxyphenyl)acrylamide (SB-366791) are antagonists of capsaicin, but not proton, activation (defined here as group B antagonists). By using capsaicin-sensitive and insensitive rabbit TRPV1 channels, we show that antagonists require the same critical molecular determinants located in the transmembrane domain 3/4 region to block both capsaicin and proton activation, suggesting the presence of a single binding pocket. To determine whether the differential pharmacology is a result of proton activation-induced conformational changes in the capsaicin-binding pocket that alter group B antagonist affinities, we have developed a functional antagonist competition assay. We hypothesized that if group B antagonists bind at the same or an overlapping binding pocket of TRPV1 as group A antagonists, and proton activation does not alter the binding pocket, then group B antagonists should compete with and prevent group A antagonism of TRPV1 activation by protons. Indeed, we found that each of the group B antagonists competed with and prevented BCTC, AMG6880 or AMG7472 antagonism of rat TRPV1 activation by protons with pA2 values similar to those for blocking capsaicin, indicating that proton activation does not alter the conformation of the TRPV1 capsaicin-binding pocket. In conclusion, group A antagonists seem to lock the channel conformation in the closed state, blocking both capsaicin and proton activation.
Clinicians require scientifically rigorous, clinically meaningful rating scales to evaluate the health impact of disease and treatment that cannot be measured using conventional laboratory instruments. This study evaluated the psychometric properties of the International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS), a commonly used clinician-rated measure, in Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA). People with confirmed FRDA were assessed by using the ICARS. Two assumptions of its measurement model were tested: the legitimacy of reporting ICARS scores in FRDA, and the acceptability, reliability, and validity of total and subscale scores. Seventy-seven people with FRDA were assessed. The ICARS total score effectively satisfied all psychometric criteria tested. The posture and gait disturbances subscale also performed well. The other three subscales did not pass standard criteria for tests of scaling assumptions, reliability, and validity. This small study recommends only the use of the ICARS total score as a measure of FRDA. However, the extent to which this score quantifies the true extent of FRDA remains uncertain as our validity testing was limited, partly by the lack of appropriate validating measures. Further validity testing, and examination of responsiveness, is required before the ICARS can be recommended as an outcome measure for treatment trials of FDRA.
We developed and tested the clinimetric properties of a scale for psychogenic movement disorders (PMDs). PMDs are disabling but lack any generally accepted treatment strategies. To develop treatments, means of assessing disease severity must be provided. No scale to assess PMDs existed. The PMD scale developed here rates 10 phenomena (rest tremor, action tremor, dystonia, chorea, bradykinesia, myoclonus, tics, athetosis, ballism, cerebellar incoordination), 2 functions (gait, speech), and 14 body regions. To study interrater agreement, three movement disorder neurologists independently rated 88 videotapes of PMD patients. Data analysis was performed using a kappa coefficient of agreement, Kendall's coefficient of concordance, Spearman correlations, and intraclass correlation coefficients. Validity and scale responsiveness were tested as well. All phenomena and speech and gait dysfunction occurred in the patient sample. A wide range of affected body regions, severity, and incapacitation was captured. Ratings showed excellent interrater reliability for presence or absence of each phenomenon (kappa range, 0.63 to 0.86). Kendall's concordance coefficients for phenomenology, function, and total PMD scores were 0.92, 0.93, and 0.91. Spearman correlations between raters ranged from 0.86 to 0.90. The scale was responsive to changes that occurred as a result of a neuropsychiatric intervention. The PMD scale adequately captures the complex movements of PMDs and can be used to assess PMDs and test the efficacy of intervention strategies.
The prevalence of Parkinson's disease (PD) is low among Indians, except in the Parsis. Data for Indians come from studies using different screening tools and criteria to detect PD. An epidemiological study in India, which has nearly a billion people, more than 18 spoken languages, and varying levels of literacy, requires development and validation of a screening tool for PD. The objectives of this study are to (1) validate a modified version of a widely used screening questionnaire for PD to suit the needs of the Indian population; (2) compare the use of a nonmedical assistant (NMA) with the use of a medical person during screening; and (3) compare the effect of literacy of participants on the validity of the screening tool. The validity of the questionnaire was tested on 125 participants from a home for the elderly. NMAs of similar background and medical personnel administered the modified screening questionnaire. A movement disorder neurologist blind to the responses on the questionnaire, examined participants independently and diagnosed if participants had PD. The questionnaire was validated in the movement disorders clinic, on known PD patients and their family members without PD. In the movement disorders clinic, sensitivity and specificity of the questionnaire were 100% and 89%, respectively. Fifty-seven participants were included for analysis. The questionnaire had a higher sensitivity when NMAs (75%) rather than the medical personnel (61%) administered it, and its specificity was higher with the medical personnel (61%) than with NMAs (55% and 25%). The questionnaire had a higher specificity in literates than illiterates, whereas sensitivity varied considerably. The modified questionnaire translated in a local Indian language had reasonable sensitivity and can be used to screen individuals for PD in epidemiological studies in India. This questionnaire can be administered by NMAs to screen PD and this strategy would reduce manpower costs. Literacy may influence epidemiological estimates when screening PD.
We report the case of a young man who presented with a severe acute akinetic-rigid disorder 2 weeks after complete recovery from an episode of pharyngitis. Magnetic resonance imaging scan abnormalities strikingly localized to the basal ganglia were accompanied by serological evidence of recent streptococcal infection and the presence of anti-basal ganglia antibodies in the serum. The case represents an unusually clear example in the spectrum of inflammatory neurological disorders associated with streptococcal infection, an etiology that should be considered in the differential diagnosis of all acute onset movement disorders.

Background A 75-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis presented with a 4-year history of chorea to a hospital movement disorder clinic. The involuntary movements were initially mild, affecting only the right side of the body, but gradually worsened and became bilateral. There was no relevant family history. Medications included hormone replacement therapy (HRT), diclofenac sodium, vitamin D, folic acid, methotrexate and zopiclone. On examination, bilateral choreiform movements were seen, affecting the face and limbs, with the right side more severely affected than the left. Investigations Neuropsychological testing, laboratory blood and DNA testing, echocardiogram, MRI of the brain, and brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanning.Diagnosis HRT-related chorea, possibly caused by a predisposition secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and small-vessel ischemic disease, or subclinical childhood rheumatic fever. Management Discontinuation of HRT.
We identified the gene underlying Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome, which is characterized by cerebellar ataxia, progressive myopathy and cataracts. We identified four disease-associated, predicted loss-of-function mutations in SIL1, which encodes a nucleotide exchange factor for the heat-shock protein 70 (HSP70) chaperone HSPA5. These data, together with the similar spatial and temporal patterns of tissue expression of Sil1 and Hspa5, suggest that disturbed SIL1-HSPA5 interaction and protein folding is the primary pathology in Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome.
Fluorescence microscopy has undergone a renaissance in the last decade. The introduction of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and two-photon microscopy has allowed systematic imaging studies of protein localization in living cells and of the structure and function of living tissues. The impact of these and other new imaging methods in biophysics, neuroscience, and developmental and cell biology has been remarkable. Further advances in fluorophore design, molecular biological tools and nonlinear and hyper-resolution microscopies are poised to profoundly transform many fields of biological research.
In neurophysiology, psychophysics, optical imaging and functional imaging studies, the investigator seeks a relationship between a high-dimensional variable, such as an image, and a categorical variable, such as the presence or absence of a spike or a behavior. The usual analysis strategy is fundamentally identical across these contexts--it amounts to calculating the average value of the high-dimensional variable for each value of the categorical variable and comparing these results by subtraction. Though intuitive and straightforward, this procedure may be inaccurate or inefficient and may overlook important details. Sophisticated approaches have been developed within these several experimental contexts, but they are rarely applied beyond the context in which they were developed. Recognition of the relationships among these contexts has the potential to accelerate improvements in analytic methods and to increase the amount of information that can be gleaned from experiments.
The visual system evolved to process natural images, and the goal of visual neuroscience is to understand the computations it uses to do this. Indeed the goal of any theory of visual function is a model that will predict responses to any stimulus, including natural scenes. It has, however, recently become common to take this fundamental principle one step further: trying to use photographic or cinematographic representations of natural scenes (natural stimuli) as primary probes to explore visual computations. This approach is both challenging and controversial, and we argue that this use of natural images is so fraught with difficulty that it is not useful. Traditional methods for exploring visual computations that use artificial stimuli with carefully selected properties have been and continue to be the most effective tools for visual neuroscience. The proper use of natural stimuli is to test models based on responses to these synthetic stimuli, not to replace them.
An ultimate goal of systems neuroscience is to understand how sensory stimuli encountered in the natural environment are processed by neural circuits. Achieving this goal requires knowledge of both the characteristics of natural stimuli and the response properties of sensory neurons under natural stimulation. Most of our current notions of sensory processing have come from experiments using simple, parametric stimulus sets. However, a growing number of researchers have begun to question whether this approach alone is sufficient for understanding the real-life sensory tasks performed by the organism. Here, focusing on the early visual pathway, we argue that the use of natural stimuli is vital for advancing our understanding of sensory processing.

The perforant-path projection to the hippocampus forms synapses in the apical tuft of CA1 pyramidal neurons. We used computer modeling to examine the function of these distal synaptic inputs, which led to three predictions that we confirmed in experiments using rat hippocampal slices. First, activation of CA1 neurons by the perforant path is limited, a result of the long distance between these inputs and the soma. Second, activation of CA1 neurons by the perforant path depends on the generation of dendritic spikes. Third, the forward propagation of these spikes is unreliable, but can be facilitated by modest activation of Schaffer-collateral synapses in the upper apical dendrites. This 'gating' of dendritic spike propagation may be an important activation mode of CA1 pyramidal neurons, and its modulation by neurotransmitters or long-term, activity-dependent plasticity may be an important feature of dendritic integration during mnemonic processing in the hippocampus.
A broad range of neural and behavioral data suggests that the brain contains multiple systems for behavioral choice, including one associated with prefrontal cortex and another with dorsolateral striatum. However, such a surfeit of control raises an additional choice problem: how to arbitrate between the systems when they disagree. Here, we consider dual-action choice systems from a normative perspective, using the computational theory of reinforcement learning. We identify a key trade-off pitting computational simplicity against the flexible and statistically efficient use of experience. The trade-off is realized in a competition between the dorsolateral striatal and prefrontal systems. We suggest a Bayesian principle of arbitration between them according to uncertainty, so each controller is deployed when it should be most accurate. This provides a unifying account of a wealth of experimental evidence about the factors favoring dominance by either system.
Some individuals maintain high cognitive functioning at older ages. Here we show that mechanisms for long-term depression differ in aged rodents that maintain cognitive performance compared to young adults. Our results imply that cognitive abilities may be sustained in aged individuals by a switch in synaptic plasticity mechanisms.
Hippocampal area CA3 is widely considered to function as an autoassociative memory. However, it is insufficiently understood how it does so. In particular, the extensive experimental evidence for the importance of carefully regulated spiking times poses the question as to how spike timing-based dynamics may support memory functions. Here, we develop a normative theory of autoassociative memory encompassing such network dynamics. Our theory specifies the way that the synaptic plasticity rule of a memory constrains the form of neuronal interactions that will retrieve memories optimally. If memories are stored by spike timing-dependent plasticity, neuronal interactions should be formalized in terms of a phase response curve, indicating the effect of presynaptic spikes on the timing of postsynaptic spikes. We show through simulation that such memories are competent analog autoassociators and demonstrate directly that the attributes of phase response curves of CA3 pyramidal cells recorded in vitro qualitatively conform with the theory.
To compare numeric quantities, humans make use of a 'mental number line' with smaller quantities located to the left of larger ones; it is unclear, however, whether orienting along the number line is like orienting along a physical line. We found that in brain-damaged subjects with defective leftward orienting, rightward deviation in the bisection of numeric and physical intervals is doubly dissociated. Deviation in numeric interval bisection was associated with prefrontal damage and spatial working memory deficit.
Odors detected by the vomeronasal organ or the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) trigger social behaviors in many animals. It is unknown whether MOE neurons detect cues that initiate mating or aggression. We demonstrate that mice lacking functional CNGA2 (cyclic nucleotide-gated channel alpha2), which is required for odor-evoked MOE signaling, fail to mate or fight, suggesting a broad and essential role for the MOE in regulating these behaviors.
Characterizing the responsiveness of thalamic neurons is crucial to understanding the flow of sensory information. Typically, thalamocortical neurons possess two distinct firing modes. At depolarized membrane potentials, thalamic cells fire single action potentials and faithfully relay synaptic inputs to the cortex. At hyperpolarized potentials, the activation of T-type calcium channels promotes burst firing, and the transfer is less accurate. Our results suggest that this duality no longer holds if synaptic background activity is taken into account. By injecting stochastic conductances into guinea-pig thalamocortical neurons in slices, we show that the transfer function of these neurons is strongly influenced by conductance noise. The combination of synaptic noise with intrinsic properties gives a global responsiveness that is more linear, mixing single-spike and burst responses at all membrane potentials. Because in thalamic neurons, background synaptic input originates mainly from cortex, these results support a determinant role of corticothalamic feedback during sensory information processing.
With an ever-increasing understanding of the brain mechanisms associated with core human attributes and values, there is an increasing public interest in the results of neuroscience research and the ways in which that new knowledge will be used. Here, we present perspectives on engaging the public on these issues on an international scale, the role of the media, and prospects for the new field of neuroethics as both a focus and a driver of these efforts.
The cerebral cortex is the largest and most intricately connected part of the mammalian brain. Its size and complexity has increased during the course of evolution, allowing improvements in old functions and causing the emergence of new ones, such as language. This has expanded the behavioural and cognitive repertoire of different species and has determined their competitive success. To allow the relatively rapid emergence of large evolutionary changes in a structure of such importance and complexity, the mechanisms by which cortical circuitry develops must be flexible and yet robust against changes that could disrupt the normal functions of the networks.
The matrix metalloproteinases and related A disintegrin and metalloproteinase enzymes are implicated in various diseases of the nervous system. However, metalloproteinases are increasingly being recognized as having beneficial roles during nervous system development and following injury. This review discusses general principles that govern the expression of metalloproteinases in the nervous system and their detrimental outcomes. It then focuses on the roles of metalloproteinases and their mechanisms in regulating neurogenesis, myelin formation and axonal growth. It is clear that metalloproteinases are important determinants in enabling recovery from injury to the nervous system.

Cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness are the leading symptoms of narcolepsy. Electrophysiological studies in humans do not show a clear association between cataplexy and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Even a decrement of the H reflex is not specific for cataplexy and may be caused by unspecific triggers such as coughing. Cholinomimetics, which may induce status cataplecticus, do not influence REM sleep, thus evidencing a REM-independent mechanism. Recent studies demonstrate a lack of the neuropeptide hypocretin in the CSF of narcoleptics. Hypocretin controls wakefulness and the motor and autonomous systems. In hypocretin-1 and -2 knockout mice, sudden stops of motor activity could be observed in emotional situations that were accompanied by sudden shifts from wakefulness to REM sleep and could be terminated by application of anticataplectic medication. The lack of hypocretin not only causes a noradrenergic-cholinergic imbalance in the midbrain but also influences motoneurons directly by juxtacellular hypocretin-containing membranes. Intravenous application of hypocretin in a dog with hypocretin deficiency in the CSF caused a dose-dependent decrease of cataplexies. An understanding of the neuronal mechanisms responsible for cataplexies is essential for the development of new anticataplectic medications.
The hippocampus is an important integration center for learning and memory in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and is particularly sensitive and responsive to changes in insulin and glucose concentrations. Insulin administration improves cognitive performance in a variety of physiological and pathophysiological settings, including diabetes phenotypes. Our previous studies demonstrated that hyperglycemia produces behavioral, neuroanatomical and neurochemical changes in the adult rat hippocampus that are indicative of accelerated brain aging. In addition, the trafficking of insulin-sensitive glucose transporters (GLUTs) is impaired in experimental models of diabetes. Such results suggest that insulin receptor (IR) signaling may be disrupted in diabetes phenotypes, although the signaling mechanisms utilized by neurons are not clearly defined. To this end, we have employed in vivo and in vitro approaches to determine the insulin signaling pathways utilized by neurons. These methodologies provide insight into the signaling mechanisms utilized by neuronal IRs and ultimately will allow for determination of the IR signaling deficits that may contribute to accelerated brain aging in the hippocampus of diabetic subjects.
Epinephrine, released from the adrenal medulla, enhances memory in young rats and mice and apparently does so, at least in part, by increasing blood glucose levels. Like epinephrine, administration of glucose enhances cognitive functions in humans and rodents, including reversing age-related impairments in learning and memory. Epinephrine responses to training are increased in aged rats but the subsequent increase in blood glucose levels is severely blunted. The absence of increases in blood glucose levels during training might contribute to age-related deficits in learning and memory. Also, extracellular glucose levels in the hippocampus are depleted during spontaneous alternation testing to a far greater extent in aged than in young rats. Importantly, systemic injections of glucose block the depletion in the hippocampus and also enhance performance on the alternation task. Thus, the extensive depletion of extracellular glucose during training in aged rats may be associated with age-related memory impairments, an effect that might be related to - or may exacerbate - the effects on learning and memory of an absence of the increases in blood glucose levels to training as seen in young rats. Together, these findings suggest that age-related changes in both peripheral and central glucose physiology contribute to age-related impairments in memory.
Promethazine (PMZ) is an FDA-approved antihistaminergic drug that was identified as a potentially neuroprotective compound in the NINDS screening program. PMZ accumulates in brain mitochondria in vivo and inhibits Ca2+-induced mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) in rat liver mitochondria in vitro. We hypothesized that PMZ may have a protective effect in a mitochondrial toxin model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) sustained a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons within the SNpc that was strongly attenuated by PMZ treatment. However, neither striatal MPP+ concentrations nor MPTP-induced inhibition of mitochondrial complex I were affected by PMZ treatment. In isolated mouse brain mitochondria, PMZ partially prevented and reversed MPP+-induced depolarization of membrane potential and inhibited the Ca2+-induced PTP in brain mitochondria. The sum of data indicates that PMZ is a strong neuroprotective agent capable of protecting dopaminergic neurons against MPTP toxicity in vivo.
Our recent transcriptome profiling studies suggest that presenilin 1 (PS1) regulates expression of neural cell adhesion molecule (Ncam1) through p75 neurotrophin receptor. To better understand regulation of Ncam1 transcript and protein levels by p75, we performed a series of in vitro and in vivo experiments. The combined results suggest that p75 receptor is required for both resting and NGF-induced Ncam1 expression. Activation of TrkA receptors alone does not upregulate Ncam1. The normal Ncam1 expression depends on the relative ratio of TrkA and p75 receptors, and p75 extracellular domain is necessary for baseline Ncam1 expression. NGF-induced Ncam1 expression is dependent on the presence of an intact palmitoylation site within p75 receptor. Finally, we show that the expression of Ncam1 is altered in brains of two transgenic mouse lines that express familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-linked PS1 variants, suggesting that expression of dominantly inherited mutant PS1 genes interferes with the normal Ncam1 expression via the p75 signaling pathway.
A lentiviral vector expressing a mutant huntingtin protein (htt171-82Q) was used to generate a chronic model of Huntington's disease (HD) in rat primary striatal cultures. In this model, the majority of neurons expressed the transgene so that Western blot analysis and flow cytometry measurement could complement immunohistological evaluation. Mutant huntingtin produced a slowly progressing pathology characterized after 1 month by the appearance of neuritic aggregates followed by intranuclear inclusions, morphological anomalies of neurites, loss of neurofilament 160, increased expression in stress response protein Hsp70, and later loss of neuronal markers such as NeuN and MAP-2. At 2 months post-infection, a significant increase in TUNEL-positive cells confirmed actual striatal cell loss. Interestingly, cortical cultures infected with the same vector showed no sign of neuronal dysfunction despite accumulation of numerous inclusions. We finally examined whether the trophic factors CNTF and BDNF that were found neuroprotective in acute HD models could prevent striatal degeneration in a chronic model. Results demonstrated that both agents were neuroprotective without modifying inclusion formation. The present study demonstrates that viral vectors coding for mutant htt provides an advantageous system for histological and biochemical analysis of HD pathogenesis in primary striatal cultures.
The present study examines gene delivery to cultured motor neurons (MNs) with the Rabies G protein (RabG)-pseudotyped lentiviral equine infectious anemia virus (RabG.EIAV) vector. RabG.EIAV-mediated beta-galactosidase (RabG.EIAV-LacZ) gene expression in cultured MNs plateaus 120 h after infection. The rate and percent of gene expression observed are titer-dependent (P &lt; 0.001). The rat IGF-I cDNA sequence was then cloned into a RabG.EIAV vector (RabG.EIAV-IGF-I) and was shown to induce IGF-I expression in HEK 293 cells. MNs infected with RabG.EIAV-IGF-I demonstrate enhanced survival compared to MNs infected with RabG.EIAV-LacZ virus (P &lt; 0.01). In addition, IGF-I expression in cultured MNs induced profound MN axonal elongation compared to control virus (P &lt; 0.01). The enhanced motor neuron tropism of RabG.EIAV previously demonstrated in vivo, together with the trophic effects of RabG.EIAV-IGF-I MN gene expression may lend this vector to therapeutic application in motor neuron disease.
The incidence of perinatal stroke is approximately 0.025%. About two thirds of these patients develop long-lasting neurological deficits. Preconditioning-induced neuroprotection, a phenomenon in which application of a stimulus induces brain ischemic tolerance, is investigated to improve outcome after a perinatal stroke. We applied prenatal hypoxia to fetuses by exposing 22-day pregnant mother rats to 15% oxygen for 30 min and subjected newborns with or without this prenatal hypoxia to brain ischemia 48 h later. Newborns with the prenatal hypoxia had a lower mortality rate, less brain tissue and neuronal loss and fewer active caspase 3 (an indicator for cell apoptosis) positive brain cells than newborns with the brain ischemia only. This neuroprotection was abolished by an inhibitor of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). The expression of iNOS proteins but not endothelial and neuronal NOS proteins was increased by the prenatal hypoxia. Thus, the prenatal hypoxia-induced neuroprotection may be iNOS-dependent.
Chronic inflammation is known to play an important role in the heterogeneous pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Activated astrocytes expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) are closely associated with AD pathology, such as tangles, neuritic plaques and amyloid depositions. Altogether, 46 soluble isoforms of GFAP were separated and most of them quantified by two-dimensional immunoblotting in frontal cortices of AD patients and age-matched controls. A 60% increase in the amount of more acidic isoforms of GFAP was observed in AD and these isoforms were both phosphorylated and N-glycosylated, while more basic isoforms were O-glycosylated and exhibited no quantitative differences between post-mortem AD and control brains. These data highlight the importance of exploring isoform-specific levels of proteins in pathophysiological conditions since modifications of proteins determine their activity state, localization, turnover and interaction with other molecules. Mechanisms, structures and functional consequences of modification of GFAP isoforms remain to be clarified.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) prominently inhibits epileptic seizures in different animal models. The NPY receptors mediating this effect remain controversial partially due to lack of highly selective agonists and antagonists. To circumvent this problem, we used various NPY receptor knockout mice with the same genetic background and explored anti-epileptic action of NPY in vitro and in vivo. In Y2 (Y2-/-) and Y5 (Y5-/-) receptor knockouts, NPY partially inhibited 0 Mg2+-induced epileptiform activity in hippocampal slices. In contrast, in double knockouts (Y2Y5-/-), NPY had no effect, suggesting that in the hippocampus in vitro both receptors mediate anti-epileptiform action of NPY in an additive manner. Systemic kainate induced more severe seizures in Y5-/- and Y2Y5-/-, but not in Y2-/- mice, as compared to wild-type mice. Moreover, kainate seizures were aggravated by administration of the Y5 antagonist L-152,804 in wild-type mice. In Y5-/- mice, hippocampal kindling progressed faster, and afterdischarge durations were longer in amygdala, but not in hippocampus, as compared to wild-type controls. Taken together, these data suggest that, in mice, both Y2 and Y5 receptors regulate hippocampal seizures in vitro, while activation of Y5 receptors in extra-hippocampal regions reduces generalized seizures in vivo.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive psychiatric, cognitive, and motor disturbances. We studied the expression of synaptic vesicle proteins in the R6/1 transgenic mouse model of HD. We observed that the levels of rabphilin 3A, a protein involved in exocytosis, is substantially decreased in synapses of most brain regions in R6/1 mice. The appearance of the reduction coincides with the onset of motor deficits and behavioral disturbances. Double immunohistochemistry did not show colocalization between rabphilin 3A and huntingtin aggregates in the HD mice. Using in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that rabphilin 3A mRNA expression was substantially reduced in the R6/1 mouse cortex compared to wild-type mice. Our results indicate that a decrease in mRNA levels underlie the depletion of protein levels of rabphilin 3A, and we suggest that this reduction may be involved in causing impaired synaptic transmission in R6/1 mice.
Mutations in nAChRs are found in a rare form of nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE). Previously, some nAChR mutations have been described that are associated with additional neurological features such as psychiatric disorders or cognitive defects. Here, we report a new CHRNB2 mutation located in transmembrane region 3 (M3), outside the known ADNFLE mutation cluster. The CHRNB2 mutation I312M, which occurred de novo in twins, markedly increases the receptor's sensitivity to acetylcholine. Phenotypically, the mutation is associated not only with typical ADNFLE, but also with distinct deficits in memory. The cognitive problems are most obvious in tasks requiring the organization and storage of verbal information.
We investigated whether cell proliferation and neurogenesis are altered in R6/2 transgenic Huntington's disease mice. Using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), we found a progressive decrease in the number of proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus of R6/2 mice. This reduction was detected in pre-symptomatic mice, and by 11.5 weeks, R6/2 mice had 66% fewer newly born cells in the hippocampus. The results were confirmed by immunohistochemistry for the cell cycle markers Ki-67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). We did not observe changes in cell proliferation in the R6/2 subventricular zone, indicating that the decrease in cell proliferation is specific for the hippocampus. This decrease corresponded to a reduction in actual hippocampal neurogenesis as assessed by double immunostaining for BrdU and the neuronal marker neuronal nuclei (NeuN) and by immunohistochemistry for the neuroblast marker doublecortin. Reduced hippocampal neurogenesis may be a novel neuropathological feature in R6/2 mice that could be assessed when evaluating potential therapies.
The regulation of clusterin expression is poorly characterized although some regulatory elements have been identified, such as CpG-rich methylation domain. Environmental stress, aging, diet and diseases regulate DNA methylation and protein acetylation status but interestingly, the same insults increase clusterin expression in vivo. Our purpose was to elucidate whether histone deacetylase inhibitors, such as TSA, SAHA and M344, as well as an inhibitor of DNA methylation, 5'-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, could regulate the expression of clusterin in cultured neural cells. We observed that histone deacetylase inhibitors induced the expression of clusterin mRNA and protein in all neural cells studied. The induction of clusterin mRNA was blocked by actinomycin D which indicates that TSA regulates clusterin expression at the transcriptional level. An inhibitor of DNA methylation, 5'-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, itself did not affect the expression of clusterin mRNA but strongly potentiated the TSA-induced expression of clusterin. Proteasomal stress (MG-132 and PI-1 treatments) and apoptotic stress (okadaic acid treatment) did not affect clusterin expression which indicates that the induction of clusterin expression requires more specific inducers than cellular stress in general. Furthermore, LPS did not affect clusterin expression in N9 microglia although activated NF-kappaB signaling and IL-6 expression. CAPE and helenalin, inhibitors of NF-kappaB signalling, did not affect the clusterin mRNA expression either in non-treated or in TSA-treated N9 microglia. These observations suggest that clusterin induction is NF-kappaB-independent and unrelated to the inflammatory response in N9 microglia.
Glutamate toxicity has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurological diseases. Glial glutamate transporters play a key role in the regulation of extracellular glutamate levels in the brain by removing glutamate from the extracellular fluid. Since human blood platelets possess an active glutamate uptake system, they have been used as a peripheral model of glutamate transport in the central nervous system (CNS). The present study is aimed at identifying the glutamate transporter on blood platelets, and to asses the influence of platelet activation on glutamate uptake. Platelets from healthy donors showed Na+-dependent glutamate uptake (Km, 3.5+/-0.9 microM; Vmax, 2.8+/-0.2 pmol glutamate/75 x 10(6)platelets/30 min), which could be blocked dose-dependently by the EAAT specific inhibitors DL-threo-E-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA), L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (tPDC) and high concentrations of the EAAT2 inhibitor dihydrokainate (DHK). Analysis of platelet homogenates on Western blots showed EAAT2 as the predominant glutamate transporter. Platelet activation by thrombin caused an increase in glutamate uptake, which could be inhibited by TBOA and the EAAT2 inhibitor DHK. Kinetic analysis showed recruitment of new transporters to the membrane. Indeed, Western blot analysis of subcellular fractions revealed that alpha-granules, which fuse with the membrane upon thrombin stimulation, contained significant EAAT2 immunoreactivity. Inhibition of the second messengers involved in alpha-granule secretion (protein kinase C, phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase) inhibited thrombin-stimulated uptake, but not basal uptake. These data show that the glial EAAT2 is the predominant glutamate transporter on blood platelets and suggest, that thrombin increases glutamate uptake capacity by recruiting new transporters (EAAT2) from alpha-granules.
The Guillain-Barr syndrome, an acute polyradiculonevritis (PRN), usually appears after a post-infectious immuno-allergic reaction. We report a case of acute PRN following cranial surgery. Post-surgical Guillain-barr syndrome is rarely described. We reviewed the pathophysiological mechanisms possibly involved in this disease that have to be evoked in patients with abnormal post-surgical neurological symptoms.
We assessed reproducibility of measurements of rectal compliance and sensation in health in studies conducted at two centres. We estimated samples size necessary to show clinically meaningful changes in future studies. We performed rectal barostat tests three times (day 1, day 1 after 4 h and 14-17 days later) in 34 healthy participants. We measured compliance and pressure thresholds for first sensation, urgency, discomfort and pain using ascending method of limits and symptom ratings for gas, urgency, discomfort and pain during four phasic distensions (12, 24, 36 and 48 mmHg) in random order. Results obtained at the two centres differed minimally. Reproducibility of sensory end points varies with type of sensation, pressure level and method of distension. Pressure threshold for pain and sensory ratings for non-painful sensations at 36 and 48 mmHg distension were most reproducible in the two centres. Sample size calculations suggested that crossover design is preferable in therapeutic trials: for each dose of medication tested, a sample of 21 should be sufficient to demonstrate 30% changes in all sensory thresholds and almost all sensory ratings. We conclude that reproducibility varies with sensation type, pressure level and distension method, but in a two-centre study, differences in observed results of sensation are minimal and pressure threshold for pain and sensory ratings at 36-48 mmHg of distension are reproducible.

Lysosomal free sialic acid storage diseases are recessively inherited allelic neurodegenerative disorders that include Salla disease (SD) and infantile sialic acid storage disease (ISSD) caused by mutations in the SLC17A5 gene encoding for a lysosomal membrane protein, sialin, transporting sialic acid from lysosomes. The classical form of SD, enriched in the Finnish population, is related to the p.R39C designed Salla(FIN) founder mutation. A more severe phenotype is due both to compound heterozygosity for the p.R39C mutation and to different mutations. The p.R39C has not been reported in ISSD. We identified the first case of SD caused by the homozygosity for p.K136E (c.406A&gt;G) mutation, showing a severe clinical picture, as demonstrated by the early age at onset, the degree of motor retardation, the occurrence of peripheral nerve involvement, as well as cerebral hypomyelination. Recently, in vitro functional studies have shown that the p.K136E mutant produces a mislocalization and a reduced activity of the intracellular sialin. We discuss the in vivo phenotypic consequence of the p.K136E in relation to the results obtained by the in vitro functional characterization of the p.K136E mutant. The severity of the clinical picture, in comparison with the classical SD, may be explained by the fact that the p.K136E mutation mislocalizes the protein to a greater degree than p.R39C. On the other hand, the presence of a residual transport activity may account for the absence of hepatosplenomegaly, dysostosis multiplex, and early lethality typical of ISSD and related to the abolished transport activity found in this latter form.
We developed a modern numerical approach to the multivariate linear discrimination of Fisher from 1936 based upon singular value decomposition that is sufficiently stable to permit widespread application to spatiotemporal neuronal patterns. We demonstrate this approach on an old problem in neuroscience--whether seizures have distinct dynamical states as they evolve with time. A practical result was the first demonstration that human seizures have distinct initiation and termination dynamics, an important characterization as we seek to better understand how seizures start and stop. Our approach is broadly applicable to a wide variety of neuronal data, from multichannel EEG or MEG, to sequentially acquired optical imaging data or fMRI.
This article introduces the special issue of NeuroImage focused on social cognitive neuroscience. Social psychology has a rich history of making sense of the often paradoxical aspects of social cognition and the social world. This article reviews the principles, processes, and puzzles of social cognition and behavior that have been examined by social psychologists for decades. Five principles of social cognition and behavior are reviewed including: (1) the power of the situation over behavior, (2) blindness for situational influences, (3) social perception and self-perception are constructive processes, (4) blindness for the constructed nature of social and self-perception, and (5) self-processes are social. Four processes of social cognition are reviewed including: (1) cognitive architecture; (2) automaticity and control; (3) motivated reasoning; and (4) accessibility, frames, and expectations. Finally, five areas of social cognition that contain enduring puzzles are described including (1) the self, (2) attitudes, (3) reflective social cognition, (4) automatic social cognition, and (5) social motives. In several of the areas of study reviewed, cognitive neuroscience is well positioned to make important contributions to these research traditions either by allowing for new tests of hypotheses or by allowing for unobtrusive measurement of social cognitive processes.
We conducted an event-related, functional MRI investigation of 12 male's and 12 female's reasoning about conditional deontic rules, rules regulating people's behavior. We employed two different types of rules: social contracts and nonsocial, precautionary rules. Although the rules and the demands of the task were matched in terms of their logical structure, reasoning about social contracts and precautions activated a different constellation of neurological structures. The regions differentially activated by social contracts included dorsomedial PFC (BA 6/8), bilateral ventrolateral PFC (BA 47), the left angular gyrus (BA 39), and left orbitofrontal cortex (BA 10). The regions differentially activated by precautions included bilateral insula, the left lentiform nucleus, posterior cingulate (BA 29/31), anterior cingulate (BA 24) and right postcentral gyrus (BA 3). Collectively, reasoning about prescriptive rules activated the dorsomedial PFC (BA 6/8). The results reinforce the view that human reasoning is not a unified phenomenon, but is content-sensitive.
In this fMRI study, we investigated the convergence of underlying neural networks in thinking about a scenario involving one's own intentional action and its consequences and setting up and holding in mind an intention to act. A factorial design was employed comprising two factors: i. Causality (intentional or physical events) and ii. Prospective Memory (present or absent). In each condition, subjects answered questions about various hypothetical scenarios, which related either to the link between the subject's own intentions and consequential actions (Intentional Causality) or to the link between a natural, physical event and its consequences (Physical Causality). A prospective memory task was embedded in half the blocks. In this task, subjects were required to keep in mind an intention (to press a key on seeing a red stimulus background) whilst carrying out the ongoing Causality task. Answering questions about intentional causality versus physical causality activated a network of regions that have traditionally been associated with Theory of Mind, including the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), the superior temporal sulcus and the temporal poles bilaterally. In addition, the precuneus bordering with posterior cingulate cortex, an area involved in self-awareness and self-related processing, was activated more when thinking about intentional causality. In the prospective memory task, activations were found in the right parietal cortex, frontopolar cortex (BA 10) and precuneus. Different subregions within the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex were activated in both main effects of intentional causality and prospective memory. Therefore, the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex subserves separately thinking about one's own intentions and consequent actions and bearing in mind an intention to make an action. Previous studies have shown that prospective memory, requiring the formation of an intention and the execution of a corresponding action, is associated with decreased activation in the dorsal mPFC, close to the region activated in Theory of Mind tasks. Here, we found that holding in mind an intention to act and at the same time thinking about an intentional action led to reduced activity in a dorsal section of the mPFC. This was a different region from a more anterior, inferior dorsal mPFC region that responded to intentional causality. This suggests that different regions of mPFC play different roles in thinking about intentions.

We report a 44-year-old woman presenting at 33 years with memory loss, followed by progressive dementia. Her family history was negative for dominant genetic disorders at high penetrance. Analysis of presenilin-1 gene revealed a missense mutation at codon 166, leading to the substitution from leucine to histidine. The mutation occurs in the third transmembrane domain of presenilin-1, at the position of two different mutations previously described, associated with an atypical phenotype. The present case has two implications: (1) mutations of presenilin-1 have to be searched also in apparently sporadic cases of dementia beginning in the third decade of life; (2) as yet unidentified factors, besides the gamma-secretase complex, influence the phenotype of presenilin-1 mutations.
The association between partial seizures and cardiac asystole has rarely been reported in the literature. This potentially life-threatening symptom has been observed principally in left-sided epilepsies, in particular during seizures originating in temporal lobe. We describe a case with ictal bradycardia followed by cardiac asystole during right frontal lobe seizures. Video-EEG monitoring recorded two partial seizures with electro-clinical findings suggestive of a right frontal lobe origin, associated with ictal bradycardia followed by prolonged asystole. The brain MRI showed a lesion located in the cingulate gyrus of the right frontal lobe. The patient required a subsequent placement of a pacemaker. In conclusion, cardiac asystole may be a potentially life-threatening symptom during seizures of frontal lobe origin. The right fronto-mesial structures may play a role in autonomic regulation of cardiovascular responses.
The objective was to report a clinical, pathological and muscle magnetic resonance (MR) study of an Italian family with an autosomal dominant inclusion body myopathy (AD-IBM). Eight subjects (age range 20-56 years; 5 females and 3 males) belonging to four generations were studied. Onset of disturbances (distal weakness at lower limbs) ranged from 20 to 28 years. CK levels were increased to five times. Only in an early stage oedema of involved muscles has been demonstrated by muscle MR. Quadriceps femoris was characteristically spared; in the last phases a mild involvement of the vasti became evident with persistent sparing of the rectus femori. Rimmed vacuoles and hyperphosphorylated tau filaments were evident at muscle biopsy. Linkage analysis excluded the association of the disease to chromosome loci 14q11, 17p13.1, 2p13, 19p13. The study suggests that quadriceps sparing is a characteristic feature also of AD-IBM. This finding could represent a muscle-image hallmark helpful in diagnosis of autosomal dominant muscular disorders.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) are genetically determined neuronal aggregates in the mesencephalon, pons and spinal cord subserving innate motor behaviours essential for survival (feeding, locomotion, reproduction etc.). In higher primates CPGs are largely under neocortical control. We describe how certain motor events observed in parasomnias and epileptic seizures could have similar features and resemble motor behaviours, which can be the expression of the same CPG. Both epilepsy and sleep can lead to a temporary loss of control of neomammalian cortex that facilitates through a common platform (arousal) the emergences of stereotyped inborn fixed action patterns. Therefore we suggest that, independently from the nature of the trigger, be it a seizure or a parasomnia, the same CPGs can be involved, &quot;caught up&quot;, leading to a common motor semiology (the &quot;Carillon theory&quot;).
We report here clinical, electrophysiological, and molecular findings in a family affected with two inherited genetic diseases: limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B) and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP). Members of the family carry a novel missense mutation in the LMNA gene and a nonsense mutation in the PMP22 gene. Interestingly, the double LMNA/PMP22 mutations carriers showed clinical features more severe than usually seen in HNPP, and electrophysiological findings suggesting an axonal loss in addition to a typical myelinopathy. This study provides further insights into the relevance of lamin A/C in muscle and nerve.
Based on quantitative and qualitative studies in a variety of mammalian species, it would appear that a significant portion of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage is associated with transport along cranial and spinal nerves with absorption taking place into lymphatic vessels external to the central nervous system. CSF appears to convect primarily through the cribriform plate into lymphatics associated with the submucosa of the olfactory and respiratory epithelium. However, the significance of this pathway for CSF absorption in primates has never been established unequivocally. In past studies, we infused Microfil into the subarachnoid compartment of numerous species to visualize CSF transport pathways. The success of this method encouraged us to use a similar approach in the non-human primate. Yellow Microfil was injected post mortem into the cisterna magna of 6 years old Barbados green monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops sabeus, n = 6). Macroscopic and microscopic examination revealed that Microfil was (1) distributed throughout the subarachnoid compartment, (2) located in the perineurial spaces associated with the fila olfactoria, (3) present within the olfactory submucosa, and (4) situated within an extensive network of lymphatic vessels in the nasal submucosa, nasal septum and turbinate tissues. We conclude that the Microfil distribution patterns in the monkey were very similar to those observed in many other species suggesting that significant nasal lymphatic uptake of CSF occurs in the non-human primate.
We have used adult rat peripheral nerve avulsion models to evaluate the effects of neuroprotective molecules on motoneuron degeneration. The right facial nerves of adult Fischer 344 male rats were avulsed and adenoviral vectors encoding glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), transforming growth factor-beta2 (TGFbeta2), and growth inhibitory factor (GIF) were injected into the facial canal. The treatment with the vectors significantly prevented the loss of lesioned facial motoneurons, improved choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactivity and suppressed the induction of nitric oxide synthase activity in these neurons. In separate experiments, animals were orally administered a solution of a neuroprotective compound T-588 after avulsion. Both free oral administration and oral tube administration of T-588 improved the survival of injured motoneurons and ameliorated their ChAT immunoreactivity. These results indicate that the gene transfer of GDNF, BDNF, TGFbeta2, and GIF and oral administration of T-588 may prevent the degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with motoneuron injury and motor neuron diseases.
The intracytoplasmic aggregation of alpha-synuclein (alphaS) protein is a common denominator for a group of neurodegenerative disorders currently known as synucleinopathies. It is generally assumed that the incorporation of alphaS protein into compact inclusions compromises the function and viability of its host cell via mechanical disruption. Herein, we report a widespread and abundant alphaS pathology in an elderly subject, whose medical history gave no indication of any neurodegenerative disease. We compared neuronal and glial components in this neurologically unimpaired subject with a patient with a clinical syndrome of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) by using a range of antigenic determinants and an in situ end-labeling technique. We detected no differences in vascular pathologies, in gliosis, or in apoptosis that would have explained the incompatible clinical end-points. With respect to the Alzheimer's disease-related changes, the only differences noted were the beta-amyloid aggregates in the putamen found in the DLB patient alone. Our findings suggest that there must be some currently unidentified factors rather than alphaS-positive inclusions that are responsible for the neuronal dysfunction. The alphaS-positive inclusions may well represent detoxified reserves that cells can tolerate for years, and thus prevention of their development could actually accelerate the diseases process.
Limb-girdle myasthenia is a rare disorder which includes familial and autoimmune forms. Myasthenia gravis is an uncommon disease in children and its diagnosis may be difficult. We report here five cases of autoimmune juvenile LGM starting before the age of 16 years with attention to clinical diagnostic difficulties, evolution, laboratory and instrumental data as well as response to treatment. Diagnosis of limb-girdle myasthenia requires a strong index of suspicion also in childhood. We suggest that this form be suspected in children with unclassifiable myopathy, mostly affecting deltoid muscles and lower extremities.
Recent research in our laboratory has demonstrated that stress activates an endogenous cannabinoid mechanism that suppresses sensitivity to pain [Nature 435 (2005) 1108]. In this work, CB(1) antagonists administered systemically blocked stress-induced analgesia induced by brief, continuous foot-shock. The present studies were conducted to examine the role of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the brainstem rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) and midbrain dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (PAG) in cannabinoid stress-induced analgesia (SIA). Pharmacological blockade of vanilloid TRPV1 receptors with capsazepine, administered systemically, did not alter cannabinoid SIA, suggesting that cannabinoid SIA was not dependent upon TRPV1. Microinjection of the competitive CB(1) antagonist rimonabant (SR141716A) into either the RVM or dorsolateral PAG suppressed stress antinociception in this model. Rimonabant was maximally effective following microinjection into the dorsolateral PAG. The fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor arachidonoyl serotonin (AA-5-HT) was subsequently used to block hydrolysis of endocannabinoids and enhance SIA. Systemic and site-specific injections of AA-5-HT into either the dorsolateral PAG or RVM induced CB(1)-mediated enhancements of SIA. Palmitoyltrifluoromethylketone, a potent inhibitor of FAAH and phospholipase A2 activity, administered systemically, exerted similar effects. In all conditions, the antinociceptive effects of each FAAH inhibitor were completely blocked by coadministration of the CB(1) antagonist rimonabant. The present results provide evidence that a descending cannabinergic neural system is activated by environmental stressors to modulate pain sensitivity in a CB(1)-dependent manner.
The effect of four peptides derived from the C-terminal portion of rat pro-VGF(556-617) (VGF(556-576), VGF(588-617), VGF(599-617), and VGF(588-597)), on penile erection and nitric oxide production in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus was studied in male rats after injecting into this hypothalamic nucleus. VGF(588-617) (0.5, 1 and 2 microg), VGF(599-617) (0.5, 2 and 5 microg) and, to a lower extent, VGF(588-597) (2 and 5 microg) induced penile erection episodes when injected into the paraventricular nucleus and concomitantly increased paraventricular nitric oxide production, while VGF(556-576) (5 microg) was ineffective. VGF(588-617)-induced nitric oxide production was reduced by N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methylester (l-NAME) (20 microg), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, which also reduced penile erection when injected in the paraventricular nucleus 15 min before the VGF peptide. The oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (1 microg) also effectively reduced VGF(588-617)-induced penile erection when given into the lateral ventricles, but not when injected into the paraventricular nucleus. In both experimental conditions, d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)-Orn(8)-vasotocin was unable to influence nitric oxide production in the paraventricular nucleus. The present results confirm that C-terminal pro-VGF-derived peptides induce penile erection when injected into the paraventricular nucleus and show that this effect is mediated by an increased nitric oxide production in this hypothalamic nucleus. Apparently, this causes the activation of paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas and mediating penile erection, as found with dopamine agonists, oxytocin, excitatory amino acids and hexarelin analogue peptides.
The integrity of dynamic actin structures is coupled to a variety of neurological processes. Actin-binding proteins play a critical role in regulating actin structure dynamics. A link between actin-binding proteins and receptor interacting scaffolding proteins may provide a conduit for transmitting signaling events to the cytoskeleton. Actinfilin is a brain-enriched actin-binding protein, though its functions are currently unknown. We report here that actinfilin interacts with the multi-PDZ domain protein CAP70. Recombinant expression of an actin-binding domain of actinfilin progressively causes marked changes of cellular morphology. The effect on cell morphology may be reduced by co-expression with CAP70. Mutation of actinfilin lacking the ability to interact with CAP70 abolished the effect by CAP70. The evidence suggests a role of actinfilin and possible regulation by scaffolding proteins.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) involves direct mechanical damage, which may be aggravated by secondary insults such as ischemia. We utilized an in vitro model of stretch-induced injury to investigate the effects of mechanical and combined mechanical/ischemic insults to cultured mouse cortical cells. Stretch injury alone caused significant neuronal loss and increased uptake of the dye, propidium iodide, suggesting cellular membrane damage to both glia and neurons. Exposure of cultures to ischemic conditions for 24h, or a combination of stretch and 24h of ischemia, caused greater neuronal loss compared to stretch injury alone. Next, we tested the neuroprotective effects of superoxide dismutase (SOD), and the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors 7-nitroindazole (7-NINA) and lubeluzole. In general, these agents decreased neuronal loss following stretch injury alone, but were relatively ineffective against the combined injury paradigm. A combination of SOD with 7-NINA or lubeluzole offered no additional protection than single drug treatment against stretch alone or combined injury. These results suggest that the effects of primary mechanical damage and secondary ischemia to cortical neurons are cumulative, and drugs that scavenge superoxide or reduce NO production may not be effective for treating the secondary ischemia that often accompanies TBI.
Recent experiments from this laboratory demonstrated synergistic locomotor depressant effects of AMPA/kainate receptor blockade and D(2/3) dopamine (DA) receptor stimulation. This study explored functional interactions between DA and glutamate (Glu) systems using the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and the DA receptor agonists 7-OH-DPAT and apomorphine. Using photocell locomotor activity boxes, systemic effects of MK-801 in combination with 7-OH-DPAT (0.03 mgkg(-1) SC, n=8) or a pre-synaptically effective dose of apomorphine (0.05 mgkg(-1) SC, n=6) were measured in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Effects of bilateral applications of MK-801 and 7-OH-DPAT into the nucleus accumbens (NAS) shell subregion were also investigated (n=7). When given alone, MK-801 (0.13 mgkg(-1) or 0.66 microg intra-NAS shell) increased horizontal locomotor activity, while 7-OH-DPAT (0.03 mgkg(-1)) or apomorphine (0.05 mgkg(-1)) decreased this measure. Co-administration of 7-OH-DPAT (systemically or into the NAS shell) completely blocked MK-801 induced hyperactivity. In contrast, MK-801 and apomorphine demonstrated additive effects. Stimulation of D(3) DA receptors may therefore block the hyperactivity induced by NMDA receptor antagonism, and the NAS shell is an important site for this interaction. The differential effects of the DA agonists on hyperactivity induced by NMDA receptor blockade support the proposal that 7-OH-DPAT may induce hypoactivity by stimulation of postsynaptic D(3) DA receptors.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid subtype B (GABA(B)) receptors play an important role in regulating brain reward function. Accumulating evidence suggests that chronic exposure to drugs of abuse may alter GABA(B) receptor function. The present studies investigated whether chronic nicotine administration, using a regimen that induces nicotine dependence, increased inhibitory regulation of brain reward function by GABA(B) receptors, as measured by intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) thresholds in rats. Such an action of nicotine may contribute to the reward deficit observed during nicotine withdrawal. Nicotine-dependent and control rats received the GABA transaminase inhibitor gamma-vinyl-GABA or the GABA(B) receptor agonist CGP44532 according to a within-subjects Latin square design, and ICSS thresholds were assessed post-injection. Systemic administration of the lowest doses of GVG or CGP44532 did not alter reward thresholds in control or nicotine-treated rats, whereas the highest doses of each drug elevated thresholds similarly in both groups. Further, micro-infusion of CGP44532 directly into the ventral tegmental area elevated ICSS thresholds similarly in saline- and nicotine-treated rats. Overall, these data demonstrate that prolonged nicotine exposure did not alter GABA(B) receptor-mediated regulation of brain reward function, and suggest that alterations in GABA(B) receptor activity are unlikely to play a role in the brain reward deficits associated with spontaneous nicotine withdrawal.
Mentalisation is one of the key elements of social cognition. There is an increasing interest in influencing social cognition in schizophrenia research. The neuroanatomy of mentalisation is fairly well-known. Dopamine and serotonin systems have important role in the regulation of mentalisation. Second generation antipsychotics are suggested to influence the deficits in mentalisation through modulation of dopamine system. Psychosocial interventions seem to effectively remediate impaired mentalisation as well.

A polymorphism of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1, 10-repeat) is associated with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and has been linked to an enhanced response to methylphenidate (MPH). One aspect of the attention deficit in ADHD includes a subtle inattention to left space, resembling that seen after right cerebral hemisphere damage. Since left-sided inattention in ADHD may resolve when treated with MPH, we asked whether left-sided inattention in ADHD was related to DAT1 genotype and the therapeutic efficacy of MPH. A total of 43 ADHD children and their parents were genotyped for the DAT1 3' variable number of tandem repeats polymorphism. The children performed the Landmark Test, a well-validated measure yielding a spatial attentional asymmetry index (leftward to rightward attentional bias). Parents rated their child's response to MPH retrospectively using a three-point scale (no, mediocre or very good response). Additionally, parents used a symptom checklist to rate behavior while on and off medication. A within-family control design determined whether asymmetry indices predicted biased transmission of 10-repeat parental DAT1 alleles and/or response to MPH. It was found that left-sided inattention predicted transmission of the 10-repeat allele from parents to probands and was associated with the severity of ADHD symptomatology. Children rated as achieving a very good response to MPH displayed left-sided inattention, while those rated as achieving a poorer response did not. Our results suggest a subgroup of children with ADHD for whom the 10-repeat DAT1 allele is associated with left-sided inattention. MPH may be most efficacious in this group because it ameliorates a DAT1-mediated hypodopaminergic state.
The brain synaptic vesicular amine transporter SLCA18A2 is a key component for the uptake of monoamines like dopamine or serotonin into vesicles. We have analyzed seven DNA polymorphisms located in the genomic region of SLC18A2 for association with alcohol- and nicotine dependence, using a family-based design. Our sample comprised 131 families with alcohol-dependent offspring and 96 families with at least one nicotine-dependent offspring. For the alcohol-dependent sample, we found statistical significant association for two single markers (rs363387, P=0.03; rs363333, P=0.0066) as well as for several haplotypes (minimal P=0.0038). When the sample with alcohol dependence was stratified according to gender, we observed increased association for the male subgroup (rs363387, P=0.0011). None of the markers showed association in the sample of families with nicotine dependence. However, analysis of a combined sample of alcohol and nicotine-dependent families resulted in single markers as well as several haplotypes showing statistical significant association with substance dependence (minimal P=0.0044). We conclude that DNA polymorphisms located in SLC18A2 might contribute to the development of substance dependence.
Antagonists at serotonin type 6 (5-HT(6)) receptors show activity in models of learning and memory. Although the underlying mechanism(s) are not well understood, these effects may involve an increase in acetylcholine (ACh) levels. The present study sought to characterize the cognitive-enhancing effects of the 5-HT(6) antagonist Ro4368554 (3-benzenesulfonyl-7-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)1H-indole) in a rat object recognition task employing a cholinergic (scopolamine pretreatment) and a serotonergic- (tryptophan (TRP) depletion) deficient model, and compared its pattern of action with that of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor metrifonate. Initial testing in a time-dependent forgetting task employing a 24-h delay between training and testing showed that metrifonate improved object recognition (at 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.), whereas Ro4368554 was inactive. Both, Ro4368554 (3 and 10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) and metrifonate (10 mg/kg, p.o., respectively) reversed memory deficits induced by scopolamine and TRP depletion (10 mg/kg, i.p., and 3 mg/kg, p.o., respectively). In conclusion, although Ro4368554 did not improve a time-related retention deficit, it reversed a cholinergic and a serotonergic memory deficit, suggesting that both mechanisms may be involved in the facilitation of object memory by Ro4368554 and, possibly, other 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists.
We have shown previously that adaptation of horizontal saccades exerts facilitating effects on subsequent adaptation of saccades in the same direction. Now we investigated the effect on saccades in different directions. A series of three alternating gain changes was induced by intrasaccadic step (ISS) of the target in two monkeys. The gain of saccades to horizontal or vertical target steps was decreased by backward ISS (conditioning). Then, we used forward ISS to increase their gain back to approximately 1.0. Finally, we induced a gain decrease for saccades to oblique target steps with backward ISS. We analyzed dependency of test adaptation rates on the direction of conditioning saccades. The rate of adaptation of the horizontal component of oblique saccades was significantly larger when conditioned with horizontal saccade adaptation than with vertical saccade adaptation. The rate for the vertical component did not show such differences. Following horizontal saccade adaptation, the horizontal component adapted faster than the vertical component. After vertical saccade adaptation, the vertical component tended to adapt at higher rates. Taken together, the results indicate that horizontal saccade adaptation exerts a facilitating effect on subsequent adaptation of the horizontal component of oblique saccades.








There is now compelling evidence that both normal puberty and disturbed pubertal development of central origin are, to a significant extent, determined by genetic factors. Although delayed sexual development can result from a deficient pituitary responsiveness to GnRH caused by mutations in the GnRH receptor gene, until recently the only genetically determined hypothalamic defects known to affect puberty were those caused by mutations in genes required for the migration of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, such as KAL1, FGFR1, and NELF. Recently, mutations in a gene termed GPR54 were identified as causing isolated hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (IHH), due to a functional, instead of a structural hypothalamic defect. Studies in nonhuman primates and rodent models suggest that the functional integrity of the hypothalamic mechanism controlling puberty requires a gene network that includes GPR54. Altogether, these findings indicate that the genetic underpinnings of disturbed pubertal development of central origin are polygenic, rather than specified by a single gene.

The gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) has been implicated in the modulation of emotionally-motivated memory. In the present study, we investigated the role of the GRPR on non-emotional, non-associative memory, and anxiety. Adult male Wistar rats were given a systemic injection of the GRPR antagonist [D-Tpi6, Leu(13) psi(CH2NH)-Leu14] bombesin (6-14) (RC-3095) (0.2, 1.0 or 5.0mg/kg) 30 min before exposure to an open field or an elevated plus maze. Habituation to the open field was tested in a retention trial carried out 24 h after the first exposure to the open field. Rats given RC-3095 at the doses of 1.0 or 5.0mg/kg showed impaired habituation. Animals treated with 5.0mg/kg of RC-3095 spent significantly more time in the closed arms of the elevated plus maze. No effects of RC-3095 on locomotion or exploratory behavior were observed. The results implicate the GRPR in the regulation of non-emotional, non-associative memory as well as in anxiety.
The rodent cerebellum is richly supplied with PACAPergic innervation. Exogenous pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) increases cerebellar granule cell survival and differentiation in culture, and enhances the number of neuroblasts in the molecular and internal granule cell layers (IGL) when injected postnatally into the cerebellum in vivo. Here, we have investigated the role of endogenous PACAP during cerebellar development by comparing the morphology of normal and PACAP-deficient mouse cerebellum, and the response of cerebellar granule cells from normal and PACAP-deficient mice subjected to neurotoxic insult in culture. There was no difference in cerebellar volume or granule cell number, in 11-day-old wild type versus PACAP-deficient mice. Cultured cerebellar neurons from PACAP-deficient and wild type mice also showed no apparent differences in survival and differentiation either under depolarizing conditions, or non-depolarizing conditions in the presence or absence of either dibutyryl cAMP or 100 nM PACAP. However, cultured cerebellar neurons from PACAP-deficient mice were significantly more sensitive than wild type neurons to ethanol- or hydrogen peroxide-induced toxicity. Differential ethanol toxicity was reversed by addition of 100 nM exogenous PACAP, suggesting that endogenous PACAP has neuroprotective activity in the context of cellular insult or stress. The neuroprotective action of PACAP was mimicked by dibutryl cAMP, indicating that it occurred via activation of adenylate cyclase. These results indicate that PACAP might act to protect the brain from paraphysiological insult, including exposure to toxins or hypoxia.
The effects of morphine on the gene expression of prepro-nociceptin/orphanin FQ (ppN/OFQ) in various primary cultured brain cells from embryonic day 17, rats were studied by use of real-time RT-PCR method. The basal level of ppN/OFQ mRNA in terms of ratio to the beta-actin in astrocytes was equivalent to that in neurons, but 10-times higher than that in microglia. The addition of 1 microM morphine significantly enhanced the ppN/OFQ mRNA levels in cultured astrocytes, but not neurons or microglia. The enhancement was observed as early as 1h after the addition of morphine, reached maximum at 6h. There was a concentration-dependency between 30 nM to 1 microM. The morphine-induced enhancement was abolished by naloxone, an antagonist of mu opioid peptide receptor (MOP), wortmannin, a phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, and PD98059, a MEK inhibitor, but not by 1,10-phenanthroline, a metalloprotease inhibitor and U73122, a phospholipase C inhibitor. These profiles contrast to the data with morphine-induced enhancement of brain-derived growth factor (BDNF) gene expression in microglia, where 1,10-phenanthroline abolished the expression. Furthermore, the ELISA analysis revealed that the immunoreactive ppN/OFQ or N/OFQ level was also increased by morphine. The present findings suggest that astrocytes could play roles in the neuronal plasticity during morphine chronic treatments by enhancing gene expression of anti-opioid peptide, N/OFQ.
We tested the hypothesis that leptin acts centrally to differentially modulate the ultradian communication of leptin, insulin and ghrelin with the hypothalamus. The ultradian fluctuation of these hormones in plasma after central leptin gene therapy was analyzed. Increased leptin transgene expression in the hypothalamus significantly decreased energy intake and body weight concomitant with severe hypoleptinemia and hypoinsulinemia resulting from drastically suppressed peak heights with unchanged frequency discharge of these hormones. Ghrelin secretion was, however, increased solely due to increased pulse amplitude. In pair-fed control rats leptin and ghrelin secretion was unchanged. In conclusion, independent of restraint on caloric intake and weight, leptin acting centrally modulates only the pulse amplitude of ultradian rhythmicity of the three afferent signals involved in the hypothalamic integration of energy balance. Since rhythmic discharge patterns dictate target response of hormones, these findings reveal a novel hypothalamic action of leptin in the pathophysiology of the obesity-dependent metabolic syndrome.
A swelling-activated, background K(+) current in the corneal epithelium is characteristically activated by fenamates and inhibited by diltiazem. Fatty acids also stimulate this current, indicating that its origin is a lipid-sensitive mechano-gated 2P domain K(+) channel. In the present study, modulation of TREK-1, TREK-2, and TRAAK channels by fenamates and diltiazem was examined. TREK-1, TREK-2, and TRAAK currents transiently expressed in COS-7 cells were recorded by the perforated-patch configuration. As previously reported, arachidonic acid (20 microM) stimulated all of these channels, and a volatile anesthetic, halothane (1 mM) augmented TREK-1 and TREK-2 but not TRAAK. Flufenamic acid (FA, 100 microM), niflumic acid (NA, 100 microM), and mefenamic acid (MA, 100 microM) markedly stimulated TREK-1, TREK-2, and TRAAK. The potency sequence for the activation of TREK-1 and TREK-2 was FA &gt; NA = MA, and the potency sequence for the activation of TRAAK was FA = NA &gt; MA. Diltiazem (1 mM) inhibited TREK-1 and TREK-2, but not TRAAK. In conclusion, fenamates are openers of the lipid-sensitive mechano-gated 2P domain K(+) channels, and diltiazem may be a specific blocker for TREK. These novel findings could help to further understand channel functions of the mechano-gated 2P domain K(+) channels.
The non-selective dopamine (DA) D(3) partial agonist BP 897 influenced rats' seeking behavior induced by cocaine-associated cues but there are contradictions about its ability to modulate cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), and mechanisms involved. We therefore re-evaluated its activity on both acquisition and expression of these behaviors, taking into consideration the actual brain concentrations of unchanged drug and its potential active metabolite 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-piperazine (oOCH(3)PP), as well as its negative motivational properties. BP 897 induced conditioned place aversion (CPA) at 3 mg/kg, but not at 0.3 and 1 mg/kg. However, in this range of amply spaced doses BP 897 did not affect the acquisition and expression of cocaine (10 mg/kg i.p.) CPP in rats, although its brain concentrations were well above those affecting in vitro D(3) receptors. Concentrations of oOCH(3)PP were below the limits of quantification of the analytical procedure. As concerns the expression behavior, its structurally and pharmacologically related derivative N-[4-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl]butyl]benzo[b]furan-2-carboxamide (1 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.) also had no such effect. By contrast, the selective D(3) receptor antagonist SB-277011-A (3 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized the expression of cocaine-induced CPP, supporting the suggestion that &quot;full&quot; antagonist activity at D(3) receptors is necessary to prevent 10 mg/kg cocaine-induced place conditioning in free-feeding rats.
Studies of the effects of nicotine (NIC) on meal patterns in rats often employ chow pellet diets that contain little fat, whereas humans using NIC commonly consume diets relatively rich in fat. The aim of the present study was therefore to compare the impact of NIC administration and NIC cessation on meal pattern in adult male rats offered a standard powdered chow (CHOW: 10.9% fat by calories) diet or a palatable high-fat (HIFAT: 58.3% fat by calories) diet. Computerized meal pattern analyses were conducted for male rats treated for 14 days with injections of either saline or 1.4 mg/kg/day of NIC (as the free base given in 5 equal amounts) during the dark phase and continued for 10 days after NIC cessation. The suppression of daily caloric intake by NIC was larger in HIFAT-NIC rats than in CHOW-NIC rats (p &lt; .01), such that NIC induced a greater suppression of body weight in HIFAT-NIC rats, relative to CHOW-NIC rats (p &lt; 0.02). NIC administration reduced MS in both CHOW and HIFAT rats. CHOW fed rats showed a gradual increase in meal number in response to NIC, whereas HIFAT fed rats showed a significant initial suppression of meal number, which returned to control levels by day 4 of the 14 day NIC treatment period. In addition, NIC increased water intake more in HIFAT fed rats than in CHOW rats. Cessation of NIC resulted in transient increases in daily caloric intake in CHOW and in HIFAT rats. The present study demonstrates that NIC actions on food intake suppression, meal patterns, and weight reduction differ depending on whether the rats are fed low- or high-fat diets.
Combined treatments with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and antibiotics may offer significant benefits in the prevention of pain and infections associated with oral surgery. In this study, piroxicam and azithromycin were administered to patients undergoing dental extraction to examine the efficacy of piroxicam in the prevention of post-operative pain and inflammatory complications, either in the absence or in the presence of a concomitant antibiotic treatment. Thirty patients were randomly assigned to three groups and treated for 3 days, before impacted lower third molar removal, as follows: (1) sublingual piroxicam-FDDF (fast dissolving dosage formulation) 20 mg/day; (2) oral azithromycin 500 mg/day; (3) piroxicam-FDDF 20 mg/day plus azithromycin 500 mg/day. Oral acetaminophen (500 mg tablets) was allowed as rescue analgesic medication. Pain intensity was evaluated on a 100-mm visual-analogue scale after dental extraction (day 1), and at days 2, 3, 7 after surgery. Edema and trismus were estimated at days 2 and 7. At days 1 and 2, pain intensity was significantly lower in patients treated with piroxicam-FDDF, either alone (p &lt; 0.05) or in combination with azithromycin (p &lt; 0.05), than in patients administered with azithromycin alone. A higher acetaminophen consumption was also recorded in the latter group (p &lt; 0.01). Pain intensity values did not differ among treatment groups at days 3 and 7. At day 2, the facial edema was significantly less intense in patients exposed to piroxicam-FDDF alone, as compared to patients treated with azithromycin, either alone (p &lt; 0.05) or in combination with piroxicam-FDDF (p &lt; 0.05). No significant differences were detected when comparing groups for trismus at days 2 and 7. The present results indicate that, when given alone in the pre-operative period, piroxicam-FDDF effectively counteracts post-surgical pain and inflammatory reactions in oral tissues. Upon combined treatment with piroxicam-FDDF and azithromycin, the macrolide antibiotic may reduce the influence of piroxicam on post-operative inflammation, without affecting its beneficial effect on surgical pain.
The Bak-Sneppen model displaying punctuated equilibria in biological evolution is studied on random complex networks. By using the rate equation and the random walk approaches, we obtain the analytic solution of the fitness threshold xc to be 1/((k)f+1), where (k)f=(k2)/(k) (=(k)) in the quenched (annealed) updating case, where kn is the nth moment of the degree distribution. Thus, the threshold is zero (finite) for the degree exponent gamma&lt;3 (gamma&gt;3) for the quenched case in the thermodynamic limit. The theoretical value xc fits well to the numerical simulation data in the annealed case only. Avalanche size, defined as the duration of successive mutations below the threshold, exhibits a critical behavior as its distribution follows a power law, Pa(s) approximately s(-3/2).
We investigate equilibrium properties of small world networks, in which both connectivity and spin variables are dynamic, using replicated transfer matrices within the replica symmetric approximation. Population dynamics techniques allow us to examine the order parameters of our system at total equilibrium, probing both spin and graph statistics. Of these, interestingly, the degree distribution is found to acquire a Poisson-like form (both within and outside the ordered phase). Comparison with Glauber simulations confirms our results satisfactorily.
The perception of the size and shape of one's body (body image) is a fundamental aspect of how we experience ourselves. We studied the neural correlates underlying perceived changes in the relative size of body parts by using a perceptual illusion in which participants felt that their waist was shrinking. We scanned the brains of the participants using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We found that activity in the cortices lining the left postcentral sulcus and the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus reflected the illusion of waist shrinking, and that this activity was correlated with the reported degree of shrinking. These results suggest that the perceived changes in the size and shape of body parts are mediated by hierarchically higher-order somatosensory areas in the parietal cortex. Based on this finding we suggest that relative size of body parts is computed by the integration of more elementary somatic signals from different body segments.
Decision-making requires the coordinated activity of diverse brain structures. For example, in maze-based tasks, the prefrontal cortex must integrate spatial information encoded in the hippocampus with mnemonic information concerning route and task rules in order to direct behavior appropriately. Using simultaneous tetrode recordings from CA1 of the rat hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex, we show that correlated firing in the two structures is selectively enhanced during behavior that recruits spatial working memory, allowing the integration of hippocampal spatial information into a broader, decision-making network. The increased correlations are paralleled by enhanced coupling of the two structures in the 4- to 12-Hz theta-frequency range. Thus the coordination of theta rhythms may constitute a general mechanism through which the relative timing of disparate neural activities can be controlled, allowing specialized brain structures to both encode information independently and to interact selectively according to current behavioral demands.

We wished to test independently a previously reported loss of subicular microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) in the brains of deceased individuals who had suffered from schizophrenia, and to determine whether there were any clinical characteristics attached to such a loss. Immunohistochemistry for MAP2 was examined in the hippocampal region from 94 psychiatric patients: 64 with a primary diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, 12 with a primary diagnosis of major depressive or bipolar disorders, and 18 with a primary diagnosis of dementia; and from 17 individuals without psychiatric disease. Lifelong symptomatology was evaluated with the modified Diagnostic Evaluation After Death. Subicular MAP2 immunoreactivity was prominently depressed in 20% of schizophrenia cases, 8% of mood disorder cases, 22% of dementia cases, and in no nonpsychiatric cases. Among dementia cases, those with loss of subicular MAP2 immunoreactivity displayed more subicular gliosis, while among the schizophrenia cases, there was no such association. Among schizophrenia subjects, loss of subicular MAP2 immunoreactivity was associated with fewer positive and negative symptoms over the course of the illness. Subicular MAP2 immunoreactivity is markedly diminished in a significant proportion of individuals chronically institutionalized for schizophrenia, and this does not represent a generalized destruction of subicular neurons. In contrast, among individuals institutionalized for dementia, loss of subicular MAP2 immunoreactivity is accompanied by gliosis. The loss of MAP2 immunoreactivity is associated with fewer clinical symptoms, suggesting that it may represent an adaptive response to schizophrenia. The chemical or structural abnormalities underlying decreased MAP2 immunoreactivity in schizophrenia remain to be determined.
The protooncogene c-fos is rapidly activated after noxious stimuli to express the protein Fos in spinal dorsal horn neurons that are in the 'correct' locations for nociceptive information transfer. As such, therefore, mapping Fos expression in these neurons is at present the best global marker for efficiently locating populations of neurons in the awake animal that respond to nociceptive input. This allows, among other things, precise behavioral measurements to be correlated with Fos expression. Two arenas where mapping dorsal horn Fos expression has made a major impact are in the anatomy of nociceptive systems and as a useful assay for the analgesic properties of various therapeutic regimens. Also Fos expression is the only way to map populations of neurons that are responding to non-localized input such as withdrawal after addiction and vascular occlusion. Another insight is that it shows a clear activation of neurons in superficial 'pain-processing' laminae by innocuous stimuli after nerve lesions, a finding that presumably bears on the allodynia that often accompanies these lesions. It is to be understood, however, that the Fos localizations are not sufficient unto themselves, but the major function of these studies is to efficiently locate populations of cells in nociceptive pathways so that powerful anatomic and physiologic techniques can be brought to bear efficiently. Thus, the purpose of this review is to summarize the studies whose numbers are geometrically expanding that deal with Fos in the dorsal horn and the conclusions therefrom.
Unraveling the pathways and neurobiological mechanisms that underlie the regulation of physical and emotional stress responses in humans is of critical importance to understand vulnerability and resiliency factors to the development of a number of complex physical and psychopathological states. Dysregulation of central stress response circuits have been implicated in the establishment of conditions as diverse as persistent pain, mood and personality disorders and substance abuse and dependence. The present review examines the contribution of the endogenous opioid system and mu-opioid receptors to the modulation and adaptation of the organism to challenges, such as sustained pain and negative emotional states, which threaten its internal homeostasis. Data accumulated in animal models, and more recently in humans, point to this neurotransmitter system as a critical modulator of the transition from acute (warning signals) to sustained (stressor) environmental adversity. The existence of pathways and regulatory mechanisms common to the regulation of both physical and emotional states transcend classical categorical disease classifications, and point to the need to utilize dimensional, &quot;symptom&quot;-related approximations to their study. Possible future areas of study at the interface of &quot;mind&quot; (cognitive-emotional) and &quot;body&quot; (physical) functions are delineated in this context.
The brain noradrenergic system is activated by acute stress. The post-synaptic effects of norepinephrine (NE), exerted at a cellular or neural circuit level, have been described as modulatory in nature, as NE facilitates responses evoked in target cells by both excitatory and inhibitory afferent input. Over the past few years, we have undertaken a series of studies to understand how these cellular modulatory effects of NE, elicited by acute stress, might translate into modulation of the behavioral-affective components of the whole-animal response to stress. Using microdialysis, we have demonstrated that acute immobilization stress activates NE release in a number of stress-related limbic forebrain target regions, such as the central and medial amygdala, lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial prefrontal cortex, and lateral septum. Using microinjections of adrenergic antagonist drugs directly into these regions, we have shown that this stress-induced release of NE facilitates a number of anxiety-like behavioral responses that are mediated in these regions, including stress-induced reduction of open-arm exploration on the elevated plus-maze, stress-induced reduction of social interaction behavior, and activation of defensive burying behavior by contact with an electrified probe. Dysregulation of the brain noradrenergic system may be a factor in determining vulnerability to stress-related pathology, or in the interaction of genetic vulnerability and environmental sensitization. Compared to outbred Sprague-Dawley rats, we have shown that the modulatory effect of NE is deficient in Wistar-Kyoto rats, which also exhibit attenuated behavioral reactivity to acute stress, as well as increased vulnerability to stress-induced gastric ulcers and exaggerated activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) stress axis. Further, repeated exposure to mild intermittent cold stress resulted in a much greater sensitization of both the brain noradrenergic system and the HPA axis in Wistar-Kyoto rats compared to Sprague-Dawley rats. The recruitment of a robust noradrenergic facilitatory influence following repeated cold exposure in this previously deficient strain resulted in an aberrant HPA response, which may be illustrative of the kinds of neurobiological changes that may contribute to the development of stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, or other anxiety disorders in predisposed or susceptible individuals. On the other side of the same issue, regulatory alterations in noradrenergic neurotransmission, or in the stress-modulatory functions of NE, may be important in the behavioral effects of chronic antidepressant drug treatment. We present recent preliminary results addressing the effects of chronic treatment with the selective NE reuptake inhibitor, desipramine, on acute behavioral reactivity to stress. A better understanding of the role of NE in adaptive responses to acute stress, the pathological consequences of prolonged, repeated or severe stress, and the mechanisms of action of drugs used to treat stress-related diseases, may contribute to the future development of more effective strategies for the treatment or even prevention of such disorders.
A 50-year-old man presented with worsening, virtually lifelong, chorea and progressive behavioural disturbance, involving disinhibition and hoarding, over 10 years. Clinical assessment revealed chorea, dysarthria, areflexia, an inappropriately jovial, impulsive manner and neuropsychological evidence of frontosubcortical dysfunction. Investigation results included an elevated creatine kinase, caudate atrophy and hypoperfusion, acanthocytes in the peripheral blood and the McLeod phenotype. DNA studies demonstrated a single-base deletion at position 172 in exon 1 of the XK gene, giving rise to a premature stop codon at position 129 in exon 2.

Little is known about researchers' understanding of confidence intervals (CIs) and standard error (SE) bars. Authors of journal articles in psychology, behavioral neuroscience, and medicine were invited to visit a Web site where they adjusted a figure until they judged 2 means, with error bars, to be just statistically significantly different (p &lt; .05). Results from 473 respondents suggest that many leading researchers have severe misconceptions about how error bars relate to statistical significance, do not adequately distinguish CIs and SE bars, and do not appreciate the importance of whether the 2 means are independent or come from a repeated measures design. Better guidelines for researchers and less ambiguous graphical conventions are needed before the advantages of CIs for research communication can be realized.
The search to understand response to trauma has turned to the contribution of personality factors. The way people process the stressor event is critical in determining whether a trauma will be configured or not. Neuroscience shows that the brain does not store memories, but traces of information that are later used to create memories, which do not always express a completely factual picture of the past experience. Whenever an event is retrieved, it may undergo a cognitive and emotional change. Psychological dynamics--emotional interpretative tendency that affects the internal dialogue related to a meaningful event--may influence the development of positive or negative outcomes after stressor events. We postulate that therapists must see beyond the traumatic event itself and work with the internal dialogues that maintain the pathological relationship with the past episode. Thus, they may better treat traumatized patients by therapeutically rebuilding the memory. A brief clinical case is presented to show how exposure-based and cognitive restructuring therapy may help trauma victims experience psychological growth from their negative experiences, by fostering healthy psychological dynamics.
Findings from a complex decision-making task (the Iowa gambling task) show that individuals with neuropsychological disorders are characterized by decision-making deficits that lead to maladaptive risk-taking behavior. This article describes a cognitive model that distills performance in this task into three different underlying psychological components: the relative impact of rewards and punishments on evaluations of options, the rate that the contingent payoffs are learned, and the consistency between learning and responding. Findings from 10 studies are organized by distilling the observed decision deficits into the three basic components and locating the neuropsychological disorders in this component space. The results reveal a cluster of populations characterized by making risky choices despite high attention to losses, perhaps because of difficulties in creating emotive representations. These findings demonstrate the potential contribution of cognitive models in building bridges between neuroscience and behavior.
We report here a novel and counterintuitive effect of distraction on routine sequential action. The effect, predicted by a recent computational model of sequential behavior, relates to the tendency for a momentary distraction, such as a brief interruption, to lead to subsequent slips of action. The specific prediction is that errors should be more likely following a distraction occurring toward the middle of a subtask sequence than following a distraction occurring at the end of a subtask. This was tested and confirmed in an experiment involving repeated performance of an everyday task (coffee making) under conditions involving frequent interruption. The observed effect provides differential support for existing models of sequential behavior and offers a highly constraining benchmark for future theories.






Apoptosis is a major cause of cell death in the nervous system. It plays a role in embryonic and early postnatal brain development and contributes to the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we report that activation of the P2X(7) nucleotide receptor (P2X(7)R) in rat primary cortical neurons (rPCNs) causes biochemical (i.e., caspase activation) and morphological (i.e., nuclear condensation and DNA fragmentation) changes characteristic of apoptotic cell death. Caspase-3 activation and DNA fragmentation in rPCNs induced by the P2X(7)R agonist BzATP were inhibited by the P2X(7)R antagonist oxidized ATP (oATP) or by pre-treatment of cells with P2X(7)R antisense oligonucleotide indicating a direct involvement of the P2X(7)R in nucleotide-induced neuronal cell death. Moreover, Z-DEVD-FMK, a specific and irreversible cell permeable inhibitor of caspase-3, prevented BzATP-induced apoptosis in rPCNs. In addition, a specific caspase-8 inhibitor, Ac-IETD-CHO, significantly attenuated BzATP-induced caspase-9 and caspase-3 activation, suggesting that P2X(7)R-mediated apoptosis in rPCNs occurs primarily through an intrinsic caspase-8/9/3 activation pathway. BzATP also induced the activation of C-jun N-terminal kinase 1 (JNK1) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) in rPCNs, and pharmacological inhibition of either JNK1 or ERK1/2 significantly reduced caspase activation by BzATP. Taken together, these data indicate that extracellular nucleotides mediate neuronal apoptosis through activation of P2X(7)Rs and their downstream signaling pathways involving JNK1, ERK and caspases 8/9/3.
Extracellular ATP enhances the mitogenic activity of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) in astrocytes, but the molecular mechanism underlying this synergistic interaction is not known. To determine whether the potentiating effect of extracellular ATP involves cell cycle control mechanisms, we have measured the expression of cyclins that are induced in different phases of the cell cycle in primary cultures of rat cortical astrocytes. We found that ATP potentiated the ability of FGF2 to stimulate expression of cyclin D1, a regulator of cell cycle entry, as well as cyclin A, a regulator of DNA replication. Because FGF2 and P2 purinergic receptors are coupled to extracellular signal regulated protein kinase (ERK), a key member of a signaling cascade that regulates proliferation, we also investigated the role of ERK in regulating cyclin expression induced by FGF2 and ATP. We found that the potentiating effect of ATP on cyclin expression was significantly reduced by U0126, an inhibitor of MEK, the upstream activator of ERK. P2 receptor agonist studies revealed that UTP enhanced FGF2-induced cyclin expression and mitogenesis whereas 2-methylthioADP was ineffective. By contrast, 2',3'-O-(4-benzoyl)-benzoyl-ATP markedly inhibited FGF2-induced mitogenesis. Consistent with opposing effects of P2Y and P2X receptors on mitogenesis, UTP stimulated a transient activation of ERK whereas BzATP stimulated a more sustained ERK signal. These findings suggest that signaling by P2Y receptors, most likely of the purine/pyrimidine subtype, enhance the ability of FGF2 to stimulate entry into a new cell cycle, as well as DNA replication, by an ERK-dependent mechanism, whereas signaling by P2X receptors, possibly the P2X7 subtype, inhibits FGF2-induced mitogenesis in astrocytes. Interactions between P2Y, P2X and polypeptide growth factor signaling pathways may have important implications for CNS development as well as injury and repair.
Several factors appear to be associated with multiple sclerosis (MS), and each has a postulated immune or environmental explanation, but a common theme is lacking. This article suggests that a unifying premise could be risk-associated behaviour. Evidence is reviewed for associations with smoking, alcohol, recreational drug use, oral contraception, cholesterol intake, risk attitude and behaviour, ultraviolet light and vitamin D exposure, frequency of MS in healthy societies, and viral infection. The evidence associated with smoking, not taking vitamin D supplements and Epstein-Barr viral infection appears good. There may be a pattern of risk-associated behaviour that characterizes patients with MS and brings them into contact with one or more causative agents. Of the possible agents, viral infection seems the most likely.



The aim of this study was to explore how people suffering from long-term mental illness and who live in the community experience their daily lives. The study was based on an ethnographic framework involving participant observations with 23 individuals from two rehabilitation centres and interviews with six women and two men. The observational notes and interviews were recorded, transcribed into the data and analysed based on the phases of hermeneutic interpretation. The process consisted of identifying tentative interpretations that highlighted various impediments that prevent people with long-term mental illness from having an active life. The impediments can also be interpreted as a form of alienation, an interpersonal phenomenon and a consequence due to of the lack of social acceptance towards mental illness. The participants expressed concern about the future and lack of hope. Viewing themselves as being 'odd' is not a symptom of mental illness, but rather evidence of experiencing existential and social alienation not only as a consequence of other people's reactions but also their own negative attitudes towards mental illness and effects of their cognitive dysfunction.

Cognitive dysfunctions (as in memory, attention and executive function) have been recognized as fundamental features of schizophrenia. Executive dysfunction is a major obstacle to functional outcome, community functioning and rehabilitation success and it is crucial to assess the effects of so-called neuroleptic (NLP) medications in this domain of cognitive functioning. Risperidone, an atypical NLP, has been reported to improve executive function in schizophrenia (SZ), but there is controversy regarding these findings. The aim of the current study was to assess the differential effects of risperidone (2-6 mg) and conventional (2-40 mg haloperidol) NLPs on executive skills in 31 individuals with SZ over a 12-month period. The performance of both NLP groups was compared to the performance of 17 age- and education-matched healthy controls. In this randomized, double blind study, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) was administered at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months after initiating medication. The relationship between executive functioning and the course of clinical symptoms, as assessed by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) was also investigated. Results showed that, relative to healthy controls, individuals with SZ showed marked impairment in WCST from baseline through 12 months of treatment. Also, participants under haloperidol or risperidone NLP medication performed similarly on the WCST at all assessment periods showing that risperidone and haloperidol do not differ in their effect on executive functioning. Risperidone treatment, however, was more effective in the reduction of negative symptoms. The differential efficacy of risperidone over negative symptoms and WCST performance strongly suggests that the executive impairments are to some extent the result of brain abnormalities independent of those that produce the major psychopathology manifestations seen in SZ.

Cocaine produces its psychoactive and addictive effects primarily by acting on the brain's limbic system, a set of interconnected regions that regulate pleasure and motivation. An initial, short-term effect -- a buildup of the neurochemical dopamine -- gives rise to euphoria and a desire to take the drug again. Researchers are seeking to understand how cocaine's many longer term effects produce addiction's persistent cravings and risk of relapse. In the author's laboratory, work has focused on buildup of the genetic transcription factor DeltaFosB. Levels of DeltaFosB in the limbic system correlate with addiction-like behaviors in mice and may precipitate very long-lasting changes to nerve cell structure. Further pursuit of this and similar leads are first steps toward a complete understanding of the transition from cocaine abuse to addiction -- and, ultimately, more effective treatments for those who are addicted.

Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating and complicated disease. The development of therapeutic interventions has been hampered by a poor understanding of the three components of the disease pathology in SAH: aneurysm rupture, cerebral edema, and vasospasm. The role of inflammation in the pathology of subarachnoid hemorrhage will be reviewed. The events leading up to aneurysm rupture are heralded by degradation of the endothelial cell layer integrity and inflammatory cell infiltration into the wall of the aneurysm. This is associated with release of active agents that can digest the basement membrane and may cause rupture. After rupture, cytokine release by mononuclear leukocytes is associated with early edema. Vasospasm is a complicated process that includes arterial wall thickening and vasoconstriction. Evidence supports the role of inflammation in free radical formation and in perturbations in nitric oxide and endothelin-1 levels that are important mediators of the vasoconstriction in vasospasm. Targeting the inflammatory mediators associated with the three prominent events in SAH is a promising strategy for reducing the mortality and morbidity in these patients. More study is needed to determine which specific effectors in the inflammatory cascade may serve as targets for intervention.
The mammalian placenta consists of different trophoblast cell types that assist in the variety of functions required for the maintenance of pregnancy. In rodents, labyrinthine trophoblasts of the placenta are especially important, because they are capable of differentiating into fused labyrinthine cells, which form the feto-maternal exchange surface. Even though the molecular signals triggering labyrinthine trophoblast differentiation are poorly understood, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) has been shown to be present in the placental environment and alter trophoblast development. In this study, we investigated the effects of TGF-beta on the differentiation of the labyrinthine trophoblast stem cell lines SM10 and HRP-1. RT-PCR analyses demonstrated that while the molecular expression of labyrinthine-specific lineage markers (Esx1, Tfeb, and Tec) was maintained in TGF-beta-treated SM10 and HRP-1 cells, TGF-beta induced the down-regulation of trophoblast stem cell markers Id2 and Cdx2. In contrast, TGF-beta induced the expression of a marker of differentiated labyrinthine trophoblasts, Gcm1, only in the SM10 cell line. Furthermore, we demonstrated an increased glucose uptake in the TGF-beta-treated SM10 cells, indicative of functional differentiation. Finally, cell fusion in TGF-beta-treated SM10 and HRP-1 cells was investigated by western blotting analysis of placental alkaline phosphatase and cadherin-11 and by microscopic analyses of cell morphology using green fluorescent protein (GFP) and rhodamine phalloidin staining. The western blotting and morphological analyses indicate TGF-beta-induced cell fusion and morphological differentiation in the SM10 cell line. The SM10 cell line will provide a new and unique model for detailed analysis of TGF-beta-induced molecular events associated with labyrinthine trophoblast differentiation and function.
Anxiety is a complex emotional state associated with sustained heightened autonomic and behavioral arousal and an increase in avoidance behavior. Anxiety-related behavior is a form of risk assessment behavior that is associated with a level of uncertainty or unpredictability regarding the outcome of emotionally salient events, often when both rewarding and aversive outcomes are possible. In this review, we highlight recent advances in our understanding of the neural circuits regulating anxiety states and anxiety-related behavior with an emphasis on the role of brainstem serotonergic systems in modulating anxiety-related circuits. In particular, we explore the possibility that the regulation of anxiety states and anxiety-related behavior by serotonergic systems is dependent on a specific, topographically organized mesolimbocortical serotonergic system that originates in the mid-rostrocaudal and caudal parts of the dorsal raphe nucleus.


The aim of this study was to explore the potential of a new selective serotonin transporter (5-HTT) inhibitor, N,N-dimethyl-2-(2-amino-4-methylphenylthio)benzylamine (MADAM, K(i)=1.65 nM), as a PET radioligand for examination of 5-HTT in the nonhuman primate brain. MADAM was radiolabeled by an N-methylation reaction using [(11)C]methyl triflate and the binding was characterized by PET in four cynomolgus monkeys. Metabolite levels in plasma were measured by gradient high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The radiochemical incorporation yield of [(11)C]MADAM was 75-80% and the specific radioactivity at the time of administration was 34-652 GBq/micromol (n=8). The highest uptake of radioactivity was observed in striatum, thalamus, mesencephalon, and the lower brainstem. Lower binding was detected in neocortex and the lowest radioactive uptake was found in the cerebellum. This distribution is in accordance with the known expression of 5-HTT in vitro. The fraction of the total radioactivity in monkey plasma representing unchanged [(11)C]MADAM was 20% at 45 min after injection, as measured by gradient HPLC. Pretreatment measurements, using unlabeled citalopram, GBR 12909, and maprotiline, as well as a displacement measurement, using unlabeled MADAM, confirmed that [(11)C]MADAM binds selectively and reversibly to 5-HTT, and support the use of the cerebellum as reference region. The present characterization of binding in the monkey brain suggests that [(11)C]MADAM is a potential PET radioligand for quantitative studies of 5-HTT binding in the human brain.
Both the thalamocortical and limbic systems generate a variety of brain state-dependent rhythms but the relationship between the oscillatory families is not well understood. Transfer of information across structures can be controlled by the offset oscillations. We suggest that slow oscillation of the neocortex, which was discovered by Mircea Steriade, temporally coordinates the self-organized oscillations in the neocortex, entorhinal cortex, subiculum and hippocampus. Transient coupling between rhythms can guide bidirectional information transfer among these structures and might serve to consolidate memory traces.
Alterations in drug disposition in pregnancy and drug transfer into breast milk during lactation are the most important gender-related aspects of the pharmacokinetics of antiepileptic drugs(AEDs). The effect of pregnancy on drug disposition has been fairly well characterized for the old AEDs. Total and unbound plasma concentrations of phenobarbital decline up to 50%. Total phenytoin levels may drop to approximately 40% of prepregnancy concentrations,but unbound concentrations considerably less. Unbound valproate levels remain unchanged despite a fairly marked decrease in total concentrations, and changes in unbound and total plasma concentrations of carbamazepine are minor. In contrast, pregnancy has a pronounced effect on lamotrigine, with a 300% increase in apparent clearance in the third trimester. Much less is known about the kinetics of other new AEDs during pregnancy. Umbilical cord/maternal plasma concentration ratios close to unity suggest free transplacental passage of most AEDs,whereas higher ratios indicate fetal accumulation of valproate and gabapentin. Milk/maternal plasma concentration ratios close to 1 demonstrate extensive transfer to breast milk of many AEDs including ethosuximide, gabapentin, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, oxcarbazepine, topiramate, and zonisamide. Plasma levels are, however, in general low in the nursed infant, although pharmacological concentrations have been reported occasionally for carbamazepine, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, and phenobarbital. For most of the new-generation AEDs, there is an urgent need for further kinetic data from pregnancy and breast-feeding.
The noninvasive, nonradioactive, quantitative nature of magnetic resonance techniques has propelled them to the forefront of neuroscience and neuropsychiatric research. In particular, recent advances have confirmed their enormous potential in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Structural and functional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging have demonstrated significant correlation with clinical outcomes and underlying pathology and are used increasingly in the AD clinic. This review will highlight the role of high-resolution structural MR imaging and functional magnetic resonance imaging in the identification of atrophic and hemodynamic changes in AD and their potential as diagnostic biomarkers and surrogates of therapeutic response. Advanced MR techniques based on diffusion, perfusion, and neurochemical abnormalities in the aging brain will be presented briefly. These newer techniques continue to expand our understanding of neuropathology in the aging brain and are likely to play an important clinical role in the future.
Cerebrovascular disease is common and associated with cognitive deficits and increased risk for dementia. Until recently, only limited attention has focused on advances in imaging techniques to better define and quantify the spectrum of asymptomatic cerebrovascular disease commonly seen on magnetic resonance imaging, such as abnormal white matter signals. Abnormal signals in cerebral white matter, although nonspecific, are increased in prevalence and severity in association with aging and cerebrovascular risk factors among older individuals. The ubiquitous occurrence of these abnormal white matter signals commonly referred to as white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) and the association with cerebrovascular risk and cognitive impairment among older individuals make scientific evaluation of WMHs an important and much needed avenue of research. In this section, we review current methods of WMH analysis. Strengths and limitation of both quantitative and qualitative methods are discussed initially, followed by a brief review of current magnetic resonance imaging segmentation and mapping techniques that make it possible to assess the anatomical location of WMHs. We conclude by discussing future analytic methods designed to better understand the pathophysiology and cognitive consequences of WMHs.
Stem cells are self-renewing, pluripotent cells that can be manipulated in vitro to differentiate into virtually any cell type. Stem cells are highly proliferative and have the potential to expand into very large numbers of a desired cell lineage. As such, they represent an excellent source of cells for cellular replacement strategies in disease states that are typified by a loss of a particular cell population. Recent studies have indicated that spinal cord injury is accompanied by chronic progressive demyelination, and have thus identified oligodendrocytes as a desirable transplant population for remyelination strategies. To address this need, we developed a method to differentiate hESCs into high purity human oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Transplantation into spinal cord injury sites in adult rats resulted in remyelination and functional repair. Here, we summarize these findings and present new data concerning the effects of hESC-derived OPC transplantation on the host environment.
Emotional processes not only serve to record the value of sensory events, but also to elicit adaptive responses and modify perception. Recent research using functional brain imaging in human subjects has begun to reveal neural substrates by which sensory processing and attention can be modulated by the affective significance of stimuli. The amygdala plays a crucial role in providing both direct and indirect top-down signals on sensory pathways, which can influence the representation of emotional events, especially when related to threat. These modulatory effects implement specialized mechanisms of 'emotional attention' that might supplement but also compete with other sources of top-down control on perception. This work should help to elucidate the neural processes and temporal dynamics governing the integration of cognitive and affective influences in attention and behaviour.
Alexithymia, or 'no words for feelings', refers to an impairment of the ability to identify and communicate one's emotional state, in addition to diminished affect-related fantasy and imagery. A recent study by Mantani et al. reported reduced activation of the posterior cingulate cortex in people with alexithymia when they imagined a future happy event. This finding augments the emerging understanding of the neural basis of alexithymia, and potentially provides valuable insights into brain systems underlying normal emotion processing.
Synchronous neuronal activity during seizures is thought to arise from an entirely neuronal origin. A recent study by Tian et al. suggests that by releasing glutamate, astrocytes contribute to the neuronal depolarizations underling epilepsy. Treatment of hippocampal and cortical tissue with compounds that induce seizures was shown to excite astrocytes directly through a pathway that stimulates the release of glial glutamate. Anticonvulsants reduce the activity of this non-neuronal pathway, suggesting that there is an astrocytic basis for epilepsy. Should further experimental analysis corroborate and extend this conclusion, this pathway will be a novel target for therapeutic intervention.
Inherited erythermalgia (also termed erythromelalgia) is characterized by severe pain in the limbs in response to mild thermal stimuli or exercise. Its molecular basis has, until recently, been enigmatic. Studies of families with autosomal dominant erythermalgia have now demonstrated mutations in sodium channel Na(v)1.7, which is selectively expressed within nociceptive dorsal root ganglion and sympathetic ganglion neurons. Shifts in activation and deactivation, and enhanced responses to small stimuli in mutant channels, decrease the threshold for single impulses and high-frequency trains of impulses in pain-sensing neurons. Erythermalgia, the first inherited painful neuropathy to be understood at a molecular level, is a model disease that could hold lessons for other painful conditions and for the development of rational, mechanism-based treatments for pain.
Insertion of new neurons into adult neural circuits could either promote or impair circuit function, depending on whether homeostatic mechanisms are in place to regulate the resulting changes in neural activity. In the hippocampus (a mammalian forebrain structure important in aspects of memory and mood) several lines of behavioral evidence suggest important adaptive roles for adult-generated neurons, indicating that there could be mechanisms to control the potentially adverse increase in excitation associated with new cells. Here, we delineate behavioral and computational models for the role of circuit homeostasis in enabling neuron insertion to modulate hippocampal function adaptively, and we describe molecular and cellular mechanisms for implementing this circuit-level adaptive regulation of hippocampal activity.
Development of analgesic tolerance and withdrawal-induced pain enhancement present serious difficulties for the use of opioids for pain control. Although neuronal mechanisms to account for these phenomena have been sought for many decades, their bases remain unresolved. Within the past four years, a novel non-neuronal candidate has been uncovered that opposes acute opioid analgesia and contributes to development of opioid tolerance and tolerance-associated pain enhancement. This novel candidate is spinal cord glia. Glia are important contributors to the creation of enhanced pain states via the release of neuroexcitatory substances. New data suggest that glia also release neuroexcitatory substances in response to morphine, thereby opposing its effects. Controlling glial activation could therefore increase the clinical utility of analgesic drugs.
Accumulating evidence in humans and non-human primates implicates the posterior superior temporal plane (STP) in the processing of both auditory spatial information and vocal sounds. Such evidence is difficult to reconcile with existing accounts of the primate auditory brain. We propose that the posteromedial STP generates sequenced auditory representations by matching incoming auditory information with stored templates. These sequenced auditory representations are subsequently used to constrain motor responses. We argue for a re-assessment of the much-debated dorsal auditory pathway in terms of its generic behavioral role as an auditory &quot;do&quot; pathway.
Treatment of myelin loss is particularly suited to therapeutic strategies based on cell replacement. Demyelination represents a defined and functionally debilitating deficit, and remyelination can be accomplished by supplying regions of demyelination with myelinogenic cell populations. Clinical interest in stem cells as a source of myelinogenic cells arises from their ability to provide an apparently unlimited cell supply for transplantation, and from recent demonstrations that they can be directed to myelinogenic phenotypes with high purity. Here, I present the emerging perspective that stem-cell-mediated remyelination of the adult CNS is a viable therapeutic strategy, and discuss the challenges to remyelination posed by the environment of acute and chronic injuries.
All organisms must acquire nutrients from the ambient environment to survive. In animals, the need to eat has driven the evolution of a rich array of complex food-related behaviours that ensure appropriate nutrient intake in diverse niches. Here, we review some of the neural and genetic components that contribute to the regulation of food-related behaviour in invertebrates, with emphasis on mechanisms that are conserved throughout various taxa and activities. We focus on synthesizing neurobiological and genetic approaches into a neurogenetic framework that explains food-related behaviour as the product of interactions between neural substrates, genes and internal and external environments.
After decades of effort, the field of depression research is far from understanding how antidepressant drugs mediate their clinical effects. The time lag of 2-6 weeks of therapy that is necessary to obtain antidepressant efficacy indicates a requirement for long-term regulation of molecules activated by drug treatment. The focus of antidepressant research has thus expanded from examining acute monoamine-mediated mechanisms to include long-term transcriptional regulators such as cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and trophic factors such as brain-derived nerve growth factor and insulin-like growth factor. In addition, the recent discovery of antidepressant-induced neurogenesis provides another avenue by which antidepressants might exert their effects. Current efforts are aimed at understanding how CREB and trophic factor signaling pathways are coupled to neurogenic effects and how alterations in behavioral, molecular and cellular endpoints are related to the alleviation of the symptoms of depression.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major public health problem, infecting an estimated 170 million people worldwide. Current therapy for HCV-related chronic hepatitis is based on the use of interferon. However, virus clearance rates are insufficient. Investigations to develop the anti-viral therapy or to understand the life cycle of this virus have been hampered by the lack of viral culture systems. We isolated the JFH-1 strain from a patient with fulminant hepatitis, and the JFH-1 subgenomic replicon could replicate efficiently in culture cell without adaptive mutation. Recently, we developed the HCV infection system in culture cells with this JFH-1 strain. The full-length JFH-1 RNA was transfected into Huh7 cells. Subsequently, viral RNA efficiently replicated in transfected cells and viral particles were secreted. Furthermore, secreted virus displayed infectivity for naive Huh7 cells. This system provides a powerful tool for studying the viral life cycle and constructing anti-viral strategies.
The present study was aimed at testing the prediction of the Pavlovian excitatory conditioning explanation of context-specific sensitization that the sensitized effect (SE) should persist as long as the post-sensitization conditioned activity (CR). C57BL/6J mice were tested for the expression of cocaine-induced conditioned and sensitized locomotion on several intervals after the establishment of a sensitization in an unchanging context. A group of mice received 10 once-daily injections of 10 mg/kg cocaine (s.c.) in a short time prior to being tested in activity-meters for 60 min sessions (cocaine-pretreated group), mice from a control group receiving saline in the same manner (saline-pretreated group). On the test sessions, taking place 1, 8 and 28 days after cocaine pretreatment, half of the animals of each pretreatment group (n=8) received a challenge test with saline and the other half with 10 mg/kg cocaine in the pretreatment context room (for CR and SE tests, respectively). The CR was significantly expressed on the three successive saline-challenge tests, albeit the activity levels were markedly decreased on the 28-day retention test. In contrast, the SE was significantly expressed only during the first half of the 1-day test session and the first 10 min of the 8-day test session, no SE effect being expressed on the 28-day retention test. The results, suggesting a functional uncoupling of the CR from the SE, disprove the theories of context-specificity of sensitization based completely or partially on Pavlovian excitatory conditioning mechanisms.

The therapeutic potential of neural stem cell transplantation has been well demonstrated in many models of focal brain damage. However, few studies have sought to determine whether neural stem cells are therapeutic in models of diffuse brain injury, such as observed in Alzheimer's disease and global ischaemia. The present study investigated the effects of transplanted MHP36 neural stem cells on the extent of ischaemic damage in a mouse model of global ischaemia and the effects of the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporin A (CsA). C57Bl/6J mice received an intrastriatal graft of MHP36 neural stem cells 3 days after selective neuronal damage had been induced by global ischaemia. The experimental group was subdivided into CsA or saline controls. We discovered that grafts of MHP36 neural stem cells were able to differentiate into neurons and reduce the extent of ischaemic neuronal damage. This reduction was particularly apparent at 4 week post-transplantation and is independent of CsA immunosuppression. MHP36 cells survived robustly in host ischaemic brain and migrated away from the injection tract towards the caudate nucleus and corpus callosum. Although MHP36 grafts were associated with an acute inflammatory response from reactive astrocytes and microglia at 1 week post-transplantation, this decreased markedly by 4 weeks post-transplantation even in the absence of CsA immunosuppression. This is the first study showing a therapeutic benefit of neural stem cells in a highly diffuse brain injury, further highlighting the possibilities of stem cell transplantation for all types of neurodegenerative disease.
Restraint stress, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and ethanol (EtOH) administration have all been found to induce c-Fos in the brain, and to cause hypothermia. The present study was designed to assess whether the c-Fos expression that occurs in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) after EtOH administration is independent of the hypothermia or any stress effects that occur. To test this, we used restraint stress and LPS in addition to EtOH, and also examined two control areas, the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and the periaqueductal gray (PAG), in addition to EW. Male C57BL6/J mice were used. Groups of mice received intraperitoneal (IP) injections of EtOH (2 g/kg), LPS (600 microg/kg or 50 microg/kg), or saline. A separate group of mice received no injection, but were placed in plastic restrainers for the entirety of the experiment. For all groups, core temperatures were monitored rectally every 30 min for 3 h postinjection, after which, the animals were sacrificed. Then, the number of Fos-positive cells in the brain regions of the EW, DRN, and PAG was quantified. Both EtOH and restraint stress induced a transient hypothermia, where core temperature (Tc) declined immediately and then rose again. Both doses of LPS induced a slower developing, longer lasting hypothermia, while saline had no effect on Tc. Only EtOH induced a significant amount of c-Fos in EW, while both doses of LPS and restraint stress induced c-Fos in DRN, and only restraint stress caused induction in PAG. These data demonstrate that activation of EW after EtOH is unrelated to hypothermia or stress.
Approaches to successful cell transplantation therapies for the injured brain involve selecting the appropriate neural progenitor type and optimizing the efficiency of the cell engraftment. Here we show that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression enhances postnatal neural progenitor migration in vitro and in vivo. Migratory NG2-expressing (NG2+) progenitor cells of the postnatal subventricular zone (SVZ) express higher EGFR levels than nonmigratory, cortical NG2+ cells. The higher endogenous EGFR expression in SVZ NG2+ cells is causally related with their migratory potential in vitro as well as in vivo after cell engraftment. EGFR overexpression in cortical NG2+ cells by transient transfection converted these cells to a migratory phenotype in vitro and in vivo. Finally, cortical NG2+ cells purified from a transgenic mouse in which the EGFR is overexpressed under the CNP promoter exhibited enhanced migratory capability. These findings reveal a new role for EGFR in the postnatal brain and open new avenues to optimize cell engraftment for brain repair.
Aplysia californica is an attractive model organism for cellular and systems neuroscience. Currently, there is a growing body of sequence data from Aplysia that includes many interesting genes. To fully exploit this molecular data it must be integrated with the large body of physiological data that are already available for identified neurons in Aplysia networks. In situ hybridization is a powerful technique that enables this to be done. Expression patterns of selected mRNA transcripts can be mapped to individual cells in the central nervous system (CNS). Here, we describe a detailed non-radioactive in situ hybridization protocol optimized for whole-mount preparations of Aplysia ganglia. The indirect alkaline phosphatase-based chromogenic detection method we employ may be used with one or two colors in order to detect one or two different transcripts in the same preparation. The procedure is also compatible with intracellular dye labeling, making it possible to couple localization of transcripts with electrophysiological studies in positively identified neurons. Double labeling was done for transcripts encoding the neuropeptides FMRFamide and sensorin. The sensitive detection of mRNA and great preservation of CNS morphology makes this method a useful tool for analyzing expression patterns of neuron specific genes in Aplysia.
This article presents two methods of testing the hypothesis of equality of two functions H(0):f(1)(t)=f(2)(t) for all t, in a generalized non-parametric regression framework using a recently developed generalized non-parametric regression method called Bayesian adaptive regression splines (BARS). Of particular interest is the special case of testing equality of two Poisson process intensity functions lambda(1) (t)=lambda(2) (t), which arises frequently in neurophysiological applications. The first method uses Bayes factors, and the second method uses a modified Hotelling T(2) test. Both methods are applied to the analysis of 347 motor cortical neurons and, for certain choices of test criteria, the two methods lead to the same conclusions for all but 7 neurons. A small simulation study of power indicates that the Bayes factor can be somewhat more powerful in small samples. The T(2)-type test should be useful in screening large number of neurons for condition-related activity, while the Bayes factor will be especially helpful in assessing evidence in favour of H(0).
Capsaicin receptor channels (TRPV1) are nonselective cation channels that integrate multiple noxious stimuli in sensory neurons. In an effort to identify new inhibitors of these channels we screened a venom library for activity against TRPV1 channels and found robust inhibitory activity in venom from Agelenopsis aperta, a north American funnel web spider. Fractionation of the venom using reversed-phase HPLC resulted in the purification of two acylpolyamine toxins, AG489 and AG505, which inhibit TRPV1 channels from the extracellular side of the membrane. The activity of AG489 was characterized further, and the toxin was found to inhibit TRPV1 channels with a K(i) of 0.3 microM at -40 mV. Inhibition of TRPV1 channels by AG489 is strongly voltage-dependent, with relief of inhibition at positive voltages, consistent with the toxin inhibiting the channel through a pore-blocking mechanism. We used scanning mutagenesis throughout the TM5-TM6 linker, a region thought to form the outer pore of TRPV1 channels, to identify pore mutations that alter toxin affinity. Four mutants dramatically decrease toxin affinity and several mutants increase toxin affinity, consistent with the notion that the TM5-TM6 linker forms the outer vestibule of TRPV1 channels and that AG489 is a pore blocker.

Nitric oxide (*NO) production in response to stimulation of the NMDA glutamate receptor is implicated not only in the synaptic plasticity in hippocampus but may also participate in excitotoxic cell death. Using *NO-selective microssensors inserted into the diffusional field of *NO in acute hippocampal slices, we describe the *NO concentration dynamics evoked by NMDA receptor activation and report profound differences along the trisynaptic loop of the hippocampus. We measured the oxygen gradient across the slice thickness and conclude that *NO measurements were performed at cell layers experiencing physiological oxygen tensions. Recordings performed at increasing distances from the point of NMDA receptor stimulation resulted in a progressive decrease of *NO signals, reaching undetectable levels for distances &gt;400 microm, supporting the notion of a wide diffusional spread of endogenously generated *NO in the hippocampus. Neither a picoinjection nor a continuous perfusion of NMDA resulted in high steady-state *NO levels; rather all signals were transient, suggesting that cells are able to efficiently respond to high *NO concentrations (typically 200-400 nM) bringing it to very low nM levels; the claimed high micromolar *NO range achieved by excessive stimulation of NMDA receptor may have to be reevaluated. The distinct responses to NMDA receptor stimulation along the trysynaptic loop suggest a differential *NO activity and/or regulation among the hippocampal subregions. These findings may be relevant for the understanding of the role of *NO in physiologic mechanisms in the hippocampus and the differential sensitivity of the hippocampal subregions to NMDA receptor-dependent neurodegeneration.
Androgen exposure during development and adulthood promotes cell-to-cell communication, modulates the size of specific brain nuclei, and influences hormone-dependent behavioral and neuroendocrine functions. Androgen action involves the activation of androgen receptors (AR). To elucidate the mechanisms involved in AR-mediated effects on forebrain development, double-label fluorescent immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were employed to identify the cellular phenotype of AR-immunoreactive (AR(+)) cells in the developing (embryonic day 20, postnatal days 0, 4, 10) and adult male rat forebrain. Sections were doubly labeled with antibodies directed against AR and one of the following: neurons (immature, nestin; mature, NeuN) or astrocytes [immature, vimentin; mature, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)] or mature oligodendrocytes (mGalC). In all brain regions examined, by far the majority of AR(+) cells were neurons. In addition, small subsets of AR(+) cells were identified as mature astrocytes (GFAP(+)) but only in specific brain regions at specific ages. AR(+)/GFAP(+) cells were observed in the cerebral cortex but only in postnatal day 10 rats and in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus but only in adult rats. Immature neurons, immature astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes were not AR(+) at any age, in any region. Thus, both neurons and astrocytes in the male rat forebrain contain ARs, suggesting that androgens, via ARs, may exert effects on both cell types in an age- and region-dependent manner.
The dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) shell is highly implicated in psychostimulant-evoked locomotor activity and reward, whereas the D1R in the Acb core is more crucial for appetitive instrumental learning. These behavioral effects depend in part on interactions involving glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, whose essential NR1 subunit has physical associations with the D1R. To determine the relevant sites for D1R activation and interactions involving NMDA receptors, we examined the electron microscopic immunolabeling of D1R and NR1 C-terminal peptides in rat Acb shell and core. In each Acb subdivision, the D1Rs were located principally on extrasynaptic plasma membranes of dendritic shafts and spines and more rarely were associated with cytoplasmic endomembranes. Many D1R-labeled somata and dendrites also contained NR1 immunoreactivity. In comparison with D1R, NR1 immunoreactivity was more often seen in the cytoplasm and near asymmetric synapses on somatodendritic profiles. In these profiles, notable overlapping distributions of D1R and NR1 occurred near endomembranes. The exclusively D1R- or D1R- and NR1-containing dendrites were most prevalent in the Acb shell, but were also present in the Acb core. In each region, NR1 was also detected in axon terminals without D1R, which formed excitatory-type synapses with D1R-labeled dendrites. These results provide ultrastructural evidence that D1Rs in the Acb have subcellular distributions supporting, 1) intracellular cotrafficking with NR1 and 2) modulation of the postsynaptic excitability in spiny neurons affected by presynaptic NMDA receptor activation. The region-specific differences in receptor distributions suggest a major, but not exclusive, involvement of Acb D1R in reward-related processing.
Presynaptic proteins are readily identified by light microscopic immunocytochemistry, but immunodetection of postsynaptic proteins in brain sections proves difficult. We performed immunofluorescent double labeling for the NR1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1). In material fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, NMDAR staining in somatosensory cortex was restricted to the section surface, whereas presynaptic staining extended deeper into the tissue. Staining for postsynaptic proteins was enhanced in weakly fixed material and in tissue treated with pepsin, as previously reported, but tissue quality was impaired. Staining was also markedly enhanced, and without impairment of tissue quality, by treatment during perfusion with a mixture of inhibitors of proteases and the ubiquitin/proteosome system. We performed quantitative analysis of confocal images to study how immunostaining varies with depth into the tissue. Virtually all puncta immunopositive for VGLUT1 colocalized with synaptophysin puncta; these presynaptic puncta were most numerous 1-2 microm beneath the section surface. In contrast, puncta immunopositive for the NR1 subunit were most numerous at the surface, as were puncta immunopositive for the NR2 subunit, SynGAP, and CaMKII. Punctate staining for all postsynaptic proteins, but not presynaptic markers, was substantially enhanced in material pretreated with antiproteolytic agents. The large majority of NR1-positive puncta at the surface associated with VGLUT1 in this material are likely to represent synaptic contacts. Approximately eighty-five percent of VGLUT1-positive puncta in layers II-III of SI are associated with NR1-positive puncta, and approximately 80% are associated with NR2, SynGAP, and CaMKII. This approach may permit systematic analysis of the chemistry of glutamatergic synapses with light microscopic immunocytochemistry.
Systemic administration of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (YO) activates the HPA stress axis and promotes anxiety in humans and experimental animals. We propose that visceral malaise contributes to the stressful and anxiogenic effects of systemic YO and that YO recruits brainstem noradrenergic (NA) and peptidergic neurons that relay viscerosensory signals to the hypothalamus and limbic forebrain. To begin testing these hypotheses, the present study explored dose-related effects of YO on food intake, conditioned flavor avoidance (CFA), and Fos immunolabeling in rats. Systemic YO (5.0 mg/kg BW, i.p.) inhibited food intake, supported CFA, and increased Fos immunolabeling in identified NA neurons in the ventrolateral medulla, nucleus of the solitary tract, and locus coeruleus. YO also increased Fos in the majority of corticotropin releasing hormone-positive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. YO administered at 1.0 mg/kg BW did not inhibit food intake, did not support CFA, and did not increase Fos immunolabeling. Retrograde neural tracing demonstrated that neurons activated by YO at 5.0 mg/kg BW included medullary and pontine neurons that project to the central nucleus of the amygdala and to the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the latter region receiving comparatively greater input by Fos-positive neurons. We conclude that YO produces anorexigenic and aversive effects that correlate with activation of brainstem viscerosensory inputs to the limbic forebrain. These findings invite continued investigation of how central viscerosensory signaling pathways interact with hypothalamic and limbic regions to influence interrelated physiological and behavioral components of anxiety, stress, and visceral malaise.
The brain mechanisms underlying mastication are not fully understood. To address this issue, we analyzed the distribution patterns of cortico-striatal and cortico-brainstem axon terminals and the origin of thalamocortical and intracortical fibers by injecting anterograde/retrograde tracers into physiologically and morphologically defined jaw movement-related cortical areas. Four areas were identified in the macaque monkey: the primary and supplementary orofacial motor areas (MIoro and SMAoro) and the principal and deep parts of the cortical masticatory area (CMaAp and CMaAd), where intracortical microstimulation produced single twitch-like or rhythmic jaw movements, respectively. Tracer injections into these areas labeled terminals in the ipsilateral putamen in a topographic fashion (MIoro vs. SMAoro and CMaAp vs. CMaAd), in the lateral reticular formation and trigeminal sensory nuclei contralaterally (MIoro and CMaAp) or bilaterally (SMAoro) in a complex manner of segregation vs. overlap, and in the medial parabranchial and Klliker-Fuse nuclei contralaterally (CMaAd). The MIoro and CMaAp received thalamic projections from the ventrolateral and ventroposterolateral nuclei, the SMAoro from the ventroanterior and ventrolateral nuclei, and the CMaAd from the ventroposteromedial nucleus. The MIoro, SMAoro, CMaAp, and CMaAd received intracortical projections from the ventral premotor cortex and primary somatosensory cortex, the ventral premotor cortex and rostral cingulate motor area, the ventral premotor cortex and area 7b, and various sensory areas. In addition, the MIoro and CMaAp received projections from the three other jaw movement-related areas. Our results suggest that the four jaw movement-related cortical areas may play important roles in the formation of distinctive masticatory patterns.
Recent studies have indicated that changes in extracellular pH and in membrane voltage affect the gamma-amino-n-butyric acid type A receptor gating mainly by altering desensitization and binding. To test whether the effects of membrane potential and pH are additive, their combined actions were investigated. By analyzing the current responses to rapid gamma-amino-n-butyric acid applications, we found that the current to voltage relationship was close to linear at acid pH but the increasing pH induced an inward rectification. Desensitization was enhanced at depolarizing potentials, but this strongly depended on pH, being weak at acidic and strong at basic pH values. A similar trend was observed for the onset rate of responses to saturating gamma-amino-n-butyric acid concentration. These data provide evidence that the voltage sensitivity of GABAA receptors depends on extracellular pH.
Gait disturbance and postural instability are some the most disabling symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson's disease and in late stage disease can be resistant to both medical and surgical therapies. We implanted bilateral deep brain stimulation electrodes into the pedunculopontine nucleus in two patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. We demonstrate for the first time that low frequency (20-25 Hz) stimulation of this nucleus significantly improves gait dysfunction and postural instability in both the 'on' and 'off' medication states. Their combined total Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale score improved by 53% and motor score by 57%. No procedure or stimulation-related complications were observed. If these findings are replicated in a larger number of patients, pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation may provide the means to alleviate these disabling and otherwise treatment-resistant symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease.
The P2X2 purinergic receptor permeates cationic ions in response to stimulation by ATP and mediates fast synaptic transmission. Here, we purified the P2X2 receptor using baculovirus-Sf9 cell expression system and observed its structure using electron microscopy. The FLAG-tagged P2X2 receptor, which has intact ion channel function, was purified to be a single peak by affinity purification and gel filtration chromatography. It was confirmed to be a trimer by introducing cross-linking. Negatively stained P2X2 protein images were homogeneous and picked up by automated pick-up programs, aligned, and classified using the modified growing neural gas network method. Similarly oriented projections were averaged to decrease the signal-to-noise ratio. These images demonstrate an inverted three-sided pyramid with the dimensions of 215 A in height and 200 A in side length. It is composed of a high-density trunk and a stain-permeable swollen extracellular domain of a crown-shaped structure. The internal cavities and constituent segments were clearly demonstrated in both the raw images and the averaged images. The threefold symmetrical top view demonstrates the first visual evidence of the trimeric composition of the P2X receptor family.


TRPM4 is a Ca(2+)-activated nonselective cation channel that regulates membrane potential in response to intracellular Ca(2+) signaling. In lymphocytes it plays an essential role in shaping the pattern of intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations that lead to cytokine secretion. To better understand its role in this and other physiological processes, we investigated mechanisms by which TRPM4 is regulated. TRPM4 was expressed in ChoK1 cells, and currents were measured in excised patches. Under these conditions, TRPM4 currents were activated by micromolar concentrations of cytoplasmic Ca(2+) and progressively desensitized. Here we show that desensitization can be explained by a loss of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P(2)) from the channels. Poly-l-lysine, a PI(4,5)P(2) scavenger, caused rapid desensitization, whereas MgATP, at concentrations that activate lipid kinases, promoted recovery of TRPM4 currents. Application of exogenous PI(4,5)P(2) to the intracellular surface of the patch restored the properties of TRPM4 currents. Our results suggest that PI(4,5)P(2) acts to uncouple channel opening from changes in the transmembrane potential, allowing current activation at physiological voltages. These data argue that hydrolysis of PI(4,5)P(2) underlies desensitization of TRPM4 and support the idea that PI(4,5)P(2) is a general regulator for the gating of TRPM ion channels.
Neuronal Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) interacts with several prominent dendritic spine proteins, which have been termed CaMKII-associated proteins. The NR2B subunit of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor, densin-180, and alpha-actinin bind comparable, approximately stoichiometric amounts of Thr(286)-autophosphorylated CaMKIIalpha, forming a ternary complex (Robison, A. J., Bass, M. A., Jiao, Y., Macmillan, L. B., Carmody, L. C., Bartlett, R. K., and Colbran, R. J. (2005) J. Biol. Chem. 280, 35329-35336), but their impacts on CaMKII function are poorly understood. Here we show that these interactions are differentially regulated and exert distinct effects on CaMKII activity. Nonphosphorylated and Thr(286)-autophosphorylated CaMKII bind to alpha-actinin with similar efficacy, but autophosphorylation at Thr(305/306) or Ca(2+)/calmodulin binding significantly reduce this binding. Moreover, alpha-actinin antagonizes CaMKII activation by Ca(2+)/calmodulin, as assessed by autophosphorylation and phosphorylation of a peptide substrate. CaMKII binding to densin (1247-1542) is partially independent of Thr(286) autophosphorylation and is unaffected by Ca(2+)-independent autophosphorylation or Ca(2+)/calmodulin. In addition, the CaMKII binding domain of densin-180 has little effect on CaMKII activity. In contrast, the interaction of CaMKIIalpha with NR2B requires either Thr(286) autophosphorylation or the binding of both Ca(2+)/calmodulin and adenine nucleotides. NR2B inhibits both the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent and autonomous activities of CaMKII by a mechanism that is competitive with autocamtide-2 substrate, non-competitive with syntide-2 substrate, and uncompetitive with respect to ATP. In combination, these data suggest that dynamically regulated interactions with CaMKII-associated proteins could play pleiotropic roles in finetuning CaMKII signaling in defined subcellular compartments.
The estimation of the reward an action will yield is critical in decision-making. To elucidate the role of the basal ganglia in this process, we recorded striatal neurons of monkeys who chose between left and right handle turns, based on the estimated reward probabilities of the actions. During a delay period before the choices, the activity of more than one-third of striatal projection neurons was selective to the values of one of the two actions. Fewer neurons were tuned to relative values or action choice. These results suggest representation of action values in the striatum, which can guide action selection in the basal ganglia circuit.




When dissimilar images are presented to the two eyes, they compete for perceptual dominance so that each image is visible in turn for a few seconds while the other is suppressed. Such binocular rivalry is associated with relative suppression of local, eye-based representations that can also be modulated by high-level influences such as perceptual grouping. However, it is currently unclear how early in visual processing the suppression of eye-based signals can occur. Here we use high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in conjunction with a new binocular rivalry stimulus to show that signals recorded from the human lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) exhibit eye-specific suppression during rivalry. Regions of the LGN that show strong eye-preference independently show strongly reduced activity during binocular rivalry when the stimulus presented in their preferred eye is perceptually suppressed. The human LGN is thus the earliest stage of visual processing that reflects eye-specific dominance and suppression.
In the rat dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), serotonin (5-HT) concentrations are altered rapidly in response to acute stressors. The mechanism for rapid changes in 5-HT concentrations in the DMH is not clear. We hypothesize that the mechanism involves corticosteroid-induced alterations in the uptake of 5-HT from extracellular fluid through the action of corticosterone-sensitive organic cation transporters (OCTs). To determine if OCTs affect the clearance of 5-HT from the extracellular fluid compartment within the medial hypothalamus (MH), the OCT blocker, decynium 22 (0, 10, 30, or 100 microM), was perfused into the MH via a microdialysis probe, and dialysate 5-HT concentrations were measured at 20 min intervals. In addition, home cage behavior was measured both before and after drug administration. Inhibition of OCTs in the MH resulted in a reversible dose-dependent increase in extracellular 5-HT concentration. Increases in extracellular 5-HT concentrations were associated with increases in grooming behavior in rats treated with the highest concentration of decynium 22. No other behavioral responses were observed following administration of any concentration of decynium 22. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that OCTs in the MH play an important role in the regulation of serotonergic neurotransmission and specific behavioral responses. Because the MH plays an important role in the neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress-related stimuli, these data lead to new questions regarding the role of interactions between corticosterone and corticosterone-sensitive OCTs in stress-induced 5-HT accumulation within the MH as well as the physiological and behavioral consequences of these interactions.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the lateral (LH) and perifornical hypothalamus (PFH) are believed to be involved in the stimulation of feeding behavior. To investigate the possibility that neurons with these receptors interact to stimulate eating, the NMDA receptor antagonists d-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) or 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CK) were injected into the LH or PFH of satiated rats 5 min prior to NPY in the same site and subsequent food intake was measured 1, 2, and 4 h postinjection. The injection of NPY (78 pmol/0.3 microl aCSF) in the PFH produced an average food intake of 9.7 g in 4 h, compared to the intake of 1.3 g after the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) vehicle. D-AP5 (1, 10, or 20 nmol/0.3 microl aCSF) pretreatment suppressed NPY-induced eating, with the 20 nmol dose of D-AP5 producing up to an 80% suppression of elicited food intake down to 1.9 g in 4 h. Similar effects were produced with the LH as the injection site. Illustrating the specificity of the NMDA receptor antagonist's suppression of NPY-elicited feeding, D-AP5 suppressed NMDA-elicited feeding but did not affect the eating response induced by kainic acid. Consistent with the effects of D-AP5, the NMDA receptor antagonist 7-CK (40 nmol/0.3 microl dimethyl sulfoxide, DMSO) suppressed feeding elicited by NPY in the LH by 78%. Collectively, the findings suggest that the feeding elicited by NPY is dependent upon the activation of the NMDA receptors in the LH and PFH.
How synaptic vesicles move within central nervous synapses to their docking sites at the plasma membrane is widely discussed in synaptic physiology. This question is especially difficult to investigate in the small hippocampal boutons, which themselves can slowly move during observation in primary cell culture. Here, we describe a single particle tracking method using dual fluorescent dye labels that enabled us to visualize the movements of a single vesicle and the respective synaptic bouton simultaneously during resting conditions and stimulation. We found vesicle mobility to be very low in the absence of stimulation, in line with previous studies. Interestingly, mobility was also found to be low during synaptic activity. We found that vesicles labeled preferentially via early, late, and spontaneous endocytotic mechanisms behaved similarly at rest and during stimulation.
Knock-out (KO) mice lacking gangliotetraose gangliosides attributable to disruption of the gene for GM2/GD2 synthase [GalNAcT (UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine:GM3/GD3 beta-1,4-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase; EC 2.4.1.92 [EC])] are revealing key neural functions for the complex gangliosides of brain. This study has found such animals to be highly susceptible to kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures in terms of both seizure severity and duration. Intraperitoneal injection of 25 mg/kg KA produced status epilepticus for approximately 200 min in normal mice or heterozygotes and more than four times longer in the KO mice. The latter group suffered approximately 30% mortality, which increased to approximately 75% at dosage of 30 mg/kg KA, compared with 10-14% for the other two genotypes at the latter dosage. Nissl staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling assay revealed substantial deterioration of pyramidal neurons attributable to apoptosis in the KO hippocampus, especially the CA3 region. Seizure activity in the KO mouse was only moderately diminished by intraperitoneal injection of GM1 ganglioside, whereas LIGA 20, a semisynthetic analog of GM1, substantially reduced both seizure severity and cell damage. The potency of LIGA 20 was correlated with its enhanced membrane permeability (compared with GM1), as seen in the increased uptake of [3H]LIGA 20 into the subcellular fractions of brain including cell nuclei. The latter finding is consonant with LIGA 20-induced restoration of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger located at the inner membrane of the nuclear envelope in KO mice, an exchanger dependent on tight association with GM1 or its analog for optimal activity. These results point to a neuroprotective role for GM1 and its associated exchanger in the nucleus, based on regulation of Ca2+ flux between nucleoplasm and nuclear envelope.
Using electrophysiology and styryl dye imaging, we studied the effect of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) on activity-dependent and spontaneous vesicle recycling. In electrophysiological experiments, we found that the PMA effect depended on the maturational state of the synapses. Spontaneous neurotransmitter release from nascent synapses without a functional readily releasable pool (RRP) was unresponsive to PMA application. In contrast, mature synapses responded robustly to PMA application, consistent with previous studies. Using styryl dye imaging, we found that there was a PMA-dependent increase in the size of the RRP when PMA was present before, during, or after activity-dependent dye uptake, suggesting that this effect involves an increase in the population of the RRP by vesicles recruited from the reserve pool. Additionally, we found that when PMA was present during spontaneous dye uptake, there was an increase in dye labeling, and these additional dye-loaded vesicles showed rapid destaining in response to strong stimulation and were also releasable by hypertonic sucrose. In contrast, these observations were not reproducible when PMA treatment was performed after spontaneous dye uptake and extracellular dye washout. Together, these findings suggest that the increased spontaneous neurotransmission in the presence of PMA was attributable to release of vesicles from the RRP rather than an effect of PMA on the spontaneously recycling pool. Thus, the phorbol esters selectively regulate the activity-dependent pool of vesicles, indicating that priming mechanisms that prepare vesicles for fusion, which are targeted by phorbol esters, are different for the spontaneous and evoked forms of fusion.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) composed of ASIC1a subunit exhibit a high Ca(2+) permeability and play important roles in synaptic plasticity and acid-induced cell death. Here, we show that ischemia enhances ASIC currents through the phosphorylation at Ser478 and Ser479 of ASIC1a, leading to exacerbated ischemic cell death. The phosphorylation is catalyzed by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activity, as a result of activation of NR2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors (NMDARs) during ischemia. Furthermore, NR2B-specific antagonist, CaMKII inhibitor, or overexpression of mutated form of ASIC1a with Ser478 or Ser479 replaced by alanine (ASIC1a-S478A, ASIC1a-S479A) in cultured hippocampal neurons prevented ischemia-induced enhancement of ASIC currents, cytoplasmic Ca(2+) elevation, as well as neuronal death. Thus, NMDAR-CaMKII cascade is functionally coupled to ASICs and contributes to acidotoxicity during ischemia. Specific blockade of NMDAR/CaMKII-ASIC coupling may reduce neuronal death after ischemia and other pathological conditions involving excessive glutamate release and acidosis.
The release of monoamine neurotransmitters from cell bodies and dendrites has an important role in behavior, but the mechanism (vesicular or non vesicular) has remained unclear. Because the location of vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) defines the secretory vesicles capable of monoamine release, we have studied its trafficking to assess the potential for monoamine release by exocytosis. In neuroendocrine PC12 cells, VMAT2 localizes exclusively to large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs), and we now show that cytoplasmic signals target VMAT2 directly to LDCVs within the biosynthetic pathway. In neurons, VMAT2 localizes to a population of vesicles that we now find undergo regulated exocytosis in dendrites. Although hippocampal neurons do not express typical LDCV proteins, transfected chromogranins A, B, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) colocalize with VMAT2. VMAT2 thus defines a population of secretory vesicles that mediate the activity-dependent somatodendritic release of multiple retrograde signals involved in synaptic function, growth, and plasticity.
Ephrin-As and their receptors, EphAs, are expressed in the developing cortex where they may act to organize thalamic inputs. Here, we map the visual cortex (V1) in mice deficient for ephrin-A2, -A3, and -A5 functionally, using intrinsic signal optical imaging and microelectrode recording, and structurally, by anatomical tracing of thalamocortical projections. V1 is shifted medially, rotated, and compressed and its internal organization is degraded. Expressing ephrin-A5 ectopically by in utero electroporation in the lateral cortex shifts the map of V1 medially, and expression within V1 disrupts its internal organization. These findings indicate that interactions between gradients of EphA/ephrin-A in the cortex guide map formation, but that factors other than redundant ephrin-As are responsible for the remnant map. Together with earlier work on the retinogeniculate map, the current findings show that the same molecular interactions may operate at successive stages of the visual pathway to organize maps.
How cone synapses encode light intensity determines the precision of information transmission at the first synapse on the visual pathway. Although it is known that cone photoreceptors hyperpolarize to light over 4-5 log units of intensity, the relationship between light intensity and transmitter release at the cone synapse has not been determined. Here, we use two-photon microscopy to visualize release of the synaptic vesicle dye FM1-43 from cone terminals in the intact lizard retina, in response to different stimulus light intensities. We then employ electron microscopy to translate these measurements into vesicle release rates. We find that from darkness to bright light, release decreases from 49 to approximately 2 vesicles per 200 ms; therefore, cones compress their 10,000-fold operating range for phototransduction into a 25-fold range for synaptic vesicle release. Tonic release encodes ten distinguishable intensity levels, skewed to most finely represent bright light, assuming release obeys Poisson statistics.
Ca(2+) triggers neurotransmitter release in at least two principal modes, synchronous and asynchronous release. Synaptotagmin 1 functions as a Ca(2+) sensor for synchronous release, but its role in asynchronous release remains unclear. We now show that in cultured cortical neurons stimulated at low frequency (&lt;or.1 Hz), deletion of synaptotagmin 1 blocks synchronous GABA and glutamate release without significantly increasing asynchronous release. At higher stimulation frequencies (&gt;or Hz), deletion of synaptotagmin 1 also alters only synchronous, not asynchronous, release during the stimulus train, but dramatically enhances &quot;delayed asynchronous release&quot; following the stimulus train. Thus synaptotagmin 1 functions as an autonomous Ca(2+) sensor independent of asynchronous release during isolated action potentials and action potential trains, but restricts asynchronous release induced by residual Ca(2+) after action potential trains. We propose that synaptotagmin 1 occupies release &quot;slots&quot; at the active zone, possibly in a Ca(2+)-independent complex with SNARE proteins that are freed when action potential-induced Ca(2+) influx activates synaptotagmin 1.
Although numerous theoretical models implicate the prefrontal cortex (PFC) as a source of top-down control signals, empirical support is limited. In this review, we highlight direct evidence for this view of PFC function and discuss several lines of other supportive findings. Most evidence to-date is only suggestive due to methodological challenges in tracking the spatiotemporal dynamics of cortical networks. However, we discuss several promising approaches that could further our understanding of the role of the PFC in goal-directed behavior.
Acetylcholine has been shown to modulate many forms of cortical plasticity. New evidence indicates that reorganization of adult primary auditory cortex is still possible after removal of cholinergic inputs. This finding suggests that acetylcholine may act less as a gate and more as a gain control on cortical plasticity.
The authors evaluated the feasibility and source localization utility of H2(15)O or 13NH3 PET and low-resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) in three patients with partial status epilepticus (SE). Results were correlated with findings from intraoperative electrocorticographic recordings and surgical outcomes. PET studies of cerebral blood flow and noninvasive source modeling with LORETA using statistical nonparametric mapping provided useful information for localizing the ictal activity in patients with partial SE.
Sequence alterations in the promoter region of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene have been implicated in increasing the risk of developing ALS. VEGF promoter haplotypes were determined in 373 patients with sporadic ALS and 615 matched healthy controls in The Netherlands. No significant association between the previously reported at-risk haplotypes and ALS was found. Pooling our results with the previously studied population still showed a significant association with the AAG haplotype.



Social interactions can generate rapid and dramatic changes in behaviour and neuroendocrine activity. We investigated the effects of a changing social environment on aggressive behaviour and brain aromatase activity (bAA) in a sex-changing fish, Lythrypnus dalli. Aromatase is responsible for the conversion of androgen into oestradiol. Male removal from a socially stable group resulted in rapid and dramatic (&gt; or =200%) increases in aggression in the dominant female, which will become male usually 7-10 days later. These dominant females and recently sex-changed individuals had lower bAA but similar gonadal aromatase activity (gAA) compared to control females, while established males had lower bAA than all groups and lower gAA than all groups except dominant females. Within hours of male removal, dominant females' aggressive behaviour was inversely related to bAA but not gAA. These results are novel because they are the first to: (i) demonstrate socially induced decreases in bAA levels corresponding with increased aggression, (ii) identify this process as a possible neurochemical mechanism regulating the induction of behavioural, and subsequently gonadal, sex change and (iii) show differential regulation of bAA versus gAA resulting from social manipulations. Combined with other studies, this suggests that aromatase activity may modulate fast changes in vertebrate social behaviour.
When a hair cell of the bullfrog's sacculus is maintained in vitro under native ionic conditions, its mechanosensitive hair bundle may oscillate spontaneously. This movement has been hypothesized to result from the interaction of the bundle's negative stiffness, which creates a region of mechanical instability, with a myosin-based adaptation mechanism that continually repositions the bundle there. To test this proposition, we used a flexible stimulus fiber in an analog feedback loop to measure the displacement-force relation of an oscillating hair bundle. A digital signal processor was used to monitor spontaneous oscillations in real time and trigger measurements at particular phases of the movement cycle. By comparing the displacement-force curves obtained at the two extremes of a hair bundle's motion, we demonstrated a shift in the negative-stiffness region whose direction, orientation, magnitude, and kinetics agreed with the predictions of the gating-spring theory. The results are in accordance with the idea that adaptation underlies spontaneous hair-bundle oscillation, and therefore powers the active process that also amplifies and tunes the hair cell's mechanical responsiveness.
Like acetylcholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inactivates the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) and is hence a viable therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease, which is characterized by a cholinergic deficit. Potent, reversible, and brain-targeted BChE inhibitors (cymserine analogs) were developed based on binding domain structures to help elucidate the role of this enzyme in the central nervous system. In rats, cymserine analogs caused long-term inhibition of brain BChE and elevated extracellular ACh levels, without inhibitory effects on acetylcholinesterase. In rat brain slices, selective BChE inhibition augmented long-term potentiation. These compounds also improved the cognitive performance (maze navigation) of aged rats. In cultured human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells, intra- and extracellular beta-amyloid precursor protein, and secreted beta-amyloid peptide levels were reduced without affecting cell viability. Treatment of transgenic mice that overexpressed human mutant amyloid precursor protein also resulted in lower beta-amyloid peptide brain levels than controls. Selective, reversible inhibition of brain BChE may represent a treatment for Alzheimer's disease, improving cognition and modulating neuropathological markers of the disease.
It has been shown that analgesics such as morphine, lidocaine and clonidine increase the release of spinal acetylcholine. Acetylcholine may therefore play an important role in the regulation of spinal pain threshold. Since behavioral as well as in vitro studies have shown a clear involvement of GABA (gamma-amino butyric acid) receptors in the regulation of spinal nociceptive mechanisms, the present study focused on the role of GABA receptors for spinal acetylcholine release control. GABA receptor agonists and antagonists were infused via a spinal microdialysis probe and acetylcholine release was measured. The GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol decreased acetylcholine release and the antagonist bicuculline increased acetylcholine release. The GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen decreased acetylcholine release whereas the antagonist saclofen did not change acetylcholine release. The results suggest that both GABA receptor subtypes have an inhibitory role on spinal dorsal horn acetylcholine release and that the GABA(A) receptors are tonically regulating acetylcholine release.
The gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABA(B)) receptor full agonists, baclofen and CGP44532, have been found to suppress different aspects of alcohol drinking behavior, including acquisition and maintenance, in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. The present study was designed to assess whether this capability extends to the recently synthesized, positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(B) receptor, 2,6-Di-tert-butyl-4-(3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol (CGP7930) and N,N'-dicyclopentyl-2-methylsulfanyl-5-nitro-pyrimidine-4,6-diamine (GS39783). In the &quot;acquisition&quot; experiments, CGP7930 (0, 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg; i.g.) and GS39783 (0, 6.25, 12.5 and 25 mg/kg; i.g.) were administered for 5 consecutive days to alcohol-naive sP rats. In the &quot;maintenance&quot; experiments, (0, 50 and 100 mg/kg; i.g.) and GS39783 (0, 50 and 100 mg/kg; i.g.) were administered for 5 consecutive days to alcohol-experienced sP rats. Alcohol intake was evaluated under the standard, homecage 2-bottle &quot;alcohol (10%, v/v) vs water&quot; regimen with unlimited access for 24 h/day. Both CGP7930 and GS39783 dose-dependently suppressed the acquisition of alcohol drinking behavior. In the &quot;maintenance&quot; experiments, CGP7930 and GS39783 reduced daily alcohol intake by 30-40% only at the highest dose when compared to vehicle-treated rats; this effect tended to vanish on continuing treatment. The results of the present study suggest that positive allosteric modulation of the GABA(B) receptor produced an effect on alcohol drinking behavior similar to that produced by GABA(B) receptor full agonists. These data also suggest that positive allosteric modulation of the GABA(B) receptor may constitute a potential strategy for developing new drugs for treating alcohol dependence.
18-Methoxyroconaridine (18-MC), a synthetic derivative of ibogaine, reduces morphine self-administration and alleviates several signs of acute opioid withdrawal in rats. Although there is already well documented evidence of the mechanism mediating 18-MC's action to reduce the rewarding effects of morphine, nothing is known about the mechanism responsible for 18-MC's attenuation of opioid withdrawal. In vitro studies have demonstrated that 18-MC is a potent antagonist of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors (IC50=0.75 microM), which are predominantly located in the medial habenula and interpeduncular nuclei. Previous work indicating that alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors mediate 18-MC's effects on drug self-administration prompted us to assess whether brain areas having high or moderate densities of alpha3beta4 receptors might be involved in 18-MC's modulation of opioid withdrawal. To test this possibility, 18-MC was locally administered into the medial habenula, interpeduncular nucleus and locus coeruleus of morphine-dependent rats; this treatment was followed by naltrexone to precipitate a withdrawal syndrome. Pretreatment with various doses of 18-MC into the locus coeruleus significantly reduced wet-dog shakes, teeth chattering, burying and diarrhea, while pretreatment into the medial habenula attenuated teeth chattering, burying, and weight loss. Some doses of 18-MC administered into the interpeduncular nucleus significantly ameliorated rearing, teeth chattering, and burying, while other doses exacerbated diarrhea and teeth chattering. The present findings suggest that 18-MC may act in all three nuclei to suppress various signs of opioid withdrawal.
Exposure of biological material to high levels of free radicals causes extensive cellular damage. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by mitochondria have been associated with a variety of diseases and aging. We investigated the effect of low-level mitochondrial ROS production on newly synthesized mitochondrial proteins which are potentially vulnerable to mitochondrial ROS due to their location and unfolded state. We show that elevated mitochondrial ROS increases the degradation of newly synthesized mitochondrial proteins with some proteins more sensitive than others. In the long term reduced assembly of mitochondrial complexes would affect mitochondrial function and may trigger a vicious cycle of mitochondrial ROS production.
It has long been known that the sympathetic innervation of the sweat glands is cholinergic in most mammalian species and that, during development, rodent sympathetic cholinergic sweat gland innervation transiently expresses noradrenergic traits. We show here that some noradrenergic traits persist in cholinergic sympathetic innervation of the sweat glands in rodents but that lack of expression of the vesicular monoamine transporter renders these cells functionally nonnoradrenergic. Adult human sweat gland innervation, however, is not only cholinergic but coexpresses all of the proteins required for full noradrenergic function as well, including tyrosine hydroxylase, aromatic amino acid decarboxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, and the vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2. Thus, cholinergic/noradrenergic cotransmission is apparently a unique feature of the primate autonomic sympathetic nervous system. Furthermore, sympathetic neurons innervating specifically the cutaneous arteriovenous anastomoses (Hoyer-Grosser organs) in humans also possess a full cholinergic/noradrenergic cophenotype. Cholinergic/noradrenergic coexpression is absent from other portions of the human sympathetic nervous system but is extended in the parasympathetic nervous system to intrinsic neurons innervating the heart. These observations suggest a mode of autonomic regulation, based on corelease of norepinephrine and acetylcholine at parasympathocardiac, sudomotor, and selected vasomotor neuroeffector junctions, that is unique to the primate peripheral nervous system.
Ahead of Print article withdrawn by publisher.
Simulation is useful in the validation of functional image analysis methods, particularly when considering the number of analysis techniques currently available lacking thorough validation. Problems exist with current simulation methods due to long run times or unrealistic results making it problematic to generate complete datasets. A method is presented for simulating known abnormalities within normal brain SPECT images using a measured point spread function (PSF), and incorporating a stereotactic atlas of the brain for anatomical positioning. This allows for the simulation of realistic images through the use of prior information regarding disease progression. SPECT images of cerebral perfusion have been generated consisting of a control database and a group of simulated abnormal subjects that are to be used in a UK audit of analysis methods. The abnormality is defined in the stereotactic space, then transformed to the individual subject space, convolved with a measured PSF and removed from the normal subject image. The dataset was analysed using SPM99 (Wellcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience, University College, London) and the MarsBaR volume of interest (VOI) analysis toolbox. The results were evaluated by comparison with the known ground truth. The analysis showed improvement when using a smoothing kernel equal to system resolution over the slightly larger kernel used routinely. Significant correlation was found between effective volume of a simulated abnormality and the detected size using SPM99. Improvements in VOI analysis sensitivity were found when using the region median over the region mean. The method and dataset provide an efficient methodology for use in the comparison and cross validation of semi-quantitative analysis methods in brain SPECT, and allow the optimization of analysis parameters.
Thyroid hormone (TH) homeostasis depends on peripheral activation and inactivation of iodothyronines by selenoenzymes of the deiodinase (Dio) family. We genetically inactivated hepatic selenoenzyme expression, including Dio1, in order to determine the contribution of hepatic Dio to circulating TH levels. Serum levels of TSH, total T(4), and total T(3) were not different from controls. We measured Dio1 and Dio2 in kidney, skeletal muscle, heart, brown adipose tissue, and brain, but did not find compensatory up-regulation in these tissues. Finally, we determined expression in the liver of the following T(3) target genes: Spot14, alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (alphaGPD), and malic enzyme (ME). On the transcript level, both Spot14 and alphaGPD were reduced in Dio-deficient liver to about 60-70% of controls. However, mRNA and activity of ME were significantly increased in the same mice. Together, our results indicate that hepatic Dio1 activity is not absolutely required to sustain the euthyroid state in mice.
The abnormal expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) plays an important role in the invasion of malignant gliomas into the surrounding normal brain tissue. This study showed that curcumin has broad-spectrum inhibitory activity against MMP gene expression in human astroglioma cells. RNase protection assay showed that curcumin inhibited the PMA-induced mRNA expression of MMP-1, -3, -9, and -14. Curcumin repressed the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of AP-1, which is a common upstream modulator of MMP-1, -3, and -9 gene expression. In addition, curcumin suppressed the PMA-induced MAP kinase activities, which were differentially involved in modulating the MMPs. This suggests that the inhibition of MMP transcriptions by curcumin is mediated at least in part through the AP-1 and MAP kinase pathways. Curcumin was also found to significantly repress the in vitro invasion of glioma cells. Therefore, the broad-spectrum inhibition of MMP gene expression by curcumin might provide a novel therapeutic strategy for treating gliomas.
Neuronal injury in manganism is accompanied by activation of astroglia within the basal ganglia that is thought to increase production of inflammatory mediators such as nitric oxide (NO). The present studies postulated that astroglial-derived NO mediates neuronal apoptosis induced by manganese (Mn) and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells differentiated with nerve growth factor (NGF) were co-cultured with primary astrocytes and exposed to Mn and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) plus interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Mn enhanced cytokine-induced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2, EC 1.14.13.39) and production of NO in astrocytes that correlated with apoptosis in co-cultured neurons, as determined by caspase activity, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL), and nuclear morphology. Apoptosis in PC12 neurons required the presence of astrocytes and was blocked by overexpression of a phosphorylation-deficient mutant of IkappaBalpha (S32/36A) in astrocytes that prevented induction of NOS2. Pharmacologic inhibition of NOS2 with (+/-)-2-amino-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine (AMT) significantly reduced neuronal apoptosis, and the addition of low concentrations of the NO donor, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), to neurons cultured without astrocytes was sufficient to recover the apoptotic phenotype following exposure to Mn and TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma. It is concluded that Mn- and cytokine-dependent apoptosis in PC12 neurons requires astroglial-derived NO and NF-kappaB-dependent expression of NOS2.
Most CNS studies using recombinant adeno-associated virus type 2 (rAAV-2) vectors have focused on gene delivery for the purpose of gene therapy. In the present study, we examined the feasibility of using rAAV-2 vectors to study the regulation of preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A) promoter activity in striatal medium spiny projection neurons. An rAAV-2 vector incorporating a PPT promoter fragment (shown previously to confer some cell-specificity of expression in vitro) coupled to a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene was stereotaxically injected into the rat striatum. Since medium spiny projection neurons represent the predominant neuronal type (90-95%) in the striatum, we predicted that the vast majority of GFP-expressing cells would be of this phenotype. Surprisingly, the transgene was actually expressed in a similar number of medium spiny projection neurons and interneurons, while glial expression of GFP was not observed. A preponderance of GFP-expressing interneurons was immunoreactive for the marker neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Our results suggest that viral vector-related events that occur during transduction are the determining factor in the pattern of transgene expression observed, while the influence of the transgene promoter appears to be secondary, at least under the conditions employed.
Recent studies have identified a new family of gap junction-forming proteins in vertebrates, called pannexins. Although their function in vivo is still not known, studies in Xenopus oocytes have indicated that pannexin1 (Px1) and pannexin2 (Px2) can form functional gap junction channels and can contribute to functional hemichannels. In this study, we have utilized a combination of radioactive and non-radioactive in situ hybridization experiments to characterize the expression pattern of the two pannexin genes during development and maturation of the rat brain. Expression analysis revealed a widespread and similar mRNA distribution for both genes, but indicated that Px1 and Px2 are inversely regulated during the development of the rat brain. Px1 is expressed at a high level in the embryonic and young postnatal brain and declines considerably in the adult, whereas Px2 mRNA is low in the prenatal brain but increases substantially during subsequent postnatal development. Immunohistochemical studies using different antibodies confirm the neuronal origin of pannexin-expressing cells and ascertain the presence of both pannexins in the majority of pyramidal cells and in GABAergic interneurons. The abundant presence of both pannexins in most neurons suggests that they may play a role in intercellular communication in many neuronal circuits. Furthermore, the temporal difference in the expression of the two genes indicates that the relative contribution of the two pannexins in immature and mature neuronal circuits may vary.
The human p53 tumor suppressor gene (TP53) is considered as a candidate susceptibility gene for schizophrenia because of its functions in neurodevelopment. To test for an association between TP53 and schizophrenia, both the case-control study and the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) were performed on genotype data from eight polymorphisms in TP53. Our samples included 286 Toronto schizophrenia cases and 264 controls, and 163 Portuguese nuclear families. In the Toronto case-control study significant differences of allele frequencies of the CAA Ins/Del (p=0.027) and the 16bp Ins/Del (p=0.022) were detected. In TDT analysis we found significant differences for transmission of the CAA Ins/Del (p=0.017) in Portuguese schizophrenia families. Haplotype analysis also showed a significant association between TP53 and schizophrenia. These results provide further evidence that TP53 may play a role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.

SAR (structure-activity relationship) studies of triazafluorenone derivatives as potent mGluR1 antagonists are described. The triazafluorenone derivatives are non-amino acid derivatives and noncompetitive mGluR1 antagonists that bind at a putative allosteric recognition site located within the seven-transmembrane domain of the receptor. These triazafluorenone derivatives are potent, selective, and systemically active mGluR1 antagonists. Compound 1n, for example, was a very potent mGluR1 antagonist (IC50 = 3 nM) and demonstrated full efficacy in various in vivo animal pain models.
There is increasing evidence that compounds with selectivity for gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) alpha2- and/or alpha3-subtypes may retain the desirable anxiolytic activity of nonselective benzodiazepines but possess an improved side effect profile. Herein we describe a novel series of GABA(A) alpha2/alpha3 subtype-selective agonists leading to the identification of the development candidate 17, a nonsedating anxiolytic in preclinical animal assays.
Benzodiazepine binding sites are present on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors in hippocampal neurons. Diazepam is known to potentiate the amplitude and prolong the decay of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). In this study, benzodiazepine involvement in long-term potentiation (LTP) of the IPSC was examined. Whole-cell recordings of IPSCs were made from rat hippocampal CA1 neurons in a slice preparation. LTP was induced by a tetanic stimulation in the stratum radiatum (2 trains of 100 Hz for 1 s, 20 s inter-train interval) while pharmacologically blocking ionotropic glutamate receptors. During LTP, the amplitude of the IPSCs was potentiated in the majority of neurons with the IPSC decay and shape unaffected. Diazepam (5 microM) potentiated the IPSC amplitude and prolonged the decay when applied before, but not during, LTP. In neurons in which LTP could not be induced by a tetanic stimulation, diazepam did not increase the amplitude of the pre-tetanic IPSC. Flumazenil, at a concentration (10 microM) that blocked the enhancement of the IPSC by applied diazepam, had no effect on the IPSC amplitude when applied before LTP induction but significantly decreased the IPSC when applied during LTP maintenance. The antagonist, when applied during the tetanic stimulation, did not block LTP, suggesting that benzodiazepine receptors do not participate in LTP induction. These results indicate that the maintenance of LTP of the IPSC involves (a) the release of endogenous benzodiazepine agonist(s) and/or (b) the participation of benzodiazepine binding sites on subsynaptic GABA(A) receptors.
Glucocorticoids, given at high-doses, improve recovery of function after spinal cord injury (SCI) in animals. However, side effects combined with a limited efficacy in clinical trials have restricted their usefulness for treatment of SCI patients. Recent studies have shown that incorporation of the nitric oxide releasing moiety into the glucocorticoid structure enhances anti-inflammatory properties and reduces side effects. One compound, a derivative of prednisolone (PRE), (NCX 1015, prednisolone 21 [(4'nitrooxymethyl)benzoate]), has interesting pharmacological properties. Therefore, we investigated its effects on apoptosis and recovery of function in rats after SCI. Rats received subcutaneously vehicle, NCX 1015 or PRE (37 micromol/kg, each) 3.5 h after a standardized thoracic lesion. The treatment was continued once a day for 3 days and the effect of both steroids on apoptosis was examined by immunohistochemistry 24 h after the last injection. NCX 1015 but not PRE reduced TUNEL and activated caspase 3 in both white and ventral gray matter as well as tumor necrosis factor immunoreactivity in ventral horn motorneurons, suggesting that NCX 1015 reduces SCI-induced apoptosis. The effect of NCX 1015 on motor function was then examined by a standard locomotion rating scale (BBB) starting at 1 day after injury and continuing up to 14 days. NCX 1015 improved significantly locomotor activity by 4 days after injury, whereas PRE had an effect equivalent to that of vehicle, thus providing a correlation between the antiapoptotic effect of NCX1015 and its ability to improve recovery of function. The data suggest that NCX 1015 might be a novel experimental therapeutic compound for recovery of function in SCI patients.
The present studies were undertaken to help determine the putative neural circuits mediating activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and the release of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone in response to the perceived threat of loud noise. This experiment involved placing rats in acoustic chambers overnight to avoid any handling and context changes prior to noise exposure, which was done for 30 min (between 9:00 and 10:00 am) at intensities of 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 105, and 110 dBA in different groups (n = 8), and included a background condition (60 dBA ambient noise). This manipulation produced a noise-intensity-related increase in plasma ACTH and corticosterone levels, with levels beginning to rise at approximately 85 dBA. c-fos mRNA induction was very low in the brains of the control and 80 dBA groups, but several brain regions displayed a noise-intensity-related induction. Of these, several forebrain regions displayed c-fos mRNA induction highly correlated (r &gt; 0.70) with that observed in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and plasma ACTH levels. These regions included the ventrolateral septum, the anteroventral subiculum, several preoptic nuclei, the anterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), the anterior paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus, and the medial subdivision of the medial geniculate body. Together with prior findings with audiogenic stress, the present results suggest that either or both the anterior BNST or the lateral septum is ideally situated to trigger HPA axis activation by stimuli that are potentially threatening.
Rats were trained to discriminate the 5-HT agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP, 1 mg/kg, i.p.) from saline. Ethanol (0.1 to 1 g/kg, i.p.) partially substituted for the discriminative stimulus effects of 1 mg/kg mCPP. Methysergide (10 mg/kg, i.p.), a 5-HT(1/2) receptor antagonist, blocked the ability of ethanol (1 g/kg) to substitute for mCPP. The largest dose of ethanol markedly reduced response rate. These findings suggest an important role of serotonin receptors in mediating the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol.
Cutaneous reflexes evoked by stimulation of nerves innervating the foot are modulated in a phase-dependent manner during locomotion. The pattern of modulation of these reflexes has been suggested to indicate a functional role of cutaneous reflexes in assisting to maintain stability during walking. We hypothesized that if cutaneous reflexes assist in maintaining stability during gait, then these reflexes should be modulated in a context-dependent manner when subjects are asked to walk in an environment in which stability is challenged. To do this, we asked subjects to walk on a treadmill under five conditions: (1) normally, (2) with the arms crossed, (3) while receiving unpredictable anterior-posterior (AP) perturbations, (4) with the arms crossed while receiving unpredictable AP perturbations, and (5) with the hands holding onto fixed handles. Cutaneous reflexes arising from electrical stimulation of the superficial peroneal (SP; relevant to stumbling) or distal tibial (TIB; relevant to ground contact sensation) nerves were recorded bilaterally, at four points in the step cycle. Reflexes evoked with SP nerve stimulation showed marked facilitation during the most unstable walking condition in 4 of the 7 muscles tested. SP nerve-evoked reflexes in the muscles of the contralateral leg also showed suppression during the most stable walking condition. Reflexes evoked with TIB nerve stimulation were less affected by changes in the walking task. We argue that the specific adaptation of cutaneous reflexes observed with SP nerve stimulation supports the hypothesis that cutaneous reflexes from the foot contribute to the maintenance of stability during walking.
We performed genomic subtraction coupled to microarray-based gene expression profiling and identified the PDZ (postsynaptic density-95/Discs large/zona occludens-1)-binding kinase/T-LAK (lymphokine-activated killer T cell) cell originating protein kinase (PBK/TOPK) as a gene highly enriched in neural stem cell cultures. Previous studies have identified PBK/TOPK as a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase that phosphorylated P38 MAPK but with no known expression or function in the nervous system. First, using a novel, bioinformatics-based approach to assess cross-correlation in large microarray datasets, we generated the hypothesis of a cell-cycle-related role for PBK/TOPK in neural cells. We then demonstrated that both PBK/TOPK and P38 are activated in a cell-cycle-dependent manner in neuronal progenitor cells in vitro, and inhibition of this pathway disrupts progenitor proliferation and self-renewal, a core feature of progenitors. In vivo, PBK/TOPK is expressed in rapidly proliferating cells in the adult subependymal zone (SEZ) and early postnatal cerebellar external granular layer. Using an approach based on transgenically targeted ablation and lineage tracing in mice, we show that PBK/TOPK-positive cells in the SEZ are GFAP negative but arise from GFAP-positive neural stem cells during adult neurogenesis. Furthermore, ablation of the adult stem cell population leads to concomitant loss of PBK/TOPK-positive cells in the SEZ. Together, these studies demonstrate that PBK/TOPK is a marker for transiently amplifying neural progenitors in the SEZ. Additionally, they suggest that PBK/TOPK plays an important role in these progenitors, and further implicates the P38 MAPK pathway in general, as an important regulator of progenitor proliferation and self-renewal.
Cerebellar parallel fiber (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapses can undergo postsynaptically expressed long-term depression (LTD) or long-term potentiation (LTP). PF-LTD induction requires the coactivity of the PF and CF (climbing fiber) inputs to PCs and a concomitant calcium transient and activation of protein kinase C (PKC). PF-LTP can be induced by PF activity alone and requires a lower calcium transient for its induction than PF-LTD. The cellular events triggering PF-LTP induction are not well characterized. At other types of synapses (e.g., in the hippocampus), bidirectional synaptic plasticity is under control of a kinase/phosphatase switch, with PKC and CaMKII (calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II) activity promoting LTP induction and phosphatase activity promoting LTD induction. Here, we have tested for the involvement of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), PP2A, and PP2B (calcineurin) in cerebellar LTP induction using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat cerebellar slices. LTP induction was blocked in the presence of the PP1/2A inhibitors okadaic acid and microcystin LR, the PP1 inhibitory peptide inhibitor-2, the PP2A inhibitor fostriecin, and the PP2B inhibitor cyclosporin A. LTP induction was not impaired by the PKC inhibitor chelerythrine. Conversely, LTD induction was not blocked by microcystin LR but instead was reduced when active PP2B was injected into PCs. These data indicate that a kinase/phosphatase switch controls bidirectional cerebellar plasticity, but in a manner &quot;inverse&quot; to the dependencies found at other types of synapses. Therefore, cerebellar LTP constitutes the only form of LTP described so far that depends on phosphatase rather than kinase activity.
The medial amygdala is important in social behaviors, many of which differ between males and females. The posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala (MeApd) is particularly sensitive to gonadal steroid hormones and is a likely site for gonadal hormone regulation of sexually dimorphic social behavior. Here we show that the synaptic organization of the MeApd in the rat is sexually dimorphic and lateralized before puberty. With the use of whole-cell voltage-clamp recording and quantitative electron microscopy, we found that, specifically in the left hemisphere, prepubertal males have approximately 80% more excitatory synapses per MeApd neuron than females. In the left but not the right MeApd, miniature EPSC (mEPSC) frequency was significantly greater in males than in females; mEPSC amplitude was not sexually dimorphic. Paired-pulse facilitation of EPSCs, an index of release probability, also was not sexually dimorphic, suggesting that greater mEPSC frequency is caused by a difference in excitatory synapse number. Electron microscopy confirmed that the asymmetric synapse-to-neuron ratio and the total asymmetric synapse number were significantly greater in the left MeApd of males than of females. In contrast to results for excitatory synapses, we found no evidence of sexual dimorphism or laterality in inhibitory synapses. Neither the frequency nor the amplitude of mIPSCs was sexually dimorphic or lateralized. Likewise, the number of symmetric synapses measured with electron microscopy was not sexually dimorphic. These findings show that the excitatory synaptic organization of the left MeApd is sexually differentiated before puberty, which could provide a sexually dimorphic neural substrate for the effects of hormones on adult social behavior.
Rabbits were trained on trace eyeblink (EB) conditioning until they reached a criterion of 10 consecutive EB conditioned responses (CRs). Electrolytic lesions were made in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) centered on the prelimbic area (Brodmann's area 32), at five different intervals after training. These included immediately, 24 h, 1 and 2 weeks, and 1 month after training. Separate groups of animals received sham lesions at these same intervals after training. After a 2 week postoperative recovery period, all animals were retested for 3 d on trace conditioning, using the same parameters used during preoperative training. Mean EB conditioning performance deficits occurred in the animals with mPFC lesions compared with sham-lesioned animals on the first day of retesting in all five groups. However, by the second or third day of retesting, the rabbits with lesions were performing at a level that was comparable with that of sham animals. Rabbits that received more posterolateral lesions of the neocortex did not, however, show postoperative conditioning deficits. A comparison of percentage EB CRs of animals with postoperative training with that of animals that received mPFC lesions before training suggests that the mPFC post-training lesions produce damage to a retrieval process and not to a storage site or an acquisition process.
The role of neuropeptides in synaptic plasticity is less well understood than that of classical transmitters such as glutamate. Here we report the importance of the G-protein-coupled calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP1) receptor as a critical link between amygdala plasticity and pain behavior. A key player in emotionality and affective disorders, the amygdala has been implicated in the well documented, but mechanistically unexplained, relationship between pain and affect. Our electrophysiological and pharmacological in vitro (patch-clamp recordings) and in vivo (extracellular single-unit recordings) data show that selective CGRP1 receptor antagonists (CGRP(8-37) and BIBN4096BS) in the amygdala reverse arthritis pain-related plasticity through a protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent postsynaptic mechanism that involves NMDA receptors. CGRP1 receptor antagonists inhibited synaptic plasticity in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) in brain slices from arthritic rats compared with normal controls. The effects were accompanied by decreased neuronal excitability and reduced amplitude, but not frequency, of miniature EPSCs; paired-pulse facilitation was unaffected. The antagonist effects were occluded by a PKA inhibitor. CGRP1 receptor blockade also directly inhibited NMDA-evoked, but not AMPA-evoked, membrane currents. Together, these data suggest a postsynaptic site of action. At the systems level, the antagonists reversed the sensitization of nociceptive CeLC neurons in anesthetized rats in the arthritis pain model. Importantly, CGRP1 receptor blockade in the CeLC inhibited spinal (hindlimb withdrawal reflexes) and supraspinal pain behavior of awake arthritic rats, including affective responses such as ultrasonic vocalizations. This study provides direct evidence for the critical dependence of pain behavior on CGRP1-mediated amygdala plasticity.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease characterized by parkinsonism, ataxia, autonomic dysfunction, and accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) in oligodendrocytes. To better understand the mechanisms of neurodegeneration and the role of alpha-syn accumulation in oligodendrocytes in the pathogenesis of MSA, we generated transgenic mouse lines expressing human (h) alpha-syn under the control of the murine myelin basic protein promoter. Transgenic mice expressing high levels of halpha-syn displayed severe neurological alterations and died prematurely at 6 months of age. Furthermore, mice developed progressive accumulation of halpha-syn-immunoreactive inclusions in oligodendrocytes along the axonal tracts in the brainstem, basal ganglia, cerebellum, corpus callosum, and neocortex. The inclusions also reacted with antibodies against phospho-serine (129) halpha-syn and ubiquitin, and halpha-syn was found in the detergent-insoluble fraction. In high-expresser lines, the white matter tracts displayed intense astrogliosis, myelin pallor, and decreased neurofilament immunostaining. Accumulation of halpha-syn in oligodendrocytes also leads to prominent neurodegenerative changes in the neocortex with decreased dendritic density and to loss of dopaminergic fibers in the basal ganglia. The oligodendrocytic inclusions were composed of fibrils and accompanied by mitochondrial alterations and disruption of the myelin lamina in the axons. Together, these studies support the contention that accumulation of alpha-syn in oligodendrocytes promotes neurodegeneration and recapitulates several of the key functional and neuropathological features of MSA.
The GABA(A) receptor subtypes responsible for the anxiolytic effects of nonselective benzodiazepines (BZs) such as chlordiazepoxide (CDP) and diazepam remain controversial. Hence, molecular genetic data suggest that alpha2-rather than alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors are responsible for the anxiolytic effects of diazepam, whereas the anxiogenic effects of an alpha3-selective inverse agonist suggest that an agonist selective for this subtype should be anxiolytic. We have extended this latter pharmacological approach to identify a compound, 4,2'-difluoro-5'-[8-fluoro-7-(1-hydroxy-1-methylethyl)imidazo[1,2-]pyridin-3-yl]biphenyl-2-carbonitrile (TP003), that is an alpha3 subtype selective agonist that produced a robust anxiolytic-like effect in both rodent and non-human primate behavioral models of anxiety. Moreover, in mice containing a point mutation that renders alpha2-containing receptors BZ insensitive (alpha2H101R mice), TP003 as well as the nonselective agonist CDP retained efficacy in a stress-induced hyperthermia model. Together, these data show that potentiation of alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors is sufficient to produce the anxiolytic effects of BZs and that alpha2 potentiation may not be necessary.
Serotonin (5-HT) is a neuromodulator that regulates many aspects of animal behavior, including mood, aggression, sex drive, and sleep. In vertebrates, most of the behavioral effects of 5-HT appear to be mediated by G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Here, we show that SER-1 is the 5-HT GPCR responsible for the stimulatory effects of exogenous 5-HT in two sexually dimorphic behaviors of Caenorhabditis elegans, egg laying and male ventral tail curling. Loss of ser-1 function leads to decreased egg laying in hermaphrodites and defects in the turning step of mating behavior in males. ser-1 is expressed in muscles that are postsynaptic to serotonergic neurons and are known to be required for these behaviors. Analysis of the ser-1 mutant also reveals an inhibitory effect of 5-HT on egg laying that is normally masked by SER-1-dependent stimulation. This inhibition of egg laying requires MOD-1, a 5-HT-gated chloride channel. Loss of mod-1 function in males also produces defects in ventral tail curling and enhances the turning defects in ser-1 mutant males. Sustained elevations in 5-HT levels result in behavioral adaptation to both the stimulatory and inhibitory actions of the neurotransmitter, indicating that both SER-1 and MOD-1 signaling can be modulated. Removal of wild-type animals from high levels of exogenous 5-HT produces a SER-1-dependent withdrawal response in which egg laying is significantly decreased. These studies provide insight into the role of 5-HT in behavior and the regulation of 5-HT(2) receptor function.
Glutamatergic synapses switch from nonspiny synapses to become dendritic spines during early neuronal development. Here, we report that the lack of sufficient Rac1, a small RhoGTPase, contributes to the absence of spinogenesis in immature neurons. The overexpression of green fluorescence protein-tagged wild-type Rac1 initiated the formation of dendritic spines in cultured dissociated hippocampal neurons younger than 11 d in vitro, indicating that Rac1 is likely one of the missing pieces responsible for the lack of spines in immature neurons. The overexpression of wild-type Rac1 also induced the clustering of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) and increased the amplitude of miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs). The expression of constitutively active Rac1 induced the formation of unusually large synapses with large amounts of AMPAR clusters. Also, our live imaging experiments revealed that the contact of an axon induced the clustering of Rac1, and subsequent morphological changes led to spinogenesis. Additionally, the overexpression of wild-type Rac1 and constitutively active Rac1 increased the size of preexisting spines and the amplitude of mEPSCs in mature neurons (&gt;21 d in vitro) within 24 h after transfection. Together, these results indicate that activation of Rac1 enhances excitatory synaptic transmission by recruiting AMPARs to synapses during spinogenesis, thus providing a mechanistic link between presynaptic and postsynaptic developmental changes. Furthermore, we show that Rac1 has two distinct roles at different stages of neuronal development. The activation of Rac1 initiates spinogenesis at an early stage and regulates the function and morphology of preexisting spines at a later stage.
During development, neural networks progress through important functional changes such as the generation of spontaneous activity, the expression of a depolarizing chloride gradient, and the appearance of neuromodulation. Little is known about how these processes are integrated to yield mature behaviors. We showed previously that, during the maturation of the locomotor network of the zebrafish, endogenous serotonin (5HT) increased motor activity by reducing intervals of inactivity, without affecting the active swim periods that are the target of 5HT in other and more mature preparations. Because membrane properties were constant during the rest intervals, we examined here whether 5HT modulates chloride homeostasis. We compared the effects of blocking (inward) chloride cotransport with bumetanide to the effects of 5HT and its antagonists, both behaviorally by video imaging and cellularly by whole-cell and gramicidin-perforated patch recordings. Bumetanide mimicked the effects of 5HT antagonists, by prolonging rest intervals without affecting the properties of swim episodes (duration; frequency; extent of depolarization) either behaviorally or during fictive swimming. Furthermore, bumetanide and 5HT antagonists suppressed the amplitude of depolarizing responses evoked by ionophoresis of glycine onto spinal neurons in the presence of tetrodotoxin and transiently suppressed the amplitude of responses to glycine measured after fictive swimming. The effects of bumetanide contrasted with and occluded the effects of 5HT. We suggest that, during development, endogenous 5HT modulates chloride homeostasis during the quiescent intervals and thereby offsets the long periods of quiescence commonly observed in developing networks to allow expression of sustained and behaviorally relevant activity.
Potassium channels and their associated subunits are important contributors to electrical excitability in many cell types. In this study, a yeast two-hybrid assay was used to identify inhibitors such as a diaryl-urea compound (CL-888) that binds to and modulates the formation of the Kv4/KChIP complex. CL-888 altered the apparent affinity of KChIP1 to Kv4.3-N in a Biacore assay, but did not dissociate the two proteins in size-exclusion chromatography experiments. Kv4.2/KChIP1 current amplitude and kinetics were altered with compound exposure, supporting the hypothesis of a compound-induced conformational change in the protein complex. Fluorescence spectroscopy of a unique tryptophan residue in KChIP1 was consistent with compound binding to the protein. Molecular modeling using the KChIP1 crystal structure indicates that compound binding may occur in a small tryptophan-containing binding pocket located on the hydrophilic side of the protein.
2,5-Dihydro-3H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-3-ones are GABAA receptor benzodiazepine binding site ligands, which can exhibit functional selectivity for the alpha3 subtype over the alpha1 subtype. SAR studies to optimize this functional selectivity are described.

This article focuses on the role of implicit knowledge consumers have about particular brands, products or names. The major findings of several studies, conducted at the Mind of the Market Laboratory at Harvard Business School, are presented with specific emphasis on studies in which response time measurements were the core method. The results revealed that implicit measures provide a rich understanding of the meaning conveyed by a product or brand. Moreover, there is also considerable evidence that implicit measures may be better than traditional explicit measures as predictors of consumer behavior. We discuss the implications for the study of consumer behavior and the importance of combining several methods including neuroimaging, which has received recent attention by marketers, economists and social scientists.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has proven a useful tool for observing neural BOLD signal changes during complex cognitive and emotional tasks. Yet the meaning and applicability of the fMRI data being gathered is still largely unknown. The brain's reward system underlies the fundamental neural processes of goal evaluation, preference formation, positive motivation, and choice behavior. fMRI technology allows researchers to dynamically visualize reward system processes. Experimenters can then correlate reward system BOLD activations with experimental behavior from carefully controlled experiments. In the SPAN lab at Stanford University, directed by Brian Knutson Ph.D., researchers have been using financial tasks during fMRI scanning to correlate emotion, behavior, and cognition with the reward system's fundamental neural activations. One goal of the SPAN lab is the development of predictive models of behavior. In this paper we extrapolate our fMRI results toward understanding and predicting individual behavior in the uncertain and high-risk environment of the financial markets. The financial market price anomalies of &quot;value versus glamour&quot; and &quot;momentum&quot; may be real-world examples of reward system activation biasing collective behavior. On the individual level, the investor's bias of overconfidence may similarly be related to reward system activation. We attempt to understand selected &quot;irrational&quot; investor behaviors and anomalous financial market price patterns through correlations with findings from fMRI research of the reward system.
The use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in cognitive neuroscience has expanded at an amazing rate in the past 10 years. Current research includes increasingly subtle and specific attempts to dissect the cognitive and emotional mechanisms called into play when humans make decisions. The present essay will briefly review some of the general considerations and domains of information needed when one designs fMRI-based experiments. However, the main theme will be the difficulties associated with designing, conducting, analyzing and interpreting such research. Functional MRI is an unusually complicated technique, and there are numerous ways for experiments to go wrong. As well as demanding exceptional care in maintaining the quality of one's own research, this makes the universal problem of evaluating other peoples' research particularly challenging.
Neuroeconomics is a new and highly interdisciplinary field. Drawing from theories and methodologies employed in both economics and neuroscience, it aims at understanding the neural systems supporting and affecting economically relevant behaviour in real-life situations. Although incomplete, the evidence is beginning to clarify with the possibility that neuroeconomic methodology might eventually trace whole processes of economically relevant behaviour. This paper accompanies the author's ConNEcs 2004 keynote speech on applications of neuroeconomic research.
Until now, economic theory has not systematically integrated the influence of emotions on decision-making. Since evidence from neuroscience suggests that decision-making as hypothesized in economic theory depends on prior emotional processing, interdisciplinary research under the label of &quot;neuroeconomics&quot; arose. The key idea of this approach is to employ recent neuroscientific methods in order to analyze economically relevant brain processes. This paper aims to provide an overview of the current state of neuroeconomic research by giving a brief description of the concept of neuroeconomics, outlining methods commonly used and describing current studies in this new research area. Finally, some future prospects and limitations are discussed.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging has been used to follow glutathione metabolism and evaluate glutathione heterogeneity in intact tumor tissue. Stable isotope-labeled glutathione was detected in s.c. implanted fibrosarcoma tumors in anesthetized rats following infusion of [2-13C]glycine. Using 1H-decoupled 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy, the appearance of [2-13C]glycine at 42.4 ppm and the subsequent incorporation of this isotope label into the glycyl residue of glutathione at 44.2 ppm can be detected. The identity and relative concentrations of labeled metabolites observed in the in vivo spectrum were confirmed in studies of tissue extracts. The high level of isotopic enrichment and the concentration of glutathione in tumor tissue allow for collection of spatially localized spectra using 13C chemical shift imaging methods. These data provide the first direct images of glutathione in intact tumor tissue and show metabolic heterogeneity. This method may lead to the ability to monitor changes in tumor tissue redox state that may ultimately affect diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of peptide hormones. We previously had found high expression of PAM in several regions of the developing rodent. To determine the function of PAM during mouse embryogenesis, we produced a null mutant of the PAM gene. Homozygous mutants die in utero between e14.5 and e15.5 with severe edema that is likely due to cardiovascular deficits. These defects include thinning of the aorta and carotid arteries and are very similar to those of the recently characterized adrenomedullin (AM) gene KO despite the presence of elevated immunoreactive AM in PAM KO embryos. No peptide amidation activity was detected in PAM mutant embryos, and there was no moderation of the AM-like phenotype that could be expected if any alternative peptide amidation mechanism exists in the mouse. Despite the proposed contribution of amidated peptides to neuronal cell proliferation, no alteration in neuroblast proliferation was observed in homozygous mutant embryos prior to lethality. Mice heterozygous for the mutant PAM allele develop normally and express wildtype levels of several amidated peptides despite having one half the wildtype levels of PAM activity and PAM protein. Nonetheless, both an increase in adiposity and a mild glucose intolerance developed in aged (&gt;10 months) heterozygous mice compared to littermate controls. Ablation of PAM thus demonstrates an essential function for this gene during mouse development, while alterations in PAM activity in the adult may underlie more subtle physiologic effects.
The human paralytic neuropathy, Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS) is associated with autoantibodies specific for disialosyl epitopes on gangliosides GQ1b, GT1a, and GD3. Since these gangliosides are enriched in synaptic membranes, anti-ganglioside antibodies may target neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), thereby contributing to disease symptoms. We have shown previously that at murine NMJs, anti-disialosyl antibodies induce an alpha-latrotoxin-like effect, electrophysiologically characterized by transient massive increase of spontaneous neurotransmitter release followed by block of evoked release, resulting in paralysis of the muscle preparation. Morphologically, motor nerve terminal damage, as well as perisynaptic Schwann cell (pSC) death is observed. The relative contributions of neuronal and pSC injury to the paralytic effect and subsequent repair are unknown. In this study, we have examined the ability of subsets of anti-disialosyl antibodies to discriminate between the neuronal and glial elements of the NMJ and thereby induce either neuronal injury or pSC death. Most antibodies reactive with GD3 induced pSC death, whereas antibody reactivity with GT1a correlated with the extent of nerve terminal injury. Motor nerve terminal injury resulted in massive uncontrolled exocytosis with paralysis. However, pSC ablation induced no acute (within 1 h) electrophysiological or morphological changes to the underlying nerve terminal. These data suggest that at mammalian NMJs, acute pSC injury or ablation has no major deleterious influence on synapse function. Our studies provide evidence for highly selective targeting of mammalian NMJ membranes, based on ganglioside composition, that can be exploited for examining axonal-glial interactions both in disease states and in normal NMJ homeostasis.
Nitric oxide (NO), a cellular signaling molecule, is produced in the brain by both neurons and astrocytes. While neurons are capable of rapid release of small amounts of NO serving as neurotransmitter, astrocytic NO production has been demonstrated mainly as a slow reaction to various stress stimuli. Little is known about the role of astrocyte-produced NO. Using the NO indicator 4,5-diaminofluorescein-2 diacetate (DAF-2DA) and acute slices from mouse brain, we distinguished neurons from astrocytes based on their different fluorescence kinetics and pattern, cellular morphology, electrophysiology, and responses to selective nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors. Typically, astrocytic fluorescence followed neuronal fluorescence with a delay of 1-2 min and was dependent on the inducible NOS isoform (iNOS) activity. Western blot analysis established the presence of functional iNOS in the neocortex. An assay for cell death revealed that most DAF-2DA-positive neurons, but not astrocytes, were damaged. Whole cell recordings from astrocytes confirmed that these cells maintained their membrane potential and passive properties during illumination and afterward. Induction of excitotoxicity by brief application of glutamate triggered an immediate and intense astrocytic response, while high-frequency electrical stimulation failed to do so. The present study demonstrates, for the first time, rapid and massive iNOS-dependent NO production by astrocytes in situ, which appears to be triggered by acute neuronal death. These data may bear important implications for our theoretical understanding and practical management of acute brain insults.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are highly specialized antigen-presenting cells that play a key role in the initiation and regulation of immune responses. The ability of DCs to process antigens and the outcome of their interaction with T cells are largely dependent on phenotype as well as maturation state of DCs. In this study, we generated DCs from rat bone marrow precursors. Bone marrow cells cultured in the presence of granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interleukin (IL)-4, and Flt-3 ligand (FL) produced immature DCs that expressed intermediate levels of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II, low levels of CD80 and CD86 molecules and displayed a high capacity of endocytosis. Bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) matured in the presence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) upregulated expression of MHC class II, CD80 and CD86, while their phagocytic capacity was dramatically reduced. Mature BMDCs stimulated vigorous proliferation of purified allogeneic CD4(+) T cells in a primary mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR) and elicited a mixed cytokine profile in allogeneic CD4(+) T cells: DCs activated CD4(+) T cells to produce interferon (IFN)-gamma, IL-4, and IL-10. Thus, rat BMDCs effectively internalize antigens and stimulate T cell proliferation but fail to induce an unidirectional polarization of T helper (T(H)) cells and in this respect differ from both human and mouse DCs.
Transport of polymeric IgA onto mucosal surfaces to become secretory IgA is mediated by the polymeric Ig receptor (pIgR). To study the interaction of human dimeric IgA (dIgA) (the predominant form of IgA polymer) with the human pIgR (hpIgR), we generated recombinant wild-type dIgA1 and dIgA2m(1) and various mutant dIgA1 and analyzed their interaction with a recombinant human secretory component and membrane-expressed hpIgR. We found that wild-type dIgA1 and dIgA2m(1) bound to recombinant human secretory component with similar affinity and were transcytosed by the hpIgR to the same extent. Mutation of the IgA Calpha2 domain residue Cys311 to Ser reduced binding to hpIgR, possibly through disruption of noncovalent interactions between the Calpha2 domain and domain 5 of the receptor. Within the Calpha3 domain of IgA1, we found that combined mutation of residues Phe411, Val413, and Thr414, which lie close to residues previously implicated in hpIgR binding, abolished interaction with the receptor. Mutation of residue Lys377, located very close to this same region, perturbed receptor interaction. In addition, 4 aa (Pro440-Phe443), which lie on a loop at the domain interface and form part of the binding site for human FcalphaRI, appear to contribute to hpIgR binding. Lastly, use of a monomeric IgA1 mutant lacking the tailpiece revealed that the tailpiece does not occlude hpIgR-binding residues in IgA1 monomers. This directed mutagenesis approach has thus identified motifs lying principally across the upper surface of the Calpha3 domain (i.e., that closest to Calpha2) critical for human pIgR binding and transcytosis.

Aquaporin-4 (AQP4), a predominant water channel of the brain, mediates transmembrane water movement at the blood-brain barrier and brain-cerebrospinal fluid interface. A broad pattern of evidence indicates that AQP4 and regulators of its expression are potential targets for treatment of brain swelling, but whether it participates in the regulation of neurotransmission has not been reported. We examined neurochemical differences between AQP4-knockout and wild-type mice with particular focus on neurotransmission. Basal tissue neurotransmitter and metabolite levels were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Significant sex- and region-specific differences of amino acids and monoamines were found in the brain of wild-type and AQP4-knockout mice. In cortex, striatum, and hippocampus of male AQP4-knockout mice, an increase of glutamine and decrease of aspartate were observed. Glutamate was increased only in female AQP4-knockout mice. The lack of AQP4 failed to affect the levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and taurine. In the medial prefrontal cortex of AQP4-knockout mice, the levels of serotonin and norepinephrine were increased, but no significant change in dopamine level was found. In the striatum of male AQP4-knockout mice, the levels of dopamine and serotonin were remarkably increased, which was not found in female mice. In the hypothalamus of AQP4-knockout mice, only the serotonin level was altered. These results provide the first evidence that the lack of AQP4 expression is accompanied by sex- and region-specific alterations in brain amino acid and monoamine metabolism.


Multiple cortical regions such as the supplementary motor area (SMA), premotor cortex (PM), and primary motor cortex (M1) are involved in the sequential execution of hand movements, but it is unclear how these areas collaborate in the preparation and execution of ipsilateral and contralateral hand movements. In this study, we used right-handed subjects to examine the spatial distribution and temporal profiles of motor-related activity during visually cued sequential finger movements by applying independent component analysis (ICA) to event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals. The particular merit of the ICA method is that it allows brain activity in individual subjects to be elucidated without making a priori assumptions about the anatomical areas that are activated or the temporal profile of activity. By applying ICA, we found that (1) the SMA contributed to both the preparation and execution of movements of the right and left hand; (2) the left M1 and dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) contributed to both the preparation and execution of movements of the right and left hand, whereas the right M1 and PMd contributed mainly to the execution of movements of the left hand; (3) pre-SMA areas were activated in some subjects in concert with the posterior parietal and prefrontal cortex; and (4) fMRI signals over superficial cortical draining veins could be distinguished from cortical activation. We suggest that ICA is useful for categorizing distributed task-related activities in individual subjects into several spatially independent activities that represent functional units in motor control.
The circadian rhythm of core body temperature (Tb) was examined in two mouse lines bidirectionally selected for nest-building behavior (small (SNB) and big nest-builders (BNB)). This selection also resulted in more robust circadian organization of wheel-running activity in the SNB compared to the BNB mice. Tb was measured by an e-mitter implanted in the abdominal cavity. The circadian Tb rhythm of the SNB was more robust compared to the BNB regardless of whether the animals had access to a running wheel or not and regardless of the lighting conditions, i.e., 12 h:12 h light:dark (LD) cycle or constant dark (DD). Wheel-running activity rhythms of SNB were more robust in LD and DD compared to BNB. The amplitude of the circadian Tb rhythm increased significantly in response to wheel access in both mouse lines, but was not significantly different between the BNB and SNB. However, BNB tended to have lower amplitudes of circadian Tb rhythm in the absence of running wheels and a larger increase in the amplitude upon access to a running wheel compared to SNB. No differences were found in LD and DD between the lines in mean Tb and wheel-running activity levels. In addition, no differences between the two mouse lines were found in the free-running period of the Tb or wheel-running activity rhythms in DD. Overall, our findings reveal a more robust circadian phenotype of the SNB compared to the BNB.
Strain differences in spontaneous locomotor activity and the behavioral patterns induced by dopaminergic agonists in rodents can disclose differential genetic susceptibilities to dopaminergic dysfunction (i.e. vulnerability to psychosis). Psychogenetic selection of hypoemotional Roman High-Avoidance (RHA) and hyperemotional Low-Avoidance (RLA) rats leads to divergence in dopaminergic function as well. The present study was designed to characterize their spontaneous activity and their responses to apomorphine (0.067-3 mg/kg, s.c.) as compared to those of the standard Sprague-Dawley (SD) strain. The Roman strains displayed higher spontaneous activity than SD rats and RHA exhibited the higher response to novelty which agrees with a higher sensitivity to apomorphine in this strain. The biphasic effect induced by apomorphine (locomotor inhibition and yawning at low doses but stimulation of locomotion and stereotyped behavior at higher ones) was reproduced in the standard SD strain. Low doses were less effective inducing locomotor inhibition in RHA whereas these animals were much more sensitive to high dose-induced stereotyped behavior. In contrast, RLA was characterized as a high-yawning strain and low doses of apomorphine also induced a striking motor inhibition suggesting functional enhancement of dopamine receptors mediating these behaviors. The detailed and distinctive behavioral profiles described in this work suggest between strain differences both at the presynaptic and postsynaptic dopaminergic function and may serve as paths to better specify functional mechanisms in future studies of risk of developing dopaminergic dysfunctions.

Fluctuations in steroid hormones (glucocorticoids and estradiol) levels during pregnancy and after delivery are thought to contribute to the etiology of postpartum depression. Such changes may be exacerbated by stressful events, which constitute a predisposing factor for postpartum mood disorders. In the present study, blood hormonal variations associated with prepartum Chronic Ultramild Stress (CUMS) exposure were assessed at two times (15th day of pregnancy and 3rd day postpartum) in mice stressed from day 1 of pregnancy to termination of pregnancy. Litter weight and litter size were determined in both groups whereas the duration of pregnancy was determined in the 3-day postpartum group. CUMS increased estradiol and corticosterone levels during pregnancy, but such effects were no longer observed in the postpartum period, where cortisol levels were decreased in control and stressed mice and estradiol levels were reduced in previously stressed mothers. No effects of the CUMS procedure were observed on gestational parameters. Given the link between hormonal variations during pregnancy and subsequent postpartum depression, these results suggest that CUMS applied to gestating female may provide a useful model for the study of the mechanisms of stress, which may lead to postpartum mood disorders.
Functionally diverse populations of respiratory neurons appear to be targets of common neurotrophic and transcriptional signaling pathways. For example, peripheral chemoafferent neurons and noradrenergic neurons in the pontine A5 cell group both require co-signaling by brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) for survival, growth and/or phenotypic differentiation. Moreover, these same cell groups are dependent on the Phox2 family of transcription factors for early cell type specification. In addition, BDNF and its receptor, TrkB, are expressed in the pre-Botzinger complex (pBC), a critical site for respiratory rhythm generation, and exogenous BDNF can modulate the activity of pBC neurons. This convergence of BDNF, GDNF and Phox2 dependencies may help to explain how mutations in each of these pathways can result in human developmental disorders of breathing.
Breathing movements require the coordinated recruitment of cranial and spinal motoneurons innervating muscles of the upper airway and ribcage. A significant part of respiratory motoneuron development and maturation occurs prenatally to support the generation of fetal breathing movements in utero and sustained breathing at birth. Postnatally, motoneuron properties are further refined and match changes in the maturing respiratory musculoskeletal system. In this review, we outline developmental changes in key respiratory motoneuronal populations occurring from the time of motoneuron birth in the embryo through the postnatal period. We will also bring attention to major deficiencies in the current knowledge of perinatal respiratory motoneuron development. To date, our understanding of processes occurring during the prenatal period comes primarily from analysis of phrenic motoneurons (PMNs), whereas information about postnatal development derives largely from studies of PMN and hypoglossal motoneuron properties.
Alterations in the density or distribution of interstitial white matter neurons are taken as evidence in support of an early developmental component to schizophrenia. However, the existence and nature of interstitial white matter neuron changes in schizophrenia remain inconclusive. Recently, we reported that interstitial white matter neuron density is increased in the superficial white matter of the superior temporal gyrus in schizophrenia, but unchanged in deep white matter. This study extends our investigations to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and parahippocampal gyrus. Using the specific neuronal antibody NeuN, interstitial white matter neuron density was found to be increased in schizophrenia in the superficial white matter of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, with no significant changes elsewhere. As interstitial white matter neurons are presumed to be remnants of the embryonic cortical subplate, these findings provide additional evidence supportive of an early developmental abnormality in schizophrenia.
Reduced spatial negative priming (SNP) in schizophrenia is commonly attributed to the inability to filter out irrelevant information. However, some investigators have suggested that reduced SNP in patients is caused by either perceptual mismatching or salience of the distracter. The goal of the present study was to determine the influence of these perceptual processes. In this preliminary report, we present data of 15 schizophrenia patients on atypical medication and 15 matched healthy controls. Compared to controls, patients showed a reduced SNP effect, even when controlled for perceptual mismatching. This reduced effect was not affected by distracter salience.
Striatal structures form critical nodes of multiple circuits that are implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and alcoholism. Here, we examined the separate and combined effects of schizophrenia and alcoholism and effects of medication type and drinking recency on striatal volumes. Accordingly, we measured caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens in 27 schizophrenic, 25 alcohol-dependent, 19 comorbid (schizophrenia and alcohol dependence or abuse), and 51 age-matched control men. Schizophrenics were classified by antipsychotic medication (typical or atypical), and alcoholics were classified by recency of sobriety. All measured structures were smaller in the patient groups than the control group. The caudate deficit was comparable across groups, whereas putamen and nucleus accumbens deficits were greater in schizophrenia than alcoholism; comorbids fell between these groups. Schizophrenic patients treated with atypical medication showed greater volume deficits in the putamen than those treated with typical medication. Recently sober (&lt;3 weeks) alcoholics had greater deficits in nucleus accumbens than longer sober drinkers. In conclusion, caudate, putamen, and nucleus accumbens exhibited different patterns of volume deficit in patients with alcoholism and schizophrenia alone, with no evidence for compounded deficits in comorbid patients. Further, these cross-sectional data provide indirect support for at least partial recovery of nucleus accumbens volume with sobriety in alcoholics, regardless of schizophrenia comorbidity.
This study provides a detailed anatomical description of the relation between olivo-cortico-nuclear modules of the intermediate cerebellum of the rat and the intrinsic zebrin pattern of the Purkinje cells. Strips of climbing fibers were labeled using small injections of biotinylated dextran amine into either the medial or dorsal accessory olives, while, in some cases, simultaneous retrograde labeling of Purkinje cells was obtained using gold-lectin injections into selected parts of the interposed nuclei. Our data are represented in a new, highly detailed, cortical surface reconstruction of the zebrin pattern and in relation to the collateral labeling of the climbing fibers to the cerebellar nuclei. We show that the somatotopic regions of the dorsal accessory olive behave differently in their projections to essentially zebrin-negative regions that represent the C1 and C3 zones of the anterior and posterior parts of the cortex. The rostral part of the medial accessory olive projects to zebrin-positive areas, in particular to the P4+ band of the anterior lobe and lobule VI and to the P5+ band of the posterior lobe, indicating that C2 has two noncontiguous representations in the SL and crus 1. By relating the areas of overlap that resulted from the injections in the accessory olives, i.e., labeling of climbing fiber strips and patches of climbing fiber nuclear collaterals, with the results from the injections in the interposed nuclei, i.e., retrograde labeling of Purkinje cells and of inferior olivary neurons, direct verification of the concept of modular cerebellar connections was obtained.
Unlike the brains of most mammals, the mouse brain appears unique in the massive appearance of cells showing IgG-like immunoreactivity, which has repeatedly been shown via immunohistochemistry. In the present study, we first examined possible species differences in IgG-like immunohistochemical staining in the brains of various rodents, including mice. In four of six mouse strains examined (ICR, Balb/c, C57BL/6, and AKR/J), antibodies against mouse IgG revealed positive staining in many brain microglia. However, no such positive staining was detected in brains of the rat, hamster, guinea pig, or two other mouse strains (CBA/N and CBA/J). We purified IgG-like-immunoreactive molecule(s) biochemically from brain of the ICR mouse as a representative mouse strain. Our amino-acid-sequence analysis proved that the purified protein was identical to serum IgG. The possibility of IgG synthesis by brain microglia in the ICR mouse was denied by our RT-PCR experiments and in situ hybridization histochemistry. In addition, Fcgamma-receptor-deficient double-knockout mice of the C57BL/6 genetic background contained no IgG-immunoreactive microglia in the brain. These results clearly indicate that microglial IgG staining is due to the uptake of serum IgG through Fcgamma receptors. However, the strain-specific mechanisms resulting in microglial IgG uptake remain to be elucidated, in that Fcgamma receptors are omnipresent in microglia of all rodents examined here.
The lipoprotein receptor LRP2/megalin is expressed by absorptive epithelia and involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of a wide range of ligands. Megalin is expressed in the neuroepithelium during central nervous system (CNS) development. Mice with homozygous deletions of the megalin gene show severe forebrain abnormalities. The possible role of megalin in the developing spinal cord, however, is unknown. Here we examined the spatial and temporal expression pattern of megalin in the embryonic mouse spinal cord using an antibody that specifically recognizes the cytoplasmic part of the megalin molecule. In line with published data, we show expression of megalin in ependymal cells of the central canal from embryonic day (E)11 until birth. In addition, from E11 until E15 a population of cells was found in the dorsal part of the developing spinal cord strongly immunoreactive against megalin. Double labeling showed that most of these cells express vimentin, a marker for immature astrocytes and radial glia, but not brain lipid binding protein (BLBP), a marker for radial glial cells, or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker for mature astrocytes. These findings indicate that the majority of the megalin-positive cells are astroglial precursors. Megalin immunoreactivity was mainly localized in the nuclei of these cells, suggesting that the cytoplasmic part of the megalin molecule can be cleaved following ligand binding and translocated to the nucleus to act as a transcription factor or regulate other transcription factors. These findings suggest that megalin has a crucial role in the development of astrocytes of the spinal cord.
The development of non-dopaminergic therapies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) has attracted much interest in recent years. Among new different classes of drugs, adenosine A2A receptor antagonists have emerged as best candidates. The present review will provide an updated summary of the results reported in literature concerning the effects of adenosine A2A antagonists in rodent and primate models of PD. These results show that A2A receptor antagonists improve motor deficits without inducing dyskinesia and counteract parkinsonian tremor. In progress clinical trials have shown that a low dose of L-DOPA plus KW-6002 produced symptomatic relief no different from that produced by an optimal dose of L-DOPA alone, whereas dyskinesias were reduced rendering this class of compounds particularly attractive.
Little is known as to the structural requirements of the acyl side chain for interaction of acylglycerols with monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), the enzyme chiefly responsible for the metabolism of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) in the brain. In the present study, a series of twelve analogues of 1-AG (the more stable regioisomer of 2-AG) were investigated with respect to their ability to inhibit the metabolism of 2-oleoylglycerol by cytosolic and membrane-bound MAGL. In addition, the ability of the compounds to inhibit the hydrolysis of anandamide by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) was investigated. For cytosolic MAGL, compounds with 20 carbon atoms in the acyl chain and 2-5 unsaturated bonds inhibited the hydrolysis of 2-oleoylglycerol with similar potencies (IC50 values in the range 5.1-8.2 microM), whereas the two compounds with a single unsaturated bond were less potent (IC50 values 19 and 21 microM). The fully saturated analogue 1-monoarachidin did not inhibit the enzyme, whereas the lower side chain analogues 1-monopalmitin and 1-monomyristin inhibited the enzyme with IC50 values of 12 and 32 microM, respectively. The 22-carbon chain analogue of 1-AG was also potent (IC50 value 4.5 microM). Introduction of an alpha-methyl group for the C20:4, C20:3, and C22:4 compounds did not affect potency in a consistent manner. For the FAAH and the membrane-bound MAGL, there was no obvious relationship between the degree of unsaturation of the acyl side chain and the ability to inhibit the enzymes. It is concluded that increasing the number of unsaturated bonds on the acyl side chain of 1-AG from 1 to 5 has little effect on the affinity of acylglycerols for cytosolic MAGL.
Hepatitis C infection causes a state of chronic oxidative stress, which may contribute to fibrosis and carcinogenesis in the liver. Previous studies have shown that expression of the HCV core protein in hepatoma cells depolarized mitochondria and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, but the mechanisms of these effects are unknown. In this study we examined the properties of liver mitochondria from transgenic mice expressing HCV core protein, and from normal liver mitochondria incubated with recombinant core protein. Liver mitochondria from transgenic mice expressing the HCV proteins core, E1 and E2 demonstrated oxidation of the glutathione pool and a decrease in NADPH content. In addition, there was reduced activity of electron transport complex I, and increased ROS production from complex I substrates. There were no abnormalities observed in complex II or complex III function. Incubation of control mitochondria in vitro with recombinant core protein also caused glutathione oxidation, selective complex I inhibition, and increased ROS production. Proteinase K digestion of either transgenic mitochondria or control mitochondria incubated with core protein showed that core protein associates strongly with mitochondria, remains associated with the outer membrane, and is not taken up across the outer membrane. Core protein also increased Ca(2+) uptake into isolated mitochondria. These results suggest that interaction of core protein with mitochondria and subsequent oxidation of the glutathione pool and complex I inhibition may be an important cause of the oxidative stress seen in chronic hepatitis C.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/stress-activated protein kinase-associated protein 1 (JSAP1) (also termed JNK-interacting protein 3; JIP3) is a member of a family of scaffold factors for the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades, and it also forms a complex with focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Here we demonstrate that JSAP1 serves as a cooperative scaffold for activation of JNK and regulation of cell migration in response to fibronectin (FN) stimulation. JSAP1 mediated an association between FAK and JNK, which was induced by either co-expression of Src or attachment of cells to FN. Complex formation of FAK with JSAP1 and p130 Crk-associated substrate (p130(Cas)) resulted in augmentation of FAK activity and phosphorylation of both JSAP1 and p130(Cas), which required p130(Cas) hyperphosphorylation and was abolished by inhibition of Src. JNK activation by FN was enhanced by JSAP1, which was suppressed by disrupting the FAK/p130(Cas) pathway by expression of a dominant-negative form of p130(Cas) or by inhibiting Src. We also documented the co-localization of JSAP1 with JNK and phosphorylated FAK at the leading edge and stimulation of cell migration by JSAP1 expression, which depended on its JNK binding domain and was suppressed by inhibition of JNK. The level of JSAP1 mRNA correlated with advanced malignancy in brain tumors, unlike other JIPs. We propose that the JSAP1.FAK complex functions cooperatively as a scaffold for the JNK signaling pathway and regulator of cell migration on FN, and we suggest that JSAP1 is also associated with malignancy in brain tumors.
Changes in the membrane distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors seem to produce dramatic modifications in neuronal excitability and other properties of the neuron. In order to determine in vivo if these effects are due to the binding of extracellular glutamate and glycine to NMDA extrasynaptic receptors, we perfused the hippocampus of freely moving rats with the actin depolymerizant agent latrunculin A (4 microM) through microdialysis probes. One month later, continuous microperfusion of glutamate (1 mM) or glycine (1 mM) was used to induce epileptic seizures in the animals pretreated with latrunculin A. Glutamate microperfusion induced seizures in 50% of the animals studied, and glycine induced seizures in 75% of the rats. However, no effect was observed on control rats, or on those animals previously treated with picrotoxin. Simultaneous microperfusion of 100 microM MK-801 significantly reduced the number and duration of seizures induced by both glutamate and glycine. This study demonstrates that the application of latrunculin A results in long-term changes in susceptibility to the epileptogenic action of glutamate and glycine.

Forkhead transcription factors comprise a large family of key regulators of embryonic development. Here, we describe the cloning and analysis of the murine Foxi2 gene, coding for a putative 311 amino acid protein resembling Foxi subfamily members in mice and other species. Expression analysis during the final stages of embryonic development revealed that Foxi2 expression is mainly confined to subsets of cells in epithelial structures and particular ducts, in addition to the developing forebrain and neural retina. Since FoxI factors are thought to be implicated in the regulation of cell fate, the highly restricted expression pattern of Foxi2 suggestive of a possible role in controlling cellular identity.
Any analysis of plastic reorganization at a neuronal locus needs a veridical measure of changes in the functional output--that is, spiking responses of the neurons in question. In a study of the effect of retinal lesions on adult primary visual cortex (V1), Smirnakis et al. propose that there is no cortical reorganization. Their results are based, however, on BOLD (blood-oxygen-level-dependent) fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), which provides an unreliable gauge of spiking activity. We therefore question their criterion for lack of plasticity, particularly in the light of the large body of earlier work that demonstrates cortical plasticity.
Genome-wide expression profiling is a powerful tool for implicating novel gene ensembles in cellular mechanisms of health and disease. The most popular platform for genome-wide expression profiling is the Affymetrix GeneChip. However, its selection of probes relied on earlier genome and transcriptome annotation which is significantly different from current knowledge. The resultant informatics problems have a profound impact on analysis and interpretation the data. Here, we address these critical issues and offer a solution. We identified several classes of problems at the individual probe level in the existing annotation, under the assumption that current genome and transcriptome databases are more accurate than those used for GeneChip design. We then reorganized probes on more than a dozen popular GeneChips into gene-, transcript- and exon-specific probe sets in light of up-to-date genome, cDNA/EST clustering and single nucleotide polymorphism information. Comparing analysis results between the original and the redefined probe sets reveals approximately 30-50% discrepancy in the genes previously identified as differentially expressed, regardless of analysis method. Our results demonstrate that the original Affymetrix probe set definitions are inaccurate, and many conclusions derived from past GeneChip analyses may be significantly flawed. It will be beneficial to re-analyze existing GeneChip data with updated probe set definitions.
In nature, sounds from multiple sources sum at the eardrums, generating complex cues for sound localization and identification. In this clutter, the auditory system must determine &quot;what is where.&quot; We examined this process in the auditory space map of the barn owl's (Tyto alba) inferior colliculus using two spatially separated sources simultaneously emitting uncorrelated noise bursts, which were uniquely identified by different frequencies of sinusoidal amplitude modulation. Spatial response profiles of isolated neurons were constructed by testing the source-pair centered at various locations in virtual auditory space. The neurons responded whenever a source was placed within the receptive field, generating two clearly segregated foci of activity at appropriate loci. The spike trains were locked strongly to the amplitude modulation of the source within the receptive field, whereas the other source had minimal influence. Two sources amplitude modulated at the same rate were resolved successfully, suggesting that source separation is based on differences of fine structure. The spike rate and synchrony were stronger for whichever source had the stronger average binaural level. A computational model showed that neuronal activity was primarily proportional to the degree of matching between the momentary binaural cues and the preferred values of the neuron. The model showed that individual neurons respond to and synchronize with sources in their receptive field if there are frequencies having an average binaural-level advantage over a second source. Frequencies with interaural phase differences that are shared by both sources may also evoke activity, which may be synchronized with the amplitude modulations from either source.




When it comes to listening to music, infants literally have a more open mind than their parents. Studies which investigate listening behaviour of babies and adults have shown that, as we learn to discriminate the musical sounds in our own environment, we become less sensitive to those of other cultures.
Marmoset monkeys devalue rewards requiring travel to acquire, but tamarin monkeys do not, despite the greater patience of marmosets when rewards are delayed in time. Such preference reversals, not predicted by standard economic theory, may reflect behavioral mechanisms adaptively specialized for different spatial and temporal patterns of foraging.

Cortical spreading depression was described in 1943 by Aristides Leo, a Brazilian neurophysiologist. Initially considered to be a mysterious event as it was discovered serendipitously, its nature has become progressively better known. Cortical spreading depression is now accepted as the mechanism underlying migraine aura and has became known as either Leo's spreading depression or cortical spreading depression. Recent studies have suggested a role for Leo's cortical spreading depression in the pathogenesis and symptomatology of neurologic disorders such as transient global amnesia, head injury, and cerebrovascular diseases.
With recent investigation beginning to reveal the cortical and subcortical neuroanatomical correlates of humor appreciation, the present event-related functional MRI (fMRI) study was designed to elucidate sex-specific recruitment of these humor related networks. Twenty healthy subjects (10 females) underwent fMRI scanning while subjectively rating 70 verbal and nonverbal achromatic cartoons as funny or unfunny. Data were analyzed by comparing blood oxygenation-level-dependent signal activation during funny and unfunny stimuli. Males and females share an extensive humor-response strategy as indicated by recruitment of similar brain regions: both activate the temporal-occipital junction and temporal pole, structures implicated in semantic knowledge and juxtaposition, and the inferior frontal gyrus, likely to be involved in language processing. Females, however, activate the left prefrontal cortex more than males, suggesting a greater degree of executive processing and language-based decoding. Females also exhibit greater activation of mesolimbic regions, including the nucleus accumbens, implying greater reward network response and possibly less reward expectation. These results indicate sex-specific differences in neural response to humor with implications for sex-based disparities in the integration of cognition and emotion.
Previous research and theory suggest that two stable personality dimensions, extroversion and neuroticism, differentially influence emotional reactivity to a variety of pleasurable phenomena. Here, we use event-related functional MRI to address the putative neural and behavioral associations between humor appreciation and the personality dimensions of introversion-extroversion and emotional stability-neuroticism. Our analysis showed extroversion to positively correlate with humor-driven blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in discrete regions of the right orbital frontal cortex, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, and bilateral temporal cortices. Introversion correlated with increased activation in several regions, most prominently the bilateral amygdala. Although neuroticism did not positively correlate with any whole-brain activation, emotional stability (i.e., the inverse of neuroticism) correlated with increased activation in the mesocortical-mesolimbic reward circuitry encompassing the right orbital frontal cortex, caudate, and nucleus accumbens. Our findings tie together existing neurobiological studies of humor appreciation and are compatible with the notion that personality style plays a fundamental role in the neurobiological systems subserving humor appreciation.
KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 ion channel pore-forming subunits coassemble to form a heteromeric voltage-gated potassium channel that underlies the neuronal M-current. We and others showed that calmodulin (CaM) binds to specific sequence motifs in the C-terminal domain of KCNQ2 and KCNQ3. We also found that a fusion protein containing a KCNQ2 CaM-binding motif, coexpressed with KCNQ2 and KCNQ3, competes with the full-length KCNQ2 channel for CaM binding and thereby decreases KCNQ2/3 current density in heterologous cells. We have explored the importance of CaM binding for the generation of the native M-current and regulation of membrane excitability in rat hippocampal neurons in primary cell culture. M-current properties were studied in cultured neurons by using whole-cell patch clamp recording. The M-current density is lower in neurons expressing the CaM-binding motif fusion protein, as compared to control neurons transfected with vector alone. In contrast, no change in M-current density is observed in cells transfected with a mutant fusion protein that is unable to bind CaM. The CaM-binding fusion protein does not influence the rapidly inactivating A-current or the large conductance calcium-activated potassium channel-mediated fast spike afterhyperpolarization in neurons in which the M-current is suppressed. Furthermore, the CaM-binding fusion protein, but not the nonbinding mutant, increases both the number of action potentials evoked by membrane depolarization and the size of the spike afterdepolarization. These results suggest that CaM binding regulates M-channel function and membrane excitability in the native neuronal environment.
The mechanisms by which hearing selectivity is elaborated and refined in early development are very incompletely determined. In this study, we documented contributions of progressively maturing inhibitory influences on the refinement of spectral and temporal response properties in the primary auditory cortex. Inhibitory receptive fields (IRFs) of infant rat auditory cortical neurons were spectrally far broader and had extended over far longer duration than did those of adults. The selective refinement of IRFs was delayed relative to that of excitatory receptive fields by an approximately 2-week period that corresponded to the critical period for plasticity. Local application of a GABA(A) receptor antagonist revealed that intracortical inhibition contributes to this progressive receptive field maturation for response selectivity in frequency. Conversely, it had no effect on the duration of IRFs or successive-signal cortical response recovery times. The importance of exposure to patterned acoustic inputs was suggested when both spectral and temporal IRF maturation were disrupted in rat pups reared in continuous, moderate-intensity noise. They were subsequently renormalized when animals were returned to standard housing conditions as adults.
Monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were trained to order visual arrays based on their number of elements and to conditionally choose the array with the larger or smaller number of elements dependent on a color cue. When the screen background was red, monkeys were reinforced for choosing the smaller numerical value first. When the screen background was blue, monkeys were reinforced for choosing the larger numerical value first. Monkeys showed a semantic congruity effect analogous to that reported for human comparison judgments. Specifically, decision time was systematically influenced by the semantic congruity between the cue (&quot;choose smaller&quot; or &quot;choose larger&quot;) and the magnitude of the choice stimuli (small or large numbers of dots). This finding demonstrates a semantic congruity effect in a nonlinguistic animal and provides strong evidence for an evolutionarily primitive magnitude-comparison algorithm common to humans and monkeys.
In our natural world, a face is usually encountered not as an isolated object but as an integrated part of a whole body. The face and the body both normally contribute in conveying the emotional state of the individual. Here we show that observers judging a facial expression are strongly influenced by emotional body language. Photographs of fearful and angry faces and bodies were used to create face-body compound images, with either matched or mismatched emotional expressions. When face and body convey conflicting emotional information, judgment of facial expression is hampered and becomes biased toward the emotion expressed by the body. Electrical brain activity was recorded from the scalp while subjects attended to the face and judged its emotional expression. An enhancement of the occipital P1 component as early as 115 ms after presentation onset points to the existence of a rapid neural mechanism sensitive to the degree of agreement between simultaneously presented facial and bodily emotional expressions, even when the latter are unattended.
The molecule alpha calcium calmodulin kinase II (alphaCaMKII) is known to play a fundamental role in the induction of many forms of synaptic plasticity. A major theory of alphaCaMKII function proposes that autophosphorylation of the molecule mediates not only the induction but also the maintenance of synaptic plasticity. To test this hypothesis, we assessed ocular dominance plasticity in genetically engineered mice that carry a mutation preventing autophosphorylation of alphaCaMKII. These mutant mice are deficient in plasticity after monocular deprivation, but a sufficiently long period of monocular deprivation will induce ocular dominance plasticity. After induction of ocular dominance plasticity, the stability of the induced changes was assayed after binocular deprivation. Plasticity in homozygous mutant animals was as stable as that measured in WT littermates; also, response characteristics did not differ between the two groups. Our results suggest that alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation is required for the induction of ocular dominance plasticity but is not needed for its stable maintenance thereafter.
Protein synthesis has long been known to be required for associative learning to consolidate into long-term memory. Here we demonstrate that PKC isozyme activation on days before training can induce the synthesis of proteins necessary and sufficient for subsequent long-term memory consolidation. Bryostatin (Bryo), a macrolide lactone with efficacy in subnanomolar concentrations and a potential therapeutic for Alzheimer's disease, is a potent activator of PKC, some of whose isozymes undergo prolonged activation after associative learning. Under normal conditions, two training events with paired visual and vestibular stimuli cause short-term memory of the mollusc Hermissenda that lasts approximately 7 min. However, after 4-h exposures to Bryo (0.25 ng/ml) on two preceding days, the same two training events produced long-term conditioning that lasted &gt;1 week and that was not blocked by anisomycin (1 mug/ml). Anisomycin, however, eliminated long-term memory lasting at least 1 week after nine training events. Both the nine training events alone and two Bryo exposures plus two training event regimens caused comparably increased levels of the PKC alpha-isozyme substrate calexcitin in identified type B neurons and enhanced PKC activity in the membrane fractions. Furthermore, Bryo increased overall protein synthesis in cultured mammalian neurons by up to 60% for &gt;3 days. The specific PKC antagonist Ro-32-0432 blocked much of this Bryo-induced protein synthesis as well as the Bryo-induced enhancement of the behavioral conditioning. Thus, Bryo-induced PKC activation produces those proteins necessary and sufficient for long-term memory on days in advance of the training events themselves.
Serotonin (5HT) is a critical modulator of neural circuits that support diverse behaviors and physiological processes, and multiple lines of evidence implicate abnormal serotonergic signaling in psychiatric pathogenesis. The significance of 5HT underscores the importance of elucidating the molecular pathways involved in serotonergic system development, function, and plasticity. However, these mechanisms remain poorly defined, owing largely to the difficulty of accessing 5HT neurons for experimental manipulation. To address this methodological deficiency, we present a transgenic route to selectively alter 5HT neuron gene expression. This approach is based on the ability of a Pet-1 enhancer region to direct reliable 5HT neuron-specific transgene expression in the CNS. Its versatility is illustrated with several transgenic mouse lines, each of which provides a tool for 5HT neuron studies. Two lines allow Cre-mediated recombination at different stages of 5HT neuron development. A third line in which 5HT neurons are marked with yellow fluorescent protein will have numerous applications, including their electrophysiological characterization. To demonstrate this application, we have characterized active and passive membrane properties of midbrain reticular 5HT neurons, which heretofore have not been reported to our knowledge. A fourth line in which Pet-1 loss of function is rescued by expression of a Pet-1 transgene demonstrates biologically relevant levels of transgene expression and offers a route for investigating serotonergic protein structure and function in a behaving animal. These findings establish a straightforward and reliable approach for developing an array of tools for in vivo and in vitro studies of 5HT neurons.
Endocannabinoids are a class of fatty acid derivatives defined by their ability to interact with the specific cannabinoid receptors that were originally identified as the targets of Delta9-tetrahydocannabinol (Delta9-THC), the psychoactive component of cannabis. Endocannabinoids have been implicated in a growing number of important physiological and behavioral events. A full understanding of the functions of endocannabinoids will involve knowing which ones are active, and how they are produced, during any given physical event. However, studying these small lipids in the brain presents many technical challenges. New selective pharmacological tools promise to be very useful in unraveling the complexities of endocannabinoid signaling, but parallel developments from the investigation of the cellular neurophysiology of the endocannabinoid systems highlight the difficulties remaining.
The learning and recalling of a lever-press task (LPT) after brief unilateral extradural compression (EC) of the right sensorimotor cortex was studied in Wistar rats. All rats, regardless of the time-point for EC, were trained to lever press for food from D(day)1 to D6. On D8, the position of the active lever was changed to the right side of the operant box and performance was tested until D14. Total and active lever presses, as well as % errors were used to analyse the performance. Rats submitted to EC 24 h before initiating the LPT schedule (nave-compressed group) showed delayed task acquisition and impaired performance until D10. No significant impairments were detected by D3 on a beam-walking test, excluding paresis as the cause to the delay. Rats submitted to EC after they learned the LPT (trained-compressed group) showed only mildly impaired post-compression performance with no effects on the recalling of the task. Using a progressive ratio LPT, the maximum number of presses to obtain a food-pellet (breaking point) was significantly reduced 24h after EC suggesting reduced motivation for the task early after brain injury. The delayed acquisition of the LPT in nave-compressed rats was accompanied by consistent cortical, striatal and thalamic degeneration detected by Fluoro-Jade and anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) staining, whereas the improvement in the performance of this group was accompanied by a reduction of the cortical damage on D10. Recall of the LPT in trained-compressed rats was not altered by EC, suggesting the contribution of compensatory mechanisms.
The binding of glucocorticoids to the type II or glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is known to play a role in memory consolidation and long-term memory. The present series of studies investigated the locus for GR effects on learning and memory of contextual fear conditioning. The GR antagonist RU 38486 was administered peripherally (10, 20, or 30 mg/kg/ml), as well as centrally into the lateral ventricle (75 or 150 ng/2 microL), basolateral amygdala (BLA; 0.3, 3, or 30 ng/0.2 microL), dorsal hippocampus (DH; 30 ng/microL) or ventral hippocampus (VH; 30 ng/microL) prior to contextual fear conditioning. Peripheral administration of RU 38486 did not affect fear-related levels of freezing immediately following a footshock or in a long-term memory test 24 h later. However, administration into the lateral ventricle, BLA, or VH decreased freezing in a 24 h retention test, while leaving post-shock levels of freezing intact. Both post-shock and retention levels of freezing were unaffected in rats that received RU 38486 in the DH compared to vehicle controls; however, vehicle rats also displayed low levels of freezing during retention. The data indicate that GR activation within the BLA and VH is important for the establishment of long-term memory for contextual fear conditioning.
Gestational iron deficiency (ID) has been linked to alterations in GABA neurotransmission, but whether these neuronal changes are mirrored in altered anxiety behavior in rats is not known. In this experiment, two tests of GABA-related affective behaviors in rats, ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) and elevated plus maze (EPM) were used to investigate the consequences of maternal ID. Female rats were randomly assigned to one of three diet groups: low iron (10-20 ppm Fe), recommended (standard) iron control (60 ppm Fe) or lab chow (250 ppm Fe) control. Diets started 7 days prior to mating and continued until 10 days after birth (PN10). Maternal behavior and offspring growth and activity were also assessed. Blood samples taken on PN10 revealed a significant decrement in serum iron and an increase in total iron binding capacity in the low iron groups compared to the two control groups. Relative to the two control groups, the low iron group weighed less on PN1, and this weight difference persisted in adulthood. In neonates, the rate of USVs in the low iron group was significantly higher than the two control groups, and their general activity was significantly less than the controls. Maternal behavior was not significantly different across groups. By adulthood, anxiety behavior and motor activity in the low iron group were comparable to controls, although the iron deficient subjects habituated more slowly. This study shows that prenatal iron deficiency results in increased anxiety behavior in neonates that appears to be reversed with iron repletion but that some aspects of altered exploratory behavior and growth persist into adulthood.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is inhibitory in the adult central nervous system, can be excitatory in the developing brain. The change from excitatory to inhibitory action of GABA during development is caused by a negative shift in its reversal potential. Here, we report a presynaptic activity-mediated negative shift in the reversal potential of the GABA-mediated synaptic currents in immature deep cerebellar nuclei neurons. This shift appears to be due to an increased expression and activation of the K+-Cl- co-transporter type 2 (KCC-2) through the activation of protein kinase A, protein synthesis and activation of protein phosphatases. Thus, maturation of the GABA response may rely on an activity-dependent up-regulation of KCC-2.
The proteolysis of beta-amyloid (Abeta) requires neprylisin, an enzyme that has been shown as reduced in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We investigated whether a decrease in neprilysin levels contributes to the accumulation of amyloid deposits not only in AD but also in the normal aging. We analyzed neprilysin mRNA and protein levels in cerebral cortex from 10 cognitively normal elderly subjects with amyloid plaques (NA), 10 cases of AD, and 10 control cases free of amyloid plaques. We found a significant decrease in neprilysin mRNA levels in both AD and NA compared to control cases. Thereby, the defect of neprilysin appears to correlate with Abeta deposition but not with degeneration and dementia.
The anatomical substrates of neural nets are usually composed from reconstructions of neurons that were stained in different preparations. Realistic models of the structural relationships between neurons require a common framework. Here we present 3-D reconstructions of single projection neurons (PN) connecting the antennal lobe (AL) with the mushroom body (MB) and lateral horn, groups of intrinsic mushroom body neurons (type 5 Kenyon cells), and a single mushroom body extrinsic neuron (PE1), aiming to compose components of the olfactory pathway in the honeybee. To do so, we constructed a digital standard atlas of the bee brain. The standard atlas was created as an average-shape atlas of 22 neuropils, calculated from 20 individual immunostained whole-mount bee brains. After correction for global size and positioning differences by repeatedly applying an intensity-based nonrigid registration algorithm, a sequence of average label images was created. The results were qualitatively evaluated by generating average gray-value images corresponding to the average label images and judging the level of detail within the labeled regions. We found that the first affine registration step in the sequence results in a blurred image because of considerable local shape differences. However, already the first nonrigid iteration in the sequence corrected for most of the shape differences among individuals, resulting in images rich in internal detail. A second iteration improved on that somewhat and was selected as the standard. Registering neurons from different preparations into the standard atlas reveals 1) that the m-ACT neuron occupies the entire glomerulus (cortex and core) and overlaps with a local interneuron in the cortical layer; 2) that, in the MB calyces and the lateral horn of the protocerebral lobe, the axon terminals of two identified m-ACT neurons arborize in separate but close areas of the neuropil; and 3) that MB-intrinsic clawed Kenyon cells (type 5), with somata outside the calycal cups, project to the peduncle and lobe output system of the MB and contact (proximate) the dendritic tree of the PE1 neuron at the base of the vertical lobe. Thus the standard atlas and the procedures applied for registration serve the function of creating realistic neuroanatomical models of parts of a neural net. The Honeybee Standard Brain is accessible at www.neurobiologie.fu-berlin.de/beebrain.
The study of dopaminergic influences on acetylcholine release is especially useful for the understanding of a wide range of brain functions and neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and drug addiction. These disorders are characterized by a neurochemical imbalance of a variety of neurotransmitter systems, including the dopamine and acetylcholine systems. Dopamine modulates acetylcholine levels in the brain by binding to dopamine receptors located directly on cholinergic cells. The dopamine D5 receptor, a D1-class receptor subtype, potentiates acetylcholine release and has been investigated as a possible substrate underlying a variety of brain functions and clinical disorders. This receptor subtype, therefore, may prove to be a putative target for pharmacotherapeutic strategies and cognitive-behavioral treatments aimed at treating a variety of neurological disorders. The present study investigated whether cholinergic cells in the dopamine targeted areas of the cerebral cortex, striatum, basal forebrain, and diencephalon express the dopamine D5 receptor. These receptors were localized on cholinergic neurons with dual labeling immunoperoxidase or immunofluorescence procedures using antibodies directed against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the dopamine D5 receptor. Results from this study support previous findings indicating that striatal cholinergic interneurons express the dopamine D5 receptor. In addition, cholinergic neurons in other critical brain areas also show dopamine D5 receptor expression. Dopamine D5 receptors were localized on the somata, dendrites, and axons of cholinergic cells in each of the brain areas examined. These findings support the functional importance of the dopamine D5 receptor in the modulation of acetylcholine release throughout the brain.
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a progressive fatal neurodegenerative disease associated with persistent infection of the central nervous system (CNS) by measles virus (MV), biased hypermutations of the viral genome affecting primarily the matrix (M) gene with the conversion of U to C and A to G bases, high titers of antibodies to MV, and infiltration of B cells and T cells into the CNS. Neither the precipitating event nor biology underlying the MV infection is understood, nor is their any satisfactory treatment. We report the creation of a transgenic mouse model that mimics the cardinal features of SSPE. This was achieved by initially infecting mice expressing the MV receptor with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus Cl 13, a virus that transiently suppressed their immune system. Infection by MV 10 days later resulted in persistent MV infection of neurons. Analysis of brains from infected mice showed the biased U to C hypermutations in the MV M gene and T and B lymphocyte infiltration. These sera contained high titers of antibodies to MV. Thus, a small animal model is now available to both molecularly probe the pathogenesis of SSPE and to test a variety of therapies to treat the disease.
Event-related potential (ERP) studies consistently have described a strong, face-sensitive response termed the N170. This component is maximal at the fovea and decreases strongly with eccentricity, a result that could suggest a foveal bias in the cortical generators responsible for face processing. Here we demonstrate that scaling stimulus size according to V1 cortical magnification factor can virtually eliminate face-related eccentricity effects, indicating that eccentricity effects on face ERPs are largely due to low-level visual factors rather than high-level cortical specialization for foveal stimuli.
We analyzed the effect of the acylpolyaminetoxin JSTX-3 on the epileptogenic discharges induced by perfusion of human hippocampal slices with artificial cerebrospinal fluid lacking Mg2+ or N-methyl-D-aspartate. Hippocampi were surgically removed from patients with refractory medial temporal lobe epilepsy, sliced in the surgical room and taken to the laboratory immersed in normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Epileptiform activity was induced by perfusion with Mg2+-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid or by iontophoretically applied N-methyl-D-aspartate and intracellular and field recordings of CA1 neurons were performed. The ictal-like discharges induced by Mg2+-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid and N-methyl-D-aspartate were blocked by incubation with JSTX-3. This effect was similar to that obtained with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist DL (-)2-amino-5 phosphonovaleric acid. Our findings suggest that in human hippocampal neurons, the antiepileptic effect of JSTX-3 is mediated by its action on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor.
Altered cholinergic function is considered as a potential contributing factor in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. We hypothesize that cortical cholinergic denervation may result in changes in glutamatergic activity. Therefore, we lesioned the cholinergic corticopetal projections by local infusion of 192 IgG-saporin into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of rats. Possible effects of this lesion on glutamatergic systems were examined by phencyclidine-induced locomotor activity, and also by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor binding. We find that cholinergic lesioning of neocortex leads to enhanced sensitivity to phencyclidine in the form of a dramatic increase in horizontal activity. Further, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor binding is unaffected in denervated rats. These results suggest that aberrations in cholinergic function might lead to glutamatergic dysfunctions, which might be of relevance for the pathophysiology for schizophrenia.
Large clostridial cytotoxins and protein overexpression were used to probe for involvement of Ras-related GTPases (guanosine triphosphate) in synaptic transmission in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The toxins TcdA-10463 (inactivates Rho, Rac, Cdc42, Rap) and TcsL-1522 (inactivates Ral, Rac, Ras, R-Ras, Rap) both inhibited autaptic responses. In a proportion of the neurons (25%, TcdA-10463; 54%, TcsL-1522), the inhibition was associated with a shift from activity-dependent depression to facilitation, indicating that the synaptic release probability was reduced. Overexpression of a dominant negative Ral mutant, Ral A28N, caused a strong inhibition of autaptic responses, which was associated with a shift to facilitation in a majority (80%) of the neurons. These results indicate that Ral, along with at least one other non-Rab GTPase, participates in presynaptic regulation in hippocampal neurons.
We investigated the effects of cortical stimulation on mental rotation tasks in a patient with an electrode array placed over his left primary motor cortex. The array was implanted to relieve chronic pain resulting from right brachial plexus damage. Tasks involving motor imagery were slowed down by cortical stimulation, whereas those involving visual imagery were not. When the patient performed the motor-imagery task, the interference effect on response times disappeared if the stimulator was switched off. We also probed two of the sites (anterior-lateral and posterior-medial position), and found that stimulation of the more anterior-lateral one consistently disrupted motor imagery.
Adult macaque Schwann cells were infected using adeno-associated virus type-2-derived vectors expressing the green fluorescent protein reporter gene under the control of the cytomegalovirus, the hybrid cytomegalovirus-betaactin, the myelin basic protein or the tetracycline-inducible promoters. On the basis of green fluorescent protein expression, gene transfer efficiency was compared in resting and dividing conditions following or not following hydroxyurea or etoposide treatment. Hydroxyurea allowed promoter-dependent expression of green fluorescent protein in infected Schwann cells. Etoposide treatment led to a high percentage of green fluorescent protein expressing cells (over 50%) with all promoters tested. When infected cells were grafted into demyelinated nude mice spinal cord, green fluorescent protein expression was only observed with the cytomegalovirus-betaactin and tetracycline-inducible promoters. In addition, adeno-associated virus type-2 infection reduced the grafted cell survival but increased their differentiation.
Coassociation of the vanilloid transient receptor potential (Trp) ion channels, TrpV1 and TrpV2, was investigated by immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence in transfected mammalian cell lines, rat dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord. TrpV1/TrpV2 heteromeric complexes were coimmunoprecipitated from human embryonic kidney cells and F-11 dorsal root ganglion hybridoma cells following their transient coexpression. Immunofluorescent labelling of transfected F-11 cells revealed colocalization of TrpV1 and TrpV2 at the cell surface. Immunoprecipitation from rat dorsal root ganglion lysates identified a minor population of receptor complexes composed of TrpV1/TrpV2 heteromers, consistent with a small proportion of cells double-labelled with TrpV1 and TrpV2 antibodies in rat dorsal root ganglion sections. TrpV1/TrpV2 receptor complexes may represent a functionally distinct ion channel complex that may increase the diversity observed within the Trp ion channel family.
Guillain-Barr syndrome consists of at least four subtypes of acute peripheral neuropathy. Major advances have been made in understanding the mechanisms of some of the subtypes. The histological appearance of the acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (AIDP) subtype resembles experimental autoimmune neuritis, which is predominantly caused by T cells directed against peptides from the myelin proteins P0, P2, and PMP22. The role of T-cell-mediated immunity in AIDP remains unclear and there is evidence for the involvement of antibodies and complement. Strong evidence now exists that axonal subtypes of Guillain-Barr syndrome, acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN), and acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy (AMSAN), are caused by antibodies to gangliosides on the axolemma that target macrophages to invade the axon at the node of Ranvier. About a quarter of patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome have had a recent Campylobacter jejuni infection, and axonal forms of the disease are especially common in these people. The lipo-oligosaccharide from the C jejuni bacterial wall contains ganglioside-like structures and its injection into rabbits induces a neuropathy that resembles acute motor axonal neuropathy. Antibodies to GM1, GM1b, GD1a, and GalNac-GD1a are in particular implicated in acute motor axonal neuropathy and, with the exception of GalNacGD1a, in acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy. The Fisher's syndrome subtype is especially associated with antibodies to GQ1b, and similar cross-reactivity with ganglioside structures in the wall of C jejuni has been discovered. Anti-GQ1b antibodies have been shown to damage the motor nerve terminal in vitro by a complement-mediated mechanism. Results of international randomised trials have shown equivalent efficacy of both plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin, but not corticosteroids, in hastening recovery from Guillain-Barr syndrome. Further research is needed to discover treatments to prevent 20% of patients from being left with persistent and significant disability.
Several lines of reasoning suggest that the phosphorylated axonal form of the neurofilament subunit NF-H is likely to be released from damaged and diseased neurons in significant amounts. Detection of this protein in serum or CSF might therefore provide information about the presence and degree of neuronal loss. We therefore developed a sensitive NF-H ELISA capable of detecting picogram quantities of phosphorylated NF-H (pNF-H). This assay showed that soluble pNF-H immunoreactivity is readily detectable in the sera of adult rats following various types of experimental spinal cord injury (SCI) and traumatic brain injury (TBI), but is undetectable in the sera of normal animals. Here we describe details of the time course and extent of serum pNF-H expression following experimental SCI and TBI. Following SCI, serum pNF-H showed an initial peak of expression at 16h and a second, usually larger, peak at 3 days. Following TBI, lower levels of serum pNF-H were detected with a peak at 2 days post-injury. We also show that the higher levels of pNF-H released from injured spinal cord as compared to brain are in line with the approximately 20-fold higher levels of pNF-H present in spinal cord. These findings suggest that serum levels of pNF-H immunoreactivity may be used to conveniently monitor neuronal damage and degeneration in experimental and presumably clinical situations.
The extent to which a &quot;kiss-and-run&quot; mode of endocytosis contributes to synaptic-vesicle recycling remains controversial. The only genetic evidence for kiss-and-run at the synapse comes from mutations in the genes encoding synaptojanin and endophilin, proteins that together function to uncoat vesicles in classical clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Here we have characterized the endocytosis that persists in null alleles of Drosophila synaptojanin and endophilin. In response to high-frequency stimulation, the synaptic-vesicle pool can be reversibly depleted in these mutants. Recovery from this depletion is slow and indicates the persistence of an impaired form of classical endocytosis. Steady-state exocytosis rates reveal that endocytosis saturates in mutant neuromuscular terminals at approximately 80 vesicles/s, 10%-20% of the wild-type rate. Analyses of quantal size, FM1-43 loading, and dynamin function further demonstrate that, even in the absence of synaptojanin or endophilin, vesicles undergo full fusion and re-formation. Therefore, no genetic evidence remains to indicate that synaptic vesicles undergo kiss-and-run.
Alpha-synuclein and cysteine-string protein-alpha (CSPalpha) are abundant synaptic vesicle proteins independently linked to neurodegeneration. Dominantly inherited mutations in alpha-synuclein cause Parkinson's disease, but the physiological role of alpha-synuclein remains unknown. Deletion of CSPalpha produces rapidly progressive neurodegeneration in mice, presumably because the cochaperone function of CSPalpha is essential for neuronal survival. Here, we report the surprising finding that transgenic expression of alpha-synuclein abolishes the lethality and neurodegeneration caused by deletion of CSPalpha. Conversely, ablation of endogenous synucleins exacerbates these phenotypes. Deletion of CSPalpha inhibits SNARE complex assembly; transgenic alpha-synuclein ameliorates this inhibition. In preventing neurodegeneration in CSPalpha-deficient mice, alpha-synuclein does not simply substitute for CSPalpha but acts by a downstream mechanism that requires phospholipid binding by alpha-synuclein. These observations reveal a powerful in vivo activity of alpha-synuclein in protecting nerve terminals against injury and suggest that this activity operates in conjunction with CSPalpha and SNARE proteins on the presynaptic membrane interface.
It has been proposed that gamma-secretase-mediated release of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) intracellular domain (AICD) results in nuclear translocation and signaling through a complex with the adaptor protein Fe65 and the histone acetyltransferase Tip60. Here, we show that APP and Fe65 activate transcription through a Gal4-Tip60 reporter in presenilin-1/2-deficient cells lacking generation of AICD. APP and Fe65 also activated transcription in the presence of gamma-secretase inhibitors that prevent amyloid beta-peptide production in human embryonic kidney 293 and SH-SY5Y cells. In contrast to the transcriptionally active Notch intracellular domain, expression of AICD did not activate transcription. An alternative mechanism for APP signal transduction is suggested by the identification of essential cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) phosphorylation sites in Tip60. Mutation of these Tip60 phosphorylation sites or treatment with the CDK inhibitor roscovitine blocked the ability of APP to signal through Tip60. Moreover, APP stabilized Tip60 through CDK-dependent phosphorylation. Subcellular fractionation and confocal immunofluorescence showed that APP recruited Tip60 to membrane compartments. Thus, APP may signal to the nucleus by a gamma-secretase-independent mechanism that involves membrane sequestration and phosphorylation of Tip60.
Early reperfusion following stroke results in reduced tissue injury. Paradoxically, restoration of blood flow under certain conditions may also cause delayed neuronal damage (reperfusion injury). The interrelationship of changes in T1, T2 and diffusion weighted images of tissue water were studied in mouse models of permanent and transient focal cerebral ischemia. A sham surgery or either permanent or transient (30 min) middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) were induced in 14 mice. Magnetic resonance (MR) images of the brain were acquired including: T2 maps, T1 maps and diffusion weighted spin-echo images to produce apparent diffusion coefficient of water apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps. Images were collected on average 90 min after MCAO in both the transient and permanent ischemia groups. Scans were repeated at 24h post-occlusion in mice with transient ischemia. Permanent MCAO resulted in decreases in ADC and no significant change in T2 acutely following MCAO. There were increases in T1 compared to sham controls within the ischemic region in mice following either transient or permanent MCAO (P&lt;0.001). In contrast to permanent MCAO, there were increases in T2 (P&lt;0.001) in the infarct area present in the reperfusion phase within 90 min of transient MCAO. There was considerable infarct growth at 24h (P&lt;0.001). This study demonstrates that following either type of occlusion there are early increases in T1 suggesting an elevated water content in the stroke lesion, while only following transient MCAO are there early increases in T2, indicative of early vasogenic oedema with breakdown of the blood-brain barrier.
Epilepsy is a family of neurological disorders that result in seizure activity that is characterized by transient hypersynchronous activation of a large population of neurons. In animal models, focal tetanic electrical stimulation of sufficient duration and intensity, can elicit epileptiform activity, that if repeated results in progressive intensification of seizure activity known as kindling. Kindling serves as a model of partial as well as secondarily generalized temporal lobe epilepsy. We utilized hippocampal kindling to provide a means of evaluating the effect of sensory stimulation on the duration and severity of the induced seizure activity. Sensory stimuli targeted either the olfactory, auditory or somatosensory systems in an attempt to retard or suppress seizure activity. To that end, rats were chronically implanted with electrodes in the CA1 region of dorsal hippocampus and kindled once daily until the seizure behaviour was fully generalized. Kindling stimulation consisted of daily application of 1-s trains of biphasic square wave pulses applied at a frequency of 60Hz, at the afterdischarge (AD) threshold. Sensory stimulation was applied 6-8s after the kindling stimulation every third day. One group of rats received a different sensory stimulus (novel) every third day, while another group was presented with the same sensory stimulus (repeated) every third day. Kindling stimulation applied to the dorsal hippocampus resulted in progression of the AD characteristics and seizure behavior, which typically developed very slowly in the early stages. The application of both the novel and repeated sensory stimulation during partial seizures (stages 1 and 2) resulted in a reduction in the seizure severity but not in the afterdischarge duration. Sensory stimulation delivered during secondarily generalized seizures (stages 4 and 5) failed to affect either parameter.




The ability to identify food that is nutrient-rich and avoid toxic substances is essential for an animal's survival. Although olfaction and vision contribute to food detection, the gustatory system acts as a final checkpoint control for food acceptance or rejection behavior. Recent studies with model organisms such as mice and Drosophila have identified candidate taste receptors and examined the logic of taste coding in the periphery. Despite differences in terms of gustatory anatomy and taste-receptor families, these gustatory systems share a basic organization that is different from other sensory systems. This review will summarize our current understanding of taste recognition in mammals and Drosophila, highlighting similarities and raising several as yet unanswered questions.
For over 30 years, photoreceptors have been an outstanding model system for elucidating basic principles in sensory transduction and G protein signaling. Recently, photoreceptors have become an equally attractive model for studying many facets of neuronal cell biology. The primary goal of this review is to illustrate this rapidly growing trend. We will highlight the areas of active research in photoreceptor biology that reveal how different specialized compartments of the cell cooperate in fulfilling its overall function: converting photon absorption into changes in neurotransmitter release. The same trend brings us closer to understanding how defects in photoreceptor signaling can lead to cell death and retinal degeneration.
In order to assess the histological tissue changes over time around the site of implant, tissue biopsies were taken at 1 to 38 months post-implant from 54 (34 male) consenting human subjects who had received the Australian subcutaneous naltrexone-poly(DL-lactide) implant for heroin dependence. The implant consists of multiple tablets containing compressed naltrexone-poly[trans-3,6-dimethyl-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione] (DL-lactide) loaded microspheres. Assessment of tissue samples by pathologists showed an early phase (up to 12 months post-implant) of inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fibrosis. This subsided gradually over the next 12 months until tissue returned to normal by 25+ months. Sufficient evidence was not available to conclude that the poly(DL-lactide) implant matrix was totally biodegradable within the study period. While implant material was not identified in most of the latter biopsies, its presence was noted in one biopsy at 26 months post-implant. Nevertheless the study results did demonstrate the implant's biocompatibility by the lack of inflammation, foreign body reaction, and fibrosis detected by 25+ months. It seems highly probable that surgical technique rather than the implant itself was associated with the additional finding of fat necrosis. Moderate fat necrosis was observed as a common feature of biopsies carried out during the first 6 months following implant. It subsided to mild levels over the next 18 months, and was notably absent by 25+ months. The results of the study indicated that the Australian naltrexone-poly(DL-lactide) implant is well tolerated and may have a role for use in the management of medical conditions such as heroin dependence.
Acetylcholine (ACh) is a central neurotransmitter critical for normal cognitive function. Here we show that transient muscarinic acetylcholine receptor activation directly inhibits neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons. Using whole-cell and cell-attached recordings from neurons in slices of rat somatosensory cortex, we demonstrate that transient activation of M1-type muscarinic receptors induces calcium release from IP3-sensitive intracellular calcium stores and subsequent activation of an apamin-sensitive, SK-type calcium-activated potassium conductance. ACh-induced hyperpolarizing responses were blocked by atropine and pirenzepine but not by methoctramine or GABA receptor antagonists (picrotoxin, SR 95531 [2-(3-carboxypropyl)-3-amino-6-(4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazinium bromide], and CGP 55845 [(2S)-3-[[(15)-1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino-2-hydroxypropyl](phenylmethyl)phosphinic acid]). Responses were associated with a 31 +/- 5% increase in membrane conductance, had a reversal potential of -93 +/- 1 mV, and were eliminated after internal calcium chelation with BAPTA, blockade of IP3 receptors, or extracellular application of cadmium but not by sodium channel blockade with tetrodotoxin. Calcium-imaging experiments demonstrated that ACh-induced hyperpolarizing, but not depolarizing, responses were correlated with large increases in intracellular calcium. Surprisingly, transient increases in muscarinic receptor activation were capable of generating hyperpolarizing responses even during periods of tonic muscarinic activation sufficient to depolarize neurons to action potential threshold. Furthermore, eserine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor similar to those used therapeutically in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, disproportionately enhanced the excitatory actions of acetylcholine while reducing the ability of acetylcholine to generate inhibitory responses during repeated applications of ACh. These data demonstrate that acetylcholine can directly inhibit the output of neocortical pyramidal neurons.
Neuronal L-type calcium channels are essential for regulating activity-dependent gene expression, but they are thought to open too slowly to contribute to action potential-dependent calcium entry. A complication of studying native L-type channels is that they represent a minor fraction of the whole-cell calcium current in most neurons. Dihydropyridine antagonists are therefore widely used to establish the contribution of L-type channels to various neuronal processes and to study their underlying biophysical properties. The effectiveness of these antagonists on L-type channels, however, varies with stimulus and channel subtype. Here, we study recombinant neuronal L-type calcium channels, CaV1.2 and CaV1.3. We show that these channels open with fast kinetics and carry substantial calcium entry in response to individual action potential waveforms, contrary to most studies of native L-type currents. Neuronal CaV1.3 L-type channels were as efficient as CaV2.2 N-type channels at supporting calcium entry during action potential-like stimuli. We conclude that the apparent slow activation of native L-type currents and their lack of contribution to single action potentials reflect the state-dependent nature of the dihydropyridine antagonists used to study them, not the underlying properties of L-type channels.
Glucagon-expressing retinal amacrine cells have been implicated in regulating postnatal ocular growth. Furthermore, experimentally accelerated rates of ocular growth increase the number of neurons added to the peripheral edge of the retina. Accordingly, we assayed whether glucagon-expressing neurons within the retina regulate the proliferation of progenitors in the circumferential marginal zone (CMZ) of the postnatal chicken eye. We found that glucagon-containing neurites are heavily clustered within the CMZ at the peripheral edge of the retina. Many of these neurites originate from a cell type that is distinct from other types of retinal neurons, which we termed large glucagon-expressing neurons (LGENs). The LGENs are immunoreactive for glucagon and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1), have a unipolar morphology, produce an axon that projects into the CMZ, and are found only in ventral regions of the retina. In dorsal regions of the retina, a smaller version of the LGENs densely ramifies neurites in the CMZ. Intraocular injections of glucagon or GLP1 suppressed the proliferation of progenitors in the CMZ, whereas a glucagon-receptor antagonist promoted proliferation. In addition, we found that glucagon, GLP1, and glucagon antagonist influenced the number of progenitors in the CMZ. We conclude that the LGENs may convey visual information to the CMZ to control the addition of new cells to the edge of the retina. We propose that glucagon/GLP1 released from LGENs acts in opposition to insulin (or insulin-like growth factor) to regulate precisely the proliferation of retinal progenitors in the CMZ.
The mammalian voltage-dependent KCNQ channels are responsible for distinct types of native potassium currents and are associated with several human diseases. We cloned a novel Drosophila KCNQ channel (dKCNQ) based on its sequence homology to the mammalian genes. When expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells, dKCNQ gives rise to a slowly activating and slowly deactivating current that activates in the subthreshold voltage range. Like the M-current produced by mammalian KCNQ channels, dKCNQ current is sensitive to the KCNQ-specific blocker linopirdine and is suppressed by activation of a muscarinic receptor. dKCNQ is also similar to the mammalian channels in that it binds calmodulin (CaM), and CaM binding is necessary to produce functional currents. In situ hybridization analysis demonstrates that dKCNQ mRNA is present in brain cortical neurons, the cardia (proventriculus), and the nurse cells and oocytes of the ovary. We generated mutant flies with deletions in the genomic sequence of dKCNQ. Embryos produced by homozygous deletion females exhibit disorganized nuclei and fail to hatch, suggesting strongly that a maternal contribution of dKCNQ protein and/or mRNA is essential for early embryonic development.
Within the developing vertebrate spinal cord, motor neuron subtypes are distinguished by the settling positions of their cell bodies, patterns of gene expression, and the paths their axons follow to exit the CNS. The inclusive set of cues required to guide a given motor axon subtype from cell body to target has yet to be identified, in any species. This is attributable, in part, to the unavailability of markers that demarcate the complete trajectory followed by a specific class of spinal motor axons. Most spinal motor neurons extend axons out of the CNS through ventral exit points. In contrast, spinal accessory motor neurons (SACMNs) project dorsally directed axons through lateral exit points (LEPs), and these axons assemble into the spinal accessory nerve (SAN). Here we show that an antibody against BEN/ALCAM/SC1/DM-GRASP/MuSC selectively labels mouse SACMNs and can be used to trace the pathfinding of SACMN axons. We use this marker, together with a battery of transcription factor-deficient or guidance cue/receptor-deficient mice to identify molecules required for distinct stages of SACMN development. Specifically, we find that Gli2 is required for the initial extension of axons from SACMN cell bodies, and that netrin-1 and its receptor Dcc are required for the proper dorsal migration of these cells and the dorsally directed extension of SACMN axons toward the LEPs. Furthermore, in the absence of the transcription factor Nkx2.9, SACMN axons fail to exit the CNS. Together, these findings suggest molecular mechanisms that are likely to regulate key steps in SACMN development.
Spatially separated visual objects that appear in alternating sequence can be perceived as a single moving object. This phenomenon of apparent motion enables us to perceive sequentially presented images as a motion picture. How does the visual system bind together single visual tokens to one moving object? Here we report a series of experiments investigating apparent motion with electroencephalographic recordings showing that gamma-band oscillatory coupling in the visual cortex is crucial for this phenomenon. We used an ambiguous stimulus that could be perceived as moving either vertically or horizontally. Because visual information from the right and left visual hemifields is routed to the contralateral early visual cortex, in the case of perceived horizontal movement, information from both hemispheres has to be integrated. In accord with this assumption, our data show stronger oscillatory coupling between right and left visual cortices during perception of horizontal motion compared with vertical motion.
The transcription factors Olig1 and Olig2 are closely associated with the development of oligodendrocyte (OL) lineage in the vertebrate nervous system, but little is known about their role in the human developing CNS. To test the hypothesis that they contribute to initial OL specification in humans, we studied the expression of Olig1 and Olig2 in human fetuses at 5-24 gestational weeks (GW). Both transcription factors were present in well outlined regions of the ventral neuroepithelium at 5 GW, several weeks before oligodendrogenesis. Spatial differences in the expression of Olig1 and Olig2 along the neuronal axis suggest that they specify different subpopulations of progenitor cells. Olig1 was distributed rostrally, from the basal forebrain to the hindbrain, whereas Olig2 was also found in the ventral spinal cord. Furthermore, at 5 GW, Olig1 was coexpressed with vimentin, and Olig2 was coexpressed with a neuronal marker, microtubule-associated protein 2. With the progression of development at 15 GW, both proteins were present throughout the spinal cord and the ventricular-subventricular zone of the ganglionic eminences, whereas at midgestation (20 GW), they were also expressed in the telencephalic proliferative zones and the emerging white matter. Double-labeling studies revealed that early OL progenitor cells and radial glia expressed Olig1, whereas Olig2 was localized predominantly in mature OLs and a subset of neural progenitor cells and mature neurons. Thus, Olig1 and Olig2 transcription factors in the human CNS are important not only for differentiation of the OL lineage, but they may also have a role in neural cell specification.

Cognitive aging is associated with impairments to working memory and top-down control in selective attention, two components of cognitive control associated with the frontal lobes. Recent findings indicate that working memory and selective attention may be interdependent, making a better understanding of their involvement in cognitive aging particularly challenging. A paper in a recent issue of Nature Neuroscience has provided evidence that a reduction in the ability to keep a clear distinction between information to be stored in working memory and information that should be ignored and subsequently suppressed is associated with poor working memory performance. These results are in line with previous evidence for a specific age-related impairment in the ability to separate irrelevant from relevant information and may be able to explain a range of age-related cognitive changes.

We have investigated the pathological correlates of dementia in the brains from a consecutive series of 70 patients dying with a clinical diagnosis of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Clinical misdiagnosis rate was low with only 3 patients (4%) failing to show pathological changes consistent with this diagnosis; 1 patient had Alzheimer's disease and 2 had cerebrovascular disease (CVD). In the remaining 67 patients, the most common underlying histological cause was ubiquitin pathology with 24 (36%) cases so affected. In these, ubiquitin-positive inclusions were present in the cerebral cortex as small, rounded or crescent-shaped structures within the cytoplasm of neurones of layer II, together with coiled or curvilinear bodies within neurites, and in the hippocampus as small, solid and more spherical-shaped inclusion bodies within the cytoplasm of dentate gyrus granule cells. In one patient, &quot;cat's eye&quot; or &quot;lentiform&quot; intranuclear ubiquitin inclusions were also present. The second most common histological type was dementia lacking distinctive histology (DLDH), in which neither tau nor ubiquitin inclusions were present, with 16 cases (24%) being affected. Pick-type histology was seen in 14 cases (21%) and tau histological changes associated with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) were present in 11 cases (16%). One case (1%) showed an unusual tau pathology that could not be allocated to any of the other tau groups. Only 1 case (1%) had neuronal intermediate filament inclusion dementia. No cases with ubiquitinated, valosin-containing protein-immunoreactive intranuclear inclusion bodies of the type seen in inclusion body myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia were seen. Clinicopathological correlation showed that any of these histological subtypes can be associated with FTD. However, for FTD with motor neurone disease (FTD+MND), semantic dementia or primary progressive aphasia (PA), the histological profile was either ubiquitin type or DLDH type; Pick-type histology was seen in only 1 case of PA. None of these latter three clinical subtypes was associated with a mutation in tau gene and FTDP-17 type of tau pathology. All cases of progressive apraxia were associated with Pick-type histology. Present data therefore indicate that, although ubiquitin pathology is the most common histological form associated with FTLD, this pathology is not tightly linked with, nor is pathologically diagnostic for, any particular clinical form of the disease, including FTD+MND.







Compared to other primates, humans live a long time and have large brains. Recent theories of the evolution of human life history stages (grandmother hypothesis, intergenerational transfer of information) lend credence to the notion that selection for increased life span and menopause has occurred in hominid evolution, despite the reduction in the force of natural selection operating on older, especially post-reproductive, individuals. Theories that posit the importance (in an inclusive fitness sense) of the survival of older individuals require them to maintain a reasonably high level of cognitive function (e.g., memory, communication). Patterns of brain aging and factors associated with healthy brain aging should be relevant to this issue. Recent neuroimaging research suggests that, in healthy aging, human brain volume (gray and white matter) is well-maintained until at least 60 years of age; cognitive function also shows only nonsignificant declines at this age. The maintenance of brain volume and cognitive performance is consistent with the idea of a significant post- or late-reproductive life history stage. A clinical model, &quot;the cognitive reserve hypothesis,&quot; proposes that both increased brain volume and enhanced cognitive ability may contribute to healthy brain aging, reducing the likelihood of developing dementia. Selection for increased brain size and increased cognitive ability in hominid evolution may therefore have been important in selection for increased lifespan in the context of intergenerational social support networks.



Cardiorespiratory control is mediated in part by central chemosensitive neurons that respond to increased CO(2) (hypercapnia). Activation of these neurons is thought to involve hypercapnia-induced decreases in intracellular pH (pH(i)). All previous measurements of hypercapnia-induced pH(i) changes in chemosensitive neurons have been obtained from the soma, but chemosensitive signaling could be initiated in the dendrites of these neurons. In this study, membrane potential (V(m)) and pH(i) were measured simultaneously in chemosensitive locus coeruleus (LC) neurons from neonatal rat brain stem slices using whole cell pipettes and the pH-sensitive fluorescent dye pyranine. We measured pH(i) from the soma as well as from primary dendrites to a distance 160 mum from the edge of the soma. Hypercapnia [15% CO(2), external pH (pH(o)) 7.00; control, 5% CO(2), pH(o) 7.45] resulted in an acidification of similar magnitude in dendrites and soma ( approximately 0.26 pH unit), but acidification was faster in the more distal regions of the dendrites. Neither the dendrites nor the soma exhibited pH(i) recovery during hypercapnia-induced acidification; but both regions contained pH-regulating transporters, because they exhibited pH(i) recovery from an NH(4)Cl prepulse-induced acidification (at constant pH(o) 7.45). Exposure of a portion of the dendrites to hypercapnic solution did not increase the firing rate, but exposing the soma to hypercapnic solution resulted in a near-maximal increase in firing rate. These data show that while the pH(i) response to hypercapnia is similar in the dendrites and soma, somatic exposure to hypercapnia plays a major role in the activation of chemosensitive LC neurons from neonatal rats.
Exocrine cells of the digestive system are specialized to secrete protein and fluid in response to neuronal and/or hormonal input. Although morphologically similar, parotid and pancreatic acinar cells exhibit important functional divergence in Ca(2+) signaling properties. To address whether there are fundamental differences in exocytotic release of digestive enzyme from exocrine cells of salivary gland versus pancreas, we applied electrophysiological and optical methods to investigate spatial and temporal characteristics of zymogen-containing secretory granule fusion at the single-acinar cell level by direct or agonist-induced Ca(2+) and cAMP elevation. Temporally resolved membrane capacitance measurements revealed that two apparent phases of exocytosis were induced by Ca(2+) elevation: a rapidly activated initial phase that could not be resolved as individual fusion events and a second phase that was activated after a delay, increased in a staircaselike fashion, was augmented by cAMP elevation, and likely reflected both sequential compound and multivesicular fusion of zymogen-containing granules. Optical measurements of exocytosis with time-differential imaging analysis revealed that zymogen granule fusion was induced after a minimum delay of approximately 200 ms, occurred initially at apical and basolateral borders of acinar cells, and under strong stimulation proceeded from apical pole to deeper regions of the cell interior. Zymogen granule fusions appeared to coordinate subsequent fusions and produced persistent structures that generally lasted several minutes. In addition, parotid gland slices were used to assess secretory dynamics in a more physiological context. Parotid acinar cells were shown to exhibit both similar and divergent properties compared with the better-studied pancreatic acinar cell regarding spatial organization and kinetics of exocytotic fusion of zymogen granules.
The present study determined whether vasopressin (VP) secretion is inhibited by an oropharyngeal signal associated with swallowing fluids when dehydrated rats drink water, as it is when dehydrated dogs are used as experimental subjects (Thrasher, TN, Keil LC, and Ramsay DJ. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 253: R509-R515, 1987). VP levels in systemic plasma (pVP) fell rapidly when rats drank water after overnight water deprivation. Systemic plasma Na+ concentration (pNa) also fell, but that change likely contributed little to the early inhibition of VP secretion. In contrast, consumption of water by dehydrated rats with an open gastric fistula had no effect on pVP, nor did consumption of isotonic saline by dehydrated rats; in neither case was pNa affected by fluid consumption. These findings provide no evidence that the act of drinking inhibits VP secretion in dehydrated rats. Thus some post-gastric effect of the ingested water seems to be responsible for the inhibitory signal. These results are consistent with previous suggestions that an early inhibitory stimulus for VP secretion in rats is provided by post-gastric visceral osmo- or Na+ receptors that sense the composition of the ingested fluid.
Although hypoxia tolerance in heterothermic mammals is well established, it is unclear whether the adaptive significance stems from hypoxia or other cellular challenge associated with euthermy, hibernation, or arousal. In the present study, blood gases, hemoglobin O2 saturation (S(O2), and indexes of cellular and physiological stress were measured during hibernation and euthermy and after arousal thermogenesis. Results show that arterial O2 tension (Pa(O2)) and S(O2) are severely diminished during arousal and that hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha accumulates in brain. Despite evidence of hypoxia, neither cellular nor oxidative stress, as indicated by inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) levels and oxidative modification of biomolecules, was observed during late arousal from hibernation. Compared with rats, hibernating Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) are well oxygenated with no evidence of cellular stress, inflammatory response, neuronal pathology, or oxidative modification following the period of high metabolic demand necessary for arousal. In contrast, euthermic Arctic ground squirrels experience mild, chronic hypoxia with low S(O2) and accumulation of HIF-1alpha and iNOS and demonstrate the greatest degree of cellular stress in brain. These results suggest that Arctic ground squirrels experience and tolerate endogenous hypoxia during euthermy and arousal.
We acquired magnetic resonance images of the brain of an adult African elephant, Loxodonta africana, in the axial and parasagittal planes and produced anatomically labeled images. We quantified the volume of the whole brain (3,886.7 cm3) and of the neocortical and cerebellar gray and white matter. The white matter-to-gray matter ratio in the elephant neocortex and cerebellum is in keeping with that expected for a brain of this size. The ratio of neocortical gray matter volume to corpus callosum cross-sectional area is similar in the elephant and human brains (108 and 93.7, respectively), emphasizing the difference between terrestrial mammals and cetaceans, which have a very small corpus callosum relative to the volume of neocortical gray matter (ratio of 181-287 in our sample). Finally, the elephant has an unusually large and convoluted hippocampus compared to primates and especially to cetaceans. This may be related to the extremely long social and chemical memory of elephants.
The cytoarchitecture of the cerebral cortex in mammals has been traditionally investigated using Nissl, Golgi, or myelin stains and there are few comparative studies on the relationships between neuronal morphology and neurochemical specialization. Most available studies on neuronal subtypes identified by their molecular and morphologic characteristics have been performed in species commonly used in laboratory research such as the rat, mouse, cat, and macaque monkey, as well as in autopsic human brain specimens. A number of cellular markers, such as neurotransmitters, structural proteins, and calcium-buffering proteins, display a highly specific distribution in distinct classes of neocortical neurons in a large number of mammalian species. In this article, we present an overview of the morphologic characteristics and distribution of three calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin, calbindin, and calretinin, and of a component of the neuronal cytoskeleton, nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein in the neocortex of various species, representative of the major subdivisions of mammals. The distribution of these neurochemical markers defined several species- and order-specific patterns that permit assessment of the degree to which neuronal morphomolecular specialization, as well as the regional and laminar distribution of distinct cell types in the neocortex, represents derived or ancestral features. In spite of the remarkable diversity in morphologic and cellular organization that occurred during mammalian neocortical evolution, such patterns identified several associations among taxa that closely match their phylogenetic relationships.
The contribution of sensory input to the formation of sensory system-specific (sensoritopic) connections of the thalamus and midbrain was investigated using mice lacking the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter (NKCC1) or the plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase isoform2 (PMCA2). Because these mice are congenitally deaf, the developing nervous system has no exposure to sensory-driven neural activity from the auditory system. Here we compared the retinofugal pathway in normal and congenitally deaf mice using intraocular injections of neuroanatomical tracers into each eye, and relating tracer patterns to identified thalamic nuclei and superior colliculus layers. We demonstrate that loss of such activity results in aberrant projections of the retina into nonvisual auditory structures such as the medial geniculate nucleus and the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus. These findings indicate that activity from peripheral sensory receptor arrays is necessary not only for the refinement of developing connections within a unimodal structure, but for the establishment of sensoritopic or sensory-specific connections of unimodal and multimodal structures. We hypothesize that specification of such connections may occur through the modulation of spatial expression patterns of molecules known to be involved in the development of topography of connections between brain structures, such as the ephrins, via activity-dependent, CRE-mediated gene expression.
This special issue of The Anatomical Record originates from a symposium on the evolution of neurobiological specializations in mammals held at the American Association of Anatomists annual meeting in San Diego in April 2005. The symposium, co-organized by Patrick R. Hof and Lori Marino, provided the impetus for extending the discussion to a greater range of species. This special issue is the product of that goal and is fueled by the philosophy that it is largely against a backdrop of brain diversity that we can extract the higher-order commonalities across brains that may lead us to uncovering general higher-order principles of brain and behavioral evolution. Several major themes emerge from this issue. These are that there are no simple brains, that brains reflect ecology, and that brain evolution is a detective story. The 12 articles in this issue are outstanding reflections of these themes.
Cetaceans (dolphins, whales, and porpoises) have a long, dramatically divergent evolutionary history compared with terrestrial mammals. Throughout their 55-60 million years of evolution, cetaceans acquired a compelling set of characteristics that include echolocation ability (in odontocetes), complex auditory and communicative capacities, and complex social organization. Moreover, although cetaceans have not shared a common ancestor with primates for over 90 million years, they possess a set of cognitive attributes that are strikingly convergent with those of many primates, including great apes and humans. In contrast, cetaceans have evolved a highly unusual combination of neurobiological features different from that of primates. As such, cetacean brains offer a critical opportunity to address questions about how complex behavior can be based on very different neuroanatomical and neurobiological evolutionary products. Cetacean brains and primate brains are arguably most meaningfully conceived as alternative evolutionary routes to neurobiological and cognitive complexity. In this article, we summarize data on brain size and hemisphere surface configuration in several cetacean species and present an overview of the cytoarchitectural complexity of the cerebral cortex of the bottlenose dolphin.
Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurological disorders. Point mutations in the gene encoding protein kinase Cgamma (PRKCG) are responsible for spinocerebellar ataxia 14 (SCA14). We screened for mutations in the PRKCG gene, in a large series of 284 ADCA index cases, mostly French (n=204) and German (n=48), in whom CAG repeat expansions in the known SCA genes were previously excluded. Six mutations were found that segregated with the disease and were not detected on 560 control chromosomes, including F643L (exon 18), already reported in another French kindred. Five new missense mutations were identified in exons 4 (C114Y/G123R/G123E), 10 (G360S) and 18 (V692G). All but one (V692G) were located in highly conserved regions of the regulatory or catalytic domains of the protein. All six SCA14 families were French and there was no evidence of reduced penetrance. The phenotype consisted in a very slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia with a mean age at onset of 33.5+/-14.2 years (range 15 to 60 years), occasionally associated with executive dysfunction, myoclonus, myorythmia, tremor or decreased vibration sense. SCA14 represented only 1.5% (7/454) of French ADCA families but none of the German families. It should, however, be considered in patients with slowly progressive ADCA, particularly when myoclonus and cognitive impairment are present.
Insomnia is a common and significant healthcare problem, and affects a large percentage of women seen by general practitioners, obstetrician-gynecologists and mental health professionals. Specific risk factors for insomnia may be gender-related, including higher prevalence rates of depression and anxiety among women, environmental and social factors, as well as reproductive-related factors (e.g., peri-menstrual difficulties and menopause-related symptoms). Sleep problems interfere significantly with daytime functioning and overall well-being, and may lead to serious clinical consequences. Treatment options include benzodiazepines, non-benzodiazepines, nonprescription sleep aids, and non-pharmacologic interventions such as sleep hygiene measures. This article reviews the existing literature on the prevalence, clinical characteristics of insomnia in women, and highlights some of the treatment options available. Healthcare providers should be aware of the variety of pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic options for treatment of insomnia and, in particular, be able to weigh their efficacy against the risks of side effects and next-day sedation.
A new strain of waltzing guinea pigs arose spontaneously in a guinea pig breeding facility in Germany in 1996. In addition to obvious vestibular dysfunction, the waltzing animals appear deaf already at birth. Histological analysis revealed that the waltzers lack an open scala media due to the collapse of Reissner's membrane onto the surface of the hearing organ. Subsequent breeding has shown that this strain has a recessive mode of inheritance. The homozygotes are deaf and display a waltzing behaviour throughout their lives while the heterozygotes show no significant signs of inner ear injury despite being carriers of this specific mutated gene of hearing impairment. However, the heterozygous animals offer the opportunity to study how hereditary factors interact with auditory stress. In the present study, the susceptibility of the carriers to noise was investigated. Auditory brainstem responses were obtained prior to and after noise exposure (4 kHz, 110 dB, 6 h). The carriers were significantly less affected by the noise as compared to control animals. This difference was still significant at 4 weeks following noise exposure. It is suggested that the heterozygous animals have an endogenous resistance to auditory stress.

Little is known about why certain obsessional thoughts are more upsetting than others for people with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Obsessional thought content often seems arbitrary to sufferers. The current study examined three possible reasons why particular thoughts would be especially upsetting for individuals, based on suggestions put forth by cognitive theories of obsessional thoughts. Twenty-eight individuals with a principal diagnosis of OCD completed questionnaires and interviews at two different periods of time on (1) their most upsetting current obsession and (2) their least upsetting current obsession. Results suggested that more upsetting obsessions were evaluated as more meaningful or significant than less upsetting obsessions, and more upsetting obsessions contradicted valued aspects of the self to a greater degree. All examples of current obsessions, both most and least upsetting, arose in the context of life concerns or issues. Results support cognitive theories in that the strength and nature of appraisal appears to be linked with the distress associated with a thought, and more upsetting thoughts are those that have implications for a person's sense of self.
Forkhead members of the 'O' class (FoxO) are transcription factors crucial for the regulation of metabolism, cell cycle, cell death and cell survival. FoxO factors are regulated by insulin-mediated activation of PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase)-PKB (protein kinase B) signalling. Activation of PI3K-PKB signalling results in the phosphorylation of FoxO factors on three conserved phosphorylation motifs, which are essential for the translocation of FoxO factors from the nucleus to the cytosol. FoxO6, however, remains mostly nuclear due to the fact that its shuttling ability is dramatically impaired. FoxO1, FoxO3 and FoxO4 all contain an N- and C-terminal PKB motif and a motif located in the forkhead domain. FoxO6 lacks the conserved C-terminal PKB motif, which is the cause of the shuttling impairment. Since FoxO6 can be considered constitutively nuclear, we investigated whether it is also a constitutively active transcription factor. Our results show that FoxO6 transcriptional activity is inhibited by growth factors, independent of shuttling, indicating that it is not constitutively active. The PKB site in the forkhead domain (Ser184) regulated the DNA binding characteristics and the N-terminal PKB site acted as a growth factor sensor. In summary, FoxO6 is not a constitutively active transcription factor and can be regulated by growth factors in a Thr26- and Ser184-dependent manner, independent of shuttling to the cytosol.
Ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs) are cell surface proteins that play an important role in fast synaptic transmission and in the modulation of cellular activity. Due to their intrinsic properties, LGICs respond to neurotransmitters and other effectors (e.g. pH) and transduce the binding of a ligand into an electrical current on a microsecond timescale. Following activation, LGICs open allowing an ion flux across the cell membrane. Depending upon the charge and concentration of ions, the flux can cause a depolarization or hyperpolarization, thus modulating excitability of the cell. While our understanding of LGICs has significantly progressed during the past decade, many properties of these proteins are still poorly understood, in particular their modulation by allosteric effectors. LGICs are often thought as a simple on-off switches. However, a closer look at these receptors reveals a complex behavior and a wide repertoire of subtle modulation by intrinsic and extrinsic factors. From a physiological point of view, this modulation can be seen as an additional level of complexity in the cell signaling process. Here we review the allosteric modulation of LGICs in light of the latest findings and discuss the suitability of this approach to the design of new therapeutic molecules.
The accumulation of Abeta (amyloid beta-protein) peptides in the brain is a pathological hallmark of all forms of AD (Alzheimer's disease) and reducing Abeta levels can prevent or reverse cognitive deficits in mouse models of the disease. Abeta is produced continuously and its concentration is determined in part by the activities of several degradative enzymes, including NEP (neprilysin), IDE (insulin-degrading enzyme), ECE-1 (endothelin-converting enzyme 1) and ECE-2, and probably plasmin. Decreased activity of any of these enzymes due to genetic mutation, or age- or disease-related alterations in gene expression or proteolytic activity, may increase the risk for AD. Conversely, increased expression of these enzymes may confer a protective effect. Increasing Abeta degradation through gene therapy, transcriptional activation or even pharmacological activation of the Abeta-degrading enzymes represents a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of AD that is currently being evaluated in cell-culture and animal models. In this paper, we will review the roles of NEP, IDE, ECE and plasmin in determining endogenous Abeta concentration, highlighting recent results concerning the regulation of these enzymes and their potential as therapeutic targets.
Type II diabetes mellitus (DM2) is associated with an increased risk of cognitive dysfunction and dementia. The increased risk of dementia concerns both Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Although some uncertainty remains into the exact pathogenesis, several mechanisms through which DM2 may affect the brain have now been identified. First, factors related to the 'metabolic syndrome', a cluster of metabolic and vascular risk factors (e.g. dyslipidaemia and hypertension) that is closely linked to DM2, may be involved. A number of these risk factors are predictors of cerebrovascular disease, accelerated cognitive decline and dementia. Secondly, hyperglycaemia may be involved, through adverse effects of potentially 'toxic' glucose metabolites on the brain and its vasculature. Thirdly, insulin itself may be involved. Insulin can directly modulate synaptic plasticity and learning and memory, and disturbances in insulin signalling pathways in the periphery and in the brain have recently been implicated in Alzheimer's disease and brain aging. Insulin also regulates the metabolism of beta-amyloid and tau, the building blocks of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. In this paper, the evidence for the association between DM2 and dementia and for each of these underlying mechanisms will be reviewed, with emphasis on the role of insulin itself.
Insulin and cholesterol play important roles in basic metabolic processes in peripheral tissues. Both insulin and cholesterol can also act as signalling molecules in the central nervous system that participate in neuronal function, memory and neurodegenerative diseases. A high-cholesterol diet improves spatial memory in experimental animals. beta-Amyloid, the toxic peptide in neurons of AD (Alzheimer's disease) patients, binds cholesterol and catalyses its oxidation to 7beta-hydroxycholesterol, a highly toxic oxysterol that is a potent inhibitor of alpha-PKC (alpha-protein kinase C), an enzyme critical in memory consolidation and synaptic plasticity and implicated in AD. Oxidized cholesterol also can act as a second messenger for insulin. Oxidized low-density lipoprotein inhibits insulin-dependent phosphorylation of the signalling kinases ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase) and PKB/Akt. In sporadic AD patients, insulin levels are decreased, suggesting links between AD and diabetes. Insulin signalling is also important in synaptic plasticity. Insulin receptors are up-regulated and undergo translocation after spatial learning. Insulin modulates the activity of excitatory and inhibitory receptors including the glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors and activates two biochemical pathways: the shc-ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and the PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase)/PKC pathway, both of which are involved in memory processing. These findings point to a convergence at the biochemical level between pathways involved in AD and those important for normal memory.
It is well documented that the hormone leptin signals information regarding the status of fat stores to hypothalamic nuclei, which in turn control feeding behaviour and body weight. However, leptin and its receptor are widely expressed in many extra-hypothalamic brain regions, including hippocampus, brain stem and cerebellum. Moreover, evidence is accumulating that leptin has other neuronal functions that are unrelated to its effects on energy homeostasis. Indeed a role for leptin in neuronal development has been suggested as leptin-deficient rodents display abnormal brain development and leptin actively participates in the development of the hypothalamus. In the hippocampus, leptin is a potential cognitive enhancer as genetically obese rodents with dysfunctional leptin receptors display impairments in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Moreover, direct administration of leptin into the hippocampus can facilitate hippocampal LTP (long-term potentiation) in vivo and improve memory processing in mice. At the cellular level, we have also shown that leptin has the capacity to convert short-term potentiation into LTP. Here, we review the data that leptin influences hippocampal synaptic plasticity via enhancing NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor function. We also provide evidence that rapid trafficking of NMDA receptors to the plasma membrane may underlie the effects of leptin on excitatory synaptic strength.
Several signal processing tools have been employed in the experimental study of the postural control system in humans. Among them, the cross-correlation function has been used to analyze the time relationship between signals such as the electromyogram and the horizontal projection of the center of gravity. The common finding is that the electromyogram precedes the biomechanical signal, a result that has been interpreted in different ways, for example, the existence of feedforward control or the preponderance of a velocity feedback. It is shown here, analytically and by simulation, that the cross-correlation function is dependent in a complicated way on system parameters and on noise spectra. Results similar to those found experimentally, e.g., electromyogram preceding the biomechanical signal may be obtained in a postural control model without any feedforward control and without any velocity feedback. Therefore, correct interpretations of experimentally obtained cross-correlation functions may require additional information about the system. The results extend to other biomedical applications where two signals from a closed loop system are cross-correlated.


This study aimed to determine the prevalence of subjective sleep difficulties among general practice patients aged 60 years and over and to investigate their association with depression (CES-D&gt;or=16). Sixty-three per cent of the 1029 participants reported experiencing sleep difficulties. Subjects who reported sleep problems were 3.7 times (95% confidence interval = 2.5 to 5.5) more likely to be depressed than those who did not (adjusted for age, sex, financial burden and perceived health). GPs should consider screening for the presence of depressive symptoms whenever older adults complain of sleep difficulties.
Classical benzodiazepines (BZs), such as diazepam, bind to GABAA receptors containing alpha1, alpha2, alpha3 or alpha5 subunits that are therefore described as diazepam-sensitive (DS) receptors. However, the corresponding binding site of GABAA receptors containing either an alpha4 or alpha6 subunit do not bind the classical BZs and are therefore diazepam-insensitive (DIS) receptors; a difference attributable to a single amino acid (histidine in alpha1, alpha2, alpha3 and alpha5 subunits and arginine in alpha4 and alpha6). Unlike classical BZs, the imidazobenzodiazepines Ro 15-4513 and bretazenil bind to both DS and DIS populations of GABAA receptors. In the present study, an in vivo assay was developed using lorazepam to fully occupy DS receptors such that [3H]Ro 15-4513 was then only able to bind to DIS receptors. When dosed i.v., [3H]Ro 15-4513 rapidly entered and was cleared from the brain, with approximately 70% of brain radioactivity being membrane-bound. Essentially all membrane binding to DS+DIS receptors could be displaced by unlabelled Ro 15-4513 or bretazenil, with respective ID50 values of 0.35 and 1.2 mg kg(-1). A dose of 30 mg kg(-1) lorazepam was used to block all DS receptors in a [3H]Ro 15-1788 in vivo binding assay. When predosed in a [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding assay, lorazepam blocked [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to DS receptors, with the remaining binding to DIS receptors accounting for 5 and 23% of the total (DS plus DIS) receptors in the forebrain and cerebellum, respectively. The in vivo binding of [3H]Ro 15-4513 to DIS receptors in the presence of lorazepam was confirmed using alpha1H101R knock-in mice, in which alpha1-containing GABAA receptors are rendered diazepam insensitive by mutation of the histidine that confers diazepam sensitivity to arginine. In these mice, and in the presence of lorazepam, there was an increase of in vivo [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding in the forebrain and cerebellum from 4 and 15% to 36 and 59% of the total (i.e. DS plus DIS) [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding observed in the absence of lorazepam.
1 Mammalian transient receptor potential (TRP) channels include the nonselective cation channel TRPV1, which is activated by a range of stimuli including low pH, vanilloids and heat. Previously, selective mutagenesis experiments identified an intracellular residue (S512Y) critical to discriminating between pH and vanilloid (capsaicin) gating of the rat TRPV1 receptor. 2 In this study, switching the equivalent residue in the human TRPV1 (which has some significant differences with the rat TRPV1) also rendered this channel relatively insensitive to activation by capsaicin and proved critical in determining the receptor's sensitivity to the putative endovanilloid N-arachidonoyl-dopamine (NADA), suggesting a similar mode of activation for these two agonists. 3 Potency of pH gating was reduced; however, voltage-dependent outward rectification properties of the pH-dependent current and gating by heat and pH sensitisation of the S512Y heat response remained unaffected. 4 Surprisingly, residual capsaicin gating was detected and could be sensitised by pH even in the presence of a competitive antagonist. Taken together, these findings indicate that effective functional interaction of capsaicin with the S512Y channel still occurred, although the vanilloid-dependent gating per se was severely compromised. 5 This observation provides additional evidence for capsaicin interacting at multiple sites, distinct from the S512 residue located close to the intracellular face of the pore.

Differences in prognosis of lacunar and non-lacunar infarction patients might support distinct arterial pathological processes underlying these two subtypes of ischaemic stroke. We performed a systematic review in which we identified cohort studies with ischaemic stroke subtype-specific follow-up data on death, recurrent stroke and/or myocardial infarction (MI). We calculated risks of death and recurrent stroke at 1 month, 1-12 months and 1-5 years, as well as risks of MI and cardiac death. We compared non-lacunar with lacunar infarction, using study-specific and summary odds ratios. We also compared the pattern of recurrent stroke subtypes after lacunar and non-lacunar infarction. One month odds of death and of recurrent stroke were significantly greater following non-lacunar than lacunar infarction, but the difference decreased thereafter (1 month mortality: OR 3.81, 95% CI 2.77-5.23; 1-12 month mortality: OR 2.32, 95% CI 1.74-3.08; 1-5 year mortality: OR 1.77, 95% CI 1.28-2.45; 1 month stroke recurrence: OR 2.11, 95% CI 1.20-3.69; 1-12 month stroke recurrence: OR 1.24, 95% CI 0.85-1.83; 1-5 year stroke recurrence: OR 1.61, 95% CI 0.96-2.70). Recurrent strokes were more likely to be lacunar if the index event was lacunar. Few studies reported on the risk of MI, but we found no significant difference in risk of cardiac death in non-lacunar versus lacunar infarction. Thus, although early mortality and stroke recurrence risks are higher among non-lacunar than lacunar infarct patients, the risks appear not to differ in the longer term and the risks of cardiac outcomes are similar, although data are limited. There is some evidence that recurrent ischaemic stroke subtypes breed true. These results provide limited support for a distinct arterial pathology underlying lacunar infarction.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the degeneration and loss of cholinergic neurones in the nucleus basalis Meynert, located within the substantia innominata at the ventral surface of the basal forebrain. An in vivo measure of morphological changes in the nucleus basalis Meynert would be of high relevance to better understand the structural correlate of cholinergic dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we applied a newly developed automated technique of image regression analysis, implemented through code written in Matlab 5.3 (MathWorks, Natick, MA), to the analysis of proton density weighted structural MRI of the basal forebrain from 13 patients with Alzheimer's disease (mean age = 77.5 years, SD = 4.4 years, 8 women) and 12 healthy elderly subjects (mean age = 62.3 years, SD = 5.6 years, 6 women). This technique allows searching a large portion of the substantia innominata for signal changes. We used corresponding MRI and histological sections of a post mortem brain to map the locations of basal forebrain cholinergic nuclei into the MRI standard space. Additionally, we used voxel-based morphometry, implemented in SPM2 (Wellcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience, London, UK) to determine correlations between signal changes in the substantia innominata and cortical grey matter atrophy in the patients with Alzheimer's disease. When matching the locations of signal reductions in the in vivo MRI to the template of basal nuclei based on the postmortem brain, signal intensity was decreased in areas corresponding to anterior lateral and anterior medial nucleus basalis Meynert and increased in the third ventricle, the transverse fissure and the optic tract in patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with controls. The reduction of the signal intensity in an area corresponding to the anterior lateral nucleus basalis Meynert was significantly correlated with reduced grey matter concentration in the bilateral prefrontal cortex, inferior parietal lobule and cingulate gyrus. Our findings suggest that signal changes occur in patients with Alzheimer's disease in the substantia innominata which may be related to the loss or degeneration of cholinergic neurones and correspond to regional cortical grey matter atrophy. If replicated in an independent sample, our technique may be useful to detect degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurones in vivo.
Activation of the immune system with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been shown to result in decreased consumption of normally preferred substances while at the same time not affecting palatability. The present study examined the effects LPS administration on both intake and palatability of a relatively unpalatable bitter-sweet taste. Bitter is thought to signal a danger cue to an animal representing a potential toxin-containing food. Using a one-bottle consumption test, voluntary intake of a sucrose-quinine (0.15 M sucrose + 0.00015 M quinine; S-Q) solution was assessed in rats on two conditioning days (days 1 and 4) after a systemic injection with LPS, LiCl, or NaCl. On the test day (day 7), rats were given 1h access to the same solution in the absence of any injection. In a separate experiment, rats fitted with intraoral cannulae received similar testing schedules, however, the solution was delivered intraorally, activating only the consummatory responses of the animal. During conditioning, rats received 5 brief (1 min) intraoral infusions of the taste across a 1h period following injections of LPS, LiCl or NaCl. Individual taste reactivity responses were recorded and analyzed. Both LPS and LiCl resulted in decreased consumption of the unpalatable taste relative to controls on the test day, suggesting typical conditioned taste avoidance. When the consummatory responses were examined, LPS-treatment produced an increase in active oral rejection relative to NaCl- and LiCl-treated groups on both conditioning days. The present study demonstrates that although both LPS- and LiCl-treatment result in similar conditioned avoidance using an intake measure, they do not elicit similar patterns of taste reactivity responding to intraoral infusions of the bitter-sweet taste. Furthermore, the present results suggest that immune activation with LPS-treatment results in increased rejection of a mildly aversive stimulus and supports the hypothesis that reorganization of behavioral priorities occurs during bacteria-induced sickness.
Recent studies show that the placebo component of a treatment can be investigated by administering therapies either overtly or covertly, without the administration of any placebo. Here, we analyze the effects of open (i.e., expected) versus hidden (i.e., unexpected) stimulations of the human subthalamic region on autonomic responses in Parkinson patients. To do this, we mapped the whole subthalamic region, from the dorsal to the ventral part, and recorded both heart rate and sympathetic responses by using spectral analysis of heart rate variability. We found that open stimulations were more effective than hidden ones only in the ventral subthalamic region, whereas no difference between the two conditions was found in the dorsal aspect. By analyzing the stimulus-response curves in the dorsal, middle, and ventral subthalamic regions, we found that the autonomic response threshold was higher in the hidden than open condition for both heart rate and sympathetic responses only in the ventral part. As this ventralmost portion of the subthalamic region is involved in associative-limbic functions, these data suggest that expectation enhances autonomic responses only if these are elicited in the limbic system. These results extend previous findings on the open-hidden paradigm in deep brain stimulation [Benedetti, F., Colloca, L., Lanotte, M., Bergamasco, B., Torre, E., Lopiano, L., 2004a. Autonomic and emotional responses to open and hidden stimulations of the human subthalamic region. Brain Res. Bull. 63, 203-211.], and indicate that expectation plays a major role in the therapeutic outcome. In light of the interactions between the sympathetic adrenergic system and the immune system, the open-hidden difference in autonomic responses might be relevant to the understanding of how expectations might affect the immune system.
The effects of lead (Pb(2+)) on human health have been recognized since antiquity. However, it was not until the 1970s that seminal epidemiological studies provided evidence on the effects of Pb(2+) intoxication on cognitive function in children. During the last two decades, advances in behavioral, cellular and molecular neuroscience have provided the necessary experimental tools to begin deciphering the many and complex effects of Pb(2+) on neuronal processes and cell types that are essential for synaptic plasticity and learning and memory in the mammalian brain. In this review, we concentrate our efforts on the effects of Pb(2+) on glutamatergic synapses and specifically on the accumulating evidence that the N-methyl-D-aspartate type of excitatory amino acid receptor (NMDAR) is a direct target for Pb(2+) effects in the brain. Our working hypothesis is that disruption of the ontogenetically defined pattern of NMDAR subunit expression and NMDAR-mediated calcium signaling in glutamatergic synapses is a principal mechanism for Pb(2+)-induced deficits in synaptic plasticity and in learning and memory documented in animal models of Pb(2+) neurotoxicity. We provide an introductory overview of the magnitude of the problem of Pb(2+) exposure to bring forth the reality that childhood Pb(2+) intoxication remains a major public health problem not only in the United States but worldwide. Finally, the latest research offers some hope that the devastating effects of childhood Pb(2+) intoxication in a child's ability to learn may be reversible if the appropriate stimulatory environment is provided.
Multiple issues regarding the efficacy of estrogen action in the brain remain unresolved. These include the timing, formulation and duration of the therapy intervention. Moreover, issues of thrombotic and neoplastic risks must be factored into the design of estrogen alternatives developed to prevent age-associated neurodegenerative disorders, as well as other climacteric symptoms such as hot flush and sleep dysfunction. One strategy to address these issues is to develop molecules that selectively target and activate estrogen mechanisms of action in the brain while avoiding activation of estrogen receptors peripheral to the brain, particularly in reproductive organs. An overview of recent advances in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of estrogen action is discussed in the context of designing an efficacious NeuroSERM that will activate cellular, biochemical and genomic events required for the promotion of memory function and neuronal survival. Pharmacological analyses of estrogen receptor subtypes and the case for a membrane-associated estrogen receptor splice variant in mediating these mechanisms are provided along with a summary of the activation profiles of existing clinically relevant estrogen alternatives or SERMs in neurons. Results of these endeavors have yielded insights into strategies for developing novel molecules with NeuroSERM potential in order to prevent brain related climacteric symptoms and neurodegenerative diseases.






An estimate of up to 60% of genes are subjected to alternative splicing, and 15% of human genetic diseases are associated with mutation of the splice sites [Krawczak M, Reiss J, and Cooper DN. The mutational spectrum of single base-pair substitutions in mRNA splice junctions of human genes: causes and consequences. Hum Genet 1992; 90: 41-54; Cooper TA, and Mattox W. The regulation of splice-site selection, and its role in human disease. Am J Hum Genet 1997; 61: 259-66; Modrek B and Lee CJ. Alternative splicing in the human, mouse and rat genomes is associated with an increased frequency of exon creation and/or loss. Nat Genet 2003; 34: 177-80; Modrek B, Resch A, Grasso C, and Lee C. Genome-wide detection of alternative splicing in expressed sequences of human genes. Nucleic Acids Res 2001; 29: 2850-9; Lander ES, Linton LM, Birren B, Nusbaum C, Zody MC, Baldwin J, et al. Initial sequencing and analysis of the human genome. Nature 2001; 409: 860-921] . The molecular diversity of alternatively spliced transcripts provides templates for a myriad of protein structures that are potentially crucial to sustaining the complexity of human physiology. The extensive alternative splicing of the alpha(1)1.2-subunit of the L-type Ca(v)1.2 channel, producing splice variants with distinct electrophysiological and pharmacological properties, would impact directly on the function of the cardiovascular system. Cell-selective expression of Ca(v)1.2 channels containing a specific alternatively spliced exon increases the functional variations for specific cellular activities in response to changing physiological signals. However, the regulation or control of the alpha(1)1.2-subunit alternative splicing machinery is unknown, and the role of numerous splice variants expressed in a cell is a mystery. A systematic and concerted effort is required to determine all the possible combinations of alternatively spliced exons in alpha(1)1.2-subunits in smooth and cardiac muscles. This will provide useful information to monitor changes on the usage of the entire suite of alternatively spliced exons to help relate altered Ca(v)1.2 channel function to physiology and disease.
Secretory phospholipases A2 (sPLA2) form a diverse family of enzymes involved in physiologic and pathologic processes. Common among all sPLA2 is the ability to cleave acyl groups of phospholipids at C2 of the glycerol backbone, thereby releasing fatty acid and a lysophospholipid. Several sPLA2 have been cloned and characterized in various tissues. Furthermore, receptors have been identified. In the nervous system sPLA2 groups IIA, IIE, IIF, V, and XII have been identified, and binding sites for sPLA2 group IB (sPLA2-IB) have been found. Here, we report sPLA2-IB in rat and human brain as well as in neurons in primary culture. The distribution of sPLA2-IB seems to be mainly neuronal, with the highest abundance occurring in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. We also find that genes encoding sPLA2-IB are induced by kainic acid and by electroshock-induced convulsions. Based on the present results we suggest that sPLA2-IB may be a neuronal intercellular signalling modulator.
The role of protein kinase C (PKC) on regulation of P2X(7) receptor-mediated Ca(2+) signalling was examined on RBA-2 astrocytes. Activation of PKC decreased the receptor-mediated Ca(2+) signalling and the decrease was restored by PKC inhibitors. Down regulation of PKC also caused a decrease in the Ca(2+) signalling. Thus PKC might play a dual role on the P2X(7) receptor signalling. Successive stimulation of the P2X(7) receptor induced a gradual decline of Ca(2+) signalling but PKC inhibitors failed to restore the decline. Nevertheless, PMA stimulated translocation of PKC-alpha, -betaI, -betaII, and -gamma, but only anti-PKC-gamma co-immunoprecipitated the receptors. To examine the role of PKC-gamma, Ca(2+) signalling was measured by Ca(2+) imaging. Our results revealed that the agonist-stimulated Ca(2+) signalling were reduced in the cells that the transfection of either P2X(7) receptor or PKC-gamma morpholino antisense oligo was identified. Thus, we concluded that PKC-gamma interacted with P2X(7) receptor complex and positively regulated the receptor-mediated Ca(2+) signalling.
Numerous proteases and protease inhibitors are expressed in the lobster olfactory organ. One of these proteases, olfactory enriched transcript 03 (OET-03), is particularly interesting because its mRNA is expressed only in one cell type of the olfactory organ of the American lobster, Homarus americanus. We have obtained a full-length cDNA clone of OET-03. The predicted amino acid sequence is equally divided between a novel N-terminal domain and a conserved serine protease catalytic domain at the C-terminus. Heterologous expression in HEK293 cells allowed protease assays demonstrating that OET-03 cleaved a specific serine protease substrate, N-alpha benzoyl-L-arginine p-nitroanilide, but did not cleave a substrate of metalloproteases and cysteine proteases. OET-03 protease activity was significantly inhibited by the chymotrypsin-like protease inhibitor, tosyl-L-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone, but not by the general protease inhibitor, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Immunoreactivity for OET-03 was detected only in the cells previously shown to contain OET-03 mRNA. The cytoplasm of these cells was filled with enlarged smooth endoplasmic reticulum (a characteristic of secretory cells) that appeared to expand into large electron-translucent areas at the ventral end of the cell. The ventral ends of these secretory cells were apposed to phalloidin-labeled triangular structures reminiscent of the beginnings of the ducts of crustacean tegumental glands. This putative gland was found only in association with the aesthetasc sensory units of the olfactory organ, hence the name, aesthetasc tegumental gland.
Alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases (ADHs and ALDHs) may be of interest in the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD) because of their role in protection against toxins and in retinoid metabolism, which is required for growth and development of the mesencephalic dopamine system. In the present study, the spatial and temporal expression patterns of Adh 1, Adh 3, Adh 4, and Aldh 1 mRNAs in embryonic C57BL/6 mice (E 9.5-E19.5) and Sprague-Dawley rats (E12.5-P0) have been investigated by using radioactive oligonucleotide in situ hybridization. High expression of Aldh 1 mRNA was found in the developing mesencephalic dopamine neurons of both mice and rats. Expression of Adh 1 and Adh 4 mRNAs was observed in adrenal cortex and olfactory epithelium in mice. Additionally, Adh 1 was expressed in epidermis, liver, conjunctival, and intestinal epithelium. In rat embryos, expression was less extensive, with Adh 1 mRNA being found in liver and intestines. Adh 3 expression was ubiquitous in both mouse and rat embryos, suggesting a housekeeping function of the gene. Consistent with previous studies in adult rats and mice, our data suggest that Adh 3 is the only ADH class present in rodent brain. Adh and Aldh gene activity in mouse and rat embryos indicate the possible involvement of the respective enzymes in retinoid metabolism and participation in defense against toxic insults, including those that may be involved in the pathogenesis of PD.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily comprises a group of non-selective cation channels that have been implicated in both receptor and store-operated channel functions. The family of the classical TRPs (TRPCs) consists of seven members (TRPC1-7). The presence of TRPC1 and TRPC5 mRNA in the brain has previously been demonstrated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. However, the distribution of these receptors within different brain areas of mice has not been investigated in detail. We have used antibodies directed against TRPC1 and TRPC5 to study the distribution and localization of these channels in murine medial temporal lobe structures. Both TRPC1 and TRPC5 channels are present in the various nuclei of the amygdala, in the hippocampus, and in the subiculum and the entorhinal cortex. We have found that TRPC1 channels are primarily expressed on cell somata and on dendrites, whereas TRPC5 channels are exclusively located on cell bodies. Moreover, TRPC1 channels are selectively expressed by neurons, whereas TRPC5 channels are mainly expressed by neurons, but also by non-neuronal cells. The expression of TRPC1 and TRPC5 channels in mammalian temporal lobe structures suggests their involvement in neuronal plasticity, learning and memory.
Recent studies suggested that genetic factors play a role in cluster headache (CH). However, the type and the number of genes involved in the disease are still unclear. We performed an association study in a cohort of Italian CH patients to evaluate whether a particular allele or genotype of the Clock gene would modify the occurrence and the clinical features of the disease. One hundred and seven CH patients, diagnosed according to the International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd Edition, (ICHD-II) criteria, and 210 healthy age, sex and ethnicity-matched controls were genotyped for the 3092 T--&gt;C Clock gene polymorphism (also known as 3111 T--&gt;C). Phenotype and allele frequencies were similarly distributed in CH patients and controls. The clinical features of the disease were not significantly influenced by different genotypes. In conclusion, our study suggests that the 3092 T--&gt;C polymorphism of the Clock gene is unlikely to play an important role in cluster headache.
Treatment with the anti-mitotic agent methylazoxymethanol (MAM) on embryonic day 33 (E33) in ferrets changes features of somatosensory cortex. These include dramatic reduction of cells in layer 4, and altered distributions of thalamocortical afferent terminations and GABA(A) receptors. To determine the effect of the relative absence of layer 4 on processing of sensory stimuli we used current source-density profiles to assess laminar activity patterns. Nearly synchronous activation occurs across all layers in treated animals, which contrasts with the normal cortical activation pattern of initial sinks in layer 4. This change after MAM treatment is consistent with the absence of layer 4 cells and widespread termination of thalamocortical afferents. Using periodic stimulation at 'flutter' frequency, layer 4 neurons in normal somatosensory cortex fire reproducibly to the stimulus rate; the capacity for entrainment is best for layer 4 and weaker in the extragranular layers. The capacity to encode periodic sensory stimuli is disrupted in MAM-treated somatosensory cortex; after an initial response to the onset of periodic stimuli, neurons in all cortical layers show weak entrainment. Neural responses to sensory drive in E33 MAM-treated cortex are also embedded in levels of neural activity substantially above those in normal somatosensory cortex. Sustained stimulation additionally reveals different capacities in each layer for improved signal-to-noise ratios, with layer 4 neurons in normal animals exhibiting the most improved signaling over time. We conclude that normal thalamic terminations, an intact layer 4 and subsequent intracortical processing are integral to proper encoding of stimulus features.
The activity of V1 neurons evoked by stimuli within the classical receptive field (CRF) is known to be modulated by stimuli in the surrounding field, the extra-receptive field (ERF). By varying the relative spatial phase (RSP) between a central grating presented in the CRF and a surround grating in the ERF, we studied the contextual modulation in V1 neurons of alert monkeys (Macaca mulata). Results from two monkeys show that most of the V1 neurons with suppressive ERF are sensitive to the RSP, and the degree of sensitivity is strongly dependent on the strength of ERF suppression. This sensitivity is maximal when the RSP is generated at or near CRF/ERF boundary, but is observed over the entire ERF. Interestingly, the suppressive effect of the surround grating can be largely abolished by inserting a narrow gap between the center and surround gratings or by a phase displacement between them corresponding to &lt;10% of the CRF diameter. These properties of V1 neurons may serve important perceptual functions.
Hippocampal synaptic plasticity is expressed to very different extents in distinct rat strains in vivo. This may correlate with differences in learning ability. We investigated whether the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR5 contributes to differences in long-term potentiation (LTP) and learning in freely moving hooded Lister (HL) and Wistar rats. High-frequency tetanization (HFT) generated robust CA1 LTP in Wistar rats (&gt; 24 h) and incremental potentiation in HL rats. The mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl) pyridine (MPEP; 1.8 microg), applied intracerebrally, impaired LTP from approximately 60 min onwards in Wistar and from 24 h in HL rats. HFT generated LTP in the dentate gyrus (DG) of Wistar rats (&gt; 24 h), which was blocked by MPEP, and MPEP-resistant short-term depression in HL rats. Training for 10 days in an eight-arm radial maze revealed no working memory differences, but better reference memory performance in Wistar compared with HL rats. Daily application of MPEP (1.8 microg) impaired working and reference memory in Wistar rats. In HL rats, working memory was impaired but reference memory was unaffected. Western blot analysis revealed lower expression of mGluR5 in HL compared with Wistar rats. MGluR1 expression was equivalent. These data reveal striking mGluR5-dependent differences in spatial learning in different rat strains, which correlate to synaptic plasticity and mGluR5 expression levels.
The critical time windows of the contribution of V1 and V5/MT to visual awareness of moving visual stimuli were compared by administering transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to V1 or V5/MT in various time intervals from stimulus offset during performance of a simple motion detection task. Our results show a double dissociation in which the critical period of V1 both predates and postdates that of V5/MT, and where stimulation of either V1 at V5/MT's critical period or V5/MT at V1's critical period does not impair performance. These findings demonstrate the importance of back-projections from V5/MT to V1 in awareness of real motion stimuli.
In addition to its endocrine function, for which it was named, thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) has substantial neuroprotective actions as well as other physiological effects. We have developed a number of modified TRH analogues as well as cyclic dipeptides structurally related to a major metabolic product of TRH, which have enhanced neuroprotective activity but none of the other major physiological effects of TRH. The extensive structure-activity data developed with these compounds were used to develop a pharmacophore model. Subsequently, a web-based pharmacophore searching program was used to query several large three-dimensional databases. Of the 219 compounds identified whose structures met the pharmacophore model, 15 were chosen for study in a classical model of neuronal cell death in vitro; five of these, 2-6, showed neuroprotective activity. Thus, pharmacophore modeling developed from neuroprotective small peptides can be used to identify novel lead compounds as neuroprotective agents.
Ca2+ as a signaling molecule carries information pivotal to cell life and death via its reversible interaction with a specific site in a protein. Although numerous Ca2+-dependent activities are known, the proteins responsible for some of these activities remain unidentified. We synthesized and characterized a photoreactive reagent, azido ruthenium (AzRu), which interacts specifically with Ca2+ binding proteins and strongly inhibits their Ca2+-dependent activities, regardless of their catalytic mechanisms or functional state as purified proteins, embedded in the membrane or in intact cells. As expected from a Ca2+ binding protein-specific reagent, AzRu had no effect on Ca2+-independent and Mg2+-dependent activities. Az103Ru covalently bound, and specifically labeled, known Ca2+ binding proteins. AzRu is a photoreactive reagent that provides an approach for identification of Ca2+ binding proteins, characterization of their binding sites, and exploration of new Ca2+-dependent processes.
Computational models are increasingly essential to systems neuroscience. Models serve as proofs of concept, tests of sufficiency, and as quantitative embodiments of working hypotheses and are important tools for understanding and interpreting complex data sets. In the olfactory system, models have played a particularly prominent role in framing contemporary theories and presenting novel hypotheses, a role that will only grow as the complexity and intricacy of experimental data continue to increase. This review will attempt to provide a comprehensive, functional overview of computational ideas in olfaction and outline a computational framework for olfactory processing based on the insights provided by these diverse models and their supporting data.


All endocrinologists would like to make glucocorticoid replacement therapy for their hypoadrenal patients as physiological as possible. Many would like the reassurance of a method of monitoring such treatment to confirm that they are achieving this aim. Advances in our knowledge of the normal physiology are relevant to our attempts to do this. The cortisol production rate in normal subjects is lower than was previously believed. The normal pattern of glucocorticoid secretion includes both a diurnal rhythm and a pulsatile ultradian rhythm. Glucocorticoid access to nuclear receptors is 'gated' by the 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzymes, which interconvert active cortisol and inactive cortisone. Such complexities make the target of physiological glucocorticoid replacement therapy hard to achieve. The available evidence suggests that conventional treatment of hypoadrenal patients may result in adverse effects on some surrogate markers of disease risk, such as a lower bone mineral density than age-sex matched controls, and increases in postprandial glucose and insulin concentrations. Although the quality of life of hypoadrenal patients may be impaired, there is no evidence of an improvement on higher doses of steroids, although quality of life is better if the hydrocortisone dose is split up, with the highest dose taken in the morning. Thus the evidence suggests that most patients may safely be treated with a low dose of glucocorticoid (e.g. 15 mg hydrocortisone daily) in two or three divided doses, with education about the appropriate action to take in the event of intercurrent illnesses.
Because of the heterogeneity in symptoms and diagnostic findings, patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) remain a challenge to treat and to study. This difficulty stems from lack of understanding of the pathophysiology of this disorder. Environmental factors likely play an important role in the pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of IBS. Several recent studies suggest a genetic basis for IBS, either in etiology or predicting response to therapy. Because of interest in studying the genetic contributors to this and other functional gastrointestinal disorders, we review the literature on genetic risk factors that might explain the familial clustering of IBS. Familial aggregation studies and twin studies suggest a modest contribution of genetics to the development of IBS. Pharmacogenomic and association studies provide stronger, although far from conclusive, evidence for genetic variants that affect expression of IBS. Together, these studies suggest that a multidisciplinary approach with clinical and psychological tools, epidemiologic methods, and genetic techniques might help elucidate the molecular components leading to the common symptoms of IBS and result in better treatments for those with IBS.



Functional neurosurgery in patients with movement disorders has provided a unique opportunity to record directly form the human basal ganglia (BG) and to thereby further our understanding of these 'dark basements of the mind.' Two possibilities exist: either single unit and local field potential (LFP) recordings can be made intra-operatively through microelectrodes, or LFPs may be recorded directly from the deep brain stimulation electrode in the peri-operative period. The LFPs so recorded in the BG of patients are pleomorphic, oscillatory, focal and the product of synchronised current changes in local neuronal elements. They are presently most simply classified by frequency into activities at &lt;8, 8-30 and &gt;60 Hz, although such a schema is unlikely to capture the full complexity of rhythmic synchronisation with respect to behavioural and disease dependency. The best characterised group of LFP oscillations is that at 8-30 Hz. This activity is prominent in the subthalamic nucleus and globus pallidus of Parkinsonian patients withdrawn from their dopaminergic medication. Dopaminergic treatments, behaviourally relevant stimuli and voluntary movement suppress it. The available evidence points to the 8-30 Hz activity being essentially antikinetic in character and inversely related to motor processing. Its exaggeration may therefore contribute to the bradykinesia of Parkinson's disease.
For individuals with synaesthesia, stimuli in one sensory modality elicit anomalous experiences in another modality. For example, the sound of a particular piano note may be 'seen' as a unique colour, or the taste of a familiar food may be 'felt' as a distinct bodily sensation. We report a study of 192 adult synaesthetes, in which we administered a structured questionnaire to determine the relative frequency and characteristics of different types of synaesthetic experience. Our data suggest the prevalence of synaesthesia in the adult population is approximately 1 in 1150 females and 1 in 7150 males. The incidence of left-handedness in our sample was within the normal range, contrary to previous claims. We did, however, find that synaesthetes are more likely to be involved in artistic pursuits, consistent with anecdotal reports. We also examined responses from a subset of 150 synaesthetes for whom letters, digits and words induce colour experiences ('lexical-colour' synaesthesia). There was a striking consistency in the colours induced by certain letters and digits in these individuals. For example, 'R' elicited red for 36% of the sample, 'Y' elicited yellow for 45%, and 'D' elicited brown for 47%. Similar trends were apparent for a group of non-synaesthetic controls who were asked to associate colours with letters and digits. Based on these findings, we suggest that the development of lexical-colour synaesthesia in many cases incorporates early learning experiences common to all individuals. Moreover, many of our synaesthetes experienced colours only for days of the week, letters or digits, suggesting that inducers that are part of a conventional sequence (e.g. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday...; A, B, C...; 1, 2, 3...) may be particularly important in the development of synaesthetic inducer-colour pairs. We speculate that the learning of such sequences during an early critical period determines the particular pattern of lexical-colour links, and that this pattern then generalises to other words.


Parkinson' disease (PD) is a most common and debilitating degenerative disease resulted from massive loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, which is characterized by severe motor symptoms of tremor, bradykinesia, rigidity and postural instability. Protection of nigral dopamine neurons from progressive degenerative death and cell replacement of novel dopamine neurons are hopeful strategies against PD in humans. The reactive astrocytes or functional activation of astrocytes abundantly occurred in brain insults including trauma, ischemia, and 6-OHDA or MPTP-treated PD animal models. Although they were traditionally assumed to impede neuronal regeneration by forming glial scars, growing evidence has indicated that reactive astrocytes do offer crucial benefits in functional recovery of brain injuries. The reactive astrocytes can produce various neurotrophic factors for neuron survival, synthesize extracellular substrates for axonal outgrowth and synaptogenesis, act as scavengers for free radical and excess glutamate, and promote neurogenesis of neural progenitor cells in the adult brains. We thereafter hypothesize that reactive astrocytes may also play important roles in the protection of nigral dopamine neurons or transplanted dopamine cells through their neurotrophic functions and active interaction with dopamine neurons or neural progenitor cells. Future approaches deserve to target on neurotrophic functions of reactive astrocytes in the basal ganglia and interventions to facilitate survival and axonal regeneration of dopamine neurons or differentiation of dopamine progenitor cells. Novel pharmaceutical and cell replacement strategies will hopefully be developed by potential manipulation of reactive astrocytes in the basal ganglia in prevention and treatment of Parkinson's disease.


Neural crest cells leave the hindbrain, enter the gut mesenchyme at the pharynx, and migrate as strands of cells to the terminal bowel to form the enteric nervous system. We generated embryos containing fluorescent enteric neural crest-derived cells (ENCCs) by mating Wnt1-Cre mice with Rosa-floxed-YFP mice and investigated ENCC behavior in the intact gut of mouse embryos using time-lapse fluorescent microscopy. With respect to the entire gut, we have found that ENCCs in the cecum and proximal colon behave uniquely. ENCCs migrating caudally through either the ileum, or caudal colon, are gradually advancing populations of strands displaying largely unpredictable local trajectories. However, in the cecum, advancing ENCCs pause for approximately 12 h, and then display an invariable pattern of migration to distinct regions of the cecum and proximal colon. In addition, while most ENCCs migrating through other regions of the gut remain interconnected as strands; ENCCs initially migrating through the cecum and proximal colon fragment from the main population and advance as isolated single cells. These cells aggregate into groups isolated from the main network, and eventually extend strands themselves to reestablish a network in the mid-colon. As the advancing network of ENCCs reaches the terminal bowel, strands of sacral crest cells extend, and intersect with vagal crest to bridge the small space between. We found a relationship between ENCC number, interaction, and migratory behavior by utilizing endogenously isolated strands and by making cuts along the ENCC wavefront. Depending on the number of cells, the ENCCs aggregated, proliferated, and extended strands to advance the wavefront. Our results show that interactions between ENCCs are important for regulating behaviors necessary for their advancement.
Retinoic acid (RA) is a signaling molecule important for photoreceptor development in vertebrates. The purpose of this study was to examine the mechanisms of the effects of RA upon developing rod and cone photoreceptors in the embryonic zebrafish. Exposure to exogenous RA increased the number of photoreceptors expressing rod opsin and red cone opsin, and decreased the number of photoreceptors expressing the blue and UV cone opsins, suggesting targeted effects of RA on photoreceptor development. RA exposure also increased opsin expression in individual rods and red cones, but decreased opsin expression in individual blue and UV cones, as indicated by differences in the strength of opsin hybridization in identified photoreceptors. RA exposure did not, however, significantly alter quantitative measures of photoreceptor pattern in a manner expected for changes in photoreceptor fate. These observations collectively indicate that RA treatment does not affect photoreceptor fate, but rather differentially influences opsin transcription in determined photoreceptors. An enzyme involved in RA synthesis, RALDH2, was immunocytochemically localized to retinal progenitor cells and the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE), suggesting the presence of RA in the vicinity of developing photoreceptors. However, expression of an RA response element-driven transgene was restricted to the RPE, retinal progenitors, and a small population of neurons in ventral retina, suggesting that the endogenous RA signaling system is spatially limited within the eye.
Non-axial mesenchymal/epithelial (M/E) induction guides peripheral olfactory pathway differentiation using cellular and molecular mechanisms similar to those in the developing limbs, aortic arches, and branchial arches. At each of these bilaterally symmetric sites off the midline axis, a thickened ectodermal epithelium is apposed to a specialized mesenchyme derived largely, but not exclusively, from the neural crest. The capacity of M/E interaction in the olfactory primordia (the combined olfactory placodal epithelium and adjacent mesenchyme) to induce a distinct class of sensory receptor neurons-olfactory receptor neurons-suggests that this mechanism has been modified to accommodate neurogenesis, neurite outgrowth, and axon guidance, in addition to musculoskeletal differentiation, chondrogenesis, and vasculogenesis. Accordingly, although the olfactory primordia share signaling molecules and transcriptional regulators with other bilaterally symmetric, non-axial sites such as limb buds, their activity may be adapted to mediate distinct aspects of cellular differentiation and process outgrowth during the initial assembly of a sensory pathway-the primary olfactory pathway-during early forebrain development.

Progress in the study of the molecular mechanisms that regulate neuronal differentiation has been quite impressive in recent years, and promises to continue to an equally fast pace. This should not lead us into a sense of complacency, however, because there are still significant barriers that cannot be overcome by simply conducting the same type of experiments that we have been performing thus far. This article will describe some of these challenges, while highlighting the conceptual and methodological breakthroughs that will be necessary to overcome them.
Mitf is a central regulator of pigment cell development that is essential for the normal development of the melanocyte and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) lineages. To understand better the role of Mitf, we have used the Xenopus laevis experimental system to allow a rapid examination of the role of Mitf in vivo. Here, we report the function of XlMitfalpha-M on melanophore development and melanization compared with that of Slug that is expressed in neural crest cells. Overexpression of XlMitfalpha-M led to an increase in melanophores that was partly contributed by an increase in Slug-positive cells, indicating that XlMitfalpha-M is a key regulator of melanocyte/melanophore development and melanization. Moreover, overexpression of a dominant-negative form of XlMitfalpha led to a decrease in the number of melanophores and induced abnormal melanoblast migration. We also observed an induction of ectopic RPE and extended RPE by overexpression of XlMitfalpha-M and possible interactions between XlMitfalpha and several eye-related genes essential for normal eye development.
We have used whole cell patch clamp recording and immunohistochemistry to investigate the expression of P2X(2/3) receptors in rat superior cervical ganglion neurons during late embryonic and early post-natal development. Neurons from E18 and P1 animals responded to the nicotinic agonist dimethylphenylpiperazinium (DMPP), and the purinoceptor agonists ATP and alpha,beta-meATP with sustained inward currents. Responsiveness to DMPP was maintained at P 17, while that to ATP declined dramatically, and responses to alpha,beta-meATP were rarely detected. Immunohistochemistry for the P2X(3) subunit revealed widespread staining in superior cervical ganglia from P1 rats, but little immunoreactivity in ganglia from P17 animals. In neurons from P1 animals, the response to alpha,beta-meATP exhibited pharmacological properties of the heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptor. In conclusion, sympathetic neurons of the rat superior cervical ganglion are more responsive to ATP and alpha,beta-meATP at birth and during the early post-natal period, due largely to the expression of the P2X(3) subunit, but these responses are much reduced in mature rats.
We have studied the expression of Thg-1 pit in developing and adult mouse brain by in situ hybridization analysis. We show that, at day 12.5 of embryo development, Thg-1 pit expression is restricted to the rhombic lip, subventricular neuroepithelium/mantle zone, and lateral ganglionic eminence, namely the embryonic brain areas where granule cell precursors originate. Thereafter, Thg-1 pit expression landmarks both differentiative steps and the mature function of granule/interneuron cells in several brain districts, including cerebellum, basal forebrain, olfactory bulb, and hippocampus. In the adult, Thg-1 pit becomes also activated in mitral cells of olfactory bulb and in Purkinje cells of cerebellum, in concomitance with full development of the synaptic contacts that Purkinje and mitral cells establish with granule cells. We conclude that Thg-1 pit is relevant to specification, proliferation/migration, differentiation, and mature function of granule/interneuron cells in different brain districts, as well as to the function of mature, but not immature, Purkinje cells and mitral cells.
Group A Streptococcus can induce autoimmune disease in humans with particular involvement of the heart, joints, and brain. The spectrum of post-streptococcal disease of the central nervous system (CNS) has been widened recently and includes movement disorders (chorea, tics, dystonia, and Parkinsonism), psychiatric disorders (particularly emotional disorders), and associated sleep disorders. Neuroimaging and pathological studies indicate that the most vulnerable brain region is the basal ganglia. The immunopathogenesis of the disease is incompletely defined, and although there is some support for autoantibody-mediated disease, several conflicting studies cast doubt on the autoantibody hypothesis. It has been speculated that post-streptococcal autoimmunity has a role in common neuropsychiatric disease but the evidence is conflicting and routine screening of patients with Tourette syndrome and obsessive-compulsive disorder for post-streptococcal autoimmune abnormalities is not be recommended at present. However, post-streptococcal disorders of the CNS remain a useful model of neuropsychiatric disease, which may improve our understanding of abnormal movements and behaviours in children.
The aim of the study was to compare sleep patterns in children with epilepsy with those of their non-epileptic siblings and to determine which epilepsy-specific factors predict greater sleep disturbance. We conducted a case-control study of 55 children with epilepsy (mean age 10y, range 4 to 16y; 27 males, 28 females) and their nearest-aged non-epileptic sibling (mean age 10y, range 4 to 18y; 26 males, 29 females). Epilepsy was idiopathic generalized in eight children (15%), symptomatic generalized in seven (13%), and focal in 40 (73%); the mean duration was 5 years 8 months. Parents or caregivers completed the Sleep Behavior Questionnaire (SBQ) and Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) for patients and controls, and the Quality of Life in Childhood Epilepsy (QOLCE) for patients. Patients had a higher (more adverse) Total Sleep score (p&lt;0.001) and scored worse than controls on nearly all subscales of the SBQ. In patients, higher Total Sleep scores were correlated with higher scores on the Withdrawn, Somatic complaints, Social problems, and Attention subscales of the CBCL, and significantly lower Total Quality of Life Scores. Refractory epilepsy, mental retardation, and remote symptomatic etiology predicted greater sleep problems in those with epilepsy. We conclude that children with epilepsy in this current study had significantly greater sleep problems than their non-epileptic siblings.
The effects of congenital, unilateral, focal brain lesions on early linguistic development and hemispheric lateralization for language were investigated longitudinally in 24 preschool children with hemiplegia (14 males, 10 females), 12 with left hemisphere damage (LHD) and 12 with right hemisphere damage (RHD). A comprehensive linguistic assessment was performed at 2 and 3 years of life; cerebral lateralization for language was measured by the Fused Dichotic Words Listening Test. An early left-side specificity for language was indicated by the presence of lexical and grammatical delay in most children with LHD. In the dichotic listening test all 12 children with LHD showed a shift of language lateralization from the left to the right hemisphere. Atypical lateralization coefficients (lambda), i.e. values falling more than two standard deviations from the mean of a normative sample, were associated with a delay in lexical and grammatical development, especially after LHD. In addition, cortical-subcortical-periventricular lesions rather than solely periventricular damage, and larger lesions rather than small, were associated with the most atypical lateralization coefficients, irrespective of lesion side. Results of this study suggest that language and lateralization data are closely related and that reallocation of language functions in alternative regions of the brain has a cost in terms of a slow rate of language acquisition.
This study investigated the development of the frontal lobe action-monitoring system from late childhood and adolescence to early adulthood using ERP markers of error processing. Error negativity (ERN) and correct response negativity (CRN) potentials were recorded while adolescents and adults (aged 12-22 years, n = 23) performed two forced-choice visual reaction time tasks of differing complexity. Significant age differences were seen for behavioural and ERP responses to complex (infrequent, incompatible) trials: adolescents elicited an error negativity of reduced magnitude compared with adults. Furthermore, in contrast to adults, adolescents showed a non-significant differentiation between response-locked ERP components elicited by correct (CRN) and error responses (ERN). Behaviourally, adolescents corrected fewer errors in incompatible trials, and with increasing age there was greater post-error slowing. In conclusion, the neural systems underlying action-monitoring continue to mature throughout the second decade of life, and are associated with increased efficiency for fast error detection and correction during complex tasks.




Peptide YY(3-36) [PYY(3-36)] is a hormone that is released after meal ingestion that is currently being investigated for the treatment of obesity; however, there are conflicting reports of the effects of PYY(3-36) on energy balance in rodent models. To shed light on this controversy, we studied the effect of PYY(3-36) on food intake and body weight in a nonhuman primate. Intravenous PYY(3-36) infusions before a morning meal transiently suppressed the rate of food intake but did not suppress the evening meal or 24-h intake. Twice-daily or continuous intravenous PYY(3-36) infusions to supraphysiological levels (levels that exceeded normal physiological levels) again suppressed the rate of feeding for the morning but not the evening meal. Twice-daily intravenous PYY(3-36) infusions for 2 weeks significantly decreased body weight in all test animals (average weight loss 1.9%) without changing insulin response to glucose infusion. These results show that endogenous PYY(3-36) may alter morning but not evening meal intake, and supraphysiological doses are required for effective suppression of food intake.

The role of adult stem cells in tissue regeneration has attracted much interest because of its enormous therapeutic potential. Adult stem cells reside in every tissue of the body and have the ability to self-renew and to give rise to a high number of differentiated progeny. These are indeed the essential steps in tissue regeneration, which in some cases occurs constitutively, whereas in other cases happens in response to an injury. The identification of the key factors involved in self-renewal and differentiation pathways is at the top of the agenda of stem cell biologists. Interestingly, a number of factors that govern the fate of adult stem cells also play a role in malignant cell transformation, such as the Wnt cascade, Oct-4, Bmi-1 and Evi1. In addition, rare subpopulations of cancer stem cells were identified for leukemia and other solid tumors. These rare fractions of cancer stem cells are in large part responsible for maintaining the tumor mass, as they have the capacity to self-renew and to generate a high number of progeny via differentiation program. These findings can be considered a major breakthrough in cancer research. Currently, oncologists and stem cell biologists have two main goals: i) the assessment of the consistency of the line that divides adult stem cells and carcinogenesis; ii) to better characterize the biology of cancer stem cells. This new line of investigation may allow for the development of novel therapeutics and cancer diagnostics.
Molecular and cellular immune activities have a fundamental role in all stages of the atherosclerotic process and in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. Recent studies have demonstrated how chronic infections can support a local and systemic chronic inflammation, leading to the atherosclerotic process. The pathogenic link between infection and cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease is not completely defined. Some therapeutic strategies, able to influence the persistence of the infections or to modify the inflammatory process, could be useful in primary and secondary vascular disease prevention and in modifying the acute event outcome.
This study investigated subtypes of developmental dyslexia in Chinese by assessing three cases of Chinese dyslexic children. A battery of screening measures, a character naming and meaning task, and metalinguistic awareness tasks were administered to each child. One of the three children demonstrated characteristics of developmental surface dyslexia, and the other two showed characteristics of developmental deep dyslexia. Moreover, the children's reading problems were found to be specifically related to their deficits in metalinguistic awareness. The dissociation between developmental surface and deep dyslexia provides support to Weekes et al.'s (Neurocase 1997; 3: 51-60) model that a semantic and a nonsemantic pathway exist independently in Chinese reading. The results also suggest that deficits in morphological and phonological awareness may cause developmental delays in the semantic and the nonsemantic pathway.
Cardiovascular disease is one of the most common causes of mortality affecting both men and women in industrialized nations. Sex-related differences have been well established with regard to heart and vascular function as well as cardiovascular disease processes. Nevertheless, the precise mechanisms of action behind these gender-related differences are poorly understood. Premenopausal women have a relatively lower arterial blood pressure compared to age-matched men and post-menopausal women, suggesting a role of ovarian hormones in blood pressure regulation. Sex-related differences in vasculature and neuroendocrine systems are also present that can affect hemostasis, vascular reactivity, and vascular tone. Treatment for cardiovascular disease and hypertension has been challenging and unsatisfactory. Men and women may require different antihypertensive regimens due to differences in the progression and presentation of hypertension. Additionally, hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women has been controversial, producing both beneficial and detrimental effects. Therefore, this review will focus on sex-related differences in the heart and vasculature, and treatments for cardiovascular disease, such as hypertension.
Stress or glucocorticoid (GC) treatment in perinatal life can induce long-term changes in the sensitivity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis to the feedback actions of GCs and, hence, in GC secretion. These changes have been ascribed largely to changes in the sensitivity of the limbic system, and possibly the hypothalamus, to GCs. Surprisingly, the possibility that early life stress/GC treatment may also exert irreversible effects at the pituitary level has scarcely been addressed. Accordingly, we have examined the effects of pre- and neonatal dexamethasone treatment on the adult male pituitary gland, focusing on the following: 1) the integrity of the acute annexin 1 (ANXA1)-dependent inhibitory actions of GCs on ACTH secretion, a process requiring ANXA1 release from folliculostellate (FS) cells; and 2) the morphology of FS cells and corticotrophs. Dexamethasone was given to pregnant (d 16-19) or lactating (d 1-7 postpartum) rats via the drinking water (1 microg/ml); controls received normal drinking water. Pituitary tissue from the offspring was examined ex vivo at d 90. Both treatment regimens reduced ANXA1 expression, as assessed by Western blotting and quantitative immunogold labeling. In particular, the amount of ANXA1 located on the outer surface of the FS cells was reduced. By contrast, IL-6 expression was increased, particularly by the prenatal treatment. Pituitary tissue from untreated control rats responded to dexamethasone with an increase in cell surface ANXA1 and a reduction in forskolin-induced ACTH release. In contrast, pituitary tissue from rats treated prenatally or neonatally with dexamethasone was unresponsive to the steroid, although, like control tissue, it responded readily to ANXA1, which readily inhibited forskolin-driven ACTH release. Prenatal dexamethasone treatment reduced the size but not the number of FS cells. It also caused a marked reduction in corticotroph number and impaired granule margination without affecting other aspects of corticotroph morphology. Similar but less marked effects on pituitary cell morphology and number were evident in tissue from neonatally treated rats. Our study shows that, when administered by a noninvasive process, perinatal GC treatment exerts profound effects on the adult pituitary gland, impairing the ANXA1-dependent GC regulation of ACTH release and altering the cell profile and morphology.
Inflammatory reactions occur in the brain in various CNS diseases, including autoimmune, neurodegenerative, and epileptic disorders. Proinflammatory and antiinflammatory cytokines and related molecules have been described in CNS and plasma, in experimental models of seizures and in clinical cases of epilepsy. Inflammation involves both the innate and the adaptive immune systems and shares molecules and pathways also activated by systemic infection. Experimental studies in rodents show that inflammatory reactions in the brain can enhance neuronal excitability, impair cell survival, and increase the permeability of the blood-brain barrier to blood-borne molecules and cells. Moreover, some antiinflammatory treatments reduce seizures in experimental models and, in some instances, in clinical cases of epilepsy. However, inflammatory reactions in brain also can be beneficial, depending on the tissue microenvironment, the inflammatory mediators produced in injured tissue, the functional status of the target cells, and the length of time the tissue is exposed to inflammation. We provide an overview of the current knowledge in this field and attempt to bridge experimental and clinical evidence to discuss critically the possibility that inflammation may be a common factor contributing, or predisposing, to the occurrence of seizures and cell death, in various forms of epilepsy of different etiologies. The elucidation of this aspect may open new perspectives for the pharmacologic treatment of seizures.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is one of the most common forms of epilepsy. Numerous contributing factors and compensatory mechanisms have been associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. One feature found in both humans and animal models is sprouting of hippocampal principal cell axons, which suggests that axonal sprouting may be a general phenomenon associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. This article highlights the evidence showing that hippocampal GABAergic interneurons also undergo axonal sprouting in temporal lobe epilepsy. The caveats and unanswered questions associated with the current data and the potential physiological consequences of reorganizations in GABAergic circuits are discussed.
This study examined whether patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and ictal fear (IF) show emotion recognition deficits similar to those associated with amygdala damage. Three groups of patients (13 with TLE and IF, 14 with TLE and nonfear auras (non-IF), and 10 with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE)) completed tests of visual and face processing, face emotion recognition and social judgment, together with measures of psychological adjustment (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale; SCL-90-R) and Quality of Life (QOLIE-31). All three epilepsy groups had fear recognition deficits, with relatively greater impairments in the IF group. Fear recognition deficits were associated with impaired social judgment of trustworthiness, duration of epilepsy, and a measure of quality of life. Social cognition impairments previously associated with amygdala dysfunction are also a feature of the neuropsychology of TLE, and extend the hypothesis in that they may additionally play a role in IGE.

Neuronal hyperexcitability in limbic areas, especially the amygdala, is a significant underlying mechanism associated with complex partial seizures (CPS). CPS may be comorbid with emotional disturbances, especially major mood disorders, anxiety, and aggression. Anticonvulsant medications such as phenytoin are also mood-stabilizing, and have been used for treatment of behavioral dyscontrol in impulsive aggressive individuals. Because the amygdala has important functional roles in epilepsy, emotion, and behavioral control, there may be common biological mechanisms involving neuronal excitability that contribute to both seizure activity and psychopathology. This review examines physiological mechanisms in the amygdala that regulate neuronal excitability and discusses how this may underlie, in part, disturbances in emotional behavior.
Seizures were induced in female Wistar albino rats at either 35 or 55 days of age with a single systemic injection of lithium (3 mEq/kg) and pilocarpine (30 mg/kg); the rats were then treated with the atypical neuroleptic acepromazine (25 mg/kg). These rats manifested progressive weight gain for the rest of their lives. The effect was conspicuous by casual observation 6 weeks after treatment and occurred primarily in those rats that later developed spontaneous seizures. After 1 year, the rats were obese (&gt;1000 g). Such weight gains, associated with almost three times the serum triglyceride levels, were not observed in male rats and have not been observed in hundreds of female rats that received this treatment as adults. Single postseizure injections of ketamine rather than acepromazine did not produce this obesity; the weights of these rats were similar to those of normal littermates. These results indicate that a single injection of a neuroleptic during limbic seizures before puberty can produce neuronal alterations that contribute to a lifetime of obesity.
We tested the hypothesis that structured epilepsy nursing improves quality of life (QOL). One hundred fourteen adult patients with uncontrolled epilepsy were randomly assigned to either an intervention group or a control group. The intervention group was offered an interactive, 1-day group education program followed by extended nurse follow-up and counseling. The nurse was present at as many outpatient consultations as possible and performed repeated consultations by telephone. All patients completed the QOLIE-89 before randomization and after 2 years. QOL was significantly improved from inclusion to completion of study in the intervention group (P=0.019), mainly in the subitems for Health Discouragement (P=0.01), Medication Effects (P=0.035), and Physical Role Limitations (P=0.05). To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate a significant effect of a structured nurse-led intervention program in QOL of patients with epilepsy.
Abrupt cessation of alcohol intake after prolonged heavy drinking may trigger alcohol withdrawal seizures. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures are the most characteristic and severe type of seizure that occur in this setting. Generalized seizures also occur in rodent models of alcohol withdrawal. In these models, the withdrawal seizures are triggered by neuronal networks in the brainstem, including the inferior colliculus; similar brainstem mechanisms may contribute to alcohol withdrawal seizures in humans. Alcohol causes intoxication through effects on diverse ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors, including GABA(A) receptors--particularly those containing delta subunits that are localized extrasynaptically and mediate tonic inhibition--and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Alcohol dependence results from compensatory changes during prolonged alcohol exposure, including internalization of GABA(A) receptors, which allows adaptation to these effects. Withdrawal seizures are believed to reflect unmasking of these changes and may also involve specific withdrawal-induced cellular events, such as rapid increases in alpha4 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors that confer reduced inhibitory function. Optimizing approaches to the prevention of alcohol withdrawal seizures requires an understanding of the distinct neurobiologic mechanisms that underlie these seizures.
Mutation in a gap junction protein gene (GJB2 also named connexin 26) is a major cause of autosomal recessive congenital deafness, which is responsible for about 80% of the cases in Mediterranean families, but actually little is known about the influence of GJB2 mutations on the hearing of obligate carriers. We examined GJB2 35delG mutation carrier individuals to test the possible presence and incidence of audiometric abnormalities among carriers of 35delG mutations. Tonal audiometric analysis was performed on a 35delG mutation carrier group (H) and on a non-carrier control group (N). Audiometric evaluations in the control group showed the presence of thresholds within normal limits at all frequencies, while carriers of 35delG mutations presented a decrease of hearing principally at 6,000 and 8,000 Hz. The difference at 6,000 and 8,000 Hz between groups H and N is statistically significant.
JC virus (JCV) is a human polyomavirus that is the etiologic agent of the fatal demyelinating disease of the central nervous system known as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). JCV is also linked to some tumours of the brain and other organs as evidenced by the presence of JCV DNA sequences and the expression of viral proteins in clinical samples. Since JCV is highly oncogenic in experimental animals and transforms cells in culture, it is possible that JCV contributes to the malignant phenotype of human tumours with which it is associated. JCV encodes three non-capsid regulatory proteins: large T-antigen, small t-antigen and agnoprotein that interact with a number of cellular target proteins and interfere with certain normal cellular functions. In this review, we discuss how JCV proteins deregulate signalling pathways especially ones pertaining to transcriptional regulation and cell cycle control. These effects may be involved in the progression of JCV-associated tumours and may represent potential therapeutic targets.

Following lymphocyte depletion, homeostatic mechanisms drive the reconstitution of lymphocytes. We prospectively studied this process in 16 patients for 1 year after a single pulse of treatment with Campath-1H, a humanised anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody. We observed two phases of lymphocyte reconstitution. In the first 6 months after treatment the precursor frequency and proliferation index of the patients' autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction increased; the depleted T cell pool was dominated by memory T cells, especially (CD4+)CD25high T cells, a putative regulatory phenotype; and there was a non-significant rise in peripheral mononuclear cell FoxP3 mRNA expression and fall in constitutive cytokine mRNA expression. In the later phase, from 6-to-12 months after Campath-1H, these changes reversed and there was a rise in ROG mRNA expression. However, total CD4+ numbers remained below 50% of pre-treatment levels at 12 months, perhaps reflecting a failure in homeostasis. This was not due to an impaired IL-7 response, as in rheumatoid arthritis, nor to a lack of IL-7 receptors, which are found on fewer human (CD4+)CD25high than naive cells. We speculate that CCL21 and IL-15 responses to lymphopaenia may be suboptimal in multiple sclerosis.
When we repetitively lift an object, our grip force is influenced by the mechanical object properties of the preceding lift, irrespective of whether the subsequent lift is performed with the same hand or the hand opposite to the preceding lift. This study investigates if repetitive high-frequency transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the dominant primary motor cortex affects this relationship. After completion of 10 lifts of an object using the dominant hand, rTMS was applied over the dominant primary motor cortex for 20 s. On the first lift following rTMS, the peak grip force was significantly higher than on the lift preceding rTMS. Moreover, this measure remained elevated throughout the following set of lifts after rTMS. rTMS did not change the peak lift force generated by more proximal arm muscles. The same effect was observed when the lifts following rTMS over the dominant motor cortex were performed with the ipsilateral hand. These effects were not observed when subjects rested both hands on their lap or when a sham stimulation was applied for the same period of time. These preliminary data suggest that rTMS over the sensorimotor cortex disturbs predictive grip force planning.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease which results from selective loss of upper and lower motor neurons. Mouse models of ALS, such as one carrying the G93A mutant of the human Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase gene[SOD1(G93A)], develop motor neuron pathology and clinical symptoms similar to those observed in ALS patients. There is compelling evidence that both direct and indirect glutamate toxicity contribute to the pathogenesis of motor neuron degeneration. However, the therapeutic effect of various glutamate receptor antagonists has not been clearly demonstrated. Memantine is a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. It has been shown to protect neurons against NMDA- or glutamate-induced toxicity in vitro and in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. In the current study, we have examined the therapeutic efficacy of memantine in an ALS mouse model carrying a high copy number of SOD1(G93A). Memantine treatment significantly delayed the disease progression and increased the life span of SOD1(G93A) mice, from 121.4 +/- 5.5 to 129.7 +/- 4.5 days (P = 0.032). Furthermore, NMDA receptor subunits were reliably detected in the spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) mice and their expression levels were similar to those in the wild-type littermate control. Therefore, the neuroprotective effect of memantine in SOD1(G93A) mice is most probably due to the inhibition of spinal cord NMDA receptors. In view of the long-term usage of memantine for dementia patients, with excellent tolerance and safety, these data suggest that memantine may be used in ALS patients alone or in combination with other therapies to prolong survival.
Spatial theory proposes that the hippocampus contributes to exploratory behavior allowing animals to acquire information about their environment. In the present study, the exploratory movements of control rats, bulbectomized (anosmic) rats and hippocampectomized rats using the neurotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) were monitored on a large circular table without walls and around which visual cues were manipulated. The rats displayed organized spatial behavior in that they developed home bases, one or more places operationally defined as those in which they spent a preponderance of time, in which they moved slowly, and to which they returned after excursions. Control rats and hippocampectomized rats were similar in that they established home bases: (i) adjacent to a proximal stable or moving visual landmark; (ii) in relation to more distant visual room cues; and (iii) in relation to contextually conditioned visual cues. Nevertheless, in exploratory tests given under infrared light, a wavelength to which rats are insensitive, control rats and bulbectomized rats established one or more home bases that were not dependent upon surface (e.g. olfactory) cues, whereas home base behavior was absent/fragmented in hippocampectomized rats. Thus, exploratory behavior, as exemplified by home base behavior, is organized in control and hippocampectomized rats in relation to visual cues, but is not organized in hippocampectomized rats when visual cues are absent. This result is discussed in relation to the idea that the hippocampus contributes to spatial behavior that is dependent upon guidance (dead reckoning) derived from self-movement cues.
Relapse to drug taking is triggered by stimuli previously associated with consumption of drugs of misuse (cues) and involves brain systems controlling motivated behaviour towards natural reinforcers. In this study, we aimed to identify and compare neuronal pathways in corticostriatal systems that control conditioned heroin or natural reward (sucrose) seeking. To that end, rats were trained to self-administer heroin or sucrose in association with an identical compound cue. After more than 3 weeks of abstinence during extinction training, cue exposure robustly reinstated heroin and sucrose seeking, but induced distinct and even opposing changes in the expression of the neuronal activation marker zif268 in the prelimbic cortex and striatal complex, respectively. Because in the prelimbic area zif268 expression was enhanced during cue-induced heroin seeking but unaffected during sucrose seeking, a pharmacological intervention was aimed at this prefrontal region. Injection of a GABA agonist mixture within the prelimbic area enhanced conditioned heroin seeking, but had no effect on conditioned sucrose seeking. Our findings suggest a differential role of the prelimbic area and the striatum in the persistence of heroin vs. sucrose seeking following long-term extinction.
Lamprey (a lower vertebrate) can employ different modes of locomotion, i.e. swimming in open water and crawling in tight places. Swimming is due to the periodic waves of lateral undulations with reciprocal activity of right and left muscles. In contrast, crawling (forward and backward) is based on single waves with coactivation of muscles on two sides. Basic mechanisms of swimming and, most likely, crawling reside in the spinal cord, and are activated by supraspinal commands. The main source of these commands is the reticulospinal (RS) system. The goal of the present experiments was to characterize the activity of individual RS neurons during swimming and during crawling in a U-shaped tunnel. The activity was recorded by means of chronically implanted electrodes in freely behaving animals. All recorded RS neurons were active during swimming but silent in quiescent animals. Many of them (61%) showed phasic modulation of their firing rate approximately in phase with the activity of ipsilateral rostral muscles. The majority of the neurons (80%) were also active during crawling. Many of them either increased or decreased their activity during crawling as compared to the background activity. These changes were better correlated with the direction of progression (forward or backward) than with the direction of turning in the tunnel (right or left). No correlation of the activity of RS neurons during locomotion and their sensory inputs was found. The results of this study suggest that different modes of locomotion in lampreys can be caused by considerably overlapping groups of RS neurons.
The major impediments to axonal regeneration in the central nervous system are growth-inhibitory proteins present in the myelin sheath, and Nogo-A is one of the most potent inhibitors synthesized by oligodendrocytes. However, neuronal expression of Nogo-A during development suggests that it may have an additional role. The spatio-temporal regulation of both Nogo-A mRNA and protein expression was examined by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry in the developing rat olfactory system. During embryonic and postnatal development (from E13 to P6), Nogo-A mRNA and protein were strongly expressed by differentiating neurons in the olfactory epithelium and in the olfactory bulb. From the second postnatal week, a progressive down-regulation of both Nogo-A mRNA and protein occurred, such that only a weak expression persisted in the adult olfactory system. Using double-immunostainings in the adult olfactory epithelium, we determined that Nogo-A was preferentially expressed by immature olfactory receptor neurons extending axonal processes toward the olfactory bulb. At all developmental stages, Nogo-A protein was preferentially targeted in olfactory axons emerging from the olfactory epithelium. Using an in vitro model of olfactory axon growth, we demonstrated that, in addition to its presence along the entire axon length, Nogo-A accumulated in axonal growth cone and at axonal branching points, with a distribution similar to that of microtubule-associated proteins. Moreover, Nogo-A was transiently expressed in dendritic processes in the postnatal olfactory bulb. Together, our data suggest that, in non-pathological conditions, Nogo-A may be involved in the processes of axonal growth and dendritic modeling through the regulation of microtubule dynamics.



Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) at 3T offers increased signal to noise ratio with better background suppression, leading to exquisite depiction of the intracranial circulation. We present a pictorial review of the normal variations and anomalies of the intracranial circulation detected on MRA performed on a high field 3T clinical scanner using parallel imaging techniques. The salient imaging features of these anomalies and normal variations are discussed with relevance to clinical practice.
The vestibulo-collic reflex (VCR) stabilizes the head in space by excitation of neck muscles that oppose head rotation. Recently, the mouse vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) has been characterized so that genetic manipulations of the vestibular system can be examined. We have characterized the dynamics and directionality of the VCR in mice restrained at the neck so that studies of vestibular system genetics may include comparisons to normal VCR in addition to VOR. Head rotations were measured in darkness with a three-dimensional search coil system during whole body rotations. The VCR in four C57BL/6 mice was present in pitch, roll, and yaw directions with an overall average gain of 0.28. Phase was accurately compensatory to oppose head rotation across a wide range of frequencies from 0.02 Hz to 2.0 Hz. Compensatory head rotations were greatest in the direction opposing the applied stimulus and weak or absent in other directions. Constant velocity rotations about horizontal axes elicited head velocity modulation and bias similar to that observed in the VOR. We conclude that the VCR of mice is similar to that in other mammals.
Several recent reports suggest that there is far more plasticity that previously believed in the developmental potential of bone-marrow-derived cells (BMCs) that can be induced by extracellular developmental signals of other lineages whose nature is still largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) co-cultured with mouse proliferating or fixed (by paraformaldehyde or methanol) neural stem cells (NSCs) generate neural stem cell-like cells with a higher expression of Sox-2 and nestin when grown in NS-A medium supplemented with N2, NSC conditioned medium (NSCcm) and bFGF. These neurally induced MSCs eventually differentiate into beta-III-tubulin and GFAP expressing cells with neuronal and glial morphology when grown an additional week in Neurobasal/B27 without bFGF. We conclude that juxtacrine interaction between NSCs and MSCs combined with soluble factors released from NSCs are important for generation of neural-like cells from bone-marrow-derived adherent MSCs.
Diazepam (DZ) reinforcement was tested under anxiogenic (public speaking) and neutral (computer task) conditions. Individuals with social anxiety disorder (n = 11) and healthy controls (n = 11) participated in two 5-session phases. Each phase used a standard choice procedure (2 sample, 3 choice sessions) comparing 10-mg DZ and placebo. During the public speaking condition, DZ preference was greater among the participants with social anxiety compared with controls (81.8% vs. 36.4%; p &lt; .05). Participants with social anxiety also gave DZ significantly higher crossover values on the multiple choice procedure under the speech condition compared with the computer condition. Subjective effects indicated that DZ reduced anxiety when levels were elevated during the speech in socially anxious participants. These results suggest that DZ reinforcement may occur under conditions of heightened anxiety by bestowing therapeutic efficacy.
Stroke induced by 2 h middle cerebral artery occlusion triggers increased striatal and hippocampal neurogenesis in adult rats. We investigated the effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibition on the survival of the new neurons. The mitotic marker BrdU was given on days 5 to 7, and TNF-alpha antibody or control protein was infused into the lateral ventricle of the ischemic hemisphere from day 8 to 14 after stroke. At the end of infusions, the TNF-alpha antibody-treated rats showed markedly fewer new striatal and hippocampal neurons, as compared to animals given control protein. The present findings suggest that TNF-alpha, probably acting via its receptor TNFR2, can promote the survival of stroke-generated hippocampal and striatal neurons.
Prior work has demonstrated that spinal cord neurons, isolated from the brain through a spinal transection, can support learning. Spinally transected rats given legshock whenever one hindlimb is extended learn to maintain the shocked leg in a flexed position, minimizing net shock exposure. This capacity for learning is inhibited by prior exposure to an uncontrollable stimulus (e.g., intermittent tailshock). The present experiments examined whether spinal cord neurons are more vulnerable to the adverse effects of uncontrollable stimulation after spinal cord injury. Experiment 1 confirmed that uncontrollable shock inhibits subsequent learning in transected rats. Rats that received uncontrollable stimulation prior to transection did not exhibit this effect, suggesting that brain systems exert a protective effect. Experiment 2 showed that this protective effect was removed if subjects received a dorsolateral funiculus lesion prior to shock exposure. Subsequent experiments were designed to determine the identity of the neurochemical systems that protect spinal plasticity. Intrathecal application of serotonin (5-HT) or a 5-HT 1A/7 agonist (8-OH DPAT) in transected rats had a protective effect that blocked the adverse effect of uncontrollable stimulation (Experiment 3). The alpha-2 noradrenergic agonist, clonidine, also protected plasticity (Experiment 4), but this effect was linked to cross-reactivity at the 5-HT 1A receptor (Experiment 5). Microinjection of a 5HT 1A antagonist (WAY 100635) into the spinal cord before intact rats received uncontrollable stimulation blocked the brain-dependent protection of spinal cord neurons. The findings indicate that serotonergic systems normally protect spinal cord plasticity from the deleterious effects of uncontrollable stimulation.
An important aspect of aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology includes the degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs), possibly due to disrupted nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling. Previous studies on disrupted NGF signaling have focused on changes in retrograde transport. This study focuses on two other possible mechanisms for loss of trophic support: diminished release of NGF from hippocampal neurons or diminished TrkA receptor response of BFCNs to NGF. We measured NGF levels in the effluent of hippocampal slices from young and aged rats in response to potassium chloride and glutamate. We found that release of NGF was not altered in aged hippocampal slices compared to slices from young controls. To measure the in situ response of the BFCNs to NGF, we injected NGF intraparenchymally into the right hippocampus of young and aged rats. Injections of cytochrome C served as controls. Fifteen minutes post-administration, a dramatic increase in TrkA immunoreactivity was found in the cell bodies of medial septal neurons. We found that this rapid response was blunted in aged rats compared to young adult controls. To determine whether retrograde transport was necessary for this rapid response, we injected colchicine prior to NGF injection. The NGF-induced upregulation was not blocked by colchicine, suggesting that this acute response was not dependent on classical retrograde transport. Since cholinergic degeneration coupled with altered levels of NGF and TrkA receptors are also seen in human aging and AD, the loss of acute responsivity to NGF in the BFCNs may also play a role in these processes.
Frequency information of the environment is an important feature for sensory perception. It has been demonstrated that cortical and thalamic neurons exhibited frequency-specific responses to peripheral stimulation. In the present study, we investigated the effects of 1-100 Hz peripheral electrical stimulations on various thalamic and cortical areas in awake rats. We used chronically implanted microelectrode arrays to record neural activities from the anterior cingulate cortex, primary somatosensory cortex, and medial dorsal and ventral posterior thalamus. The results revealed that cortical and thalamic neurons exhibited frequency-specific responses at both single-neuron and ensemble levels. Clusters of neurons responded to different frequency ranges with changes of both the peak firing rates and the phases of the peak responses in a stimulation cycle. Partial directed coherence analysis showed that information flowing between these recorded areas is also enhanced or inhibited in some frequency-specific pattern during stimulation. These evidences suggest that central nervous system may code environmental frequency information mainly with the activation of selected neural circuits according to their own intrinsic electrical properties. These properties, in turn, may facilitate or inhibit their responses when stimulation with specific frequency information arrives.
Using brain mitochondria isolated from 20-month-old diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats, we evaluated the efficacy of CoQ10 treatment against mitochondrial dysfunction induced by Abeta1-40. For that purpose, several mitochondrial parameters were evaluated: respiratory indexes (RCR and ADP/O ratio), transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim), repolarization lag phase, repolarization and ATP levels and the capacity of mitochondria to produce hydrogen peroxide. We observed that 4 microM Abeta1-40 induced a significant decrease in the RCR and ATP content and a significant increase in hydrogen peroxide production. CoQ10 treatment attenuated the decrease in oxidative phosphorylation efficiency and avoided the increase in hydrogen peroxide production induced by the neurotoxic peptide. These results indicate that CoQ10 treatment counteracts brain mitochondrial alterations induced by Abeta1-40 suggesting that CoQ10 therapy can help to avoid a drastic energy deficiency that characterizes diabetes and Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology.
Apical dendritic retraction and axospinous synapse loss in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) are structural alterations that result from repeated restraint stress. Such changes in this brain region may be associated with impaired working memory, altered emotionality, and inability to regulate hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal activity, which in turn may underlie stress-related mental illnesses. In the present study, we examined the persistence of these stress-induced dendritic alterations in the medial PFC following the cessation of stress. Animals received either daily restraint stress for a 3-week period and were then allowed to recover for another 3 weeks, restraint stress for 3 or 6 weeks, or no restraint. Following perfusion and fixation, intracellular iontophoretic injections of Lucifer Yellow were performed in layer II/III pyramidal neurons in slices from the medial PFC, and apical and basal dendritic arbors were reconstructed in three dimensions. We observed a significant reduction in apical dendritic length and branch number following 3 or 6 weeks of repeated stress compared to 3-week stress/3-week recovery. These results suggest that stress-induced dendritic plasticity in the medial PFC is reversible and may have implications for the functional recovery of medial PFC function following prolonged psychological stress.
Spinal cord contusion injury in rodents is widely used as a model for spinal cord trauma in humans. Several biomechanical variables can influence injury outcome. In this work, we have assessed the influence of impact force and displacement of the spinal cord at the time of contusion injury on the severity of locomotor deficits and histopathological changes. Our work indicates that there is a linear relationship between force and tissue displacement, and that both these factors contribute to injury outcome. Furthermore, our work also suggests that setting narrow limits for the actual force applied (+/-5 kdyn) and tissue displacement (within a 200 microm range) will yield more consistent outcomes and provide greater sensitivity in detecting changes, regardless of the type of impactor device used.
The current lack of an effective treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has fuelled an intense search for novel therapies for this neurodegenerative condition. Aberrant production or decreased clearance of amyloid-beta peptides is widely accepted to be causative for AD. Amyloid-beta peptides are produced by sequential processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein by the two aspartyl-type proteases beta-secretase and gamma-secretase. Because proteases are generally classified as druggable, these secretases are a centre of attraction for various drug discovery efforts. Although a large number of specific drug-like gamma-secretase inhibitors have been discovered, progress towards the clinic has been slowed by the broad substrate specificity of this unusual intramembrane-cleaving enzyme. In particular, the Notch receptor depends on gamma-secretase for its signalling function and, thus, gamma-secretase inhibition produces distinct phenotypes related to a disturbance of this pathway in preclinical animal models. The main task now is to define the therapeutic window in man between desired central efficacy and Notch-related side effects. In contrast, most studies with knockout animals have indicated that beta-secretase inhibition may have minimal adverse effects; however, the properties of the active site of this enzyme make it difficult to find small-molecule inhibitors that bind with high affinity. In most instances, inhibitors are large and peptidic in nature and, therefore, unsuitable as drug candidates. Thus, there are many issues associated with the development of protease inhibitors for AD that must be addressed before they can be used to test the 'amyloid cascade hypothesis' in the clinic. The outcomes of such trials will provide new directions to the scientific community and hopefully new treatment options for AD patients.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors inhibit dopamine metabolism and are therefore effective in treating Parkinson's disease, a condition associated with progressive striatal dopamine deficiency secondary to degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Selegiline is currently the most widely used monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor for Parkinson's disease, but has a low and variable bioavailability, and is metabolized to L-methamphetamine and L-amphetamine that carry a risk for potential neurotoxicity. There are two new approaches that circumvent these potential disadvantages. First, selegiline orally disintegrating tablets provide a novel delivery form of selegiline, avoiding first pass metabolism by rapid absorption through the oral mucosa, thus leading to significantly lower plasma concentrations of L-metamphetamine and L-amphetamine. Selegiline orally disintegrating tablets prove to be clinically effective and safe in patients with moderately advanced Parkinson's disease. Second, rasagiline is a new monoamine oxidase inhibitor, without known neurotoxic metabolites. In large clinical trials, rasagiline proves effective as monotherapy in early Parkinson's disease, as well as adjunctive therapy to levodopa in advanced disease. Clinical data suggest, in addition, a disease-modifying effect of rasagiline that may correlate with neuroprotective activity of monoamine oxidase-B inhibitors in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) has been shown to link leptin receptor activation to stimulation of large conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BK) channels and subsequent inhibition of hippocampal epileptiform-like activity. However, the downstream targets of PI3-kinase in this action of leptin are unknown. Here we show that BK channel activation by leptin is dependent on the actin cytoskeleton, as it is prevented by actin filament stabilization and mimicked by actin disruption. Fluorescent labeling of polymerized actin filaments revealed that leptin promotes the rapid rearrangement of actin filaments via activation of PI 3-kinase; an action paralleled by discrete increases in PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 immunoreactivity in close proximity to BK channels. After leptin exposure, there was also an actin-dependent increase in the association of BK channel immunoreactivity with synaptic markers. These data are consistent with the notion that leptin activates BK channels via PI 3-kinase-dependent reorganization of actin filaments and subsequent clustering of BK channels at synapses.
Cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS; EC 4.2.1.22) is a key enzyme in the generation of cysteine from methionine. A deficiency of CBS leads to homocystinuria, an inherited human disease characterized by mental retardation, seizures, psychiatric disturbances, skeletal abnormalities, and vascular disorders; however, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we show the regional and cellular distribution of CBS in the adult and developing mouse brain. In the adult mouse brain, CBS was expressed ubiquitously, but it is expressed most intensely in the cerebellar molecular layer and hippocampal dentate gyrus. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that CBS is preferentially expressed in cerebellar Bergmann glia and in astrocytes throughout the brain. At early developmental stages, CBS was expressed in neuroepithelial cells in the ventricular zone, but its expression changed to radial glial cells and then to astrocytes during the late embryonic and neonatal periods. CBS was most highly expressed in juvenile brain, and a striking induction was observed in cultured astrocytes in response to EGF, TGF-alpha, cAMP, and dexamethasone. Moreover, CBS was significantly accumulated in reactive astrocytes in the hippocampus after kainic acid-induced seizures, and cerebellar morphological abnormalities were observed in CBS-deficient mice. Taken together, these results suggest that CBS plays a crucial role in the development and maintenance of the CNS and that radial glia/astrocyte dysfunction might be involved in the complex neuropathological features associated with abnormal homocysteine metabolism.
The discovery of novel biologically active peptides has led to an explosion in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that underlie the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. Urotensin II (UII), a peptide originally isolated from fish and known for its strong cardiovascular effects in mammals, is another surprising candidate in the regulatory network of sleep. The UII receptor was found to be expressed by cholinergic neurons of laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei, an area known to be of utmost importance for the on- and offset of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Recently, physiological data have provided further evidence that UII is indeed a modulator of REM sleep. The peptide directly excites cholinergic mesopontine neurons and increases the rate of REM sleep episodes. These new results and its emerging behavioral effects establish UII as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in mammals and should spark further interest into the neurobiological role of the peptide.
Oxidized and cross-linked proteinacious materials (lipofuscin, age pigments, ceroid, etc.) have long been known to accumulate in aging and in age-related diseases, and some studies have suggested that age-dependent inhibition of the proteasome and/or lysosomal proteases may contribute to this phenomenon. Cell culture studies trying to model these aging effects have almost all been performed with proliferating (divisionally competent) cell lines. There is little information on nondividing (postmitotic) cells; yet age-related accumulation of oxidized and cross-linked protein aggregates is most marked in postmitotic tissues such as brain, heart, and skeletal muscles. The present investigation was undertaken to test whether oxidized and cross-linked proteins generally accumulate in nondividing, IMR-90 and MRC-5, human cell lines, and whether such accumulation is associated with diminished proteolytic capacities. Since both protein oxidation and declining proteolytic activities might play major roles in the age-associated accumulation of intracellular oxidized materials, we tested for protein carbonyl formation, proteasomal activities, and lysosomal cathepsin activities. For these studies, confluent, postmitotic IMR-90 and MRC-5 fibroblasts (at various population doubling levels) were cultured under hyperoxic conditions to facilitate age-related oxidative senescence. Our results reveal marked decreases in the activity of both the proteasomal system and the lysosomal proteases during senescence of nondividing fibroblasts, but the peptidyl-glutamyl-hydrolyzing activity of the proteasome was particularly inhibited. This decline in proteolytic capacity was accompanied by an increased accumulation of oxidized proteins.
The regulation of skin darkness in vertebrates is mediated by alpha-melanophore-stimulating-hormone (alphaMSH). For this action, alphaMSH binds to the melanocortin (MC)-1 receptor, a 7-transmembrane receptor located in melanophore cell membranes. The Mozambique tilapia, Oreochromis mossambicus, can change the hue of its body in response to a change in background, a process that may involve alphaMSH and the MC1R. Scale melanophores were isolated from tilapia that were acclimatised for 25 days to a black, control grey or white background and then tested for their sensitivity to des-, mono-, and di-acetylated alphaMSH. On all backgrounds, mono-acetylated alphaMSH was the dominant isoform present in pituitary homogenates. Mono-acetylated alphaMSH also had the highest potency to disperse melanosomes. Black background adapted fish showed the highest dispersing response to alphaMSH, independent of the isoform applied. We elucidated the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the tilapia MC1R. We show that its expression in skin does not change when tilapia are acclimatised for 25 days to a black, grey or white background, while a clear change in hue is visible. This finding, combined with the absence of differential MC1R gene expression following background acclimation indicates that the increased sensitivity to alphaMSH is most likely a result of changes in the intracellular signalling system in melanophores of black background adapted fish, rather than up-regulation of the MC1R.
The developmental processes of the oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) lineage that are targeted by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) were studied in primary rat OPC cultures. Under conditions of thyroid hormone-mediated oligodendrocyte differentiation, IFN-gamma produced a dose-dependent apoptotic response in OPCs. The lowest dose tested (15 ng/ml or 75 U/ml) was nonapoptotic, but activated detectable STAT1 DNA-binding. At this dose, IFN-gamma reduced the percentage of mature O1+ cells and increased the percentage of immature A2B5+ OPCs. This was observed without significant change in total cell number and cytotoxicity, and was accompanied by an increase in BrdU-labeled A2B5+ and O4+ cells. FACS analysis confirmed a lack of apoptotic sub-G1 cells and revealed a greater percentage of S- and G2/M-phase OPCs with IFN-gamma treatment. Dual immunostaining with Ki-67 and Olig2 showed a smaller percentage of Olig2+ cells in G0 phase in IFN-gamma-treated OPCs, indicating loss of G1 control. Instead, increased levels and phosphorylation of the checkpoint protein p34cdc2 by IFN- suggested increased partial arrest in G2. IFN-gamma not only sustained expression of PCNA and the G1-S regulators retinoblastoma protein, cyclin D1, cyclin E, and cdk2, but also decreased p27 levels. In addition to changes in cell proliferation and differentiation, IFN-gamma attenuated myelin basic protein (MBP) expression significantly, which was associated with decreased expression of both MBP and Sox10 RNAs. These findings indicate that IFN-gamma not only maintains cell cycle activity that could predispose OPCs to apoptosis, but also overrides G1-G0 signals leading to thyroid hormone-mediated terminal differentiation and myelin gene expression.
Stress is an essential response in highly competitive environments. Before a race, before an exam, before an important meeting, your heart rate and blood pressure rise, your focus tightens, you become more alert and more efficient. But beyond a certain level, stress overloads your system, compromising your performance and, eventually, your health. So the question is: When does stress help and when does it hurt? To find out, HBR talked with Harvard Medical School professor Herbert Benson, M.D., founder of the Mind/Body Medical Institute. Having spent more than 35 years conducting worldwide research in the fields of neuroscience and stress, Benson is best known for his 1975 best seller The Relaxation Response, in which he describes how the mind can influence stress levels through such tools as meditation. His most recent research centers on what he calls&quot;the breakout principle,&quot; a method by which stress is not simply reduced but carefully controlled so that you reap its benefits while avoiding its dangers. He describes a four-step process in which you first push yourself to the most productive stress level by grappling intently with a problem. Next, just as you feel yourself flagging, you disengage entirely by doing something utterly unrelated-going for a walk, petting a dog, taking a shower. In the third step, as the brain quiets down, activity paradoxically increases in areas associated with attention, space-time concepts, and decision making, leading to a sudden, creative insight-the breakout. Step four is achievement of a &quot;new-normal state,&quot; in which you find that the improved performance is sustained, sometimes indefinitely. As counterintuitive as this research may seem, managers can doubtless recall times when they've had an &quot;aha&quot; moment at the gym, on the golf course, or in the shower. What Benson describes here is a way to tap into this invaluable biological tool whenever we want.

Hearing loss affects children with biotinidase deficiency, an inherited metabolic disorder in the recycling of biotin. The deficit appears shortly after birth during development of the auditory system. Using a mouse model, we sought to discover where and when biotinidase is expressed in the normal development of the cochlea and cochlear nucleus. In the process, we reconstructed the normal morphogenetic sequences of the constituent cells. Immunolabeling for biotinidase was localized to neurons and other cells of the adult and immature mouse, including the embryonic precursors of these regions dating from the stage of the otocyst. Its distribution was compared to the particular morphological changes occurring at each developmental stage. Biotinidase was localized in cells and their processes at the critical stages in their proliferation, migration, structural differentiation, and innervation, covering the entire span of their development. The prevalence of immunostaining peaked in the adult animal, including hair cells and ganglion cells of the cochlea and neurons of the cochlear nucleus. The findings suggest that biotinidase plays a role in the normal development of the auditory system. Besides the pattern of localization of biotinidase, this study provides the first systematic account of each developmental stage in a mammalian auditory system.

The contributions from bird research to behavioral neuroendocrinology are enormous and wide ranging. I have selected examples that illustrate how through the twentieth century to the present day, birds as experimental models continue to play a major role. Investigations on birds were pivotal in the beginnings of endocrinology, and have laid the foundations for present day developments in neurobiology, physiological ecology and evolutionary biology of neuroendocrine systems. The extensive literature on avian behavior also provides a unique and broad base for the field in general and future progress on a broad front can be expected. Molecular genetics in avian systems is advanced providing us with phylogenetic perspective allowing the comparisons of different avian populations that provide valuable models for integrative research.
This review focuses on research into the hormonal control of behaviors in amphibians that was conducted prior to the 21st century. Most advances in this field come from studies of a limited number of species and investigations into the hormonal mechanisms that regulate reproductive behaviors in male frogs and salamanders. From this earlier research, we highlight five main generalizations or conclusions. (1) Based on studies of vocalization behaviors in anurans, testicular androgens induce developmental changes in cartilage and muscles fibers in the larynx and thereby masculinize peripheral structures that influence the properties of advertisement calls by males. (2) Gonadal steroid hormones act to enhance reproductive behaviors in adult amphibians, but causal relationships are not as well established in amphibians as in birds and mammals. Research into the relationships between testicular androgens and male behaviors, mainly using castration/steroid treatment studies, generally supports the conclusion that androgens are necessary but not sufficient to enhance male behaviors. (3) Prolactin acts synergistically with androgens and induces reproductive development, sexual behaviors, and pheromone production. This interaction between prolactin and gonadal steroids helps to explain why androgens alone sometimes fail to stimulate amphibian behaviors. (4) Vasotocin also plays an important role and enhances specific types of behaviors in amphibians (frog calling, receptivity in female frogs, amplectic clasping in newts, and non-clasping courtship behaviors). Gonadal steroids typically act to maintain behavioral responses to vasotocin. Vasotocin modulates behavioral responses, at least in part, by acting within the brain on sensory pathways that detect sexual stimuli and on motor pathways that control behavioral responses. (5) Corticosterone acts as a potent and rapid suppressor of reproductive behaviors during periods of acute stress. These rapid stress-induced changes in behaviors use non-genomic mechanisms and membrane-associated corticosterone receptors.
Classical behavioral neuroendocrinology has focused on a limited number of domestic mammals and birds. The model systems used in these studies represent a very small proportion of the diversity of hormone-behavior interactions found in nature. In the last three decades, an increasing number of researchers have concentrated their efforts on studying behavioral neuroendocrinology of wild animals. Field behavioral neuroendocrinology presents a series of challenges ranging from the design of the experiments to sample preservation and transportation. The constraints of field conditions limit the number of factors that can be controlled for and the questions that can be addressed. On the other side, many behaviors can be studied only in the field, and only a few species can be kept in captivity. Thus, field studies are necessary to understand the complexity and variety of interactions between hormones, brain, and behavior. In this article, we will review some of the peculiarities and challenges of field behavioral neuroendocrinology, including solutions for some of the most commonly encountered technical issues.
Progress in the field of insect neuroendocrinology has been rapid despite the relatively small number of investigators working on insect systems. This progress, in part, reflects the ease of studying insect behavior in the laboratory, and a historical perspective reveals that insect neuroendocrinology has been dominated since its inception by laboratory studies. Recent advances in methodology and a renewed interest in the concept of behavioral state in insects suggest that it might be useful for insect neuroendocrinologists to spend a little more time in the field.
Some of the first experiments in behavioral endocrinology in the 1930s were conducted with lizards, but events led to a hiatus that lasted for 30 years. In the 1960s, research resumed using techniques current at the time, but it was not until the mid-1970s that behavioral neuroendocrinology &quot;discovered&quot; reptiles as animal model systems. This historical review summarizes this period of work, illustrating an enormous increase in research that have led to conclusions such as (1) the phenomenon of dissociated reproductive strategies and hormone-independent behaviors, which have aided our understanding of how the &quot;memory&quot; of sex steroid actions is maintained. (2) Progesterone plays an important role in the organization and activation of sexual behavior in males. Progesterone also synergizes with T to control male courtship much as does estrogen and progesterone to control sexual receptivity in females. Thus, progesterone is as much a &quot;male&quot; hormone as it is a &quot;female&quot; hormone. (3) Use of cytochrome oxidase histochemistry to study the role of experience over the long term in modifying brain activity. (4) Hormone manipulations as a powerful tool to test hypotheses about the evolution of behavior in free-living animals.
The total number of threatened species of vertebrates is likely to be more than 10,000, with approximately one quarter of the world's mammal species, one eighth of the birds and one third of the amphibians threatened with extinction. The rate of loss of animal species and hence of biodiversity is increasing and may become even greater as ecosystems become affected by climate change due to global warming. Behavioral neuroendocrinology, which considers interactions between behavior and neuroendocrine function in animals from all vertebrate taxa, can contribute to animal conservation. Research with laboratory animals can address questions in basic biology relevant to conservation and develop methods for use with threatened animals. Field work with free-living animals considers the basic biology of new species and the use of endocrine tools to assess the susceptibility of species to threats. Non-invasive measurements of hormone concentrations, especially fecal steroids, are extensively used to assess reproductive function and the stress status of animals in captive breeding programs and in the wild. Biodiversity and natural selection both depend on individual variation, and conservation programs often work with animals on an individual basis. The consideration of data from individuals is essential in conservation endocrinology. Direct contributions to conservation programs are challenging as study situations are determined by practical conservation concerns. Indirect contributions such as the provision of scientific input to conservation plans and participation in public education programs offer significant benefits for conservation programs. Directly and indirectly, there are many opportunities for behavioral neuroendocrinologists to contribute to conservation.
We assess the suitability of conventional parametric statistics for analyzing oscillatory activity, as measured with electroencephalography/magnetoencephalography (EEG/MEG). The approach we consider is based on narrow-band power time-frequency decompositions of single-trial data. The ensuing power measures have a chi(2)-distribution. The use of the general linear model (GLM) under normal error assumptions is, therefore, difficult to motivate for these data. This is unfortunate because the GLM plays a central role in classical inference and is the standard estimation and inference framework for neuroimaging data. The key contribution of this work is to show that, in many circumstances, one can appeal to the central limit theorem and assume normality for generative models of power. If this is not appropriate, one can transform the data to render the error terms approximately normal. These considerations allow one to analyze induced and evoked oscillations using standard frameworks like statistical parametric mapping. We establish the validity of parametric tests using synthetic and real data and compare its performance to established nonparametric procedures.
Mitochondria play an integral role in ATP production in cells and are involved in glucose metabolism and insulin secretion, suggesting that variants in the mitochondrial genome may contribute to diabetes susceptibility. In a study of Finnish families ascertained for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), we genotyped single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) based on phylogenetic networks. These SNPs defined eight major haplogroups and subdivided groups H and U, which are common in Finns. We evaluated association with both diabetes disease status and up to 14 diabetes-related traits for 762 cases, 402 non-diabetic controls, and 465 offspring of genotyped females. Haplogroup J showed a trend toward association with T2DM affected status (OR 1.69, P=0.056) that became slightly more significant after excluding cases with affected fathers (OR 1.77, P=0.045). We also genotyped non-haplogroup-tagging SNPs previously reported to show evidence for association with diabetes or related traits. Our data support previous evidence for association of T16189C with reduced ponderal index at birth and also show evidence for association with reduced birthweight but not with diabetes status. Given the multiple tests performed and the significance levels obtained, this study suggests that mitochondrial genome variants may play at most a modest role in glucose metabolism in the Finnish population. Furthermore, our data do not support a reported maternal inheritance pattern of T2DM but instead show a strong effect of recall bias.
To identify candidate genes that may be involved in motoneuron degeneration, we combined laser capture microdissection with microarray technology. Gene expression in motoneurons was analyzed during the progression of the disease in transgenic SOD1(G93A) mice that develop motoneuron loss. Three major observations were made: first, there was only a small number of genes that were differentially expressed in motoneurons at a pre-symptomatic age (27 out of 34 000 transcripts). Secondly, there is an early specific up-regulation of the gene coding for the intermediate filament vimentin that is increased even further during disease progression. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis, we show that vimentin expression was not only elevated in motoneurons but that the protein formed inclusions in the motoneuron cytoplasm. Thirdly, a time-course analysis of the motoneurons at a symptomatic age (90 and 120 days) showed a modest de-regulation of only a few genes associated with cell death pathways; however, a massive up-regulation of genes involved in cell growth and/or maintenance was observed. This is the first description of the gene profile of SOD1(G93A) motoneurons during disease progression and unexpectedly, no widespread induction of cell death-associated genes was detected in motoneurons of SOD1(G93A) mice.
Accurate and fast localization of a predefined target region inside the patient is an important component of many image-guided therapy procedures. This problem is commonly solved by registration of intraoperative 2-D projection images to 3-D preoperative images. If the patient is not fixed during the intervention, the 2-D image acquisition is repeated several times during the procedure, and the registration problem can be cast instead as a 3-D tracking problem. To solve the 3-D problem, we propose in this paper to apply 2-D region tracking to first recover the components of the transformation that are in-plane to the projections. The 2-D motion estimates of all projections are backprojected into 3-D space, where they are then combined into a consistent estimate of the 3-D motion. We compare this method to intensity-based 2-D to 3-D registration and a combination of 2-D motion backprojection followed by a 2-D to 3-D registration stage. Using clinical data with a fiducial marker-based gold-standard transformation, we show that our method is capable of accurately tracking vertebral targets in 3-D from 2-D motion measured in X-ray projection images. Using a standard tracking algorithm (hyperplane tracking), tracking is achieved at video frame rates but fails relatively often (32% of all frames tracked with target registration error (TRE) better than 1.2 mm, 82% of all frames tracked with TRE better than 2.4 mm). With intensity-based 2-D to 2-D image registration using normalized mutual information (NMI) and pattern intensity (PI), accuracy and robustness are substantially improved. NMI tracked 82% of all frames in our data with TRE better than 1.2 mm and 96% of all frames with TRE better than 2.4 mm. This comes at the cost of a reduced frame rate, 1.7 s average processing time per frame and projection device. Results using PI were slightly more accurate, but required on average 5.4 s time per frame. These results are still substantially faster than 2-D to 3-D registration. We conclude that motion backprojection from 2-D motion tracking is an accurate and efficient method for tracking 3-D target motion, but tracking 2-D motion accurately and robustly remains a challenge.
A fundamental issue in neural computation is the binding problem, which refers to how sensory elements in a scene organize into perceived objects, or percepts. The issue of binding is hotly debated in recent years in neuroscience and related communities. Much of the debate, however, gives little attention to computational considerations. This review intends to elucidate the computational issues that bear directly on the binding issue. The review starts with two problems considered by Rosenblatt to be the most challenging to the development of perceptron theory more than 40 years ago, and argues that the main challenge is the figure-ground separation problem, which is intrinsically related to the binding problem. The theme of the review is that the time dimension is essential for systematically attacking Rosenblatt's challenge. The temporal correlation theory as well as its special form--oscillatory correlation theory-is discussed as an adequate representation theory to address the binding problem. Recent advances in understanding oscillatory dynamics are reviewed, and these advances have overcome key computational obstacles for the development of the oscillatory correlation theory. We survey a variety of studies that address the scene analysis problem. The results of these studies have substantially advanced the capability of neural networks for figure-ground separation. A number of issues regarding oscillatory correlation are considered and clarified. Finally, the time dimension is argued to be necessary for versatile computing.
Previous studies revealed that the heart suffers significant injury during experimental Lyme and relapsing fever borreliosis when the immune response is impaired (D. Cadavid, Y. Bai, E. Hodzic, K. Narayan, S. W. Barthold, and A. R. Pachner, Lab. Investig. 84:1439-1450, 2004; D. Cadavid, T. O'Neill, H. Schaefer, and A. R. Pachner, Lab. Investig. 80:1043-1054, 2000; and D. Cadavid, D. D. Thomas, R. Crawley, and A. G. Barbour, J. Exp. Med. 179:631-642, 1994). To investigate cardiac injury in borrelia carditis, we used antibody-deficient mice persistently infected with isogenic serotypes of the relapsing fever agent Borrelia turicatae. We studied infection in hearts 1 to 2 months after inoculation by TaqMan reverse transcription-PCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) and inflammation by hematoxylin and eosin and trichrome staining, IHC, and in situ hybridization (ISH). We studied apoptosis by terminal transferase-mediated DNA nick end labeling assay and measured expression of apoptotic molecules by RNase protection assay, immunofluorescence, and immunoblot. All antibody-deficient mice, but none of the immunocompetent controls, developed persistent infection of the heart. Antibody-deficient mice infected with serotype 2 had more severe cardiac infection and injury than serotype 1-infected mice. The injury was more severe around the base of the heart and pericardium, corresponding to sites of marked infiltration by activated macrophages and upregulation of interleukin-6 (IL-6). Infected hearts showed evidence of apoptosis of macrophages and cardiomyocytes as well as significant upregulation of caspases, most notably caspase-1. We conclude that persistent infection with relapsing fever borrelias causes significant loss of cardiomyocytes associated with prominent infiltration by activated macrophages, upregulation of IL-6, induction of caspase-1, and apoptosis.
The midgut of hematophagous insects is the initial site of infection by arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) and plays a crucial role in vector competence. To further understand processes that occur in the midgut in response to infection by an arbovirus, DNA microarrays were used to analyze gene expression changes following infection by the alphavirus, Sindbis (MRE16 Malaysian strain). Midgut transcription profiles from mosquitoes fed blood containing 10(8)pfu/ml of virus were compared with those from mosquitoes ingesting blood meals having no virus. Transcription profiles from both experimental groups were analyzed at 1, 4, and 8 days post-feeding. Among the many transcription changes observed by microarray analysis, the most dramatic involved three genes that had 25-40-fold increases in transcript levels in virus infected mosquitoes at 4 days post-infection. These genes were synaptic vesicle protein-2 (SV2), potassium-dependent sodium/calcium exchanger (NCKX), and a homologue of Caenorhabditis elegans Unc-93, a putative component of a two-pore potassium channel. We speculate that these changes represent changes in vesicle transport processes. In addition to these observations, transcript changes were observed in infected mosquitoes that suggested involvement of Toll and c-jun amino terminal kinase immune cascades as a response to viral infection.
In the present study, the effects of acute and chronic morphine exposure on testosterone concentrations in the central nervous system (CNS) and serum were investigated in rats. Acute morphine administration (5 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced significantly testosterone levels in serum and spinal cord but not in the brain. Following chronic morphine administration (orally for 21 days), the brain testosterone was also significantly reduced as well as serum and spinal cord. Since, the decrease in testosterone levels following morphine exposure was more obvious in the CNS than serum, we suggested that it cannot be caused by only a direct decline in testosterone levels in periphery, and an increased local metabolism of testosterone in the CNS might be attributed in these effects. This hypothesis was supported with the findings that pretreatment with finasteride, a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor (5 mg/kg, s.c.) blocked testosterone elimination from the CNS following morphine exposure. Moreover, the serum concentration of 5alpha-reduced metabolites of testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and 3alpha-diol glucuronide was increased significantly following chronic morphine exposure, but not after co-treatment with finasteride. These results suggest that morphine exposure increase the CNS activity of 5alpha-reductase, which is an important metabolizing enzyme for testosterone.
Using immunohistochemistry, the occurrence and age-related changes of the P2Y2 receptor was investigated in the adrenal gland of rat at different ages, ranging from embryonic day E16 to 22 months. Immunoreactivity for the P2Y2 receptor was present in chromaffin cells and nerve fibres at all ages examined. Double labeling with the antibody against phenyl ethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, which marks adrenaline-producing chromaffin cells, revealed that only a few of the P2Y2-immunoreactive cells were adrenaline producing at embryonic day E16, the vast majority being noradrenaline-containing cells. However, immunoreactivity for adrenaline-containing cells in the P2Y2 receptor-labeled chromaffin cells increased with increasing age and at 1 week post-natal almost all chromaffin cells were positive for both P2Y2 and phenyl ethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, while noradrenaline-containing cells were minimal. At 2 weeks, there was a dramatic drop in P2Y2-immunoreactive chromaffin cells and this was maintained in adult rats, noradrenaline-containing cells dominating. In the aging rat adrenals, P2Y2 receptor-immunoreactivity was localized in subpopulations of both adrenaline and noradrenaline-producing cells. Intrinsic neurones were also visible that were positively labeled with the P2Y2 receptor antibody in the adrenals of both adult and aging rats. P2Y2-immunoreactive nerve fibres formed a plexus around the adrenal cortical cells of zona glomerulosa in the post-natal, but not in adult or aging rats. In conclusion, this study suggests that ATP, acting through P2Y2 receptors, may influence the phenotypic expression of chromaffin cells during the development and aging of the rat adrenal gland. However, during early development, when the chromaffin cells are actively dividing and during aging, when the adrenal medullary cells are known to show hyperplastic lesions, ATP acting through P2Y2 receptors may be involved in other physiological activities, such as proliferation and/or differentiation of the chromaffin cells associated with their adrenaline or noradrenaline phenotype.
This Presidential Address 2004 emphasizes the pivotal role of Psychophysiology as an integrated neuroscience with a panoply of electrophysiological and neuroimaging technologies for the establishment of methodologically crucial conceptual links for the understanding and mapping of brain functions pertaining to cognitive, emotional and motivational processes. Moreover, Psychophysiology's unique neuroscientific perspective by integrating functions of central and autonomic nervous systems with behavior in health and disease is underlined. Based on these developments, the progress of rigorous neuroscientific Clinical Psychophysiology offers possibilities for diagnosis, treatment and objective evaluation of therapeutic outcome in various pathological conditions.
Stroke is a leading cause of long-term disability in adults worldwide. The mechanisms of impairment and recovery are not well understood, but there is growing interest in the role that central nervous system reorganization might play. Functional magnetic resonance imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation allow the non-invasive study of the working human brain, and studies in humans suggest that functionally relevant adaptive changes occur in cerebral networks following stroke. An understanding of how these changes influence the recovery process will facilitate the development of novel therapeutic techniques that are based on neurobiological principles and which are designed to minimise impairment in appropriately targeted patients suffering from stroke.

Bateman's principle predicts the intensity of sexual selection depends on rates of increase of fecundity with mating success for each sex (Bateman slopes). The sex with the steeper increase (usually males) is under more intense sexual selection and is expected to compete for access to the sex under less intense sexual selection (usually females). Under Bateman and modern refinements of his ideas, differences in parental investment are key to defining Bateman slopes and thus sex roles. Other theories predict sex differences in mating investment, or any expenditures that reduce male potential reproductive rate, can also control sex roles. We focus on sexual behaviour in systems where males have low paternal investment but frequently mate only once in their lifetimes, after which they are often killed by the female. Mating effort (=terminal investment) is high for these males, and many forms of investment theory might predict sex role reversal. We find no qualitative evidence for sex role reversal in a sample of spiders that show this extreme male investment pattern. We also present new data for terminally-investing redback spiders (Latrodectus hasselti). Bateman slopes are relatively steep for male redbacks, and, as predicted by Bateman, there is little evidence for role reversal. Instead, males are competitive and show limited choosiness despite wide variation in female reproductive value. This study supports the proposal that high male mating investment coupled with low parental investment may predispose males to choosiness but will not lead to role reversal. We support the utility of using Bateman slopes to predict sex roles, even in systems with extreme male mating investment.
In the relatively short period since their development, DNA microarrays have been used increasingly in the study of genetic and cellular processes, thereby offering a genome-wide approach to gene expression studies. With the advent of genome sequencing programs for organisms from yeast to man, the number of organisms which now have ready-made commercial arrays continues to increase. Here, the principle of DNA microarrays is introduced, with particular attention being given to the role of this technology in studies of the nervous system of the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster. The importance of experimental design and sample preparation, in line with minimum information about microarray experiment (MIAME) compliance, is emphasised. The technical platforms available to the Drosophila neurobiologist have been illustrated and a brief number of data analysis tools that are readily available reviewed.


Selenium (Se) is an essential trace element in mammals. Dietary Se restriction or conditions of Se malabsorption lead to deficiency syndromes or exacerbate established diseases in humans and in many animal models. It is assumed that most, if not all, physiological actions of Se are mediated by selenocysteine (Sec) containing proteins. However, the exact role of particular selenoproteins for certain molecular pathways, for the metabolism of nutrients, hormones or cellular components and for the development and adaptive responses of the organism have often remained elusive. Through the use of transgenic animals, it becomes increasingly feasible to interfere specifically with the expression of single selenoproteins in certain tissues or at certain times. While some transgenic animals exhibit phenotypes that were expected from biochemical studies, in other instances the observed effects were a surprise in view of earlier hypotheses.
This commentary emphasizes the implications for a mental health research agenda that stem from the papers in this special section on dimensional models of psychopathology. These include the need to extend dimensional models to a wider range of psychopathology; the relationship of the dimensions described in these papers, largely based on symptom and self-report measures, to findings from current research in genetics, neuroimaging, and other domains of neuroscience; the need for new scales that can assess the entire range of relevant dimensions with modern psychometric techniques; and ways to employ these dimensions in applied clinical situations. It is concluded that hierarchical dimensional models offer powerful ways of organizing our thinking about psychopathology and will serve to guide many promising avenues of future research.
Echolocating big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) emit trains of frequency-modulated (FM) biosonar signals whose duration, repetition rate, and sweep structure change systematically during interception of prey. When stimulated with a 2.5-s sequence of 54 FM pulse-echo pairs that mimic sounds received during search, approach, and terminal stages of pursuit, single neurons (N = 116) in the bat's inferior colliculus (IC) register the occurrence of a pulse or echo with an average of &lt; 1 spike/sound. Individual IC neurons typically respond to only a segment of the search or approach stage of pursuit, with fewer neurons persisting to respond in the terminal stage. Composite peristimulus-time-histogram plots of responses assembled across the whole recorded population of IC neurons depict the delay of echoes and, hence, the existence and distance of the simulated biosonar target, entirely as on-response latencies distributed across time. Correlated changes in pulse duration, repetition rate, and pulse or echo amplitude do modulate the strength of responses (probability of the single spike actually occurring for each sound), but registration of the target itself remains confined exclusively to the latencies of single spikes across cells. Modeling of echo processing in FM biosonar should emphasize spike-time algorithms to explain the content of biosonar images.



A study was conducted on healthy subjects to determine whether voluntary ballistic wrist flexion movements are influenced by immediately preceding conditioning of the forearm muscles. Single rapid wrist flexion movements were made in response to an auditory &quot;Go&quot; signal. Rectified surface EMG was recorded from wrist flexors and extensors, and joint position was measured by a goniometer. The movements were preceded (2-3 s) by four different conditioning routines: 40-s rest (Rest), 10-s voluntary alternating wrist joint flexion and extension movements (Osc), and 10 s of 25 degrees weak isometric wrist extensor (Ext) or flexor contractions (Flex). When subjects made ballistic movements after Osc compared with Rest, peak velocity was higher (P = 0.02) and movement time shorter (P = 0.06), but there was no difference (P = 0.83) in motor reaction time (time between the onset of the first agonist burst and movement onset). If the movements were preceded by Ext compared with Flex, motor reaction time was longer (P = 0.01), indicating a longer electromechanical delay. There were no indications that postconditioning differences in agonist or antagonist muscle activity could explain the results. It was also demonstrated that, after Rest, peak velocity was lower (P &lt; 0.01) for the first than for the second of a series of repetitive ballistic movements. The observations corresponded to results from passive experiments in which the median nerve was electrically stimulated. In conclusion, history-dependent (thixotropic) changes in skeletal muscle resistance seem to have implications for voluntary ballistic wrist movements. The study also provided evidence that muscle conditioning influences the central nervous reaction time preceding ballistic contractions.
Heat-shock protein concentrations in the blood increase after exposure to a variety of stressors, including trauma and psychological stress. Although the physiological function of extracellular heat shock protein remains controversial, there is evidence that extracellular heat shock protein 72 (Hsp72) can facilitate immunologic responses. The signal(s) that mediate(s) the in vivo elevation of extracellular Hsp72 in the blood after stressor exposure remain(s) unknown. Here we report that Hsp72 increases in the circulation via an alpha1-adrenergic receptor-mediated signaling pathway. Activation of alpha1-adrenoceptors results in a rapid increase in circulating Hsp72, and blockade of alpha1-adrenoceptors prevents the stress-induced rise in circulating Hsp72. Furthermore, our studies exclude a role for beta-adrenoceptors, glucocorticoids, and ACTH in mediating stress-induced elevations in circulating extracellular Hsp72. Understanding the signals involved in elevating extracellular Hsp72 could facilitate the use of extracellular Hsp72 to bolster immunity and perhaps prevent exacerbation of inflammatory diseases during stress.
Using both experimental and theoretical methods, we examine the contribution of different parts of the head to near-IR (NIR) signal. Time-resolved spectroscopy is employed to measure the mean optical path length (PL), and the absorption (mu(a)) and reduced scattering (mu(s)') coefficients in multiple positions of the human head. Monte Carlo simulations are performed on four-layered head models based on an individual magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan to determine mu(a) and mu(s)' in each layer of the head by solving inverse problems, and to estimate the partial path length in the brain (p-PL) and the spatial sensitivity to regions in the brain at the source-detector separation of 30 mm. The PL is closely related to the thickness of the scalp, but not to that of other layers of the head. The p-PL is negatively related to the PL and its contribution ratio to the PL is 5 to 22% when the differential path length factor is 6. Most of the signal attributed to the brain comes from the upper 1 to 2 mm of the cortical surface. These results indicate that the NIR signal is very sensitive to hemodynamic changes associated with functional brain activation in the case that changes in the extracerebral tissue are ignorable.
We try a new approach with near-IR time-resolved spectroscopy, to separate optical signals originated in the upper layer from those in the lower layer and to selectively determine the absorption coefficient (mu(a)) of each layer in a two-layered turbid medium. The difference curve in the temporal profiles of light attenuation between a target and a reference medium is divided into segments along the time axis, and a slope of each segment is calculated to determine the depth-dependent mu(a). The depth-dependent mu(a) values are estimated under various conditions in which mu(a) and the reduced scattering coefficient (mu(s)') of each layer are changed with a Monte Carlo simulation and in phantom experiments. Temporal variation of them represents the difference in mu(a) between two layers when mu(s)' of a reference is the same as that of the upper layer of the target. The discrepancies between calculated mu(a) and the real mu(a) depend on the ratio of the real mu(a) of the upper layer to that of the lower layer, and our approach enables us to estimate the ratio of mu(a) between the two layers. These results suggest the potential that mu(a) of the lower layer can be determined by our procedure.
A novel method for damage-free, artifact-free stimulation of neural tissue using pulsed, low-energy infrared laser light is presented. Optical stimulation elicits compound nerve and muscle potentials similar to responses obtained with conventional electrical neural stimulation in a rat sciatic nerve model. Stimulation and damage thresholds were determined as a function of wavelength using a tunable free electron laser source (lambda = 2 to 10 microm) and a solid state holmium:YAG laser (lambda = 2.12 microm). Threshold radiant exposure required for stimulation varies with wavelength from 0.312 Jcm2 (lambda = 3 microm) to 1.22 Jcm2 (lambda = 2.1 microm). Histological analysis indicates no discernable thermal damage with suprathreshold stimulation. The largest damage/stimulation threshold ratios (&gt;6) were at wavelengths corresponding to valleys in the IR spectrum of soft tissue absorption (4 and 2.1 microm). Furthermore, optical stimulation can be used to generate a spatially selective response in small fascicles of the sciatic nerve that has significant advantages (e.g., noncontact, spatial resolution, lack of stimulation artifact) over conventional electrical methods in diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in neuroscience, neurology, and neurosurgery.
Experimental animal models of bone cancer pain have emerged and findings have provided a unique glimpse into unraveling the mechanism that drives this debilitating condition. Key contributors to the generation and maintenance of bone cancer pain are tumor-induced osteolysis, tumor itself, and production of nociceptive mediators in the bone-tumor microenvironment.
The past several years have seen remarkable growth in our understanding of the molecular processes underlying fragile X syndrome (FXS). Many studies have provided new insights into the regulation of Fmr1 gene expression and the potential function of its protein product. It is now known that the promoter elements modulating Fmr1 transcription involve a complex array of both cis and trans factors. Moreover, recent studies of epigenetic modification of chromatin have provided novel clues to unlocking the mysteries behind the regulation of Fmr1 expression. Here, we review the latest findings on the regulation of Fmr1 transcription.
Different forms of synaptic plasticity in the cerebellum expressed at the synapses onto Purkinje cells (PCs) are mediated by membrane metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). There are three main mGluR groups with a total of 8 subtypes. Although mGluRs are also found at the climbing fiber (CF) to PC synapses, the distribution and biological activity of their types is not well-known. Using whole cell patch-clamp recordings from PCs in rat cerebellar slices with inhibitors of ionotropic receptors and glutamate uptake blockers we demonstrate a complex pharmacology of currents obtained by CF stimulation. The mGluR1 specific antagonist CPCCOEt in a group of cells suppressed this response, but in a similar number of other cells it induced a potentiating effect. It was found that a switch between these two biopharmaceutical effects might occur with age.
Although combination therapy with interferon and ribavirin has improved the treatment for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, the detailed anti-HCV effect of ribavirin in clinical concentrations remains uncertain. To detect the anti-HCV effect of ribavirin in lower concentrations, a sensitive and accurate assay system was developed using the reporter replicon system with an HCV genotype 2a subgenomic replicon (clone JFH-1) that exhibits robust replication in various cell lines. This reporter replicon was generated by introducing the luciferase reporter gene (instead of the neomycin resistance gene) into the subgenomic JFH-1 replicon. To assess the replication of this reporter replicon, luciferase activity was measured serially up to day 3 after transient transfection of Huh7 cells. The luciferase activity increased exponentially over the time course of the experiment. After adjustment for transfection efficiency and transfected cell viability, the impacts of interferon and ribavirin were determined. The administration of interferon and ribavirin resulted in dose-dependent suppression of replicon RNA replications. The 50% inhibitory concentration of interferon and ribavirin was 1.80 IU/ml and 3.70 microg/ml, respectively. In clinical concentrations, replications were reduced to 0.09% and 53.74% by interferon (100 IU/ml) and ribavirin (3 microg/ml), respectively. Combination use of ribavirin and interferon enhanced the anti-HCV effect of interferon by 1.46- to 1.62-fold. In conclusion, we developed an accurate and sensitive replicon system, and the antivirus effect of interferon and ribavirin was easily detected within their clinical concentrations by this replicon system. This system will provide a powerful tool for screening new antiviral compounds against HCV.

Ganglioneuromas are rare benign tumours, which may affect any part of the spine and spinal cord. They occasionally grow to a large size but total excision using microsurgical techniques is often possible, and may be curative. This case report illustrates the clinical and histopathological features of two rare giant ganglioneuromas of the spinal cord.
Medullomyoblastoma is a rare variant of medulloblastoma containing a component of striated and smooth muscle with survival of 3 to 4 years following surgery and radiotherapy. The authors report a rare case of medullomyoblastoma with an unusual survival of over 11 years without recurrence. The relevant literature is briefly reviewed.
It is well known that in most countries there is a perennial shortage of specialists in neurosciences. The available neurologists and neurosurgeons are clustered in the metropolitan, urban areas. Those living in suburban and rural areas may have limited or no access to neurological care. Concurrently, there has been an unprecedented growth in information and communication technology (ICT). In this article, the author will demonstrate how the practice of neurosciences will change, with increasing use of telemedicine and ICT. In addition to presenting the author's personal experience, the literature on telemedicine in neurosciences is reviewed.

During complex microneurosurgery performed in patients with tethered cord syndrome, the conus medullaris and the roots that innervate the lower limbs, bladder and bowel are potentially exposed to damage. The aim of multimodality intraoperative monitoring (IOM) is to reduce the risk of inadvertent injury of neural tissue. We simultaneously record tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) from the scalp and free run electromyography (EMG) of limb muscles supplied by L2 to S2 roots, anal and urethral sphincters. We also identify critical neural structures in the operative field, including the conus and exiting nerve roots, with a nerve stimulator to evoke EMG. SSEPs assess the sensory pathways mainly mediated by the S1 roots. Continuous EMG provides the surgeon with immediate auditory feedback resulting from irritative discharges triggered by manipulation of nerve fibres. Microstimulation can distinguish the filum terminale, scar tissue and invasive tumors from functional neural tissue, thus minimizing the risk of iatrogenic injury. Overall multimodality IOM proves a valuable adjunct to microneurosurgery of the lumbosacral spine.

Previous studies of patients with phonological and surface alexia have demonstrated a double dissociation between the reading of pseudo words and words with atypical spelling-to-sound relationships. A corresponding double dissociation in the neuronal activation patterns for pseudo words and exception words has not, however, been consistently demonstrated in normal subjects. Motivated by the literature on acquired alexia, the present study contrasted pseudo words to exception words and explored how neuronal interactions within the reading system are influenced by word type. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure neuronal responses during reading in 22 healthy volunteers. The direct comparison of reading pseudo words and exception words revealed a double dissociation within the left frontal cortex. Pseudo words preferentially increased left dorsal premotor activation, whereas exception words preferentially increased left pars triangularis activation. Critically, these areas correspond to those previously associated with phonological and semantic processing, respectively. Word-type dependent interactions between brain areas were then investigated using dynamic causal modeling. This revealed that increased activation in the dorsal premotor cortex for pseudo words was associated with a selective increase in effective connectivity from the posterior fusiform gyrus. In contrast, increased activation in the pars triangularis for exception words was associated with a selective increase in effective connectivity from the anterior fusiform gyrus. The present investigation is the first to identify distinct neuronal mechanisms for semantic and phonological contributions to reading.
On the basis of results of a probe trial in 2 different experiments, K. Cheng (2005) has proposed a common mechanism for orientation in fish trained in both a map-like or relational procedure and a directly cued procedure. However, K. Cheng's model is inconsistent with previous results of goldfish (Carassius auratus) trained in these 2 tasks. Given that K. Cheng's proposal assumes that fish choose the goal by using a matching strategy in which they try to match as many properties as possible, including geometric and featural properties, future research is necessary to clarify what properties of the environmental space are codified and used for navigation.
Bennett and Hacker use conceptual analysis to appraise the theoretical language of modern cognitive neuroscientists, and conclude that neuroscientific theory is largely dualistic despite the fact that neuroscientists equate mind with the operations of the brain. The central error of cognitive neuroscientists is to commit the mereological fallacy, the tendency to ascribe to the brain psychological concepts that only make sense when ascribed to whole animals. The authors review how the mereological fallacy is committed in theories of memory, perception, thinking, imagery, belief, consciousness, and other psychological processes studied by neuroscientists, and the consequences that fallacious reasoning have for our understanding of how the brain participates in cognition and behavior. Several behavior-analytic concepts may themselves be nonsense based on thorough conceptual analyses in which the criteria for sense and nonsense are found in the ways the concepts are used in ordinary language. Nevertheless, the authors' nondualistic approach and their consistent focus on behavioral criteria for the application of psychological concepts make Philosophical Foundations of Neuroscience an important contribution to cognitive neuroscience.
Neuroscientific approaches to drug addiction traditionally have been based on the premise that addiction is a process that results from brain changes that in turn result from chronic administration of drugs of abuse. An alternative approach views drug addiction as a behavioral disorder in which drugs function as preeminent reinforcers. Although there is a fundamental discrepancy between these two approaches, the emerging neuroscience of reinforcement and choice behavior eventually may shed light on the brain mechanisms involved in excessive drug use. Behavioral scientists could assist in this understanding by devoting more attention to the assessment of differences in the reinforcing strength of drugs and by attempting to develop and validate behavioral models of addiction.
How the nervous system encodes learning and memory processes has interested researchers for 100 years. Over this span of time, a number of basic neuroscience methods has been developed to explore the relationship between learning and the brain, including brain lesion, stimulation, pharmacology, anatomy, imaging, and recording techniques. In this paper, we summarize how different research approaches can be employed to generate converging data that speak to how structures and systems in the brain are involved in simple associative learning. To accomplish this, we review data regarding the involvement of a particular region of cerebellar cortex (Larsell's lobule HVI) in the widely used paradigm of classical eyeblink conditioning. We also present new data on the role of lobule HVI in eyeblink conditioning generated by combining temporary brain inactivation and single-cell recording methods, an approach that looks promising for further advancing our understanding of relationships between brain and behavior.
Working memory, the ability to temporarily retain task-relevant information across a delay, is frequently investigated using delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) or delayed Go/No-Go tasks (DGNG). In DMTS tasks, sample cues instruct the animal which type of response has to be executed at the end of a delay. Typically, performance decreases with increasing delay duration, indicating that working memory fades across a delay. However, no such performance decrease has been found when the sample cues exist of present vs. absent stimuli, suggesting that pigeons do not rely on working memory, but seem to respond by default in those trials. We trained 3 pigeons in a DGNG task and found a similar default response pattern: The diverging slopes of the retention functions on correct Go and No-Go trials suggested that pigeons by default omitted their response following No-Go stimuli, but actively retained task-relevant information across the delay for successful responses on Go trials. We conducted single-cell recordings in the avian nidopallium caudolaterale, a structure comparable to the mammalian prefrontal cortex. On Go trials, many neurons displayed sustained elevated activity during the delay preceding the response, replicating previous findings and suggesting that task-relevant information was neurally represented and maintained across the delay. However, the same units did not show enhanced delay activity preceding correct response suppressions in No-Go trials. This activation-inactivation pattern presumably constitutes a neural correlate of the default response strategy observed in the DGNG task.
Learning and memory are central topics in behavioral neuroscience, and inbred mice strains are widely investigated. However, operant conditioning techniques are not as extensively used in this field as they should be, given the effectiveness of the methodology of the experimental analysis of behavior. In the present study, male C57B1/6 mice, widely used as background for transgenic studies, were trained to lever press on discrete-trial fixed-ratio 5 or fixed-interval (11 s or 31 s) schedules of food reinforcement and then exposed to 15 extinction sessions following vehicle or chlordiazepoxide injections (15 mg/kg i.p., administered either prior to all extinction sessions, or prior to the final 10 extinction sessions). Extinction of operant behavior was facilitated by drug administration following training on either schedule, but this facilitation only occurred once a number of extinction sessions had taken place. The extinction process proceeded more rapidly following fixed-interval training. Resistance to extinction was equally high following training with either schedule type, and was reduced by drug administration in both cases. These phenomena were evident in individual cumulative records and in analyses of group data. Results are interpreted in terms of phenomena of operant extinction identified in Skinner's (1938) Behavior of Organisms, and by behavioral momentum theory. These procedures could be used to extend the contribution of operant conditioning to contemporary behavioral neuroscience.
Neuroscience and cognitive science seek to explain behavioral regularities in terms of underlying mechanisms. An important element of a mechanistic explanation is a characterization of the operations of the parts of the mechanism. The challenge in characterizing such operations is illustrated by an example from the history of physiological chemistry in which some investigators tried to characterize the internal operations in the same terms as the overall physiological system while others appealed to elemental chemistry. In order for biochemistry to become successful, researchers had to identify a new level of operations involving operations over molecular groups. Existing attempts at mechanistic explanation of behavior are in a situation comparable to earlier approaches to physiological chemistry, drawing their inspiration either from overall psychology activities or from low-level neural processes. Successful mechanistic explanations of behavior require the discovery of the appropriate component operations. Such discovery is a daunting challenge but one on which success will be beneficial to both behavioral scientists and cognitive and neuroscientists.

How do honeybees use visual odometry and goal-defining landmarks to guide food search? In one experiment, bees were trained to forage in an optic-flow-rich tunnel with a landmark positioned directly above the feeder. Subsequent food-search tests indicated that bees searched much more accurately when both odometric and landmark cues were available than when only odometry was available. When the two cue sources were set in conflict, by shifting the position of the landmark in the tunnel during test, bees overwhelmingly used landmark cues rather than odometry. In another experiment, odometric cues were removed by training and testing in axially striped tunnels. The data show that bees did not weight landmarks as highly as when odometric cues were available, tending to search in the vicinity of the landmark for shorter periods. A third experiment, in which bees were trained with odometry but without a landmark, showed that a novel landmark placed anywhere in the tunnel during testing prevented bees from searching beyond the landmark location. Two further experiments, involving training bees to relatively longer distances with a goal-defining landmark, produced similar results to the initial experiment. One caveat was that, with the removal of the familiar landmark, bees tended to overshoot the training location, relative to the case where bees were trained without a landmark. Taken together, the results suggest that bees assign appropriate significance to odometric and landmark cues in a more flexible and dynamic way than previously envisaged.
Emotional arousal can both enhance and impair memory. Considering that both emotional memory and trait anxiety (TA) have been associated with adrenergic activity, the authors investigated whether there is an association between 2 opposite emotional memory biases and the TA. The authors used a procedure recently put forward by B. A. Strange, R. Hurlemann, and R. J. Dolan (2003) to elicit an emotion-induced retrograde amnesia (ERA) coupled to an emotional memory enhancement (EME). The authors contrasted the association between these emotional memory biases and the TA in several conditions involving different levels of encoding and types of recall. The results presented here indicated a significant interaction of the TA with EME and ERA and the dependency of these biases on the consciously controlled use of memory.

Despite important health benefits, the presence of depressive symptoms may decrease the prevalence of breastfeeding. The current study assessed the relationship between depressive symptoms and breastfeeding at 6 and 12 weeks postpartum. Participants were recruited from a cohort completing a clinical trial of calcium for prevention of preeclampsia. At 6 weeks postpartum, the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) was completed by mail. At 12 weeks postpartum, the EPDS was completed at an outpatient visit. There was an inverse relationship between depressive symptoms and breastfeeding at 6 weeks postpartum (P&lt;.001) but not at 12 weeks. This relationship persisted even after controlling for prior history of depression, increased life stress, and current psychoactive medication. The results suggest that depressive symptoms early in the postpartum period may lower the prevalence of breastfeeding.
IFN-gamma drives CD4+ T cell differentiation toward the Th1 phenotype (Th1) and suppresses Th2 development. Current evidence indicates that IFN-gamma inhibits T cell proliferation and decreases T cell survival. In contrast to the above, we show here that antiviral CD4+ T cell generation after infection is reduced in the absence of IFN-gamma signals. The deficient expansion of cells was not due to perturbations in T cell sensitivity to peptide or to altered migratory patterns through nonlymphoid tissues. Instead, IFN-gamma enhanced early antiviral CD4 responses largely through direct signals into these cells. Our data challenge prevailing dogma and have implications for how the sizes of the CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses are established.
There is an urgent need to discontinue the use of highly toxic compounds still in use for treatment of the encephalitic stage of human African trypanosomiasis (HAT). We show here that intraperitoneal injection of the adenosine analogue cordycepin (3'-deoxyadenosine), together with an adenosine deaminase (ADA) inhibitor (coformycin or deoxycoformycin), cures Trypanosoma brucei brucei infection in mice. Treatment was also effective at a stage when the trypanosomes had penetrated into the brain parenchyma, as determined by double immunolabeling of parasites and cerebral vessel endothelial cells in brain sections. At this stage, the parasites were eliminated not only from the blood but also from the brain parenchyma. In parallel with the elimination of parasites, in treated mice, the number of CD45+ inflammatory cells in the brain parenchyma was reduced. Treatment was not immunosuppressive. In vitro incubation with cordycepin reduced the growth of T. brucei brucei and T. cruzi, as well as Leishmania major and L. amazonensis. Administration of cordycepin plus deoxycofomycin to T. cruzi-infected mice also significantly reduced parasitemia. Accordingly, we propose nucleoside analogues resistant to ADA as candidates for treatment of late-stage HAT.
Anosognosia, disordered awareness of cognitive and behavioral deficits, is a striking and common symptom of Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet its etiology, clinical correlates, and prognostic value are unclear. Historically, disordered awareness has been a conceptually challenging phenomenon, evidenced by the numerous and diverse theories that aim to explain the manner in which this syndrome arises. We review many of these theories, focusing on the neuroanatomic substrates of awareness, and highlighting the potential roles of critical regions such as the right prefrontal and parietal cortices in enabling self-awareness. We then address methodological limitations such as use of subjective measurement tools that likely contribute to the conceptual ambiguity surrounding anosognosia. We argue that metacognitive techniques used in healthy adults, such as the Feeling of Knowing task, offer models for dissecting awareness into clear and identifiable cognitive components in patients with AD. We critique several studies that have pioneered such tasks in AD, and offer guidelines for future implementation of such methods. A final goal of this review is to advocate for a multidimensional approach to studying metacognitive skills that will facilitate the objective investigation of deficit awareness as it relates to a variety of disease variables such as prognosis, neuropsychological profile, neuropathological distribution, psychiatric symptoms, and clinical course.
Recent studies have reported cognitive asymmetries in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in individuals with apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE epsilon4) genotype who are in the preclinical phase of AD. This increased frequpncy of cognitive asymmetry, typically defined as a significant discrepancy (in either direction) between verbal and spatial abilities, often occurs despite an absence of differences on traditional measures of central tendency (i.e., mean test scores). We prospectively studied the relationship between APOE genotype and two modality-specific executive-function tasks: The Verbal Fluency and Design Fluency tests of the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS) in 52 normal functioning older adult participants who were grouped according to the presence (n=24) or absence (n=28) of the APOE e4 allele. Nondemented older adults with the APOE epsilon4 allele demonstrated a greater frequency of cognitive asymmetric profile on the new switching conditions of the Verbal and Design Fluency measures than the APOE non-epsilon4 individuals. This study further supports the utility of assessing cognitive asymmetry for the detection of subtle cognitive differences in individuals at-risk for AD, and suggests that dual-task executive function tests (i.e., fluency plus switching) may serve as a useful preclinical marker of AD.
Pathological findings in dystonia have been unclear. X-linked recessive dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP, DYT3), endemic in the Panay island, the Philippines, is characterized by the clinical onset with dystonia followed by parkinsonism. It provides a unique opportunity to explore the anatomical basis of dystonia, because it has discernible pathological changes even at its early phase of dystonia. After extensive searches for the anatomical basis in XDP, we found selective loss of striosomal neurons in the striatum in dystonic patients' brain. Because striosomal neurons inhibit nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons via GABAergic innervation, the striosomal lesion could account for dopamine excess in the striatum, which in turn causes a hyperkinetic state or dystonia. We also identified the causative gene as one of the general transcription factor genes, TAF1. XDP has certain similarities to Huntington disease not only in pathological and clinical findings, but also the molecular mechanism, which disturbs expression of genes essential for striatal neurons, such as DRD2. Therapeutic intervention may become possible through pharmacological measures that affect gene expression.
Functional neuroimaging, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), provides a valuable technique for detecting regional changes in brain metabolic activity associated with human disease. These techniques have been applied in different dystonic disorders including primary generalized dystonia and dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD), as well as focal dystonic syndromes such as torticollis, writer's cramp, and blepharospasm. A common finding is abnormality of the basal ganglia and associated outflow pathways to sensorimotor cortex and other regions involved with motor performance. Other recent imaging research has utilized diffusion-based MRI techniques to localize distinct microstructural abnormalities in dystonia patients and gene carriers. This presentation will focus on an integrated approach to understanding the pathophysiology of this genetic and biochemically diverse disorder.
We examined the spatial structure of noise in optical recordings made with two commonly used voltage-sensitive dyes (RH795 and RH1691) in mouse barrel cortex in vivo, and determined that the signal-to-noise ratio of the two dyes was comparable when averaging over barrel-sized areas, or at single pixels distant from large blood vessels. We examined the spatiotemporal development of whisker- and electrically-evoked optical responses by quantifying the area of activated cortical surface as a function of time. Whisker and electrical stimuli activated cortical areas between 0.2-2.0 mm(2) depending on intensity. More importantly, both types of activation recruited cortical area at similar rates and showed a linear relationship between the maximal activated area and the peak rate of increase of the activated area. We propose a general rule of supragranular cortical activation in which the initial spreading speed of the response determines the total activated area, independent of the type of activation. Finally, despite comparable single-response kinetics, we observed greater paired-pulse depression of whisker-evoked responses relative to electrically-evoked responses.
Cortical information processing relies critically on the processing of electrical signals in pyramidal neurons. Electrical transients mainly arise when excitatory synaptic inputs impinge upon distal dendritic regions. To study the dendritic aspect of synaptic integration one must record electrical signals in distal dendrites. Since thin dendritic branches, such as oblique and basal dendrites, do not support routine glass electrode measurements, we turned our effort towards voltage-sensitive dye recordings. Using the optical imaging approach we found and reported previously that basal dendrites of neocortical pyramidal neurons show an elaborate repertoire of electrical signals, including backpropagating action potentials and glutamate-evoked plateau potentials. Here we report a novel form of electrical signal, qualitatively and quantitatively different from backpropagating action potentials and dendritic plateau potentials. Strong glutamatergic stimulation of an individual basal dendrite is capable of triggering a fast spike, which precedes the dendritic plateau potential. The amplitude of the fast initial spikelet was actually smaller that the amplitude of the backpropagating action potential in the same dendritic segment. Therefore, the fast initial spike was dubbed &quot;spikelet&quot;. Both the basal spikelet and plateau potential propagate decrementally towards the cell body, where they are reflected in the somatic whole-cell recordings. The low incidence of basal spikelets in the somatic intracellular recordings and the impact of basal spikelets on soma-axon action potential initiation are discussed.
We measured changes in the intrinsic fluorescence (IF) of the neurosecretory terminals of the mouse neurohypophysis during brief (1-2 s) trains of stimuli. With fluorescence excitation at either 350 +/- 20 or 450 +/- 50 nm, and with emission measured, respectively, at 450 +/- 50 or &gt; or = 520 nm, DeltaF/F(o) was approximately 5-8 % for a 2 s train of 30 action potentials. The IF changes lagged the onset of stimulation by approximately 100 ms and were eliminated by 1 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX). The signals were partially inhibited by 500 microM Cd(2+), by substitution of Mg(2+) for Ca(2+), by Ca(2+)-free Ringer's with 0.5 mM EGTA, and by 50 microM ouabain. The IF signals were also sensitive to the mitochondrial metabolic inhibitors CCCP (0.3 microM), FCCP (0.3 microM), and NaN(3) (0.3 mM), and their amplitude reflected the partial pressure of oxygen (pO(2)) in the bath. Resting fluorescence at both 350 nm and 450 nm exhibited significant bleaching. Flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) is fluorescent, while its reduced form FADH(2) is relatively non-fluorescent; conversely, NADH is fluorescent, while its oxidized form NAD is non-fluorescent. Thus, our experiments suggest that the stimulus-coupled rise in [Ca(2+)](i) triggers an increase in FAD and NAD as FADH(2) and NADH are oxidized, but that elevation of [Ca(2+)](i), alone cannot account for the totality of changes in intrinsic fluorescence.

The time course and the relation to dose of locomotor activity and of the regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) were measured in freely moving Sprague-Dawley rats after intracerebroventricular administration of ovine corticotropin releasing factor (oCRF). Motor activity was determined using a familiar photocage cell. rCMRglc was measured, using the quantitative autoradiographic [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose procedure, in 73 brain regions at 10, 30, 90 and 180 min after administration of oCRF 10 microg and at 90 min after oCRF 0.1, 1 and 100 microg. oCRF 10 microg increased motor activity in a sustained fashion and increased rCMRglc with different time courses throughout brain regions. In cerebellar regions rCMRglc increases peaked at 90 min and were sustained up to 180 min. In non-cerebellar regions rCMRglc increases peaked at 90 min but declined thereafter. At lower doses (0.1 and 1 microg) oCRF increased rCMRglc in fewer brain regions (1 and 5 regions affected, average increases 1% and 7%) including cerebellar areas and brainstem sensory nuclei and decreased rCMRglc in medial prefrontal cortex. At the highest dose (100 microg) oCRF induced large and widespread rCMRglc increases in cerebellar, brainstem, hypothalamic, limbic and neocortical areas (40 brain regions affected, average increase 32%). The findings indicate that cerebellar areas and brainstem nuclei are highly sensitive to oCRF and may mediate oCRF autonomic and behavioral effects.
Spontaneous firing of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) was recently shown to be required for the survival of ORNs and the maintenance of their appropriate synaptic connections with mitral cells in the olfactory bulb. ORN spontaneous activity has never been described or characterized quantitatively in mammals. To do so we have made extracellular single unit recordings from ORNs of freely breathing (FB) and tracheotomized (TT) rats. We show that the firing behavior of TT neurons was relatively simple: they tended to fire spikes at the same average frequency according to purely random (Poisson) or simple (Gamma or Weibull) statistical laws. A minority of them were bursting with relatively infrequent and short bursts. The activity of FB neurons was less simple: their firing rates were more diverse, some of them showed trends or were driven by breathing. Although more of them were regular, only a minority could be described by simple laws; the majority displayed random bursts with more spikes than the bursts of TT neurons. In both categories bursts and isolated spikes (outside bursts) occurred completely at random. The spontaneous activity of ORNs in rats resembles that of frogs, but is higher, which may be due to a difference in body temperature. These results suggest that, in addition to the intrinsic thermal noise, spontaneous activity is provoked in part by mechanical, thermal, or chemical (odorant molecules) effects of air movements due to respiration, this extrinsic part being naturally larger in FB neurons. It is suggested that spontaneous activity may be modulated by respiration. Because natural sampling of odors is synchronized with breathing, such modulation may prepare and keep olfactory bulb circuits tuned to process odor stimuli.
A new behavioral assay is described for studying chemosensation in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This assay presents three main characteristics: (1) the worm is restrained by gluing, preserving correlates of identifiable behaviors; (2) the amplitude and time course of the stimulus are controlled by the experimenter; and (3) the behavior is recorded quantitatively. We show that restrained C. elegans display behaviors comparable to those of freely moving worms. Moreover, the chemosensory response of wild-type glued animals to changes in salt concentration is similar to that of freely moving animals. This glued-worm assay was used to reveal new chemosensory deficits of the potassium channel mutant egl-2. We conclude that the glued worm assay can be used to study the chemosensory regulation of C. elegans behavior and how it is affected by neuronal or genetic manipulations.
The K+/Cl- co-transporter KCC2 maintains the low intracellular chloride concentration required for fast synaptic inhibition and is exclusively expressed in neurones of the CNS. Here, we show that the KCC2 gene (alias SLC12a5) has multiple transcription start sites and characterize the activity of 6.8 kb of mouse KCC2 gene regulatory sequence (spanning 1.4 kb upstream from exon 1 to exon 2) using luciferase reporters. Overexpression of neurone-restrictive silencer factor repressed the reporter activity in vitro, apparently via a neurone restrictive silencer element (NRSE(KCC2)) within intron 1 of the mouse KCC2 gene. In transgenic mice, however, KCC2 reporters with or without deletion of the NRSE(KCC2) were expressed exclusively in neurones and predominantly in the CNS with a similar pattern and developmental up-regulation as endogenous KCC2. Moreover, a third transgene with just a 1.4-kb KCC2 promoter region lacking the NRSE(KCC2)-bearing intron 1 was still expressed predominantly in neural tissues. Thus, developmental up-regulation of the KCC2 gene does not require NRSE(KCC2) and the 1.4-kb KCC2 promoter is largely sufficient for neurone-specific expression of KCC2.
The later phases of neuronal plasticity are invariably dependent on gene transcription. Induction of the transcription factor Zif268 (Egr-1) in neurones is closely associated with many forms of functional plasticity, yet the neuronal target genes modulated by Zif268 have not been characterized. After transfection of a neuronal cell line with Zif268 we identified genes that show altered expression using high density microarrays. Although some of the genes identified have previously been associated with forms of neuronal plasticity, the majority have not been linked with neuronal plasticity or Zif268 action. Altered expression of a representative sample of the novel target genes was confirmed in Zif268-transfected PC12 neurones, and in in vitro and in vivo models of Zif268-associated neuronal plasticity. In particular, altered expression of the protease inhibitor Cystatin C and the chemokine Cxcl10 was observed in striatal tissue after haloperidol administration. Surprisingly, the group of identified genes is enriched for components of the proteasome and the major histocompatibility complex. Our findings suggest that altered expression of these genes following Zif268 induction may be a key component of long lasting plasticity in the CNS.
Although estrogens are neuroprotective in a variety of neuroprotection models, the precise underlying mechanisms are currently not well understood. Here, we examined the role of protein kinase C (PKC) in mediating estrogen-induced neuroprotection in the HT-22 immortalized hippocampal cell line. The neuroprotection model utilized calcein fluorescence to quantitate cell viability following glutamate insults. 17beta-Estradiol (betaE2) protected HT-22 cells when treatment was initiated before or after the glutamate insult. The inhibition of PKC by bis-indolylmaleimide mimicked and enhanced betaE2-induced neuroprotection. In contrast, the inhibition of specific PKC isozymes (alpha and beta) by Go6976, inhibition of 1-phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase by wortmannin, or inhibition of protein kinase A by H-89, did not alter cell viability, suggesting a specific involvement of PKC in an isozyme-dependent manner. We further examined whether estrogen interacts with PKC in a PKC isozyme-specific manner. Protein levels and activity of PKC isozymes (alpha, delta, epsilon, and zeta) were assessed by western blot analysis and radiolabeled phosphorylation assays respectively. Among the isozymes tested, betaE2 altered only PKCepsilon; it reduced the activity and membrane translocation of PKCepsilon in a manner that correlated with its protection against glutamate toxicity. Furthermore, betaE2 reversed the increased activity of membrane PKCepsilon induced by glutamate. These data suggest that the neuroprotective effects of estrogens are mediated in part by inhibition of PKCepsilon activity and membrane translocation.
We looked at the possible interactions between astrocytes and neurones during reperfusion using an in vitro model of ischaemia-reperfusion injury, as a controlled environment that lends itself easily to manipulation of the numerous variables involved in such an insult. We constructed a chamber in which O2 can be lowered to a concentration of 1 microm and developed a primary cortical neuronal culture that is 99% pure and can survive to at least 10 days in vitro. We also established a novel system for the co-culture of astrocytes and neurones in order to study the communication between these cells in a manner that allows the complete separation of one cell type from another. Neurone cultures showed profound cell death following an ischaemic period of only 15 min. We co-cultured neurones that had been subjected to a 15-min ischaemic insult with either non-insulted astrocytes or astrocyte-conditioned medium during the reperfusion stage. Both astrocytes and astrocyte-conditioned medium enhanced neuronal survival. Our data also suggest that astrocyte-sourced neuronal glutathione synthesis may play a role in preventing neuronal death.
Ethanol is a potent teratogenic agent that disrupts several aspects of neuronogenesis, including the proliferation rate of cortical precursors. With regard to corticogenesis, possible targets of ethanol toxicity include soluble factors, like transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1), that regulate cortical growth and cell cycle proteins that control the kinetics of the cell cycle. The effect of ethanol on normal cell proliferation and TGFbeta1-regulated cell proliferation in the developing cortex was assessed using an organotypic slice culture model. Ethanol elongated the cell cycle, possibly through a decrease in the expression of G1 cell cycle protein cyclin D1. Further, ethanol exposure antagonized the anti-proliferative action of TGFbeta1 and blocked TGFbeta1-dependent increases in cell cycle inhibitor p21. Collectively, this evidence suggests that disruption of appropriate cell cycle protein expression and inhibition of TGFbeta1 activity are potential mechanisms underlying the effect of ethanol on cortical development.
Evidence has accumulated showing that pharmacological inhibition of proteasome activity can both induce and prevent neuronal apoptosis. We tested the hypothesis that these paradoxical effects of proteasome inhibitors depend on the degree of reduced proteasome activity and investigated underlying mechanisms. Murine cortical cell cultures exposed to 0.1 microM MG132 underwent widespread neuronal apoptosis and showed partial inhibition of proteasome activity down to 30-50%. Interestingly, administration of 1-10 microM MG132 almost completely blocked proteasome activity but resulted in reduced neuronal apoptosis. Similar results were produced in cortical cultures exposed to other proteasome inhibitors, proteasome inhibitor I and lactacystin. Administration of 0.1 microM MG132 led to activation of a mitochondria-dependent apoptotic signaling cascade involving cytochrome c, caspase-9, caspase-3 and degradation of tau protein; such activation was markedly reduced with 10 microM MG132. High doses of MG132 prevented the degradation of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) cIAP and X chromosome-linked IAP, suggesting that complete blockade of proteasome activity interferes with progression of apoptosis. In support of this, addition of high doses of proteasome inhibitors attenuated apoptosis of cortical neurons deprived of serum. Taken together, the present results indicate that inhibition of proteasome activity can induce or prevent neuronal cell apoptosis through regulation of mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways and IAPs.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta)(1-42) oligomers have recently been discussed as intermediate toxic species in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Here we describe a new and highly stable Abeta(1-42) oligomer species which can easily be prepared in vitro and is present in the brains of patients with AD and Abeta(1-42)-overproducing transgenic mice. Physicochemical characterization reveals a pure, highly water-soluble globular 60-kDa oligomer which we named 'Abeta(1-42) globulomer'. Our data indicate that Abeta(1-42) globulomer is a persistent structural entity formed independently of the fibrillar aggregation pathway. It is a potent antigen in mice and rabbits eliciting generation of Abeta(1-42) globulomer-specific antibodies that do not cross-react with amyloid precursor protein, Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) monomers and Abeta fibrils. Abeta(1-42) globulomer binds specifically to dendritic processes of neurons but not glia in hippocampal cell cultures and completely blocks long-term potentiation in rat hippocampal slices. Our data suggest that Abeta(1-42) globulomer represents a basic pathogenic structural principle also present to a minor extent in previously described oligomer preparations and that its formation is an early pathological event in AD. Selective neutralization of the Abeta globulomer structure epitope is expected to have a high potential for treatment of AD.
Astrocytes become activated in response to brain injury, as characterized by increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and increased rates of cell migration and proliferation. Damage to brain cells causes the release of cytoplasmic nucleotides, such as ATP and uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP), ligands for P2 nucleotide receptors. Results in this study with primary rat astrocytes indicate that activation of a G protein-coupled P2Y(2) receptor for ATP and UTP increases GFAP expression and both chemotactic and chemokinetic cell migration. UTP-induced astrocyte migration was inhibited by silencing of P2Y(2) nucleotide receptor (P2Y(2)R) expression with siRNA of P2Y(2)R (P2Y(2)R siRNA). UTP also increased the expression in astrocytes of alpha(V)beta(3/5) integrins that are known to interact directly with the P2Y(2)R to modulate its function. Anti-alpha(V) integrin antibodies prevented UTP-stimulated astrocyte migration, suggesting that P2Y(2)R/alpha(V) interactions mediate the activation of astrocytes by UTP. P2Y(2)R-mediated astrocyte migration required the activation of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3-K)/protein kinase B (Akt) and the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK/ERK) signaling pathways, responses that also were inhibited by anti-alpha(V) integrin antibody. These results suggest that P2Y(2)Rs and their associated signaling pathways may be important factors regulating astrogliosis in brain disorders.
Chronic intermittent cold stress sensitises activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by novel acute stress. We have shown that enhanced noradrenergic function in limbic forebrain contributes to HPA sensitisation. In the present study, we investigated whether chronic intermittent cold also induced changes in noradrenergic function in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), the primary mediator of the HPA stress response. Rats were exposed to chronic intermittent cold (7 days, 6 h per day, 4 degrees C). On the day after final cold exposure, there were no differences in baseline plasma ACTH, but the peak ACTH response to 30 min of acute immobilisation stress was greater in cold-stressed rats compared to controls. Bilateral microinjection of the alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor antagonist benoxathian into the PVN reduced acute stress-induced adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) levels by approximately 25% in controls. Furthermore, in cold-stressed rats, all of the sensitisation of the ACTH response was blocked by benoxathian, to a level comparable to benoxathian-treated controls. In a second study using microdialysis to measure norepinephrine release in the PVN, there were no differences in either baseline or acute stress-induced increases in norepinephrine release in the PVN of cold-stressed rats compared to controls. Thus, in a third study, we tested potential alterations in postsynaptic alpha(1)-receptor sensitivity after chronic cold stress. Dose-dependent activation of ACTH secretion by microinjection of the alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor agonist, phenylephrine, into the PVN was significantly enhanced in cold-stressed rats compared to controls. Thus, the sensitised HPA response to acute stress after chronic intermittent cold exposure is at least partly attributable to an enhanced response to alpha1-adrenergic receptor activation in the PVN. Chronic stress-induced plasticity in the acute stress response may be important for stress adaptation, but may also contribute to pathophysiological conditions associated with stress. Thus, understanding the neural mechanisms underlying such adaptations may help us understand the aetiology of such disorders, and contribute to the future development of more effective treatment or prevention strategies.
We have reported recently that sodium butyrate suppressed IFN-gamma, but not the LPS-mediated induction of nitric oxide and TNF-alpha in microglia via the specific inhibition of NF-kappaB. In order to further determine the upstream signaling mechanism involved in the IFN-gamma-specific down-regulation of iNOS by sodium butyrate in microglia, this study investigated the effect of sodium butyrate on the MAP kinase activities. Sodium butyrate significantly repressed the phosphorylation of ERK induced by IFN-gamma, but had little effect on that induced by LPS. This suggests that sodium butyrate suppresses the IFN-gamma-induced iNOS expression by inhibiting the ERK to NF-kappaB pathway. In addition, it was found that sodium butyrate suppressed the IFN-gamma-induced interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF-1) expression via the inhibition of ERK. Therefore, the ERK signaling pathway appears to play a key role in the sodium butyrate-mediated down-regulation of iNOS in the IFN-gamma-stimulated microglia.



Considerable advances made in defining the aetiology, pathogenesis, and pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD) have resulted in the development and rapid expansion of the pharmacopoeia available for treatment. Anticholinergics were used before the introduction of levodopa which is now the drug most commonly used. Dopamine agonists are effective when used alone or as an adjunct to levodopa, while monoamine oxidase B inhibitors improve motor function in early and advanced PD. However, treatment mainly addresses the dopaminergic features of the disease and leaves its progressive course unaffected; the drug treatment available for the management of non-motor symptoms is limited. This article seeks to set current treatment options in context, review emerging and novel drug treatments for PD, and assess the prospects for disease modification. Surgical therapies are not considered.
Although oral administration of L-Dopa remains the best therapy for Parkinson disease, its long-term administration causes the appearance of abnormal involuntary movements such as dyskinesia. Although persistent striatal induction of some genes has already been associated with such pathologic profiles in hemiparkinsonian rats, molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying such long-term adaptations remain to be elucidated. In this study, using a rat model of L-Dopa-induced dyskinesia, we report that activity regulated cytoskeletal (Arc)-associated protein is strongly upregulated in the lesioned striatum and that the extent of its induction further varies according to the occurrence or absence of locomotor sensitization. Moreover, Arc is preferentially induced, along with FosB, nur77, and homer-1a, in striatonigral neurons, which express mRNA encoding the precursor of dynorphin. Given the likely importance of Arc in the regulation of cytoskeleton during synaptic plasticity, its upregulation supports the hypothesis that a relationship exists between cytoskeletal modifications and the longlasting action of chronically administrated L-Dopa.
Although nonlinear microscopy and fast (approximately 1 ms) membrane potential (Vm) recording have proven valuable for neuroscience applications, their potentially powerful combination has not yet been shown for studies of Vm activity deep in intact tissue. We show that laser illumination of neurons in acute rat brain slices intracellularly filled with FM4-64 dye generates an intense second-harmonic generation (SHG) signal from somatic and dendritic plasma membranes with high contrast &gt;125 microm below the slice surface. The SHG signal provides a linear response to DeltaVm of approximately 7.5%/100 mV. By averaging repeated line scans (approximately 50), we show the ability to record action potentials (APs) optically with a signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of approximately 7-8. We also show recording of fast Vm steps from the dendritic arbor at depths inaccessible with previous methods. The high membrane contrast and linear response of SHG to DeltaVm provides the advantage that signal changes are not degraded by background and can be directly quantified in terms of DeltaVm. Experimental comparison of SHG and two-photon fluorescence Vm recording with the best known probes for each showed that the SHG technique is superior for Vm recording in brain slice applications, with FM4-64 as the best tested SHG Vm probe.
Temporal features are important for the identification of natural sounds. Earlier studies have shown that cortical processing of temporal information can be altered by long-term experience with modulated sounds. In a previous study, we observed that environmental enrichment dramatically increased the response of cortical neurons to single tone and noise burst stimuli in both awake and anesthetized rats. Here, we evaluate how enrichment influences temporal information processing in the auditory cortex. We recorded responses to repeated tones and noise bursts in awake rats using epidural evoked potentials and in anesthetized rats using microelectrodes. Enrichment increased the response of cortical neurons to stimuli presented at slow rates and decreased the response to stimuli presented at fast rates relative to controls. Our observation that enrichment substantially increased response strength and forward masking is consistent with earlier reports that long-term potentiation of cortical synapses is associated with increased paired-pulse depression. Enrichment also increased response synchronization at slow rates and decreased synchronization at fast rates. Paired-pulse depression increased within days of environmental enrichment and was restored to normal levels after return to standard housing conditions. These results are relevant to several clinical disorders characterized by abnormal gating of sensory information, including autism, schizophrenia, and dyslexia.
According to the multisensory integration theory vestibular, optokinetic and proprioceptive inputs act in concert to maintain a stable retinal image of the visual world. Yet, it remains elusive to what extent the otolith organs contribute to this process and whether a specific loss of otolith input is compensated for. Here we investigated the compensatory eye movements in tilted mice, which lack otoconia because of a mutation in otopetrin 1. Tilted mice showed very small displacements of the eyes in the orbit during static roll paradigms, suggesting the absence of functional otolith organs. Independent of head position with respect to gravity, the gain and phase lead of angular vestibuloocular reflex of tilted mice were decreased and increased, respectively (frequencies 0.2 to 1 Hz and peak accelerations 8 to 197 degrees /s2, respectively). Furthermore, lack of otolith input increases the dependency of the vestibular system on stimulus frequency. In contrast, the gain of optokinetic reflex in tilted mice was significantly higher in the low-frequency range than in control mice, regardless of the position of the mice in space or the plane of the eye movements. To explain these results, a simple model was used in which a multisensory integration unit was embedded. With this model, we were able to simulate all the behaviors observed. Thus our data and the model support the presence of the multisensory integration system and revealed a compensatory enhanced optokinetic reflex in tilted mice, indicating an adaptive synergism in the processing of otolith and visually driven signals.
A single spinal motoneuron receives tens of thousands of synapses. The neurotransmitters released by many of these synapses act on iontotropic receptors and alter the driving potential of neighboring synapses. This interaction introduces an intrinsic nonlinearity in motoneuron input-output properties where the response to two simultaneous inputs is less than the linear sum of the responses to each input alone. Our goal was to determine the impact of this nonlinearity on the current delivered to the soma during activation of predetermined numbers and distributions of excitatory and inhibitory synapses. To accomplish this goal we constructed compartmental models constrained by detailed measurements of the geometry of the dendritic trees of three feline motoneurons. The current &quot;lost&quot; as a result of local changes in driving potential was substantial and resulted in a highly nonlinear relationship between the number of active synapses and the current reaching the soma. Background synaptic activity consisting of a balanced activation of excitatory and inhibitory synapses further decreased the current delivered to the soma, but reduced the nonlinearity with respect to the total number of active excitatory synapses. Unexpectedly, simulations that mimicked experimental measures of nonlinear summation, activation of two sets of excitatory synapses, resulted in nearly linear summation. This result suggests that nonlinear summation can be difficult to detect, despite the substantial &quot;loss&quot; of current arising from nonlinear summation. The magnitude of this &quot;loss&quot; appears to limit motoneuron activity, based solely on activation of iontotropic receptors, to levels that are inadequate to generate functionally meaningful muscle forces.
Corticosteroid hormones are released in high amounts after stress and bind to intracellular receptors in the brain, which in activated form function as transcription factors. We here tested the effect of a high dose of corticosterone on AMPA-receptor-mediated transmission in the CA1 hippocampal area, which is enriched in corticosteroid receptors. To focus on slow gene-mediated effects of the hormone, excitatory postsynaptic currents were measured at least 1 h after a brief application of 100 nM corticosterone to slices from adrenally intact adult mice. The amplitude but not frequency of miniature postsynaptic excitatory currents was found to be significantly enhanced. These effects were mimicked by 100 nM RU 28362, a selective agonist for intracellular glucocorticoid receptors. Evoked AMPA responses at the single cell were significantly enhanced when measured 2-4 h after application of 100 nM corticosterone, but not at earlier moments nor with a longer delay. In summary, the present results show that activation of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors induces a slow enhancement of AMPA-receptor-mediated responses, at the single-cell level.
Within the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) in the auditory brain stem, there is a large central synapse known as the calyx of Held, which mediates high-fidelity glutamatergic transmission. We investigated the effects of congenital deafness on the development of pre- and postsynaptic parameters of synaptic strength at the calyx of Held. Whole cell recordings of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and immunohistochemistry of GluR1-4 subunits were performed using brain stem slices from congenitally deaf or hearing mice at postnatal days P5 and P12. In both hearing and deaf mice there was a similar developmental decrease in the NMDA component of the evoked EPSC. There was a concurrent increase in release probability and number of release sites, contributing to a fivefold increase in evoked AMPA-mediated EPSC amplitude. The increase in release probability is opposite to that found in previous studies at the calyx of Held in the rat. There was also a seven- to eightfold increase in the size of the readily releasable pool of vesicles and a decrease in tetanic depression. The postsynaptic glutamate receptor subunits were similarly developmentally regulated and unaffected by deafness. GluR1 and 4 dominated at both ages. There was a decrease in expression of GluR1-3 from P5 to P12 and a shift from GluR2 to GluR3, indicating that AMPA receptor complexes at P12 are predominantly calcium-permeable. These results demonstrate that early development at this robust synapse proceeds normally with congenital deafness, suggesting that auditory nerve activity does not affect the development of synaptic strength at the calyx of Held.
Physiological systems that must operate over a range of temperatures often incorporate temperature-compensatory mechanisms to maintain their output within a relatively narrow, functional range of values. We analyze here an example in the accessory radula closer (ARC) neuromuscular system, a representative part of the feeding neuromusculature of the sea slug Aplysia. The ARC muscle's two motor neurons, B15 and B16, release, in addition to ACh that contracts the muscle, modulatory peptide cotransmitters that, through a complex network of effects in the muscle, shape the ACh-induced contractions. It is believed that this modulation is critical in optimizing the performance of the muscle for successful, efficient feeding behavior. However, previous work has shown that the release of the modulatory peptides from the motor neurons decreases dramatically with increasing temperature. From 15 to 25 degrees C, for example, release decreases 20-fold. Yet Aplysia live and feed successfully not only at 15 degrees C, but at 25 degrees C and probably at higher temperatures. Here, working with reduced B15/B16-ARC preparations in vitro as well as a mathematical model of the system, we have found a resolution of this apparent paradox. Although modulator release decreases 20-fold when the temperature is raised from 15 to 25 degrees C, the observed modulation of contraction shape does not decrease at all. Two mechanisms are responsible. First, further downstream within the modulatory network, the modulatory effects themselves-experimentally dissected by exogenous modulator application-have temperature dependencies opposite to that of modulator release, increasing with temperature. Second, the saturating curvature of the dose-response relations within the network diminishes the downstream impact of the decrease of modulator release. Thus two quite distinct mechanisms, one depending on the characteristics of the individual components of the network and the other emerging from the network's structure, combine to compensate for temperature changes to maintain the output of this physiological system.
Internal representations of the sensory world must be constantly adjusted to take movements into account. In the visual system, spatial updating provides a mechanism for maintaining a coherent map of salient locations as the eyes move. Little is known, however, about the pathways that produce updated spatial representations. In the present study, we asked whether direct cortico-cortical links are required for spatial updating. We addressed this question by investigating whether the forebrain commissures-the direct path between the two cortical hemispheres-are necessary for updating visual representations from one hemifield to the other. We assessed spatial updating in two split-brain monkeys using the double-step task, which involves saccades to two sequentially appearing targets. Accurate performance requires that the representation of the second target be updated to take the first saccade into account. We made two central discoveries regarding the pathways that underlie spatial updating. First, we found that split-brain monkeys exhibited a selective initial impairment on double-step sequences that required updating across visual hemifields. Second, and most surprisingly, these impairments were neither universal nor permanent: the monkeys were ultimately able to perform the across-hemifield sequences and, in some cases, this ability emerged rapidly. These findings indicate that direct cortical links provide the main substrate for updating visual representations, but they are not the sole substrate. Rather, a unified and stable representation of visual space is supported by a redundant cortico-subcortical network with a striking capacity for reorganization.
With each eye movement, a new image impinges on the retina, yet we do not notice any shift in visual perception. This perceptual stability indicates that the brain must be able to update visual representations to take our eye movements into account. Neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) update visual representations when the eyes move. The circuitry that supports these updated representations remains unknown, however. In this experiment, we asked whether the forebrain commissures are necessary for updating in area LIP when stimulus representations must be updated from one visual hemifield to the other. We addressed this question by recording from LIP neurons in split-brain monkeys during two conditions: stimulus traces were updated either across or within hemifields. Our expectation was that across-hemifield updating activity in LIP would be reduced or abolished after transection of the forebrain commissures. Our principal finding is that LIP neurons can update stimulus traces from one hemifield to the other even in the absence of the forebrain commissures. This finding provides the first evidence that representations in parietal cortex can be updated without the use of direct cortico-cortical links. The second main finding is that updating activity in LIP is modified in the split-brain monkey: across-hemifield signals are reduced in magnitude and delayed in onset compared with within-hemifield signals, which indicates that the pathways for across-hemifield updating are less effective in the absence of the forebrain commissures. Together these findings reveal a dynamic circuit that contributes to updating spatial representations.
Microglia, the tissue macrophages of the central nervous system (CNS), intimately interact with neurons physically and through soluble factors that can affect microglial activation state and neuronal survival and physiology. We report here a new mechanism of interaction between these cells, provided by the formation of gap junctions composed of connexin (Cx) 36. Among eight Cxs tested, expression of Cx36 mRNA and protein was found in microglial cultures prepared from human and mouse, and Cx45 mRNA was found in mouse microglial cultures. Electrophysiological measurements found coupling between one-third of human or mouse microglial pairs that averaged below 30 pico-Siemens and displayed electrical properties consistent with Cx36 gap junctions. Importantly, similar frequency of low-strength electrical coupling was also obtained between microglia and neurons in cocultures prepared from neocortical or hippocampal rodent tissue. Lucifer yellow dye coupling between neurons and microglia was observed in 4% of pairs tested, consistent with the low strength and incidence of electrical coupling. Cx36 expression level and/or the degree of coupling between microglia did not significantly change in the presence of activating agents, including lipopolysaccharide, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, except for some reduction of Cx36 protein when exposed to the latter two agents. Our findings that intercellular coupling occurs between neuronal and microglial populations through Cx36 gap junctions have potentially important implications for normal neural physiology and microglial responses in neuronopathology in the mammalian CNS.
Neurotrophins promote sprouting and elongation of central nervous system (CNS) axons following injury. Consequently, it has been suggested that neurotrophins could be used to repair the CNS by inducing axonal sprouting from nearby intact axons, thereby compensating for the loss of recently injured axons. We tested whether long-term overexpression of neurotrophins in the rat cortex would induce sprouting of cortical serotonergic axons following a neurotoxic injury. After a single subcutaneous injection of para-chloroamphetamine (PCA; 9 mg/ml) that lesions the majority of serotonergic axons in the rat cortex, we injected adenoviral vectors containing cDNAs for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Adv.BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (Adv.NT-3), or nerve growth factor (Adv.NGF) into the rat frontal cortex. Nine days later, we measured significant increases in the concentration of the respective neurotrophins surrounding the vector injection sites, as measured by ELISA. Immunohistochemical localization of serotonin revealed a fourfold increase in the density of serotonergic fibers surrounding the injection sites of Adv.BDNF and Adv.NT-3, corresponding to a 50% increase in cortical serotonin concentration, compared with a control vector containing the cDNA for enhanced green fluorescent protein (Adv.EGFP). In contrast, there was no difference in serotonergic fiber density or cortical serotonin concentration surrounding the injection of Adv.NGF compared with Adv.EGFP. These data demonstrate that localized overexpression of BDNF or NT-3, but not NGF, is sufficient to promote sprouting of serotonergic axons in the cortex following an experimental neurotoxic injury.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a basal ganglia disorder. Motor symptoms develop insidiously following substantial neurodegeneration of the dopamine (DA) neurons in the nigrostriatal system and produce slowed, infrequent movements, postural instability, and gait changes. A thorough understanding of neurochemical compensations occurring in the striatum during early stages of PD is crucial in identifying components that are altered initially as the DA is depleted. Producing an incomplete lesion of the nigrostriatal DA system in rats would mimic the principal early neurochemical features of human PD. We infused 6-hydroxydopamine unilaterally into the substantia nigra to reach a target of approximately 50% depletion in striatal DA at 4 weeks. This was evaluated by HPLC analysis of tissue DA content and monitored behaviorally by forepaw use reflecting asymmetries in striatal DA levels. DA loss was assessed by using tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemical staining, and the data were conjoined with the behavioral assessments. We found that activated caspase-3, its actin cleavage product fractin, and components of the apoptosome were increased significantly in DA-depleted striatum. Thus mobilization of the intrinsic programmed cell death pathway occurred, without cell loss. Elevations in apoptogenic proteins were pronounced in enkephalinergic striatopallidal neurons compared with the substance P-containing striatonigral neurons. Our findings suggest that cellular homeostatic imbalances that accompany even mild striatal DA depletion take time to develop, differentially affect the striatal output pathways, and may be an important feature of early-stage PD. These observations could be capitalized upon to develop therapeutic interventions in the preclinical phases of the disorder.
Cranially conjoined twins are rare and pose unique challenges in the preoperative evaluation of cerebral language function. The authors report on their experience in the functional magnetic resonance (fMR) imaging evaluation of adult craniopagus (temporoparietooccipital fusion) to evaluate hemispheric language dominance and the eloquent language areas in the preoperative planning stages. Conventional clinical imaging hardware originally designed for individuals was adapted and tailored for use in the twins. They were assigned a selection of language tasks while undergoing fMR imaging. Significant blood oxygen level-dependent activations were detected in the main language regions in each twin, that is, the inferior frontal gyrus (around the Broca area), the middle and superior temporal lobes (around the Wernicke area) together with the inferior parietal lobe, and the middle and superior frontal gyri. Overall, the right-handed twin was strongly left lateralized for language, whereas the left-handed twin showed more bilateral activation during language tasks. Noninvasive language mapping with the aid of fMR imaging has been demonstrated for the first time in total craniopagus.

The ability of subnanomolar concentrations of thrombin to protect both neurons and glia from ischemia and other metabolic insults has recently been reported. In this study, we demonstrate an additional neuroprotective property of thrombin; its ability to promote the release of the organic osmolyte, taurine, in response to hypoosmotic stress. Incubation of human 1321N1 astrocytoma cells with hypo-osmolar buffers (320-227 mOsM) resulted in a time-dependent release of taurine. Inclusion of thrombin (EC(50) = 60 pM) resulted in a marked increase in taurine efflux that, although evident under isotonic conditions (340 mOsM), was maximal at an osmolarity of 270 mOsM (3-4-fold stimulation). Thrombin-stimulated taurine efflux was dependent upon its protease activity and could be mimicked by addition of the peptide SFLLRN, a proteinase activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) subtype-specific ligand. Inclusion of anion channel blockers known to inhibit the volume-sensitive organic osmolyte anion channel attenuated thrombin-stimulated taurine release. Depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) with either 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) or thapsigargin, or alternatively, inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) with bisindolylmaleimide or chelerythrine resulted in a 30 to 50% inhibition of thrombin-stimulated taurine efflux. Under conditions in which intracellular Ca(2+) was depleted and PKC activity inhibited, thrombin-stimulated taurine efflux was reduced by &gt;85%. The results indicate that activation of PAR-1 receptors by thrombin facilitates the ability of 1321N1 astrocytoma cells to release osmolytes in response to a reduction in osmolarity via a mechanism that is dependent on intracellular Ca(2+) and PKC activity.
Kv4 pore-forming subunits are the principal constituents of the voltage-gated K+ channel underlying somatodendritic subthreshold A-type currents (I(SA)) in neurones. Two structurally distinct types of Kv4 channel modulators, Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) and dipeptidyl-peptidase-like proteins (DPLs: DPP6 or DPPX, DPP10 or DPPY), enhance surface expression and modify functional properties. Since KChIP and DPL distributions overlap in the brain, we investigated the potential coassembly of Kv4.2, KChIP3 and DPL proteins, and the contribution of DPLs to ternary complex properties. Immunoprecipitation results show that KChIP3 and DPP10 associate simultaneously with Kv4.2 proteins in rat brain as well as heterologously expressing Xenopus oocytes, indicating Kv4.2 + KChIP3 + DPP10 multiprotein complexes. Consistent with ternary complex formation, coexpression of Kv4.2, KChIP3 and DPP10 in oocytes and CHO cells results in current waveforms distinct from the arithmetic sum of Kv4.2 + KChIP3 and Kv4.2 + DPP10 currents. Furthermore, the Kv4.2 + KChIP3 + DPP10 channels recover from inactivation very rapidly (tau(rec) approximately 18-26 ms), closely matching that of native I(SA) and significantly faster than the recovery of Kv4.2 + KChIP3 or Kv4.2 + DPP10 channels. For comparison, identical triple coexpression experiments were performed using DPP6 variants. While most results are similar, the Kv4.2 + KChIP3 + DPP6 channels exhibit inactivation that slows with increasing membrane potential, resulting in inactivation slower than that of Kv4.2 + KChIP3 + DPP10 channels at positive voltages. In conclusion, the native neuronal subthreshold A-type channel is probably a macromolecular complex formed from Kv4 and a combination of both KChIP and DPL proteins, with the precise composition of channel alpha and auxiliary subunits underlying tissue and regional variability in I(SA) properties.
Expression of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus can be divided into an early (1-2 h), protein synthesis-independent phase and a late (&gt;4 h), protein synthesis-dependent phase. In this study we have addressed whether the de novo protein synthesis required for the expression of late-LTP can be sustained solely from the translation of mRNAs located in the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurones. Our results show that late-LTP, lasting at least 5 h, can be maintained in hippocampal slices where the dendrites located in stratum radiatum have been isolated from their cell bodies by a microsurgical cut. The magnitude of the potentiation of the slope of field EPSPs in these 'isolated' slices was similar to that recorded in 'intact' slices. Incubation of the slices with the mRNA translation inhibitor cycloheximide or the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor rapamycin blocked late-LTP in both 'intact' and 'isolated' slice preparations. In contrast, incubation of slices with the transcription inhibitor, actinomycin D, resulted in a reduction of sustained potentiation, at 4 h, in 'intact' slices while in 'isolated' slices the magnitude of potentiation was similar to that seen in untreated slices. These results indicate that late-LTP can be induced and maintained in 'isolated' dendritic preparations via translation of pre-existing mRNAs.
Weight gain is a common complication of antipsychotic treatment. Its consequences include decreased self-esteem, reduced quality of life, reduced adherence with medication and increased morbidity and mortality. Most studies that assess weight change are short term. Among the atypicals mean weight gain is greatest with olanzapine and clozapine and least with aripiprazole and ziprasidone. Mean weight change obscures the marked individual variation in weight change that occurs during antipsychotic treatment i.e. irrespective of the antipsychotic, some subjects lose weight, some maintain their weight and some gain weight. In several long-term naturalistic studies (&gt;6 months) mean weight gain is less marked than in randomised controlled trials of a shorter or comparable duration. This may reflect selective prescribing, the effect of weight management interventions and differences in the statistical analysis employed. With most antipsychotics weight stabilizes in the short to medium term but with clozapine it may continue beyond the first year. With some drugs clinical improvement is associated with short-term weight gain. Predictors of long-term weight gain include lower body mass index, increased appetite and rapid initial weight increase. Weight gain is greater in first onset patients due to the lack of prior antipsychotic exposure and associated weight gain. The potential for weight gain should be discussed with patients before starting antipsychotic treatment and weight monitored regularly during treatment. It may be possible to predict weight gain before an antipsychotic is started or early on in treatment enabling high-risk patients to receive more intensive strategies to reduce weight gain.
Fourteen patients (7 male, 7 female, 22-63 years), classified as having chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), but without concurrent major depression, significant sleepiness or use of psychoactive medication, completed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of the effects of the selective wakefulness-promoting agent, modafinil (200 and 400mg/day). The treatment periods were each 20 days, with washout periods of 2 weeks. The primary aim was to determine effects on cognition and the secondary aim was to determine effects on self-ratings of fatigue, quality of life and mood. Modafinil had mixed effects in two cognitive tasks. In a test of sustained attention, treatment with 200mg reduced the latency to correctly detect sequences, but 400mg increased the number of missed targets. In a test of spatial planning, the 200mg dose resulted in a slower initial thinking time for the easiest part of the task, whereas 400mg reduced the initial thinking time for the hardest part of the test. Lastly, in a test of mental flexibility and one of motor speed, patients performed worse whilst on modafinil (400mg), compared with the placebo period. No effects were observed on the performance of other psychometric tests or on self-ratings of fatigue, quality of life or mood, but this may have been due to insufficient statistical power. It is discussed whether the limited and mixed cognitive effects that we observed could have occurred by chance, or whether a subgroup of CFS patients with daytime sleepiness would have shown greater benefits.
These British Association for Psychopharmacology guidelines cover the range and aims of treatment for anxiety disorders. They are based explicitly on the available evidence and are presented as recommendations to aid clinical decision making in primary and secondary medical care. They may also serve as a source of information for patients and their carers. The recommendations are presented together with a more detailed review of the available evidence. A consensus meeting involving experts in anxiety disorders reviewed the main subject areas and considered the strength of evidence and its clinical implications. The guidelines were constructed after extensive feedback from participants and interested parties. The strength of supporting evidence for recommendations was rated. The guidelines cover the diagnosis of anxiety disorders and key steps in clinical management, including acute treatment, relapse prevention and approaches for patients who do not respond to first-line treatments.
Transplantation of stem cells or their derivatives, and mobilization of endogenous stem cells in the adult brain, have been proposed as future therapies for various brain disorders such as Parkinson's disease and stroke. In support, recent progress shows that neurons suitable for transplantation can be generated from stem cells in culture, and that the adult brain produces new neurons from its own stem cells in response to injury. However, from a clinical perspective, the development of stem cell-based therapies for brain diseases is still at an early stage. Many basic issues remain to be solved and we need to move forward with caution and avoid scientifically ill-founded trials in patients. We do not know the best stem cell source, and research on embryonic stem cells and stem cells from embryonic or adult brain or from other tissues should therefore be performed in parallel. We need to understand how to control stem cell proliferation and differentiation into specific cell types, induce their integration into neural networks, and optimize the functional recovery in animal models closely resembling the human disease. All these scientific efforts are clearly justified because, for the first time, there is now real hope that we in the future can offer patients with currently intractable diseases effective cell-based treatments to restore brain function.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a focal clinical syndrome characterised by profound changes in personality and social conduct and associated with circumscribed degeneration of the prefrontal and anterior temporal cortex. Onset is typically in the middle years of life and survival is about 8 years. The presence of microtubule-associated-protein-tau-based pathological features in some patients and the discovery, in some familial cases, of mutations in the tau gene links FTD to other forms of tauopathy, such as progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration. However, more than half of all patients with FTD, including some with a strong family history, show no apparent abnormality in the tau gene or protein, indicating pathological and aetiological heterogeneity. FTD provides a challenge both for clinical management and for theoretical understanding of its neurobiological substrate.
Prior exposure to drugs of abuse has been shown to occlude the structural plasticity associated with living in a complex environment. Amphetamine treatment may also occlude some cognitive advantages normally associated with living in a complex environment. To test this hypothesis we examined the influence of prior exposure to amphetamine on fear conditioning in rats housed in either a standard or complex environment. Housing in a complex environment facilitated fear learning to an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS), but not to the training context, relative to animals housed singly or in a social group. Prior treatment with amphetamine eliminated this effect. These results indicate that living in a complex environment facilitates conditional freezing to an auditory CS, and that this effect is abolished by pretreatment with amphetamine.
Evidence has shown that the insulin and insulin receptor (IR) play a role in cognitive function. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying insulin's action on learning and memory are not yet understood. Here we investigated changes in long-term memory-associated expression of the IR and downstream molecules in the rat hippocampus. After long-term memory consolidation following a water maze learning experience, gene expression of IR showed an up-regulation in the CA1, but a down-regulation in the CA3 region. These were correlated with a significant reduction in hippocampal IR protein levels. Learning-specific increases in levels of downstream molecules such as IRS-1 and Akt were detected in the synaptic membrane accompanied by decreases in Akt phosphorylation. Translocation of Shc protein to the synaptic membrane and activation of Erk1/2 were also observed after long-term memory formation. Despite the clear memory-correlated alterations in IR signaling pathways, insulin deficits in experimental diabetes mellitus (DM) rats induced by intraperitoneal injections of streptozotocin resulted in only minor memory impairments. This may be due to higher glucose levels in the DM brain, and to compensatory mechanisms from other signaling pathways such as the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) system. Our results suggest that insulin/IR signaling plays a modulatory role in learning and memory processing, which may be compensated for by alternative pathways in the brain when an insulin deficit occurs.
This article will review the published research on the elucidation of the mechanisms of pituitary adenoma formation. Mass spectrometry (MS) plays a key role in those studies. Comparative proteomics has been used with the long-term goal to locate, detect, and characterize the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in human pituitary adenomas; to identify tumor-related and -specific biomarkers; and to clarify the basic molecular mechanisms of pituitary adenoma formation. The methodology used for comparative proteomics, the current status of human pituitary proteomics studies, and future perspectives are reviewed. The methodologies that are used in comparative proteomics studies of human pituitary adenomas are readily exportable to other different areas of cancer research.
The development of common age-related neurodegenerative disorders as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are influenced by genetic factors. Recently, pathogenic mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene have been identified in familial Parkinsonism. Individuals in some of these families developed symptoms of dementia with Lewy-bodies and AD. The LRRK2 gene is also located within a locus on chromosome 12 reported in late-onset AD, and is therefore a good candidate gene for dementia. A series of 242 patients from Norway diagnosed clinically with dementia were included in the study, the majority were diagnosed with AD. Individuals were screened for the presence of seven known pathogenic mutations previously reported in the LRRK2 gene. We did not identify LRRK2 mutations in our series of dementia patients, indicating that known pathogenic mutations are not common in patients clinically diagnosed with AD. However, these results do not exclude a possible role of other genetic variants within the LRRK2 gene in AD or other forms of dementia.


Microarray technology enables high-throughput testing of gene expression to investigate various neuroscience related questions. This in turn creates a demand for scalable methods to confirm microarray results and the opportunity to use this information to discover and test novel pathways and therapeutic applications. Discovery of new central nervous system (CNS) treatments requires a comprehensive understanding of multiple aspects including the biology of a target, the pathophysiology of a disease/disorder, and the selection of successful lead compounds as well as efficient biomarker and drug disposition strategies such as absorption (how a drug is absorbed), distribution (how a drug spreads through an organism), metabolism (chemical conversion of a drug, if any, and into which substances), and elimination (how is a drug eliminated) (ADME). Understanding of the toxicity is also of paramount importance. These approaches, in turn, require novel high-content integrative assay technologies that provide thorough information about changes in cell biology. To increase efficiency of profiling, characterization, and validation, we established a new screening strategy that combines high-content image-based testing on Array Scan (Cellomics) with a confocal system and the multiplexed TaqMan RT-PCR method for quantitative mRNA expression analysis. This approach could serve as an interface between high-throughput microarray testing and specific application of markers discovered in the course of a microarray experiment. Markers could pinpoint activation or inhibition of a molecular pathway related, for instance, to neuronal viability. We demonstrate the successful testing of the same cell population in an image-based translocational assay followed by poly(A) mRNA capture and multiplexed single tube RT-PCR. In addition, Ciphergen ProteinChip analysis can be performed on the supernatant, thus allowing significant complementarity in the data output and interpretation by also including the capture and initial analysis of proteins in the integrative approach presented. We have determined various conditions including the number of cells, RT and PCR optimization, which are necessary for successful detection and consequent assay integration. We also show the successful convergence of various different approaches and multiplexing of different targets within a single real-time PCR tube. This novel integrative technological approach has utility for CNS drug discovery, target and biomarker identification, selection and characterization as well as for the study of toxicity- and adverse event-associated molecular mechanisms.
Microarray chips produced by commercial vendors and academic laboratories are mostly generic in nature to facilitate wide applicability. With the sequencing of the human, mouse, and rat genomes, the thrust is to expand clone and oligonucleotide sets and increase the number of genes represented on a particular array. This is appropriate for discovery based investigations where microarray technology has been successfully utilized. However, array technology can also be employed to perform hypothesis based studies if optimized chips can be produced with relevant content. Existing array technology available at core facilities can be effectively utilized to produce a custom microarrays with genes that are most relevant to the research interests of individual investigators or research groups for use as a standard molecular tool. The power of this technology can be harnessed to further our understanding of specific biological problems without involvement in extensive data mining and analysis. The custom microarray approach is presented with procedural details for design and production in the context of neurobiological investigations.
Advances in high throughput cloning strategies have led to sequencing of the human genome as well as progress in the sequencing of the genome of several other species. Consequently, the field of molecular genetics is blossoming into a multidisciplinary entity that is revolutionizing the way researchers evaluate a myriad of critical concepts such as development, homeostasis, and disease pathogenesis. There is tremendous interest in the quantitative assessment of tissue-specific expression of both newly identified and well characterized specific genes and proteins. At present, an ideal approach is to assess gene expression in single elements recorded physiologically in living preparations or by immunocytochemical or histochemical methods in fixed cells in vitro or in vivo. The quantity of RNA harvested from individual cells is not sufficient for standard RNA extraction methods. Therefore, exponential polymerase-chain reaction based analyses, and linear RNA amplification including amplified antisense RNA amplification and a newly developed terminal continuation RNA amplification methodology have been developed for use in combination with microdissection procedures and cDNA/oligonucleotide microarray platforms. RNA amplification is a series of intricate procedures to amplify genetic signals from minute quantities of starting materials for microarray analysis and other downstream genetic methodologies. RNA amplification procedures effectively generate quantities of RNA through in vitro transcription. The present report illustrates practical usage of RNA amplification technologies within the context of regional, population cell, and single cell analyses in the brain.
We describe methods and software tools for doing data analysis based on Affymetrix microarray data, emphasizing often neglected issues. In our experience with neuroscience studies, experimental design and quality assessment are vital. We also describe in detail the pre-processing methods we have found useful for Affymetrix data. Finally, we summarize the statistical literature and describe some pitfalls in the post-processing analysis.
Temporal and spatial assembly of signal transduction machinery determines dendrite branch patterning, a process crucial for proper synaptic transmission. Our laboratory previously cloned and characterized cypin, a protein that decreases PSD-95 family member localization and regulates dendrite number. Cypin contains zinc binding, collapsin response mediator protein (CRMP) homology, and PSD-95, Discs large, zona occludens-1 binding domains. Both the zinc binding and CRMP homology domains are needed for dendrite patterning. In addition, cypin binds tubulin via its CRMP homology domain to promote microtubule assembly. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen of a rat brain cDNA library with cypin lacking the carboxyl terminal eight amino acids as bait, we identified snapin as a cypin binding partner. Here, we show by affinity chromatography and coimmunoprecipitation that the carboxyl-terminal coiled-coil domain (H2) of snapin is required for cypin binding. In addition, snapin binds to cypin's CRMP homology domain, which is where tubulin binds. We also show that snapin competes with tubulin for binding to cypin, resulting in decreased microtubule assembly. Subsequently, overexpression of snapin in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons results in decreased primary dendrites present on these neurons and increased probability of branching. Together, our data suggest that snapin regulates dendrite number in developing neurons by modulating cypin-promoted microtubule assembly.
mRNA degradation occurs through distinct pathways, one primarily from the 5' end of the mRNA and the second from the 3' end. Decay from the 3' end generates the m7GpppN cap dinucleotide, which is subsequently hydrolyzed to m7Gp and ppN in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by a scavenger decapping activity termed Dcs1p. Although Dcs1p functions in the last step of mRNA turnover, we demonstrate that its activity modulates earlier steps of mRNA decay. Disruption of the DCS1 gene manifests a threefold increase of the TIF51A mRNA half-life. Interestingly, the hydrolytic activity of Dcs1p was essential for the altered mRNA turnover, as Dcs1p, but not a catalytically inactive Dcs1p mutant, complemented the increased mRNA stability. Mechanistic analysis revealed that 5' to 3' exoribonucleolytic activity was impeded in the dcs1Delta strain, resulting in the accumulation of uncapped mRNA. These data define a new role for the Dcs1p scavenger decapping enzyme and demonstrate a novel mechanism whereby the final step in the 3' mRNA decay pathway can influence 5' to 3' exoribonucleolytic activity.
A recent study showed that F-spondin, a protein associated with the extracellular matrix, interacted with amyloid precursor protein (APP) and inhibited beta-secretase cleavage. F-spondin contains a thrombospondin domain that we hypothesized could interact with the family of receptors for apolipoprotein E (apoE). Through coimmunoprecipitation experiments, we demonstrated that F-spondin interacts with an apoE receptor (apoE receptor 2 [ApoEr2]) through the thrombospondin domain of F-spondin and the ligand binding domain of ApoEr2. Full-length F-spondin increased coimmunoprecipitation of ApoEr2 and APP in transfected cells and primary neurons and increased surface expression of APP and ApoEr2. Full-length F-spondin, but none of the individual F-spondin domains, increased cleavage of APP and ApoEr2, resulting in more secreted forms of APP and ApoEr2 and more C-terminal fragments (CTF) of these proteins. In addition, full-length F-spondin, but not the individual domains, decreased production of the beta-CTF of APP and Abeta in transfected cells and primary neurons. The reduction in APP beta-CTF was blocked by receptor-associated protein (RAP), an inhibitor of lipoprotein receptors, implicating ApoEr2 in the altered proteolysis of APP. ApoEr2 coprecipitated with APP alpha- and beta-CTF, and F-spondin reduced the levels of APP intracellular domain signaling, suggesting that there are also intracellular interactions between APP and ApoEr2, perhaps involving adaptor proteins. These studies suggest that the extracellular matrix molecule F-spondin can cluster APP and ApoEr2 together on the cell surface and affect the processing of each, resulting in decreased production of Abeta.
The amyloid-beta precursor-like protein APLP2 is structurally and functionally related to the amyloid-beta precursor protein APP, the protein generally accepted to be involved in Alzheimer's disease. Since we previously observed that the levels of APP mRNA and protein were up-regulated threefold in the active intermediate pituitary melanotrope cells of black-adapted Xenopus laevis, we now decided to study the regulation of APLP2 in these physiologically inducible neuroendocrine cells. Interestingly, both the mRNA and protein levels of Xenopus APLP2 were similar in the melanotrope cells of black and white frogs. Newly synthesized APLP2 became glycosylated and sulfated, chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains were added, and eventually the protein was proteolytically cleaved. Unlike for APP, no phosphorylated APLP2 was observed. Our results show that, although APP and APLP2 are thought to be functionally related, their responses to neuroendocrine cell activation differ, suggesting distinct roles for these proteins.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). In order to provide insights into adaptive mechanisms of the mDA system in pathology, specific molecular and cellular parameters of the mDA system were studied in Pitx3-deficient Aphakia (ak) mice, which suffer from severe developmental failure of SNc mDA neurons. Here, we demonstrate differential changes in striatal gene expression, reflecting the specific neuronal loss in these mice. In addition, the neuronal activity of remaining mDA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) was significantly increased in ak mice. In conclusion, ak mice display specific molecular and cellular alterations in the mDA system that provide new insights in compensatory mechanisms present in mDA-associated disorders such as PD.
CRH-binding protein (CRH-BP) binds CRH with high affinity and inhibits CRH-mediated ACTH release from anterior pituitary corticotrope-like cells in vitro. In female mouse pituitary, CRH-BP is localized not only in corticotropes, but is also expressed in gonadotropes and lactotropes. To investigate the functional significance of gonadotrope CRH-BP, we examined the molecular mechanisms underlying GnRH-regulated CRH-BP expression in alphaT3-1 gonadotrope-like cells. CRH-BP is endogenously expressed in alphaT3-1 cells, and quantitative real-time RT-PCR and ribonuclease protection assays demonstrate that GnRH induces a 3.7-fold increase in CRH-BP mRNA levels. GnRH also induces intracellular CRH-BP (2.0-fold) and secreted CRH-BP (5.3-fold) levels, as measured by [125I]CRH:CRH-BP chemical cross-linking. Transient transfection assays using CRH-BP promoter-luciferase constructs indicate that GnRH regulation involves protein kinase C-, ERK- and calcium-dependent signaling pathways and is mediated via a multipartite GnRH response element that includes activator protein 1 and cAMP response element (CRE) sites. The CRE site significantly contributes to GnRH responsiveness, independent of protein kinase A, representing a unique form of multipartite GnRH regulation in alphaT3-1 cells. Furthermore, EMSAs indicate that alphaT3-1 nuclear proteins specifically bind at activator protein 1 and CRE sites. These data demonstrate novel regulation of pituitary CRH-BP, highlighting the importance of the pituitary gonadotrope as a potential interface between the stress and reproductive axes.
Cerebellar granule neurons are highly susceptible to injury in vivo and in vitro, and primary cultures are widely used to characterize relevant receptors and signaling pathways. However, there are problems associated with their use. In particular, cultures are typically grown in medium supplemented with elevated KCl levels because it improves survival, but accumulating evidence indicates that this causes profound neuroadaptations. For example, growth in elevated KCl levels renders neurons electrically silent. Thus, they cannot be used to examine excitotoxicity of synaptic origins. On the other hand, cultures grown in physiological medium are rarely studied because a proportion undergoes apoptosis. Herein, we provide evidence that mature neurons cultured in physiological KCl develop spontaneous action potentials that support survival through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated mechanisms. Furthermore, the cdk inhibitor roscovitine enhances the coupling between tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials and P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs), thereby converting this survival program to excitotoxicity of synaptic origin. Therefore, roscovitine-triggered necrosis requires spontaneous Na+-based action potentials (tetrodotoxin inhibits, (+/-)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid enhances), P/Q-type VDCC currents (omega-agatoxin-IVA and omega-conotoxin-MVIIC inhibit, but not omega-conotoxin-GVIA), intact vesicle fusion processes (tetanus toxin inhibits), and transmitter-filled vesicles (concanamycin and bafilomycin inhibit). From a postsynaptic standpoint, roscovitine-mediated excitotoxicity requires the functionally linked activation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate/kainate (AMPA/KA) and NMDA receptors, which is consistent with evidence that activated AMPA/KA receptors relieve the voltage-dependent Mg2+ block of NMDA receptors, resulting in excitotoxic Ca2+ influx. In the end, NMDA receptor-linked pathways transduce excitotoxicity. On the other hand, L-type VDCC blockers are not protective. Further characterization of this new model is expected to provide important insights about excitotoxicity of synaptic origins and about roscovitine as a selective modulator of this process.
Motor imagery (MI) is the mental rehearsal of a motor act without overt movement. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we tested the effect of MI on corticospinal excitability in patients with writer's cramp. In 10 patients with writer's cramp and 10 healthy controls, we applied focal TMS over each primary motor area and recorded motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from contralateral hand and arm muscles while participants imagined a tonic abduction of the index finger contralateral to the stimulated hemisphere. In healthy controls and patients, the MEP amplitude in the relaxed first dorsal interosseus muscle (FDI) showed a muscle-specific increase during MI; however, the increase was less pronounced in patients than in healthy controls. In addition, in patients but not in controls, the MEP amplitude also increased in hand and forearm muscles not involved in the imagined movement. This abnormal spread of facilitation was observed in the affected and unaffected upper limb. MI of simple hand movements is less efficient and less focussed in patients with writer's cramp than it is in normal subjects.
Levodopa (L-dopa) and subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation treatments have been associated with both improvement and exacerbation of dysarthria in Parkinson's disease (PD). We report four cases illustrating variant responses of dysarthria to dopaminergic and STN stimulation therapies. Patients' motor disability and dysarthria were perceptually rated by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) in four conditions according to medication and STN stimulation. Dedicated software packages allowed acquisition and analysis of acoustic recordings. Case 1, who had a severe off period aphonia, experienced improvement of speech induced by both levodopa and STN stimulation. In Case 2, both treatments worsened speech due to the appearance of dyskinesias. Case 3 had a dysarthria exacerbation induced by STN stimulation with parameters above optimal levels, interpreted as current diffusion from the STN to corticobulbar fibers. In Case 4, dysarthria exacerbation occurred with stimulation at an electrode contact located caudally to the target, also arguing for current diffusion as a potential mechanism of speech worsening. The presented cases demonstrated variant effects in relation to L-dopa and STN stimulation on speech. It seems that motor speech subcomponents can be improved like other limb motor aspect, but that complex coordination of all speech anatomical substrates is not responsive to STN stimulation. These hypotheses may be helpful for better understanding and management of STN stimulation effects on motor speech and skeleton-motor subsystems.
The usefulness of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of thalamic nuclei in Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) has recently been advocated. We report on a 14-month follow-up study of a patient with intractable GTS in whom bilateral DBS of the internal globus pallidus was carried out. Tic frequency per minute decreased by 73% in the postoperative phase and in particular the vocal tics became less intense. Pronation/ supination bradykinesia of the left extremities was a well-tolerated, permanent side effect. Pallidal DBS could become a valuable rescue therapy for otherwise intractable GTS.
In PD, the impact of nocturnal respiration on sleep continuity and architecture has not been systematically investigated by polysomnography (PSG). We performed a case-control study with retrospective analysis of PSG data of 49 PD patients. After classifying the PD patients according to their apnea/hypopnea index (AHI), they were matched with 49 controls in terms of age, gender, and AHI. There were 21 PD patients (43%) who had sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), classified as mild (AHI, 5-15) in 10 patients, moderate (AHI, &gt;15-30) in 4 patients, and severe (AHI, &gt; 30) in 7 patients. PD patients had more deep sleep (P = 0.02) and more nocturnal awakenings (P &lt; 0.001) than the controls. Their body mass index (BMI) was lower (P = 0.04), and they maintained a more favorable respiratory profile, with higher mean and minimal oxygen saturation values (P = 0.006 and 0.01, respectively). These differences were preserved when only considering PD patients with AHI &gt; 15. PD patients had less obstructive sleep apneas (P = 0.035), independently from the factor AHI. Only the respiratory changes of 4 PD patients with BMI &gt; 27 and AHI &gt; 15 (8%) approximated those seen in the controls. At an early or middle stage of the disease, non-obese PD patients frequently have AHI values suggesting SAS, however, without the oxygen desaturation profile of SAS. Longitudinal studies of patients with such &quot;abortive&quot; SAS are warranted to establish if this finding reflects benign nocturnal respiratory muscle dyskinesia or constitutes a precursor sign of dysautonomia in PD.
The original sarcoglycan (SG) complex has four subunits and comprises a subcomplex of the dystrophin-dystrophin-associated protein complex. Each SG gene has been shown to be responsible for limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, called sarcoglycanopathy (SGP). In this review, we detail the characteristics of the SG subunits, and the mechanism of the formation of the SG complex and various molecules associated with this complex. We discuss the molecular mechanisms of SGP based on studies mostly using SGP animal models. In addition, we describe other SG molecules, epsilon- and zeta-SGs, with special reference to their expression and roles in vascular smooth muscle, which are currently in dispute. We further consider the maternally imprinted nature of the epsilon-SG gene. Finally, we stress that the SG complex cannot work by itself and works in a larger complex system, called the transverse fixation system, which forms an array of molecules responsible for various muscular dystrophies.



Drug addiction is increasingly viewed as the endpoint of a series of transitions from initial drug use--when a drug is voluntarily taken because it has reinforcing, often hedonic, effects--through loss of control over this behavior, such that it becomes habitual and ultimately compulsive. Here we discuss evidence that these transitions depend on interactions between pavlovian and instrumental learning processes. We hypothesize that the change from voluntary drug use to more habitual and compulsive drug use represents a transition at the neural level from prefrontal cortical to striatal control over drug seeking and drug taking behavior as well as a progression from ventral to more dorsal domains of the striatum, involving its dopaminergic innervation. These neural transitions may themselves depend on the neuroplasticity in both cortical and striatal structures that is induced by chronic self-administration of drugs.
Laboratory models, including animal tissues and live animals, have proven useful for discovery of molecular targets of alcohol action as well as for characterization of genetic and environmental factors that influence alcohol's neural actions. Here we consider strengths and weaknesses of laboratory models used in alcohol research and analyze the limitations of using animals to model a complex human disease. We describe targets for the neural actions of alcohol, and we review studies in which animal models were used to examine excessive alcohol drinking and to discover genes that may contribute to risk for alcoholism. Despite some limitations of the laboratory models used in alcohol research, these experimental approaches are likely to contribute to the development of new therapies for alcohol abuse and alcoholism.
The World Health Organization estimates that one-third of the global adult population smokes. Because tobacco use is on the rise in developing countries, death resulting from tobacco use continues to rise. Nicotine, the main addictive component of tobacco, initiates synaptic and cellular changes that underlie the motivational and behavioral alterations that culminate in addiction. Nicotine addiction progresses rapidly in adolescents and is most highly expressed in vulnerable people who have psychiatric illness or other substance abuse problems.
Drugs of abuse have very different acute mechanisms of action but converge on the brain's reward pathways by producing a series of common functional effects after both acute and chronic administration. Some similar actions occur for natural rewards as well. Researchers are making progress in understanding the molecular and cellular basis of these common effects. A major goal for future research is to determine whether such common underpinnings of addiction can be exploited for the development of more effective treatments for a wide range of addictive disorders.
Drug seeking is associated with activation of reward neural circuitry. Here we argue that drug addiction also involves a 'dark side'--a decrease in the function of normal reward-related neurocircuitry and persistent recruitment of anti-reward systems. Understanding the neuroplasticity of the dark side of this circuitry is the key to understanding vulnerability to addiction.
Although many drug-induced neural changes are known, progress has been slow in identifying the ones that actually mediate addiction. Identifying changes that are specific to particular elements of the transition from initial to habitual to relapsing drug use may be a fruitful strategy for pinpointing which forms of drug-induced plasticity are critical for addiction.
One of the most difficult problems in treating addiction is not withdrawing addicts from drugs, but preventing relapse. Persistent neuroadaptations are thought to underlie aspects of addiction, including relapse. This commentary assesses the degree to which these neuroadaptations, primarily identified in preclinical studies on cocaine, induce relapse.
In the United States, efforts to treat addiction are hampered by prejudice and a public view that treats it as a disorder of self-control, not a disease. We highlight select advances in addiction research that, if disseminated to the public, could reverse these misconceptions and facilitate changes in policy to improve treatment access and care delivery for this highly prevalent disease.

Little is known about how temporal stimulus factors influence perceptual learning. Here we demonstrate an essential role of stimulus temporal patterning in enabling perceptual learning by showing that 'unlearnable' contrast and motion-direction discrimination (resulting from random interleaving of stimuli) can be readily learned when stimuli are practiced in a fixed temporal pattern. This temporal patterning does not facilitate learning by reducing stimulus uncertainty; further, learning enabled by temporal patterning can later generalize to randomly presented stimuli.
Munc13 proteins are essential in neurotransmitter release, controlling the priming of synaptic vesicles to a release-ready state. The sequences responsible for this priming activity are unknown. Here we identify a large alpha-helical domain of mammalian Munc13-1 that is autonomously folded and is sufficient to rescue the total arrest in neurotransmitter release observed in hippocampal neurons lacking Munc13s.
Synaptically generated subthreshold membrane potential (Vm) fluctuations can be characterized within the framework of stochastic calculus. It is possible to obtain analytic expressions for the steady-state Vm distribution, even in the case of conductance-based synaptic currents. However, as we show here, the analytic expressions obtained may substantially deviate from numerical solutions if the stochastic membrane equations are solved exclusively based on expectation values of differentials of the stochastic variables, hence neglecting the spectral properties of the underlying stochastic processes. We suggest a simple solution that corrects these deviations, leading to extended analytic expressions of the Vm distribution valid for a parameter regime that covers several orders of magnitude around physiologically realistic values. These extended expressions should enable finer characterization of the stochasticity of synaptic currents by analyzing experimentally recorded Vm distributions and may be applicable to other classes of stochastic processes as well.
Computational models of the hippocampal region link psychological theories of associative learning with their underlying physiological and anatomical substrates. Our approach to theory development began with a broad description of the computations that depend on the hippocampal region in classical conditioning (Gluck and Myers, 1993 and Gluck and Myers, 2001). In this initial model, the hippocampal region was treated as an Information-processing system that transformed stimulus representations, compressing (making more similar) representations of inputs that co-occur or are otherwise redundant, while differentiating (or making less similar) representations of inputs that predict different future events. This model led to novel predictions for the behavioral consequences of hippocampal-region lesions in rodents and of brain damage in humans who have amnesia or are in the earliest stages of Alzheimer's disease. Many of these predictions have, since been confirmed by our lab and others. Functional brain imaging studies have provided further supporting evidence. In more recent computational modeling, we have shown how some aspects of this proposed information-processing function could emerge from known anatomical and physiological characteristics of the hippocampal region, including the entorhinal cortex and the septo-hippocampal cholinergic system. The modeling to date lays the groundwork for future directions that increase the depth of detail of the biological modeling, as well as the breadth of behavioral phenomena addressed. In particular, we are working now to reconcile these kinds of incremental associative learning models with other models of the hippocampal region that account for the rapid formation of declarative memories.
A computational model of the hippocampal function in spatial learning is presented. A spatial representation is incrementally acquired during exploration. Visual and self-motion information is fed into a network of rate-coded neurons. A consistent and stable place code emerges by unsupervised Hebbian learning between place- and head direction cells. Based on this representation, goal-oriented navigation is learnt by applying a reward-based learning mechanism between the hippocampus and nucleus accumbens. The model, validated on a real and simulated robot, successfully localises itself by recalibrating its path integrator using visual input. A navigation map is learnt after about 20 trials, comparable to rats in the water maze. In contrast to previous works, this system processes realistic visual input. No compass is needed for localisation and the reward-based learning mechanism extends discrete navigation models to continuous space. The model reproduces experimental findings and suggests several neurophysiological and behavioural predictions in the rat.
Behaviors ranging from delivering newspapers to waiting tables depend on remembering previous episodes to avoid incorrect repetition. Physiologically, this requires mechanisms for long-term storage and selective retrieval of episodes based on the time of occurrence, despite variable intervals and similarity of events in a familiar environment. Here, this process has been modeled based on the physiological properties of the hippocampal formation, including mechanisms for sustained activity in entorhinal cortex and theta rhythm oscillations in hippocampal subregions. The model simulates the context-sensitive firing properties of hippocampal neurons including trial-specific firing during spatial alternation and trial by trial changes in theta phase precession on a linear track. This activity is used to guide behavior, and lesions of the hippocampal network impair memory-guided behavior. The model links data at the cellular level to behavior at the systems level, describing a physiologically plausible mechanism for the brain to recall a given episode which occurred at a specific place and time.
Single neuron recording studies have demonstrated the existence of spatial view neurons which encode information about the spatial location at which a primate is looking in the environment. These neurons are able to maintain their firing even in the absence of visual input. The standard neuronal network approach to model networks with memory that represent continuous spaces is that of continuous attractor neural networks. Stringer, Rolls and Trappenberg (2005) have recently shown how idiothetic (self-motion) inputs could update the activity packet of neuronal firing within a two-dimensional continuous attractor neural network of spatial view cells. However, this earlier study examined only the simplified situation in which the agent could rotate on the spot or move its eyes. In this paper we show how spatial view cells could be driven by head direction and place cells, themselves idiothetically updated. The head direction and place neurons are remapped by a competitive network with expansion recoding which self-organises so that different neurons represent different combinations of head direction and the place where the agent is located. The combination cells are then mapped by pattern association involving long-term synaptic potentiation but also long-term homosynaptic depression to spatial view cells, which during training are driven by the spatial view. After training, the spatial view cells are updated in the dark by the idiothetically driven head direction and place cells.
Temporal difference reinforcement learning (TDRL) algorithms, hypothesized to partially explain basal ganglia functionality, learn more slowly than real animals. Modified TDRL algorithms (e.g. the Dyna-Q family) learn faster than standard TDRL by practicing experienced sequences offline. We suggest that the replay phenomenon, in which ensembles of hippocampal neurons replay previously experienced firing sequences during subsequent rest and sleep, may provide practice sequences to improve the speed of TDRL learning, even within a single session. We test the plausibility of this hypothesis in a computational model of a multiple-T choice-task. Rats show two learning rates on this task: a fast decrease in errors and a slow development of a stereotyped path. Adding developing replay to the model accelerates learning the correct path, but slows down the stereotyping of that path. These models provide testable predictions relating the effects of hippocampal inactivation as well as hippocampal replay on this task.
In recent years, several lines of evidence have shown an increase in Parkinson's disease (PD) prevalence in rural environments where pesticides are widely used. Paraquat (PQ--herbicide) and maneb (MB--fungicide) are among the compounds suspected to induce neuronal degeneration and motor deficits characteristics of PD. Here, we investigated the effects of PQ and MB on dopaminergic (DA) neuron-glia cultures and in vivo in young adult rats. In vitro, PQ led to a loss of DA as compared to non-DA neurons and microglial activation in a dose-dependent manner. Addition of MB had no further effect nor did it lead to microglial activation when used alone. In vivo, 2-month old young adult rats were subjected to intraperitoneal injections of vehicle (n = 4), PQ alone (n = 8), or PQ in combination with MB (n = 8) twice a week for 4 weeks and were sacrificed the day following the last injection. Significant loss of nigral DA neurons was observed in both treatment groups, but a significant decrease in striatal DA fibers was not found. Microglial activation was seen in the nigra of rats subjected to PQ with or without MB. Behavioral analyses demonstrated a mixed pattern of motor impairments, which may have been related to early effects of nigral DA neuronal loss or systemic effects associated with MB exposure in addition to PQ. These results indicate that exposure to PQ with or without MB induces neurodegeneration which might occur via an early inflammatory response in young adult animals.
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses are a newly-recognized group of lysosomal storage disorders in which neurodegeneration predominates. The pathophysiological basis for this is unknown. In the current paper, we sought to determine whether neurons that lack the enzyme responsible for the infantile form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) display abnormalities in culture that could be related to the clinical disorder. Electrophysiological and fluorescent dye studies were performed using cortical neuronal cultures established from postnatal day 2 palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1 (Ppt1) knockout mice. We found a 30% reduction in synaptic vesicle number per bouton that was progressive with time in culture as well as an elevation in lysosomal pH, whereas a number of passive and active membrane properties of the neurons were normal. The reduction in vesicle pool size was also reflected in a decrease in the frequency of miniature synaptic currents. The progressive and gradual decline in vesicle numbers and miniature event frequency we observed here may be an early indicator of synapse degeneration, in keeping with observations during competitive stimulation at the neuromuscular junction or age-related synapse elimination recently reported by others. PPT1 did not colocalize with synaptic vesicle or synapse markers, suggesting that lysosomal dysfunction leads indirectly to the synaptic abnormalities. We conclude that from an early age, neurons deficient in PPT1 enzyme activity display intrinsically abnormal properties that could potentially explain key features of the clinical disease, such as myoclonus and seizures.
Synaptic dysfunction is increasingly viewed as an early manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the cellular mechanism by which beta-amyloid (Abeta) may affect synapses remains unclear. Since cultured neurons derived from APP mutant transgenic mice secrete elevated levels of Abeta and parallel the subcellular Abeta accumulation seen in vivo, we asked whether alterations in synapses occur in this setting. We report that cultured Tg2576 APP mutant neurons have selective alterations in pre- and post-synaptic compartments compared to wild-type neurons. Post-synaptic compartments appear fewer in number and smaller, while active pre-synaptic compartments appear fewer in number and enlarged. Among the earliest changes in synaptic composition in APP mutant neurons were reductions in PSD-95, a protein involved in recruiting and anchoring glutamate receptor subunits to the post-synaptic density. In agreement, we observed early reductions in surface expression of glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 in APP mutant neurons. We provide evidence that Abeta is specifically involved in these alterations in synaptic biology, since alterations in PSD-95 and GluR1 are blocked by gamma-secretase inhibition, and since exogenous addition of synthetic Abeta to wild-type neurons parallels changes in synaptic PSD-95 and GluR1 observed in APP mutant neurons.
The progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rapidly progressing degenerative disease belonging to the family of tauophaties, characterized by the involvement of both cortical and subcortical structures. Although the pathogenesis of PSP is still uncertain, genetic, biochemical, and immunohistochemical studies have been performed and are reviewed here. Genetic factors, oxidative damage, neurotoxins, and environmental factors contribute to tau deposition in the cerebral areas involved in PSP. Symptoms originate from the ensuing dysfunction of dopaminergic, GABAergic, cholinergic, and noradrenergic pathways. Recent advances in neuroradiological and instrumental examinations facilitate the diagnosis and have gained new insights into the pathophysiology of PSP, although the primary cause of the disease is unknown and disease-modifying drugs are not yet available.
Motor complications induced through repeated L-DOPA treatment in patients with Parkinson's disease are thought to be the consequence of molecular adaptations that occur in response to repeated dopamine receptors stimulation. Here, we studied the molecular changes taking place in the denervated striatum of unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned rats repeatedly treated with L-DOPA alone or combined to the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390. We looked at the territorial patterns of expression of neurotensin (NT), dynorphin (DYN), enkephalin (ENK) and Nur77 (also known as NGFI-B) mRNA expression in the striatum and contrasted these with markers of glutamatergic transport and dopaminergic receptor functions. The denervation process induced NT and Nur77 mRNA expression in ENK-positive cells. Subsequent repeated L-DOPA treatment led to a sensitization of L-DOPA-induced rotational response and produced a second surge of NT induction, this time limited to DYN-positive cells and preferentially restricted to the lateral striatum. In this specific territory, the number of Nur77-positive cells was decreased, in response to L-DOPA, when compared to the medial part of the lesioned striatum. L-DOPA treatment increased dopamine D3 receptor and glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) mRNA expression in the lesioned striatum and that, specifically in an area overlapping one of Nur77 decrease and of NT/DYN induction. The concomitant administration of SCH23390 with repeated L-DOPA treatment blocked the development of behavioral sensitization and the appearance of all L-DOPA-induced molecular reorganizations reported above. Our results showed that repeated L-DOPA treatment produces, in a denervated striatum, a complex pattern of genes regulation in both the direct and the indirect striatal output pathways. This phenomenon is located preferentially in a striatal area receiving converging inputs from the thalamus and sensorimotor cortex and is dependent upon D1 receptor stimulation.
Electrical activity was recorded from single neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex of rabbits during differential Pavlovian heart rate (HR) conditioning. A heterogeneous population of cells were found, some of which showed CS-evoked increases and others CS-evoked decreases in discharge, while some cells were biphasic. A subset of cells also showed trial-related changes in discharge that were related to acquisition of the HR discrimination between the reinforced CS+ and non-reinforced CS-. Administration of the peripheral cholinergic antagonist, methylscopolamine, and the andrenergic antagonist, atenolol, either increased or decreased maintained baseline activity of many cells, but had little or no effect on the CS-evoked activity of these cells. Waveform changes also did not result from administration of these drugs. This finding suggests that CS-evoked mPFC activity is not being driven by cardiac afferent input to CNS cardiac control centers. Previous studies have shown that ibotenic acid lesions of this area greatly decreases the magnitude of decelerative heart rate conditioned responses; the latter finding, plus the results of the present study, suggest that processing of CS/US contingencies by the prefrontal cortex contributes to the acquisition of autonomic changes during Pavlovian conditioning.
We previously proposed the hypothesis that calpain activation played an important role in long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in hippocampus. Two forms of calpain are predominant in brain tissues, calpain 1 (mu-calpain), activated by micromolar calcium concentration and calpain 2 (m-calpain), activated by millimolar calcium concentration in vitro. In the present study, we tested the role of calpain 1 in LTP and in learning and memory using calpain 1 knock-out mice. Changes in learning and memory were assessed using both context and tone fear conditioning. No differences in freezing responses were observed between the knock-out and the wild-type animals during the acquisition phase of the training, eliminating the possibility that the knock-out animals could be differentially affected by the foot shock. Likewise, no differences in freezing responses elicited by either the context or the tone were observed during the retention phase. No differences in short-term potentiation (STP) or LTP were observed in hippocampal slices from the knock-out and matched wild-type mice. Several interpretations might explain these negative results. First, it is conceivable that calpain 2 plays a more dominant role in neurons, and that calpain 1 makes a minor contribution as opposed to its suspected predominant role in the hematopoietic system. Alternatively, it is conceivable that some as yet unknown compensatory mechanisms take effect, and that calpain 2 or another calpain isoform substitutes for the missing calpain 1.
A matching-to-position (MTP) paradigm was altered to influence the type of associations a rat would use to solve the task. Our main behavioral manipulation was the application of the differential outcomes procedure (DOP). The DOP involves correlating each to-be-remembered event with a distinct reward condition. This procedure results in the development of unique reward expectancies that enhance and guide choice behavior. Such distinct reward expectancies are not formed when either a common or random assignment of reward is used (a non-differential outcomes procedure [NOP]). Intracerebroventricular infusions of the amnestic agent muscimol (GABA(A) agonist) or aCSF were delivered to male rats trained on a delayed MTP task that implemented either the DOP or the NOP. Muscimol impaired performance in a dose dependent fashion in both groups--but the nature of the deficit differed as a function of reinforcement contingencies. Rats trained with the DOP displayed a non-mnemonic delay-independent impairment: performance at all delay intervals was disrupted. In contrast, NOP-trained rats displayed a delay-dependent impairment demonstrating that muscimol can also have memory-disrupting effects. The difference in pattern of impairment appears to be a function of the associations formed during training and the type of cognitive strategies involved in maintaining behavior on a conditional delayed discrimination task when reinforcement contingencies are varied. Thus, these results demonstrate that increasing GABA(A) receptor activation impairs a range of associative and memory functions.
Li+ effects on glucose metabolism and on the competitive metabolism of glucose and lactate were investigated in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line using 13C NMR spectroscopy. The metabolic model proposed for glucose and lactate metabolism in these cells, based on tcaCALC best fitting solutions, for both control and Li+ conditions, was consistent with: (i) a single pyruvate pool; (ii) anaplerotic flux from endogenous unlabelled substrates; (iii) no cycling between pyruvate and oxaloacetate. Li+ was shown to induce a 38 and 53% decrease, for 1 and 15 mM Li+, respectively, in the rate of glucose conversion into pyruvate, when [U-13C]glucose was present, while no effects on lactate production were observed. Pyruvate oxidation by the tricarboxylic acid cycle and citrate synthase flux were shown to be significantly reduced by 64 and 84% in the presence of 1 and 15 mM Li+, respectively, suggesting a direct inhibitory effect of Li+ on tricarboxylic acid cycle flux. This work also showed that when both glucose and lactate are present as energetic substrates, SH-SY5Y cells preferentially consumed exogenous lactate over glucose, as 62% of the acetyl-CoA was derived from [3-13C]lactate while only 26% was derived from [U-13C]glucose. Li+ did not significantly affect the relative utilisation of these two substrates by the cells or the residual contribution of unlabelled endogenous sources for the acetyl-CoA pool.
Investigation of the role of extracellular nucleotides in nervous system has been one of the main topics of the P2Y receptor research throughout the years. In parallel to numerous studies on primary culture systems, various neuronal and non-neuronal cell lines have been used to model in vitro the processes mediated by extracellular nucleotides. In this review article, a survey of expression profiles of G protein-coupled P2Y receptor subtypes in nervous-system-derived cell lines is presented, by analysing the receptor expression at the mRNA, protein, and functional level. The variability of receptor expression profiles in established cell lines is further discussed, bringing forward some general properties for neuronal and glial malignant cell lines.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEAS) was given the name &quot;fountain of youth&quot; in reference to its beneficial properties in memory, cognition and aging. Cultured cell studies showed that DHEAS may mediate its action by counteracting aging-associated inflammation via PPAR-alpha activation. In the present study, we demonstrated an age-dependent increase in IL-1beta and TNF-alpha expression in the brain and the spleen of aging rats, while PPAR-alpha expression was decreased in the spleen of 18 month-old rats. Oral treatment with DHEAS increased PPAR-alpha mRNA in 3 month-old rats and decreased PPAR-alpha protein expression in 18 month-old rats in the spleen. In contrast, DHEAS did not alter cytokine expression in spleen and brain of the three age groups. These findings underline a differential role for DHEAS in PPAR-alpha expression that is age-dependent, and also, that beneficial effects of DHEAS on cognitive function are unlikely mediated by a decrease in cytokine expression.
On the basis of anatomical and physiological data obtained on animal models, we recently proposed that neurons in the main visual extrageniculate nuclei complex, the pulvinar, are actively involved in higher-order visual processing. Pulvinar neurons have been shown to integrate the component signals of a plaid pattern into a coherent global percept (pattern-motion selectivity). Using positron emission tomography (PET), we have investigated the possibility that the human pulvinar is also involved in plaid-defined higher-order motion integration. Plaid patterns were presented to normal observers in two conditions (coherent vs. transparent) created by varying the relative spatial frequency of the two gratings comprising the plaid. Regions of interest analysis revealed a significant activation of the pulvinar in the coherent condition supporting the notion that the human pulvinar nucleus is involved in higher-order motion processing. Plaid pattern activation was also observed in the medial temporal gyrus (area MT/V5), a motion area with strong anatomical connections to the pulvinar. These data provide the first direct evidence that the human pulvinar is involved in complex motion integration, as previously shown in animal models, and further support the existence of cortico-thalamo-cortical computational networks involved in higher-order visual processing.
Recent models of visual recognition have suggested that perceptual analysis may start with a parallel extraction of different spatial frequencies (SF), using a preferential coarse-to-fine (low-to-high SF) sequence of processing. A rapid extraction of low spatial frequency (LSF) information may thus provide an initial and crude parsing of the visual scene, subsequently refined by slow but more detailed high spatial frequency (HSF) information. However, the sequence of SF analysis could be flexible, a high-to-low (HtL) being sometimes preferred to a low-to-high (LtH) SF sequence depending on task demands. Furthermore, it has also been suggested that the right vs. left hemisphere might be differentially specialized in LSF vs. HSF analysis, respectively. By manipulating the temporal succession of LSF and HSF stimuli, the present fMRI study investigated whether such hemispheric specialization may underlie the flexible use of different time-course in SF analysis. Participants performed a matching task between two successive images of natural scenes (LSF or HSF) that were displayed either in an LtH (LSF scene presented first and HSF scene second) or in a reverse HtL sequence. A direct inter-hemispheric comparison of the neural responses evoked by each SF sequence revealed greater activations within the right occipito-temporal cortex for the LtH sequence and within the left occipito-temporal cortex for the HtL sequence. These fMRI results suggest that the hemisphere preferentially engaged during the sequential processing of different SF might be determined by the initial SF-band appearing in this sequence, and that both a coarse-to-fine and fine-to-coarse analysis might independently take place in the two hemispheres.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) disease is a common cause of myopathy and the presence of histochemically demonstrated cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency is an extremely useful diagnostic feature. However, there is currently no quantitative information regarding the variability of COX deficiency within or between muscles. This study addresses this issue by studying a number of skeletal muscle samples obtained at post-mortem from three patients with mitochondrial disease due to established mitochondrial DNA defects. COX deficient muscle fibres were enumerated in sections of these muscles and analysed according to patient, individual muscle, position within a particular muscle and sample size. Descriptive statistics were generated followed by an analysis of variance (ANOVA) to assess the effect of these parameters on the mean percentage of COX deficient fibres. We observed statistically significant variation in the percentage of COX deficient fibres within individual muscles from each patient for samples sizes of between 100 and 400 fibres. Our results have implications for the way in which biopsies of skeletal muscle are used for the assessment of disease severity, progression and response to treatment.
The excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) play key roles in the regulation of CNS L-glutamate, especially related to synthesis, signal termination, synaptic spillover, and excitotoxic protection. Inhibitors available to delineate EAAT pharmacology and function are essentially limited to those that non-selectively block all EAATs or those that exhibit a substantial preference for EAAT2. Thus, it is difficult to selectively study the other subtypes, particularly EAAT1 and EAAT3. Structure activity studies on a series of beta-substituted aspartate analogues identify L-beta-benzyl-aspartate (L-beta-BA) as among the first blockers that potently and preferentially inhibits the neuronal EAAT3 subtype. Kinetic analysis of D-[(3)H]aspartate uptake into C17.2 cells expressing the hEAATs demonstrate that L-beta-threo-BA is the more potent diastereomer, acts competitively, and exhibits a 10-fold preference for EAAT3 compared to EAAT1 and EAAT2. Electrophysiological recordings of EAAT-mediated currents in Xenopus oocytes identify L-beta-BA as a non-substrate inhibitor. Analyzing L-beta-threo-BA within the context of a novel EAAT2 pharmacophore model suggests: (1) a highly conserved positioning of the electrostatic carboxyl and amino groups; (2) nearby regions that accommodate select structural modifications (cyclopropyl rings, methyl groups, oxygen atoms); and (3) a unique region L-beta-threo-BA occupied by the benzyl moieties of L-TBOA, L-beta-threo-BA and related analogues. It is plausible that the preference of L-beta-threo-BA and L-TBOA for EAAT3 and EAAT2, respectively, could reside in the latter two pharmacophore regions.
The D-isomer of aspartate is both a substrate for glutamate transporters and an agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. To monitor the behavior of these receptors and transporters in intact tissue we synthesized a new photo-labile analogue of D-aspartate, N-[(6-nitrocoumarin-7-yl)methyl]-D-aspartic acid (Ncm-D-aspartate). This compound was photolyzed rapidly (t(1/2)=0.11 micros) by UV light with a quantum efficiency of 0.041 at pH 7.4. In acute hippocampal slices, photolysis of Ncm-D-aspartate by brief (1 ms) exposure to UV light elicited rapidly activating inward currents in astrocytes that were sensitive to inhibition by the glutamate transporter antagonist DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA). Neither Ncm-D-aspartate nor the photo-released caging group exhibited agonist or antagonist activity at glutamate transporters, and Ncm-D-aspartate did not induce transporter currents prior to photolysis. Glutamate transporter currents were also elicited in cerebellar Purkinje cells in response to photolysis of Ncm-D-aspartate. Photo-release of D-aspartate from Ncm-D-aspartate did not induce alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptor or metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) currents, but triggered robust NMDA receptor currents in neurons; Ncm-D-aspartate and the photolzyed caging group were similarly inert at NMDA receptors. These results indicate that Ncm-D-aspartate can be used to study NMDA receptors at excitatory synapses and interactions between transporters and receptors in brain tissue.

Three participants with callosal agenesis and 12 neurologically normal participants were tested on a simple reaction time task, with visual evoked potentials collected using a high-density 128-channel system. Independent-components analyses were performed on the averaged visual evoked potentials to isolate the components of interest. Contrary to previous research with acallosals, evidence of ipsilateral activation was present in all 3 participants. Although ipsilateral visual components were present in all 4 unilateral conditions in the 2 related acallosal participants, in the 3rd, these were present only in the crossed visual field-hand conditions and not in the uncrossed conditions. Suggestions are made as to why these results differ from earlier findings and as to the neural mechanisms facilitating this ipsilateral activation.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the endogenous cannabinoid system is involved in the reinforcing effects of heroin. In rats intravenously self-administering heroin, we investigated effects of cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonists and compounds that block transport or metabolism of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide. The natural cannnabinoid CB1 receptor agonist delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, 0.3-3 mg/kg i.p.) did not alter self-administration of heroin under a fixed-ratio one (FR1) schedule, except at a high 3 mg/kg dose which decreased heroin self-administration. Under a progressive-ratio schedule, however, THC dose-dependently increased the number of 50 mug/kg heroin injections self-administered per session and the maximal ratio completed (break-point), with peak increases at 1 mg/kg THC. In addition, 1 mg/kg THC increased break-points and injections self-administered over a wide range of heroin injection doses (25-100 microg/kg), indicating an increase in heroin's reinforcing efficacy and not its potency. The synthetic cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (0.3-3 mg/kg i.p.) had effects similar to THC under the progressive-ratio schedule. In contrast, AM-404 (1-10 mg/kg i.p.), an inhibitor of transport of anandamide, and URB-597 (0.01-0.3 mg/kg i.p.), an inhibitor of the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) that degrades anandamide, or their combination, did not increase reinforcing efficacy of heroin at any dose tested. Thus, activation of cannabinoid CB1 receptors facilitates the reinforcing efficacy of heroin and this appears to be mediated by interactions between cannabinoid CB1 receptors and mu-opioid receptors and their signaling pathways, rather than by an opioid-induced release of endogenous cannabinoids.
There is an increasing interest in the development of nondopaminergic pharmacotherapies for cocaine abuse. Emerging preclinical and clinical data with the metabotropic GABAB receptor agonist baclofen support a role for the modulation of GABAB receptors in the treatment of drug addiction. Nevertheless, the muscle relaxant, hypothermic, and sedative properties of baclofen somewhat limit its widespread potential therapeutic utility. Recently, positive modulators of the GABAB receptor such as GS39783 (N,N'-dicyclopentyl-2-methylsulfanyl-5-nitro-pyrimidine-4,6-diamine) have been identified. These positive modulators enhance the effects of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) through actions at an allosteric site and are devoid of intrinsic agonistic efficacy. The aim of the present study was to assess the ability of the novel GABAB-positive modulator GS39873 or baclofen to modulate the behavioral effects of cocaine. Drugs of abuse such as cocaine lower brain reward thresholds obtained using intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS). We demonstrate here that GS39783 had no intrinsic effects on ICSS reward thresholds (10-100 mg/kg p.o.) in rats, whereas the full GABAB receptor agonist baclofen (2.5-5 mg/kg p.o.) dose dependently elevated thresholds. Moreover, both GS39783 and baclofen attenuated the threshold lowering effect of cocaine administration (10 mg/kg intraperitoneally) in a dose-related manner. These data strongly suggest that activation of GABAB receptors attenuates the rewarding effects of acute cocaine. Therefore, GABAB-positive modulation may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of cocaine dependence and possibly other drugs of abuse without the side effects of full GABAB receptor agonists.
Strong functional interactions exist between endogenous cannabinoid and opioid systems. Here, we investigated whether cannabinoid-opioid interactions modulate motivational effects of food reinforcement. In rats responding for food under a progressive-ratio schedule, the maximal effort (break point) expended to obtain 45 mg pellets depended on the level of food deprivation, with free-feeding reducing break points and food-deprivation increasing break points. Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC; 0.3-5.6 mg/kg intrapeitoneally (i.p.)) and morphine (1-10 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently increased break points for food reinforcement, while the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR-141716A; 0.3-3 mg/kg i.p.) and the preferential mu-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (0.3-3 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently decreased break points. THC and morphine only increased break points when food was delivered during testing, suggesting that these treatments directly influenced reinforcing effects of food, rather than increasing behavior in a nonspecific manner. Effects of THC were blocked by rimonabant and effects of morphine were blocked by naloxone, demonstrating that THC's effects depended on cannabinoid CB1 receptor activation and morphine's effects depended on opioid-receptor activation. Furthermore, THC's effects were blocked by naloxone and morphine's effects were blocked by rimonabant, demonstrating that mu-opioid receptors were involved in the effects of THC and cannabinoid CB1 receptors were involved in the effects of morphine on food-reinforced behavior. Thus, activation of both endogenous cannabinoid and opioid systems appears to jointly facilitate motivational effects of food measured under progressive-ratio schedules of reinforcement and this facilitatory modulation appears to critically depend on interactions between these two systems. These findings support the proposed therapeutic utility of cannabinoid agonists and antagonists in eating disorders.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant inheritable neurodegenerative disorder currently without effective treatment. It is caused by an expanded polyglutamine (poly Q) tract in the corresponding protein, huntingtin (htt), and therefore suppressing the huntingtin expression in brain neurons is expected to delay the onset and mitigate the severity of the disease. Here, we have used small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) directed against the huntingtin gene to repress the transgenic mutant huntingtin expression in an HD mouse model, R6/2. Results showed that intraventricular injection of siRNAs at an early postnatal period inhibited transgenic huntingtin expression in brain neurons and induced a decrease in the numbers and sizes of intranuclear inclusions in striatal neurons. Treatments using this siRNA significantly prolonged model mice longevity, improved motor function and slowed down the loss of body weight. This work suggests that siRNA-based therapy is promising as a future treatment for HD.
Recent studies show that inflammation has an active role in the onset of neurodegenerative diseases. It is known that in response to extracellular insults microglia and/or astrocytes produce inflammatory agents. These contribute to the neuropathological events in the aging process and neuronal degeneration. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Here, we show that IL-6 treatment of rat hippocampal neurons increases the calcium influx via NMDA-receptor, an effect that is prevented by the specific NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine). We also show that this calcium influx is mediated by the JAKs/STATs pathway, since the inhibitor of JAKs/STATs pathway, JAK 3 inhibitor, blocks calcium influx even in the presence of IL-6. This increase in calcium signal was dependent on external sources, since this signal was not observed in the presence of EGTA. Additional studies indicate that the increase in cytosolic calcium induces tau protein hyperphosphorylation, as revealed by using specific antibodies against Alzheimer phosphoepitopes. This anomalous tau hyperphosphorylation was dependent on both the JAKs/STATs pathway and NMDA receptor. These results suggest that IL-6 would induce a cascade of molecular events that produce a calcium influx through NMDA receptors, mediated by the JAKs/STATs pathway, which subsequently modifies the tau hyperphosphorylation patterns.

A 65-year-old woman began to experience slowly progressive speech disturbance from 2001. She was admitted to our hospital for examination on May 2003. She had dysprosody, paragraphia, and mild disturbance in comprehension of spoken language. Repetition was preserved. No clear paraphasia was found. Calculation was disturbed, but there were no other neurological abnormalities including apraxia and agnosia. Brain MRI showed atrophy of the left frontal and parietal lobes. 99mTc-ECD SPECT showed decreased blood flow in the left frontal lobe and parietal lobe, especially in the Broca area and supplemental motor cortex. Primary progressive aphasia was diagnosed, because aphasia lasted for 2 years without other neurological deficits, and her daily activity was well preserved. During follow up, facial apraxia appeared from December 2003, and limb apraxia appeared from May 2004, followed by rigidity predominantly in the right upper limb and dementia. She was diagnosed as having corticobasal degeneration (CBD). The second SPECT on December 2004 showed progression of the decrease in cerebral flow at the same area showed by the first SPECT. SPECT is useful examination to predict the progress of the disease because the decrease of blood flow was recognized before the progression to CBD.
Hypothesising that systemically and intrathecally produced nitric oxide might play different roles in the EAE pathogenesis, we administered the NOS inhibitor N-nitro-methyl-L-arginine-ester intrathecally or systemically via osmotic minipumps to DA rats with MOG induced EAE. We demonstrate an protective effect of the NOS inhibitor on EAE severity, the extent of CNS inflammation, and demyelination. Intrathecal administration was more effective when compared to systemic administration. The observed effect was accompanied by enhanced anti-MOG IgG1 production. In our model, the therapeutic effect was concluded to be due to direct inhibition of the NO pathway in the CNS.


The aim of the study was to examine the association between stress and pregnancy outcome after adjustment for possible confounding and mediating variables. A prospective cohort study of 5511 pregnancies was conducted in 2001-03 in the Netherlands. A standardised questionnaire collecting demographics and mental health data was administered at 14 and 30 weeks of pregnancy. Medical data on the pregnancy and delivery were obtained from obstetricians and midwives. The results showed that a high level of perceived stress at 14 weeks of pregnancy increased the risk for delivery of an infant that was small-for-gestational-age (OR = 1.26 [95% CI 1.01, 1.56]), but the association was reduced after adjustment for the possible confounding effects of demographic variables (OR = 1.16 [95% CI 0.92, 1.47]). The results do not support a direct relationship between perceived stress and adverse pregnancy outcome. Demographic variables may explain the association between psychosocial stress and pregnancy outcome to a significant degree.
Reactivation of latent varicella zoster virus (VZV) within sensory trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons produces shingles (zoster), often accompanied by a chronic neuropathic pain state, post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). PHN persists despite latency of the virus within human sensory ganglia and is often unresponsive to current analgesic or antiviral agents. To study the basis of varicella zoster-induced pain, we have utilised a recently developed model of chronic VZV infection in rodents. Immunohistochemical analysis of DRG following VZV infection showed the presence of a viral immediate early gene protein (IE62) co-expressed with markers of A- (neurofilament-200; NF-200) and C- (peripherin) afferent sensory neurons. There was increased expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in neurons co-expressing NF-200. In addition, there was an increased expression of alpha2delta1 calcium channel, Na(v)1.3 and Na(v)1.8 sodium channels, the neuropeptide galanin and the nerve injury marker, Activating Transcription Factor-3 (ATF-3) as determined by Western blotting in DRG of VZV-infected rats. VZV infection induced increased behavioral reflex responsiveness to both noxious thermal and mechanical stimuli ipsilateral to injection (lasting up to 10 weeks post-infection) that is mediated by spinal NMDA receptors. These changes were reversed by systemic administration of gabapentin or the sodium channel blockers, mexiletine and lamotrigine, but not by the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, diclofenac. This is the first time that the profile of VZV infection-induced phenotypic changes in DRG has been shown in rodents and reveals that this profile appears to be broadly similar (but not identical) to changes in other neuropathic pain models.
The ligand-gated ion channel, TRPV4, functions as a transducer of hypotonic stimuli in primary afferent nociceptive neurons and contributes to inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Hypertonic saline also stimulates primary afferent nociceptors and the injection of mild hypertonic saline (2-5%) is widely used as an experimental model of pain in humans. Therefore, we tested whether TRPV4 participates in the transduction of hypertonic stimuli. Intradermal injection of 2% (607 mOsm) or 10% (3,250 mOsm) saline solution in the hind paw of rats induced a concentration-dependent pain-related behavior, flinching. Sensitization with prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) caused a 7-fold increase in the number of flinches induced by 2% saline but failed to increase those caused by 10% saline. Spinal administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to TRPV4 caused a 46% decrease in the number of flinches induced by 2% saline, but there was no change in flinching induced by 10% saline. Similarly, only the nociceptive behavior caused by 2% saline was reduced in TRPV4(-/-) knockout mice. The TRPV4-mediated nociceptive behaviors induced by hyper- and hypotonic stimuli were dependent on Src tyrosine kinase. We suggest TRPV4 is a transducer in primary afferents that mediates nociceptive behavior induced by small increases or decreases in osmolarity. Such changes in osmolarity might contribute to pain in inflammatory and neuropathic states.

Enrichment of diet with Nicotinamide in the West was introduced in the 1940s to prevent the dietary deficiency disorder Pellagra. Pellagra was caused by a particular form of poor vegetarian diet leading to Nicotinamide and Tryptophan deficiency. Arguably Pellagra would have disappeared if dietary measures suggested at the time had been implemented before Nicotinamide was even discovered. Diets may sometimes now be too high in selected pyridines and inadvertently we have exchanged one neurodegenerative disease for another. Parkinson's disease triggered in contrast to Pellagra by a particular form of rich omnivorous diet. Moderation of Nicotinamide intake would be easy to begin with compared with other dietary manipulations as there is no behavior change necessary for individuals. A substantial amount of Nicotinamide can be removed when and where there is too much that has been introduced artificially and inserted where there is too little because meat is unaffordable.
Pediatric glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) tumors, which have been established as 'de novo' neoplasms, are known to differ from their adult counterparts in terms of biology, genetics and ultimately survival of patients. In order to evaluate the utility of markers of tumor biology for refining prognostic assessment, we retrospectively analyzed 54 pediatric GBMs (age range 9 months to 15 years) occurring at different anatomical sites in the brain, operated at our institute between 1995 and 2001. The expression of p53, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), bcl-2 and retinoblastoma proteins (pRb) was analyzed by immunohistochemistry and the results were compared with the clinical profile, MIB-1 labeling index (LI) and patient survival. p53 immunoreactivity was noted in 53.7% of cases, predominantly in thalamic (75%) and cerebral lobar (62.2%), followed by brainstem tumors (30%). It was absent in cerebellar tumors. p53-positive tumors had a higher MIB-1 LI, compared to p53-negative tumors (p=0.003). EGFR and bcl-2 overexpression was observed in 25.9% and 33.3% of cases, respectively, and loss of pRb expression was evident in only 7.4% of cases, indicating that loss of this gene function is not significantly involved in pediatric GBMs. p53 and bcl-2 expression were maximally noted in patients with poorer outcome. Our results indicate that p53 expression status is noted in a significant number of pediatric supratentorial neoplasms. p53 with bcl-2 overexpression is more often associated with ominous prognosis. Further molecular characterization would provide newer insights into the biology of these neoplasms and form a basis for future therapeutic decision making.
Leptin is a peptide hormone which acts on cells of immune system by influencing the production of cytokines. Serum leptin levels and cytokine production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were measured in 18 secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) patients under IFN-beta-1b treatment. There were no overall effects on leptin, interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-10 and IL-12 p40 after 2, 6 and 12 months of treatment. However, leptin and IL-6 decreased after 6 and 12 months of treatment in 12 patients who did not show progression of disability. Thus, our pilot data show that the beneficial effect of IFN-beta on some SPMS patients might be associated with the reduced levels of leptin and reduced IL-6 production by PBMC.
Ghrelin, a powerful orexigenic peptide released from the gut, stimulates feeding when injected centrally and has thus far been implicated in regulation of metabolic, rather than hedonic, feeding behavior. Although ghrelin's effects are partially mediated at the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, via activation of neurons that co-express neuropeptide Y and agouti-related protein (NPY/Agrp neurons), the ghrelin receptor is expressed also in other brain sites. One of these is the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a primary node of the mesolimbic reward pathway, which sends dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens (Acb), among other sites. We injected saline or three doses of ghrelin (0, 0.003, 0.03, or 0.3 nmol) into the VTA or Acb of rats. We found a robust feeding response with VTA injection of ghrelin, and a more moderate response with Acb injection. Because opioids modulate feeding in the VTA and Acb, we hypothesized that ghrelin's effects in one site were dependent on opioid signaling in the opposite site. The general opioid antagonist, naltrexone (NTX), injected into the Acb did not affect feeding elicited by ghrelin injection into the VTA, and NTX in the VTA did not affect feeding elicited by ghrelin injected into the Acb. These results suggest interaction of a metabolic factor with the reward system in feeding behavior, indicating that hedonic responses can be modulated by homeostatic factors.
Avidity for behaviors mediated by nondrug rewards, such as novelty seeking or intake of sweets or fats, is predictive of enhanced vulnerability to the locomotor-activating and rewarding effects of drugs of abuse. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether avidity for wheel running was predictive of subsequent cocaine-induced locomotor activity, cocaine self-administration, and cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. Rats with high (HiR) and low (LoR) levels of wheel running were selected from an outbred sample of Wistar rats. These rats were first tested for their locomotor response to an acute injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Subsequently, a multi-phase self-administration procedure was used to examine the effect of wheel running on the maintenance, extinction, and cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in HiR and LoR rats. The results indicate no significant differences between HiR and LoR rats in the cocaine-induced stimulation of locomotor activity. During maintenance, HiR rats self-administered more cocaine than LoR rats. While there were no group differences in saline self-administration behavior during extinction, HiR rats showed higher cocaine-induced reinstatement than LoR rats. Rats that were previously high responders to novelty (day 1 in locomotor track) also showed significantly higher reinstatement than low novelty responders. These results suggest that a propensity for wheel running is associated with increased vulnerability for cocaine self-administration and reinstatement and that HiR rats are more motivated than LoR rats to seek cocaine.
Homocysteine (Hcy) is a thyol amino acid resulting from de-methylation of methionine, an essential amino acid derived from dietary proteins. It is metabolized through two pathways: re-methylation and transsulfuration, which use as cofactors folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12. Hyperhomocysteinemia has been identified as a risk factor for cerebrovascular disease, dementia, impaired cognitive function and depression. Several drugs may interfere with metabolic pathways of Hcy, leading to an alteration of plasma Hcy levels. Lipid-lowering agents, used to reduce the risk of cerebral venous thrombosis or occlusive vascular disease in patients with high levels of plasmatic lipids, can increase plasma Hcy levels. Hyperhomocysteinemia has been also documented in Parkinson disease patients treated with levodopa and in epileptic patients after chronic treatment with antiepileptic drugs. In contrast, vitamins supplementations may be warranted in patients treated with lipid-lowering agents, levodopa and antiepileptic drugs in order to maintain normal plasma Hcy values. In contrast, higher doses of vitamins can induce dysfunctions in central and peripheral nervous system; therefore excessive supplements should be avoided.
The accumulation of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta), a physiological peptide, in the brain is a triggering event leading to the pathological cascade of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and appears to be caused by an increase in the anabolic activity, as seen in familial AD cases or by a decrease in catabolic activity. Neprilysin is a rate-limiting peptidase involved in the physiological degradation of Abeta in the brain. As demonstrated by reverse genetics studies, disruption of the neprilysin gene causes elevation of endogenous Abeta levels in mouse brain in a gene-dose-dependent manner. Thus, the reduction of neprilysin activity will contribute to Abeta accumulation and consequently to AD development. Evidence that neprilysin in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex is down-regulated with aging and from an early stage of AD development supports a close association of neprilysin with the etiology and pathogenesis of AD. Therefore, the up-regulation of neprilysin represents a promising strategy for therapy and prevention. Recently, somatostatin, which acts via a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), has been identified as a modulator that increases brain neprilysin activity, resulting in a decrease of Abeta levels. Thus, it may be possible to pharmacologically control brain Abeta levels with somatostatin receptor agonists.
The visual system converts the distribution and wavelengths of photons entering the eye into patterns of neuronal activity, which then drive motor and endocrine behavioral responses. The gene products important for visual processing by a living and behaving vertebrate animal have not been identified in an unbiased fashion. Likewise, the genes that affect development of the nervous system to shape visual function later in life are largely unknown. Here we have set out to close this gap in our understanding by using a forward genetic approach in zebrafish. Moving stimuli evoke two innate reflexes in zebrafish larvae, the optomotor and the optokinetic response, providing two rapid and quantitative tests to assess visual function in wild-type (WT) and mutant animals. These behavioral assays were used in a high-throughput screen, encompassing over half a million fish. In almost 2,000 F2 families mutagenized with ethylnitrosourea, we discovered 53 recessive mutations in 41 genes. These new mutations have generated a broad spectrum of phenotypes, which vary in specificity and severity, but can be placed into only a handful of classes. Developmental phenotypes include complete absence or abnormal morphogenesis of photoreceptors, and deficits in ganglion cell differentiation or axon targeting. Other mutations evidently leave neuronal circuits intact, but disrupt phototransduction, light adaptation, or behavior-specific responses. Almost all of the mutants are morphologically indistinguishable from WT, and many survive to adulthood. Genetic linkage mapping and initial molecular analyses show that our approach was effective in identifying genes with functions specific to the visual system. This collection of zebrafish behavioral mutants provides a novel resource for the study of normal vision and its genetic disorders.
It is thought that autism could result from an interaction between genetic and environmental factors with oxidative stress as a potential mechanism linking the two. One genetic factor may be altered oxidative-reductive capacity. This study tested the hypothesis that children with autism have increased oxidative stress. We evaluated children with autism for the presence of two oxidative stress biomarkers. Urinary excretion of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and 8-isoprostane-F2alpha (8-iso-PGF2alpha) were determined in 33 children with autism and 29 healthy controls. 8-iso-PGF2alpha levels were significantly higher in children with autism. The isoprostane levels in autistic subjects were variable with a bimodal distribution. The majority of autistic subjects showed a moderate increase in isoprostane levels while a smaller group of autistic children showed dramatic increases in their isoprostane levels. There was a trend of an increase in 8-OHdG levels in children with autism but it did not reach statistical significance. There was no significant correlation between the levels of the biomarkers and vitamin intake, dietary supplements, medicine, medical disorders, or history of regression. These results suggest that the lipid peroxidation biomarker is increased in this cohort of autistic children, especially in the subgroup of autistic children.
Behavioral data suggest that fear stimuli automatically activate fear and capture attention. This effect is likely to be mediated by a subcortical brain network centered on the amygdala. Consistent with this view, brain imaging studies show that masked facial stimuli activate the amygdala as do masked pictures of threatening animals such as snakes and spiders. When the stimulus conditions allow conscious processing, the amygdala response to feared stimuli is enhanced and a cortical network that includes the anterior cingulate cortex and the anterior insula is activated. However, the initial amygdala response to a fear-relevant but non-feared stimulus (e.g. pictures of spiders for a snake phobic) disappears with conscious processing and the cortical network is not recruited. Instead there is activation of the dorsolateral and orbitofrontal cortices that appears to inhibit the amygdala response. The data suggest that activation of the amygdala is mediated by a subcortical pathway, which passes through the superior colliculi and the pulvinar nucleus of the thalamus before accessing the amygdala, and which operates on low spatial frequency information.
The purpose of this paper is two fold. First, to revisit the issue of the definition of stress and to highlight the difficulties with the contemporary definitions and, second, to review the literature on the influence of early experiences on the endocrine stress responses and behavior in rodents, sub-human primates and humans. Early experiences, usually involving some manipulation that results in disruption of the mother-infant relationship, have been shown to have long-term influences on the behavioral and endocrine responses to stress. In the rodent, brief periods of separation result in an attenuated adrenal response to stress (reduced secretion of corticosterone). In contrast, longer periods of separation result in an exaggerated response and several behavioral anomalies i.e. increased alcohol consumption, increased startle response etc. However, the effects of disruptions of the mother-infant relationships in primates reveal a pattern of behavioral disturbance but little influence on the endocrine response. Brief maternal separations result in a blunted cortisol response in juvenile squirrel monkeys. The long-term effects of early experiences in humans are very difficult to interpret. It is not possible to determine the length and severity of the experiences, and when in development the experiences were imposed on the child. Despite these limitations, there is a general consensus that adverse early experiences contribute to adult psychopathology.



The aim of this work was to study the mechanism of cross-modulation between cannabinoid and opioid systems for analgesia during acute and chronic exposure. Acute coadministration of ineffectual subanalgesic doses of the synthetic cannabinoid CP-55,940 (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) and morphine (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in significant antinociception. In chronic studies, a low dose of CP-55,940 (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) that per se did not induce analgesia in naive animals produced a significant degree of antinociception in rats made tolerant to morphine, whereas in rats made tolerant to CP-55,940, morphine challenge did not produce any analgesic response. To identify the mechanism of these asymmetric interactions during chronic treatment, we investigated the functional activity of cannabinoid and mu opioid receptors and their effects on the cyclic AMP (cAMP) cascade. Autoradiographic-binding studies indicated a slight but significant reduction in cannabinoid receptor levels in the hippocampus and cerebellum of morphine-tolerant rats, whereas CP-55,940-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding showed a significant decrease in receptor/G protein coupling in the limbic area. In CP-55,940 exposed rats, mu opioid receptor binding was significantly raised in the lateral thalamus and periaqueductal gray (PAG), with an increase in DAMGO-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in the nucleus accumbens. Finally, we tested the cAMP system's responsiveness to the cannabinoid and opioid in the striatum and dorsal mesencephalon. In vivo chronic morphine did not affect CP-55,940's ability to inhibit forskolin-stimulated cAMP production in vitro and actually induced sensitization in striatal membranes. In contrast, in vivo chronic CP-55,940 desensitized DAMGO's efficacy in inhibiting forskolin-stimulated cAMP production in vitro. The alterations to the cAMP system seem to mirror the behavioral responses, indicating that the two systems may interact at the postreceptor level. This might open up new therapeutic opportunities for relief of chronic pain through cannabinoid-opioid coadministration.



Early onset ataxia with hypoalbuminemia (AOA1/EAOH) patients begin with ocular motor apraxia and cerebellar ataxia in childhood, and then develop axonal peripheral neuropathy and hypoalbuminemia. We and others identified 'aprataxin (APTX)' as the causative gene for AOA1/EAOH. APTX binds to XRCC1, which is the scaffold protein for BER machinery, and has a HIT-motif, which is supposed to have hydrolase activity on nucleotide. These properties suggest that APTX acts on DNA during single strand DNA break. The 3' -termini of single strand DNA break must be hydroxylated to allow DNA polymerase or ligase to repair; however, ordinary the 3' termini is modified by phosphate or others. These unsuitable ends have to be removed to repair. To investigate whether the APTX works on DNA and remove the unsuitable 3' -end, we incubated recombinant human APTX with variable oligonucleotide. We show that APTX has bidirectional exonuclease activity and 3'-phosphatase activity. These results indicate that APTX might modify the phosphorylated 3' -end in a single strand DNA break. To date several diseases have been identified as caused by an impairment of quality control system of DNA/ RNA. The impairment of quality control system of DNA/RNA is a new pathway for neuronal degeneration.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) and hereditary inclusion body myopathy (HIBM) are genetically identical autosomal recessive muscle disorders caused by mutations in the GNE gene. This gene encodes a bifunctional protein with UDP-GlcNAc 2-epimerase and ManNAc kinase activities that catalyze the rate limiting step and the succeeding step, respectively, in the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway. V572L mutation is the most prevalent among Japanese DMRV patients and accounts for about 60% of mutant alleles. Clinical spectrum of DMRV/HIBM seems to be wider than previously thought in terms of both the severity of the disease and the range of affected organs. There are rare asymptomatic homozygotes with missense GNE mutations, indicating the presence of mitigating factors. Surprisingly, more than 10% of the patients had a variety of cardiac abnormalities, suggesting that skeletal muscle may not be the only organ involved. Studies on recombinant GNE demonstrate a loss-of-function nature of the missense mutations identified. Patients' cells show decreased sialylation status which can be recovered by adding GNE metabolites, such as ManNAc and NeuAc. This indicates the possibility of developing a therapy for DMRV/HIBM by giving these metabolites to patients although we have to await the model mice that are currently being produced at several laboratories.
Imaging of interictal 18F-FDG PET and ictal SPECT is useful for identifying regions of seizure in epilepsy. Epileptic foci usually show decreased and increased flow/metabolism in the interictal and ictal phase respectively. A fusion technique of high resolution PET and MRI has become indispensable to preoperative evaluation for epileptic surgery. Subtraction ictal SPECT coregistered to MRI (SISCOM) is also an useful technique for localizing significant flow increase in the focus. Central type benzodiazepine receptor imaging using 11C-flumazenil PET or 123I-iomazenil SPECT is an alternative and sensitive technique for localizing epileptogenic regions. This receptor imaging delineates epileptic foci more precisely than 18F-FDG PET. There has been considerable interest in the role that functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) may play in the assessment of patients with epilepsy. The application of fMRI paradigms used in cognitive neuroscience to patients with epilepsy is complicated. Although fMRI is increasingly being used clinically to establish language dominance, further work is required to localize accurately those specific language functions that are most at risk following surgery. Memory paradigms are not yet validated for use in surgical planning, although methodological and technical advances should make this possible in the near future.
Our previous works indicate that regulatory cells such as natural killer (NK) cells and NKT cells could play an active role in maintaining the remission state of MS. We have therefore adopted a strategy for developing the future MS therapy by targeting NKT cells. The unique glycolipid-reactive lymphocytes are known to produce a large quantity of Th2 cytokines such as IL-4 when encountering their ligands like alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC). Whereas most of the NKT ligands so far described would stimulate both Th1 and Th2 cytokine production by NKT cells, the synthetic compound OCH, an analogue of alpha-GC with a shorter lipid tail, is the one which selectively induces IL-4 production. Given this property, oral or intraperitoneal OCH administration would prohibit the development of a variety of Th1-meediated pathology, including EAE, collagen-induced arthritis, type 1 diabetes, DSS-induced colitis and acute GVHD by inducing Th2 bias. This review paper summarizes the recent publications and our unpublished results related to the efficacy of OCH and to the molecular mechanism accounting for the Th2 inducing property of OCH.
The deposition of alpha-synuclein (aS), a product of pathogenic gene for dominantly inherited familial Parkinson's disease (PD; park1), as fibrillary aggregates like Lewy bodies (LB), is a hallmark lesion of a set of neurodegenerative disorders termed synucleinopathies, including sporadic PD and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We found that aS is the major component of LBs and further identified a specific phosphorylation of Ser129 of insoluble aS by mass spectrometric analysis. The roles of DJ-1 and PINK-1, products of pathogenic genes for autosomal recessive forms of early-onset parkinsonism, have subsequently been examined. Overexpression of DJ-1 conferred cultured cells resistance to oxidative stress, suggesting an antioxidant function of DJ-1. We also confirmed the anti-PTEN function of DJ-1 that may promote cell survival, showing decreased phosphorylation of Akt through upregulation of PTEN activity upon siRNA knockdown for DJ-1. PINK-1, that had been identified as a gene upregulated by PTEN overexpression, turned out to be a protein kinase localized in mitochondria. Collectively, information derived from studies on pathogenic genes for familial PD will open up the way toward the clarification of the pathogenesis of PD, underscoring the roles of protein aggregation, proteolysis, oxidative stress and protein phosphorylation in PD.
Pathological findings in dystonia have been unclear. X-linked recessive dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP, DYT3), endemic in the Panay island, the Philippines, is characterized by the clinical onset with dystonia followed by parkinsonism. It provides a unique opportunity to explore the anatomical basis of dystonia, because it has discernible pathological changes even at its early phase of dystonia. After extensive searches for the anatomical basis in XDP, we found selective loss of striosomal neurons in the striatum in dystonic patients' brain. Because striosomal neurons inhibit nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons via GABAergic innervation, the striosomal lesion could account for dopamine excess in the striatum, which in turn causes a hyperkinetic state or dystonia. We also identified the causative gene as one of the general transcription factor genes, TAF1. This abnormality markedly reduced the expression of dopamine D2 receptor gene (DRD2) in neurons. XDP has certain similarities to Huntington disease not only in pathological and clinical findings, but also the molecular mechanism, which disturbs expression of genes essential for striatal neurons, such as DRD2. Therapeutic intervention may become possible through pharmacological measures that affect gene expression.
The Japanese Society of Neurology, founded in 1960, gained momentum after the 12th World Congress of Neurology held in Kyoto (1981) and currently enjoys an indisputable reputation as a major contributor in the field of neuroscience. Clinical training, however, has fallen behind research achievements with a shortage of teaching staff. This necessitated the traditional, but now obsolete, tie to internal medicine. It is high time to seek the sovereignty of neurology as an independent discipline to further promote this field of medicine as advocated by the World Federation of Neurology. We must also participate in global affairs with confidence despite a perceived language barrier. It is said that science speaks English, which is now used universally as the official language, but from my vantage point, science actually speaks &quot;broken&quot; English in the spirit of international cooperation.
It has become increasingly clear that the simple neurodevelopmental model fails to explain many aspects of schizophrenia including the timing of the onset, and the nature of the abnormal perceptions. Furthermore, we do not know why some members of the general population have anomalous experiences but remain well, while others enter the prodrome of psychosis, and a minority progress to frank schizophrenia. We suggest that genes or developmental damage result in individuals vulnerable to dopamine deregulation. In contemporary society, this is often compounded by abuse of drugs such as amphetamines and cannabis, which then propel the individual into a state of dopamine-induced misinterpretation of the environment. Certain types of social adversity such as migration and social isolation, as well as affective change can also contribute to this. Thereafter, biased cognitive appraisal processes result in delusional interpretation of the abnormal perceptual experiences. Thus, a plausible model of the onset of psychosis needs to draw not only on neuroscience, but also on the insights of social psychiatry and cognitive psychology.
Prospective studies of young relatives at risk for schizophrenia (high-risk studies, HR) can shed light on premorbid precursors of schizophrenia. Early HR studies pointed to a wide prevalence of schizophrenia spectrum psychopathology among young relatives at increased genetic risk. Recent studies suggest that young HR relatives have neurobehavioral deficits and structural, physiological, and neurochemical brain abnormalities that may date back to childhood or earlier. In this paper, we provide a selected overview of the lessons and limitations of early &quot;first generation&quot; studies and the beginning insights from recent &quot;second generation&quot; studies. We also provide an interim summary of data from the ongoing studies of young relatives at risk for schizophrenia in Pittsburgh. Collectively, such data may help us to predict the eventual emergence of schizophrenia, and schizophrenia spectrum or non-spectrum psychopathology.

Because of the need to evaluate anthropomorphic test device (ATD) biofidelity under high-head angular accelerations, the purpose of the present investigation was to develop appropriate instrumentation for intact post mortem human subject (PMHS) testing, validate the instrumentation, and obtain information to characterize the response of the head-neck complex under this loading scenario. A series of rigid-arm pendulum, inertially loaded ATD tests was conducted. Head and neck ATD hydraulic piston chin pull tests were conducted. Subsequently, a series of PMHS tests was conducted to derive the response of the human head-neck under high-rate chin loading. Finally, Hybrid III and THOR-NT ATD head-neck systems were evaluated under the same scenario as the PMHS. A parametric analysis for center of gravity (CG) location and accelerometer orientation determined that even small errors (+/- 3 mm or 2 degrees), produced errors in the force and moment calculations by as much as 17 %. If the moment of inertia (MOI) term was varied by 5 %, resulting moment calculations were affected by as much as 8 %. If the 5 % error in MOI was used to compute occipital condyle moments, and results compared to upper load cell derived moments, peaks differed by as much as 24 %. The head CG and mass MOI should be directly measured for each preparation to obtain accurate results. The injury run on each specimen resulted in predominantly C1-C2 separations or partial separations. The 50(th) percentile probability of AIS=2+ neck injury using tensile force was about 2400 N; for AIS=3+ neck injury the 50(th) percentile risk was about 3180 N. When inserting extension moment as the criteria, the 50(th) percentile probability of an AIS=2+ injury was 51 Nm. The AIS=3+ extension moment at the 50(th) percentile probability was 75 Nm. The new THOR-NT ATD head-neck produced more biofidelic responses with an alternate head-neck junction design compared to the Hybrid III ATD.
