This chapter discusses the indications for biopsying a peripheral nerve and the factors involved in justifying this decision and then deciding which nerve to take. There is a table summarizing some of the causes of neuropathy and attempting to relate these to the probability that nerve biopsy would be helpful in diagnosis. The surgical procedure for the nerve biopsy is described including aftercare and possible complications. The techniques involved in processing and staining the nerve are discussed. This section includes the possibilities of creating artefactual damage by mishandling or poor technique, and how to avoid these. Modification to the standard resin processing schedule to allow the teasing out of individual nerve fibers is briefly described, as are methods for measuring fiber density, fiber size and myelin thickness. There is also a brief discussion of the applications of immunohistochemistry. This is followed by a section on interpretation by light and electron microscopy in which some of the more important diagnostic features are described and illustrated, as are nonspecific morphological findings. Interpretation of teased fiber preparations is discussed. Finally, some common causes of incorrect interpretation are mentioned.
The fundamental roles of Schwann cells during peripheral nerve formation and regeneration have been recognized for more than 100 years, but the cellular and molecular mechanisms that integrate Schwann cell and axonal functions continue to be elucidated. Derived from the embryonic neural crest, Schwann cells differentiate into myelinating cells or bundle multiple unmyelinated axons into Remak fibers. Axons dictate which differentiation path Schwann cells follow, and recent studies have established that axonal neuregulin1 signaling via ErbB2/B3 receptors on Schwann cells is essential for Schwann cell myelination. Extracellular matrix production and interactions mediated by specific integrin and dystroglycan complexes are also critical requisites for Schwann cell-axon interactions. Myelination entails expansion and specialization of the Schwann cell plasma membrane over millimeter distances. Many of the myelin-specific proteins have been identified, and transgenic manipulation of myelin genes have provided novel insights into myelin protein function, including maintenance of axonal integrity and survival. Cellular events that facilitate myelination, including microtubule-based protein and mRNA targeting, and actin based locomotion, have also begun to be understood. Arguably, the most remarkable facet of Schwann cell biology, however, is their vigorous response to axonal damage. Degradation of myelin, dedifferentiation, division, production of axonotrophic factors, and remyelination all underpin the substantial regenerative capacity of the Schwann cells and peripheral nerves. Many of these properties are not shared by CNS fibers, which are myelinated by oligodendrocytes. Dissecting the molecular mechanisms responsible for the complex biology of Schwann cells continues to have practical benefits in identifying novel therapeutic targets not only for Schwann cell-specific diseases but other disorders in which axons degenerate.
The chief role of the axon is that of impulse conduction, which depends on the electrical cable structure and voltage-dependent ion channels of the axonal membrane. Over recent decades, the development of specialized techniques such as patch clamping and site-directed mutagenesis have established the contribution of neuronal ion channel function to the processes of impulse conduction in myelinated nerves. Recently, these insights from in vitro studies have been translated into the clinical realm. In keeping with this progress, clinical axonal excitability techniques have been developed to provide information related to the activity of a variety of ion channels, energy-dependent pumps, and ion exchange processes activated during impulse conduction in peripheral axons. These noninvasive techniques have been extensively applied to the study of the biophysical properties of human peripheral nerves in vivo and have provided important insights into axonal ion channel function in health and neurological disease, particularly in relation to the pathophysiological mechanisms that underlie neuropathy.
A peripheral nerve trunk is composed of nerve fascicles supported in a fibrous collagenous sheath and defined by concentric layers of cells (the perineurium) that separate the contents (the endoneurium) from its fibrous collagen support (the epineurium). In the endoneurium are myelinated and unmyelinated fibers that are axons combined with their supporting Schwann cells to provide physical and electrical connections with end-organs such as muscle fibers and sensory endings. Axons are tubular neuronal extensions with a cytoskeleton of neurotubules and tubulin along which organelles and proteins can travel between the neuronal cell body and the axon terminal. During development some axons enlarge and are covered by a chain of Schwann cells each associated with just one axon. As the axons grow in diameter, the Schwann cells wrap round them to produce a myelin sheath. This consists of many layers of compacted Schwann cell membrane plus some additional proteins. Adjacent myelin segments connect at highly specialized structures, the nodes of Ranvier. Myelin insulates the axon so that the nerve impulse can jump from one node to the next. The region adjacent to the node, the paranodal segment, is the site of myelin terminations on the axolemma. There are connections here between the Schwann cell and the axon via a complex chain of proteins. The Schwann cell cytoplasm in the adjacent segment, the juxtaparanode, contains most of the Schwann cell mitochondria. In addition to the node, continuity of myelin lamellae is broken at intervals along the internode by helical regions of decompaction known as Schmidt-Lanterman incisures; these are seen as paler conical segments in suitably stained microscopical preparations and provide a pathway between the adaxonal and abaxonal cytoplasm. Smaller axons without a myelin sheath conduct very much more slowly and have a more complex relationship with their supporting Schwann cells that has important implications for repair.
Toxocariasis is one of the most commonly reported zoonotic helminth infections in the world with a higher prevalence in tropical settings and in rural populations. It is caused by the larval stages of the ascarids Toxocara canis, the common roundworm of dogs, and probably also by the larval stages of Toxocara cati, the roundworm of cats. The clinical spectrum of toxocariasis in humans varies from asymptomatic infection to severe organ injury caused by larval migration to the major organs (&quot;visceral larva migrans&quot;). Clinical involvement of the nervous system in visceral larva migrans due to Toxocara is thought to be rare, although in experimental animals the larvae frequently migrate to the brain. The CNS migration leads to a variety of neurological disorders such as meningo-encephalitis, space-occupying lesion, cerebral vasculitis, epilepsy, and myelitis. Several studies have evidenced high seropositivity rates for T. canis among people with epilepsy suggesting that toxocariasis could play a role in the incidence of epilepsy in endemic areas. Diagnosis of neurotoxocariasis is based on the history; blood tests, including differential blood cell count; CSF investigations, including determination of antibodies anti-Toxocara canis; and neuroimaging. Like the visceral manifestations, neurological manifestations of toxocariasis are treated with benzimidazole components.
Invasion of the central nervous system (CNS) is a most devastating complication of a parasitic infection. Several physical and immunological barriers provide obstacles to such an invasion. In this broad overview focus is given to the physical barriers to neuroinvasion of parasites provided at the portal of entry of the parasites, i.e., the skin and epithelial cells of the gastrointestinal tract, and between the blood and the brain parenchyma, i.e., the blood-brain barrier (BBB). A description is given on how human pathogenic parasites can reach the CNS via the bloodstream either as free-living or extracellular parasites, by embolization of eggs, or within red or white blood cells when adapted to intracellular life. Molecular mechanisms are discussed by which parasites can interact with or pass across the BBB. The possible targeting of the circumventricular organs by parasites, as well as the parasites' direct entry to the brain from the nasal cavity through the olfactory nerve pathway, is also highlighted. Finally, examples are given which illustrate different mechanisms by which parasites can cause dysfunction or damage in the CNS related to toxic effects of parasite-derived molecules or to immune responses to the infection.
Critical illness polyneuropathy and critical illness myopathy are well recognized in adults, in whom they commonly cause generalized weakness and muscle wasting, with failure to wean from mechanical ventilation. There is significant clinical and neurophysiological overlap between the two conditions. Critical illness polyneuropathy and critical illness myopathy can cause significant morbidity in critically ill children, but they have only occasionally been reported in childhood, and little is known of their prevalence or clinical significance in this population. These conditions seem to be clinically and electrophysiologically similar in children and adults, but prospective studies of these entities are required to better characterize their frequency, natural history, and clinical significance in pediatric practice.
Immune-mediated extrapyramidal movement disorders typically occur in previously healthy children. Immune-mediated movement disorders may occur as a postinfectious, paraneoplastic, or idiopathic process. Sydenham chorea (SC) is the classical poststreptococcal movement and psychiatric disorder, and may be associated with other features of rheumatic fever. The outcome is typically good, although residual chorea, psychiatric disturbance, and relapses are possible. Pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections (PANDAS) is a syndrome of streptococcal-induced tics and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Although a number of investigators have reported an association between streptococcal infection and neuropsychiatric syndromes, the PANDAS hypothesis is controversial. Encephalitis lethargica is an encephalitic illness with parkinsonism, dyskinesias, and psychiatric disturbance as dominant features. The exact disease mechanism is not understood, although an autoimmune process is suspected. NMDA-R encephalitis is a new entity characterized by encephalitis with dramatic psychiatric disturbance, dyskinesias, cognitive alteration, and seizures. Patients have autoantibodies against the NMDA-R that appear to be pathogenic: immune therapies appear warranted to minimize disability. Movement disorders are also described associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid syndrome. The differential diagnosis and investigation approach of acute-onset movement disorders are also discussed.
A greater understanding of cerebrovascular health and disease requires the consideration of recent neuroscience advances concerning neuroplasticity in the context of classical developmental neurology principles. Consideration of the ontogenetic interplay of nature and nurture influencing brain development during prenatal and early postnatal time periods should consider the concept of the developmental origins of neurological health and disease. Adaptive and maladaptive effects of neuroplasticity require a systems biology approach integrating molecular, receptor, cellular, neural network, and behavioral perspectives, culminating in the structural and functional cerebrovascular phenotypes that express health or disease across the lifespan. Cognizance of the interrelationships among maternal, placental, fetal, and neonatal factors requires an interdisciplinary appreciation of genetic/epigenetic forces of neuroplasticity during early life that incrementally influence cerebrovascular health or disease throughout childhood and adulthood. Knowledge of the systemic effects of multiorgan function on cerebrovascular development further broadens the systems biology approach to general plasticity of the individual as a whole organism. Short- and long-term consequences of the positive and negative effects of neuroplasticity must consider ongoing gene-environment interactions with maturation and aging, superimposed on earlier fetal/neonatal experiences that sustain neurological health or contribute to disease during childhood and adulthood.
There is ample evidence that many children treated for brain tumors experience long-term neurocognitive deficits. The severity of those deficits is determined by a complex interaction of the child's genetic make-up and age, neuroanatomical damage caused by tumor and surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, the psychosocial environment, and the intensity of targeted rehabilitation. The consequences of neurocognitive deficits are moderated by the number and severity of other deficits, including neurological and endocrine impairments, and this wider context must be considered. The impact of intellectual decline on academic functioning is evident, and underlies, for example, poor reading, writing, and mathematical skills. The effects of early brain damage on development are cumulative as more functions are expected to mature. Many survivors of CNS tumors can be expected to grow into deficits that have far-reaching consequences not only for academic achievement but also for their psychological and social development and their ability to be self-sufficient. Because the problems typically only become apparent over time, surveillance for their detection is an essential prerequisite for early educational and other interventions to support learning and successful transition to independent adult life.
Paroxysmal nonepileptic disorders are very frequent in infants and children and pediatric neurologists need to be as familiar with them as with epileptic seizures. Syncopes are the most important of these episodic disorders and amongst the syncopes the various subtypes of so-called neurally mediated syncopes (vagal, vasovagal, and so forth) predominate. In such syncopes there is almost always a trigger or provoking situation and this is the major clinical clue to the diagnosis. Whatever the mechanism of a syncope it is commonly &quot;convulsive&quot; in that there is a motor element, with tonic extensions and arrhythmic nonepileptic spasms (&quot;jerks&quot;). This everyday situation must be distinguished from the much less common combination of a syncope and a true epileptic seizure. In such anoxic-epileptic seizures the epileptic component is usually clonic, with rhythmic or semi-rhythmic jerks quite different from the arrhythmic spasms of the usual nonepileptic convulsive syncope. Syncope from compulsive Valsalva maneuver may be extremely frequent in affected (usually autistic) children. Diagnosis is easy if one obtains a video recording with audio: the premonitory hyperventilation stops leaving 11 seconds of silence before the tonic extension that signifies the syncope. Syncopes of more serious kind include those in long QT syndrome, hyperekplexia, paroxysmal extreme pain disorder, and congenital myasthenia; each has recognizable characteristics. Other nonsyncopal nonepileptic paroxysmal disorders are described further in the text.
Tourettte syndrome (TS) is a common, childhood onset neuropsychiatric disorder consisting of multiple motor and one or more vocal tics which persist for more than 1 year. Comorbid psychiatric diagnoses are frequent in this patient population, including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Tics can be simple or complex, and have a tendency to change over time. Tics are preceded by a premonitory sensation, wax and wane in frequency, and are often exacerbated by stress or excitement. Tic severity usually peaks in childhood, and improves in early adulthood. TS is a highly heritable disorder with a polygenic inheritance. The fundamental pathophysiology of TS is not known, although existing evidence suggests that it involves dysfunction of the basal ganglia and frontal cortical circuits, as well as dopaminergic neurotransmission. Treatment of TS involves consideration of symptom severity and comorbidity. In general, comorbid ADHD and OCD lead to greater disability in these patients, and therefore are the initial treatment priority. As treatment for tics does not alter the natural history of the disorder, it is only recommended if the tics are causing disability. Effective treatments to suppress tics include -adrenergic agonists and antipsychotic medications.
Although the causes of cognitive impairment in patients with epilepsy have not been completely elucidated, three factors are clearly involved: the underlying etiology of epilepsy, the effects of seizures or the epileptiform EEG discharges themselves, and the central nervous system effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). All commonly used AEDs have some effect on cognitive function, and the effect may be substantial when crucial functions are involved, such as learning in children. With phenobarbital, there is a high risk for serious cognitive effects impacting attention and memory. Phenytoin may affect mental speed, mainly in higher dosing and polytherapy. Moderate monotherapy doses do not seem to induce much effect. Valproate does not seem to impair cognition if sufficiently controlled for hyperammonemia. For carbamazepine, there are conflicting reports, which may be due to selection bias or dosing. For oxcarbazepine, there is no evidence for any detrimental change compared to valproate but mild improvements on attentional tests. For topiramate, there is clear evidence for topiramate-induced cognitive impairment (attention, memory, and language function) in adults and children. Although data is sketchy, levetiracetam does not seem to have a negative impact on cognition. For lamotrigine, there is evidence of a cognitive-enhancing effect on attention. No evidence for cognitive side-effects has been found for vigabatrin. Ethosuximide is not associated with cognitive impairment although the evidence is sketchy. For gabapentin, tiagabine, zonisamide, and rufinamide no studies in children are available.
The term epileptic encephalopathy refers to the condition where epileptic activity, clinical or subclinical, is thought to be responsible for any disturbance of cognition, behavior, or motor control. Although currently described as a concept that may occur in any of the epilepsies, children with the severe early onset epilepsies are thought to be more at risk than others. These epilepsies have been termed the &quot;epileptic encephalopathies.&quot; The degree to which epileptic activity is responsible for neurodevelopmental compromise may be variable in each individual case, and the degree to which this may be reversible unclear. Data from the laboratory and the clinic may provide greater insight into the degree to which epileptic activity may contribute in individual syndromes, although much is yet to be learnt. The aim in epilepsy management remains one of seizure control; in some specific circumstances this may include subclinical epileptic activity. However, avoidance of treatment that may lead to deterioration of seizure control may be equally important.
In this chapter we include a series of epilepsies with onset in pediatric age characterized by focal seizures, idiopathic etiology, normal psychomotor development, and a benign course related to the spontaneous remission of seizures without sequelae. These entities are age-dependent and seizures tend to disappear spontaneously. For these reasons often the drug treatment is not necessary. On the basis of genetic assessment idiopathic focal epilepsies can be divided into two groups: nonautosomal dominant and autosomal dominant. In the group of nonautosomal entities we include benign epilepsy with centro-temporal spikes, Panayiotopoulos syndrome, idiopathic childhood occipital epilepsy described by Gastaut, and benign idiopathic midline spikes epilepsy. Seizures are rare, sometimes prolonged, as autonomic status in Panayiotopoulos syndrome. A common feature is the presence of peculiar EEG interictal paroxysmal abnormalities. In the group with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance we include benign familial infantile seizures and benign familial neonatal-infantile seizures. These entities are characterized by partial seizures in cluster, self-limited in a brief period during the first months of life. There are no typical interictal EEG abnormalities. In some families a mutation in SCN2A, the gene coding for the 2 subunit of the voltage-gated sodium channel, has been described.
Epilepsy is a feature of several hundred chromosome abnormalities. However, there are relatively few conditions in which epilepsy is a consistent feature and even fewer in which the electroclinical phenotype is recognizable. Advances in cytogenetics and molecular genetics are leading to the detection of more complex and smaller chromosomal re-arrangements, duplications, and deletions using techniques such as comparative genome hybridization (CGH). This will provide new challenges for the epilepsy specialist who, in partnership with the geneticist, will have to judge the clinical relevance of these abnormalities. Most chromosome anomalies associated with epilepsy are individually rare therefore clinicians must continue to collaborate to describe novel electroclinical phenotypes. Cytogenetic studies should be requested in all individuals with refractory epilepsy and no clear underlying cause even in cases with no dysmorphic features, no learning disability, and an EEG suggestive of genetic generalized epilepsy. In syndromes where epilepsy is a consistent feature the seizure semiology and EEG features can suggest a specific diagnosis and guide the clinician to the appropriate cytogenetic investigation. An early correct diagnosis can save unnecessary investigations and guide prognosis. Children with chromosomal disorders frequently have learning disability, which can be further compromised by an epileptic encephalopathy. Medications should be targeted to specific seizure types.
Rasmussen encephalitis (RE) is a rare, inflammatory, and possibly immuno-mediated disease that typically affects one hemisphere. The two cardinal symptoms are progressive neurological deficits and intractable seizures, often in the form of epilepsia partialis continua and recurring epileptic status. Distinctive MRI features include progressive unilateral focal cortical atrophy and gray or white matter high-signal changes with basal ganglion involvement. Histopathology is characterized by brain inflammation dominated by T cells, microglial activation, and microglial nodules, followed by neuronal loss and astrogliosis. The diagnosis of RE, which may be particularly challenging in the initial stages, is based on clinical and laboratory findings. The diagnosis requires the exclusion of other causes of epilepsia partialis continua, and other cerebral focal inflammatory diseases. The treatment of RE is often demanding: antiepileptic drugs are of limited effect, whereas the surgical exclusion of the affected hemisphere offers a very high chance of seizure freedom but at the price of irreversible neurological deficits. By contrast, long-term immunotherapy may delay hemispheric tissue loss and neurological deficits, but has a lesser effect on total seizure burden. Given that the severity of symptoms varies among different patients and phases, the therapeutic strategy, including medical and surgical options, must be tailored to the need of each patient.
The preoperative study of patients who are candidates for epilepsy surgery often classifies their epileptic foci as &quot;lesional&quot; or &quot;non-lesional&quot; based upon evidence from neuroimaging. Many lesions not detected by MRI are found by microscopic examination of the resected tissue. Advances have been made in neuropathological techniques to study resected brain tissue and to specify the types of focal cortical dysgeneses and other lesions by extending microscopic findings by applying immunocytochemical markers that identify specific types and distributions of neurons and glial cells that denote tissue architecture. There may be etiological differences between focal and extensive cortical dysplasias involving many gyri or entire lobes of cerebral cortex. Of additional importance in pediatric brain resections is that these modern techniques also denote cellular maturation and can identify abnormal cells with mixed lineage. -B-crystallin can serve as a metabolic tissue marker of epileptic activity, regardless of the presence or absence of a &quot;structural&quot; lesion by MRI or by conventional histopathology. Satellitosis may contribute to epileptogenic neurons and later to death of those neurons. The classification of malformations of the brain is a process requiring continuous updates that include genetics, neuroimaging, and neuropathology as new data emerge, but should not be exclusive to one region of the brain, such as cerebral cortex or cerebellum. Standardization in neuropathological terminology enhances scientific communication. The ILAE recently published a useful consensus classification of focal cortical dysplasias that is flexible to enable future revisions and changes as new data become available.
Neurocutaneous melanosis or neurocutaneous melanocytosis is a rare sporadic congenital disorder characterized by the presence of giant and/or multiple satellite congenital melanocytic nevi in the skin and benign melanocytic pigmentation of the leptomeninges. These two defining features were recognized more than a century ago. A third characteristic feature is proliferative nodules arising from giant nevi. The etiology is unknown, but neurocutaneous melanosis is considered a developmental disorder of melanocyte precursors from neural crest. The distinctive unique distribution of the congenital giant nevi that gives a &quot;garment&quot; appearance is also an expression of the neural crest. The neurological manifestations often appear in infancy.The special association of neurocutaneous melanosis with Dandy-Walker malformation complex may be explained by a common pathogenesis. Mortality in infancy and childhood is high.
Epidermal nevus syndrome (ENS) is an inclusive term for a heterogeneous group of congenital disorders characterized by the presence of epidermal nevi associated with systemic involvement. These disorders, as are all primary neurocutaneous syndromes, are neurocristopathies. The epidermal nevi that follow the lines of Blaschko and most systemic anomalies in skeletal, ocular, cardiovascular, endocrine, and orodental tissues, as well as lipomas, are due to defective neural crest. The most important and frequent anomaly in the brain in all forms of epidermal nevus syndromes (ENSs) is hemimegalencephaly (HME). This malformation often is not recognized, despite being the principal cause of neurological manifestations in ENSs. They consist mainly of epilepsy and developmental delay or intellectual disability. The onset of epilepsy in ENS usually is in early infancy, often as infantile spasms. Several syndromic forms have been delineated. I propose the term &quot;Heide's syndrome&quot; for those distinctive cases with the typical triad of hemifacial epidermal nevus, ipsilateral facial lipoma, and hemimegalencephaly. Most ENSs are sporadic. The mechanism is thought to be genetic mosaicism with a lethal autosomal dominant gene. Specific genetic mutations (PTEN, FGFR3, PIK3CA, and AKT1) have been documented in some patients. The large number of contributors for over more than a century and a half to the description of these disorders precludes the use of new author eponyms.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a genetic multisystem disorder characterized by widespread hamartomas in several organs, including the brain, heart, skin, eyes, kidney, lung, and liver. The affected genes are TSC1 and TSC2, encoding hamartin and tuberin respectively. The hamartin-tuberin complex inhibits the mammalian-target-of-Rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, which controls cell growth and proliferation. Variations in the distribution, number, size, and location of lesions cause the clinical syndrome to vary even between relatives. About 85% of children and adolescents with TSC have CNS complications, including epilepsy, cognitive impairment, challenging behavioral problems, and autism-like symptoms. Epilepsy generally begins during the first year of life, with focal seizures and spasms. The discovery of the mTOR pathway upregulation in TSC-associated lesions presents new possibilities for treatment strategy. Increasing understanding of the molecular abnormalities caused by TSC may enable improved management of the disease.
Neural crest progenitor cells are identified at the lateral margins of the neural placode at the time of gastrulation. With folding of the placode, these precursors are brought to the dorsal midline of the neural tube at the site of closure, become committed to neural crest lineage and almost immediately migrate peripherally to various predetermined sites in the body and then differentiate as a variety of cellular types in all three of the traditional &quot;germ layers.&quot; All of these processes of migration and differentiation of neural crest are precisely genetically programed, temporally and spatially, by a variety of genes. Primary neurocutaneous syndromes are all very different diseases with different genetic mutations, but the unifying factor amongst them is that all are neurocristopathies and can be explained as such, including the tumor-suppressor function of several of these genes, especially those of neurofibromatosis 1 and 2 and tuberous sclerosis. This chapter reviews the principal genes that program neural crest development and also are documented, implicated, or suspected in the pathogenesis of neurocutaneous syndromes. Recent genetic discoveries are noted in epidermal nevus syndrome, including Proteus syndrome and their association with hemimegalencephaly and congenital infiltrating lipomatosis of the face.
Modern neuroembryology integrates descriptive morphogenesis with more recent insight into molecular genetic programing and data enabled by cell-specific tissue markers that further define histogenesis. Maturation of individual neurons involves the development of energy pumps to maintain membrane excitability, ion channels, and membrane receptors. Most malformations of the nervous system are best understood in the context of aberrations of normal developmental processes that result in abnormal structure and function. Early malformations usually are disorders of genetic expression along gradients of the three axes of the neural tube, defective segmentation, or mixed lineages of individual cells. Later disorders mainly involve cellular migrations, axonal pathfinding, synaptogenesis, and myelination. Advances in neuroimaging now enable the diagnosis of many malformations in utero, at birth, or in early infancy in the living patient by abnormal macroscopic form of the brain. These images are complimented by modern neuropathological methods that disclose microscopic, immunocytochemical, and subcellular details beyond the resolution of MRI. Correlations may be made of both normal and abnormal ontogenesis with clinical neurological and EEG maturation in the preterm or term neonate for a better understanding of perinatal neurological disease. Precision in terminology is a key to scientific communication.
Neurophysiological tools are very helpful in characterizing various movement disorders, consequently guiding etiological research and therapy. Movement disorders recordings are currently underutilized in neurological practice in adults and could also be extended to the pediatric population. Surface polymyography (EMG) combined with accelerometry is commonly used for the analysis of many types of hyperkinetic movement disorders, mainly myoclonus, tremor, dystonia, and sometimes tics and chorea. To study myoclonus, techniques exploring cortical excitability, namely conventional EEG, EEG-jerk-locked-back-averaging (JLBA), somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) and C-reflex studies, should necessarily complete the EMG analysis. Premovement potential recording and measures of the stimulus induced jerks latencies may help to differentiate psychogenic jerks from myoclonus. The field of clinical usefulness of movement disorders recordings is large. Main issues are: (1) to differentiate tremor from myoclonus, (2) to demonstrate and locate dystonic features, either isolated or associated to tremor and myoclonus, (3) to define the nature of a tremor, (4) to assess the psychogenic nature of a tremor or jerks, and (5) to define the neurophysiological generator of myoclonus in the central nervous system. Neurophysiological data allow us to clearly classify myoclonus as cortical, cortico-thalamic, and subcortical-resulting from lesions or dysfunctions of basal ganglia/reticular system-or spinal.
Coma must persist for at least 1 hour to distinguish it from transient unconsciousness. Traumatic and nontraumatic coma are common problems in pediatric practice with high mortality and morbidity. Emergency neuroimaging is worthwhile even when etiology is known, as treatable complications, such as venous sinus thrombosis, as well as extradural and intracerebral hemorrhage, are commonly diagnosed. There is a wide range of possible etiologies in the previously well child, most of which may be diagnosed from neuroimaging and laboratory testing available as an emergency, or can be treated presumptively, e.g., with antimicrobials for infections. The modified Child's Glasgow Coma Scale (CGCS) for recording depth of consciousness in children is widely used and should be supplemented by examination for the signs of reversible central and uncal brainstem herniation due to acute intracranial hypertension. An evidence-based guideline for the investigation and management of decreased level of consciousness in children, written by an expert panel using the DELPHI principles, is available. Monitoring and rehabilitation should also be part of the management plan. Etiology, depth and duration of coma, and serial neurophysiology and imaging are predictors of outcome in survivors but must be interpreted cautiously. There are no reports of children meeting adult brain death criteria making good neurological recovery.
Pediatric neurology comprises a very large of number of conditions exhibiting symptoms and signs in several functional domains arising from damage and dysfunction to the developing nervous system. The diagnostic process involves ensuring that data from all possible domains are sought including those that are unaffected. The subsequent analysis involves fitting these data into patterns of classical natural history and rigorous investigation of the aspects that do not appear to fit. There may be a pattern of illness that is immediately recognized or something that is a fairly close fit. However, the aim is to develop a pathogenic sequence for the condition particularly so that conditions that have been lumped together for convenience are separated into distinct disease entities. The major presentations of pediatric neurology of fixed central motor impairments (the cerebral palsies), the epilepsies, and the progressive degenerative diseases are in the process of being split into such pathogenic sequences so that definitive treatments and possible primary prevention can be added to aims of simple diagnostic recognition. Much of this is at an early stage and pediatric neurology is still a young and fast developing specialty.
&quot;Psychomotor&quot; development refers to changes in a child's cognitive, emotional, motor, and social capacities from the beginning of life throughout fetal and neonatal periods, infancy, childhood, and adolescence. It occurs in a variety of domains and a wide range of theories makes understanding children's development a challenging undertaking. Different models have tried to interpret the origins of human behavior, the pattern of developmental changes over time, and the individual and contextual factors that could direct child development. No single theory has been able to account for all aspects of child development, but each of them may contribute an important piece to the child development puzzle. Although theories sometimes disagree, much of their information is complementary rather than contradictory. The knowledge of child typical development and related theories and models is greatly useful for clinical practice, leading to recognition of developmental disorders and the ways in which they can be approached and treated. In this chapter, traditional and more modern concepts around functional development of psychomotor abilities are reported, firstly more in general and then specifically in the motor domain.
This chapter addresses the important and undertreated problem of balance disorders. The chapter has a simplified summary of the physiology of balance problems in order to set the scene. The issue of assessment is next addressed with discussion of important tests including the Berg Balance Scale and the Get Up and Go Test, and others. Posturography is discussed as well as assessment of the gravitional vertical. The assessment of vestibular function is of key importance and discussed in some detail. The focus of the chapter is on balance rehabilitation. Re-training of postural alignment and of sensory strategies are key but adaptation of the environment and re-training of cognitive strategies are also helpful in individual cases. Vestibular exercises can also be used. The chapter then critically analyses the efficacy of these treatments in specific balance disorders such as in stroke, Parkinson disease, polyneuropathies, multiple sclerosis, and vestibular disorders. Overall, there is a growing body of evidence that balance rehabilitation improves symptoms, function, and quality of life for those troubled by these disabling problems.
After stroke, reorganization of surviving neural networks appears to be important for recovery of function. Noninvasive techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging allow some aspects of this reorganization to be studied in humans. In these experiments reorganization is apparent in cerebral networks in human stroke patients. For example, initial attempts to move a paretic limb following stroke are associated with widespread activity within the distributed motor system in both cerebral hemispheres, more so in patients with greater impairment. Disruption of activity in premotor areas using transcranial magnetic stimulation prior to movement can impair motor performance in stroke patients, suggesting that these new patterns of brain activity can support what recovered function there is. In other words, this reorganization is functionally relevant. This opens the way for functional brain imaging to become a clinically useful tool in rehabilitation. Understanding the dynamic process of systems-level reorganization will allow greater understanding of the mechanisms of recovery and potentially improve our ability to deliver effective restorative therapy.
Circadian gene expression is a pervasive feature of tissue physiology, regulating approx. 10% of transcript and protein abundance in tissues such as the liver. Technological developments have accelerated our ability to probe circadian variation of gene expression, in particular by using microarrays. Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing have similarly led to novel insights into the regulation of genes at the DNA and chromatin levels. Furthermore, tools such as RNA interference are being used to perturb gene function at a truly systems level, allowing dissection of the clockwork in increasing depth. This chapter will highlight progress in these areas, focusing on key techniques that have helped, and will continue to help, with the investigation of circadian physiology.
The sleep/wake cycle is arguably the most familiar output of the circadian system, however, sleep is a complex biological process that arises from multiple brain regions and neurotransmitters, which is regulated by numerous physiological and environmental factors. These include a circadian drive for wakefulness as well as an increase in the requirement for sleep with prolonged waking (the sleep homeostat). In this chapter, we describe the regulation of sleep, with a particular emphasis on the contribution of the circadian system. Since their identification, the role of clock genes in the regulation of sleep has attracted considerable interest, and here, we provide an overview of the interplay between specific elements of the molecular clock with the sleep regulatory system. Finally, we summarise the role of the light environment, melatonin and social cues in the modulation of sleep, with a focus on the role of melanopsin ganglion cells.
Circadian clocks drive the daily rhythms in our physiology and behaviour that adapt us to the 24-h solar and social worlds. Because they impinge upon every facet of metabolism, their acute or chronic disruption compromises performance (both physical and mental) and systemic health, respectively. Equally, the presence of such rhythms has significant implications for pharmacological dynamics and efficacy, because the fate of a drug and the state of its therapeutic target will vary as a function of time of day. Improved understanding of the cellular and molecular biology of circadian clocks therefore offers novel approaches for therapeutic development, for both clock-related and other conditions. At the cellular level, circadian clocks are pivoted around a transcriptional/post-translational delayed feedback loop (TTFL) in which the activation of Period and Cryptochrome genes is negatively regulated by their cognate protein products. Synchrony between these, literally countless, cellular clocks across the organism is maintained by the principal circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Notwithstanding the success of the TTFL model, a diverse range of experimental studies has shown that it is insufficient to account for all properties of cellular pacemaking. Most strikingly, circadian cycles of metabolic status can continue in human red blood cells, devoid of nuclei and thus incompetent to sustain a TTFL. Recent interest has therefore focused on the role of oscillatory cytosolic mechanisms as partners to the TTFL. In particular, cAMP- and Ca-dependent signalling are important components of the clock, whilst timekeeping activity is also sensitive to a series of highly conserved kinases and phosphatases. This has led to the view that the 'proto-clock' may have been a cytosolic, metabolic oscillation onto which evolution has bolted TTFLs to provide robustness and amplify circadian outputs in the form of rhythmic gene expression. This evolutionary ascent of the clock has culminated in the SCN, a true pacemaker to the innumerable clock cells distributed across the body. On the basis of findings from our own and other laboratories, we propose a model of the SCN pacemaker that synthesises the themes of TTFLs, intracellular signalling, metabolic flux and interneuronal coupling that can account for its unique circadian properties and pre-eminence.


Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a condition characterized by brief electric shock-like pains in the topography of the trigeminal nerve. The most common cause of this disorder is the compression of the trigeminal nerve root by tortuous or aberrant vessels. In this report, we describe a patient who presented due to paroxysmal and excruciating facial pain that was found to be secondary to pancreatic cancer.


The neuroscience of tinnitus represents an ideal model to explore central issues in brain functioning such as the formation of auditory percepts, in addition to opening up new treatment avenues for the condition in the long-term. The present review discusses the origin and nature of tinnitus-related neural activity. First, we review evidence for the hypothesis that tinnitus is caused by the central nervous system changes induced by sensory deprivation, even when hearing loss is not visible in the audiogram. Second, we suggest that changes in neural activity in individual central structures may not be sufficient to underlie the tinnitus percept. Instead, we propose that tinnitus may arise from functional alterations at multiple levels which promote abnormal propagation of neural activity throughout the network involved in auditory perception. In this context, functional coupling within and between central auditory structures may be especially important to consider. Investigating how sensory deprivation affects functional coupling between areas, which might be reflected in changes in temporal coherence of intrinsic ongoing activity patterns, may give critical insights into the mechanisms of tinnitus.
Induction of hyperactivity in the central auditory system is one of the major physiological hallmarks of animal models of noise-induced tinnitus. Although hyperactivity occurs at various levels of the auditory system, it is not clear to what extent hyperactivity originating in one nucleus contributes to hyperactivity at higher levels of the auditory system. In this study we compared the time courses and tonotopic distribution patterns of hyperactivity in the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) and inferior colliculus (IC). A model of acquisition of hyperactivity in the IC by passive relay from the DCN would predict that the two nuclei show similar time courses and tonotopic profiles of hyperactivity. A model of acquisition of hyperactivity in the IC by compensatory plasticity mechanisms would predict that the IC and DCN would show differences in these features, since each adjusts to changes of spontaneous activity of opposite polarity. To test the role of these two mechanisms, animals were exposed to an intense hyperactivity-inducing tone (10kHz, 115dB SPL, 4h) then studied electrophysiologically at three different post-exposure recovery times (from 1 to 6 weeks after exposure). For each time frame, multiunit spontaneous activity was mapped as a function of location along the tonotopic gradient in the DCN and IC. Comparison of activity profiles from the two nuclei showed a similar progression toward increased activity over time and culminated in the development of a central peak of hyperactivity at a similar tonotopic location. These similarities suggest that the shape of the activity profile is determined primarily by passive relay from the cochlear nucleus. However, the absolute levels of activity were generally much lower in the IC than in the DCN, suggesting that the magnitude of hyperactivity is greatly attenuated by inhibition.
The Tinnitus Research Consortium (TRC) is sponsored by a philanthropist who wants to accelerate progress in basic and clinical research on tinnitus. The TRC consists of 12 distinguished auditory scientists who began meeting in 1998 twice a year for brainstorming for new research approaches to tinnitus, developing requests for applications, judging the scientific merit of the applications received and reviewing the progress of funded projects. Through these efforts, common confounding variables in tinnitus research have been identified, and solutions to these problems have been suggested. TRC grants have been made up to $100,000.00 per year for three years. The sponsor had provided $600,000.00 per year; so two new grants could be made each year. The good news is that the sponsor's support has been increased by 50% for 2011 so that three grants have been awarded. Some of the landmark studies supported by the TRC over the last 14 years are reviewed as is the changing conceptualization of the pathogenesis of tinnitus and its management. The effect of strategies of the TRC on the applicants, grantees, scientific field, scientific societies and other funding agencies will be discussed. For example, when the TRC was initiated, sessions devoted to tinnitus research at national scientific meetings were rare. Through the efforts of the TRC, the American Tinnitus Association and the American Academy of Audiology, organizations such as the Association for Research in Otolaryngology and the Society for Neuroscience were encouraged to hold special sessions on tinnitus research. Now such organizations have well attended sessions on tinnitus research each year. The size of the TRC grants, large enough to support a substantial research project, has caused several other voluntary agencies to increase the size of their grants toward the TRC standard. The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health have devoted far more emphasis on tinnitus. By supporting sound research on tinnitus and recruiting world-class scientists to the field, the TRC has led in making tinnitus research respectable.
Hemophilia is caused by a functional deficiency of one of the coagulation proteins. Therapy for no other group of genetic diseases has seen the progress that has been made for hemophilia over the past 40 years, from a life expectancy in 1970 of 20 years for a boy born with severe hemophilia to essentially a normal life expectancy in 2013 with current prophylaxis therapy. However, these therapies are expensive and require IV infusions 3 to 4 times each week. These are exciting times for hemophilia because several new technologies that promise extended half-lives for factor products, with potential for improvements in quality of life for persons with hemophilia, are in late-phase clinical development.
The present study aimed at investigating and comparing patients suffering from -thalassemia (-thal) minor with normal individuals in regard to their performances in the short version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) test. Patients with -thal minor are carriers of -thal genes. They have mild microcytic and hypochromic anemia and are usually asymptomatic. In this cross-sectional study, a total of 60 individuals were divided into two equal groups of -thal minor and normal subjects; they were then studied by the WAIS subscales. The mean performance scores of the normal group in the subtests of arithmetic and vocabulary (p &lt;0.01) and picture completion (p &lt;0.05) were higher than those of the thalassemia group. The mean performance score and ability of the normal group on the verbal scale was higher in comparison to the thalassemia group (p &lt;0.05), while on the non verbal scale, there was no significant difference between the two groups. It can be concluded that -thal minor negatively influences verbal fluency, reasoning and conceptualization, and sequencing tasks, perceptual skill, prediction of social situations and abstract thinking.
There is extensive research regarding the neural mechanisms involved in satiety and meal termination; in contrast, there is very limited understanding of how meal onset is regulated. On the basis of several converging lines of evidence, we hypothesized that hippocampal neurons form a memory of a meal and inhibit meal onset during the postprandial period. As a first step, we tested whether reversible inactivation of the hippocampus with muscimol infusions after the end of one meal would accelerate the onset of the next meal. To test this, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (N = 23) were implanted with a cannula aimed at the right or left dorsal hippocampus and then trained to consume a 32% sucrose solution at a scheduled time daily. On the experimental day, hippocampal neuronal activity was temporarily disrupted during the postprandial period by infusing muscimol (0.5 g/l; 1 l) 5 min after the rats stopped consuming the sucrose solution. Compared to vehicle infusions, muscimol infusions significantly decreased the latency to start the postinfusion meal and increased the size of the postinfusion meal. In addition, muscimol disrupted the relationship between the size of a meal and length of the following postprandial period. These effects of muscimol on meal onset were not due to an effect on the speed of consumption. Collectively, these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that hippocampal neurons suppress meal initiation during the postprandial period. Given that overeating can impair hippocampal function, these findings suggest that impaired hippocampal functioning is a cause and consequence of overeating and obesity.
Reducing hippocampal neurogenesis sometimes, but not always, disrupts hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Here, we tested whether animal age, which regulates rate of hippocampal neurogenesis, is a factor that influences whether deficits in spatial learning are observed after reduction of neurogenesis. We found that suppressing the generation of new hippocampal neurons via treatment with temozolomide, an antiproliferation agent, impaired learning the location of a hidden platform in the water maze in juvenile mice (1-2 months old) but not in adult mice (2-3 months old) or middle-aged mice (11-12 months old). These findings suggest that during juvenility, suppression of neurogenesis may alter hippocampal development, whereas during adulthood and aging, pre-existing neurons may compensate for the lack of new hippocampal neurons.
Place cell firing patterns in the rat hippocampus are often organized as sequences. Sequences falling within cycles of the theta (6-10 Hz) local field potential (LFP) oscillation represent segments of ongoing behavioral trajectories. Sequences expressed during sharp wave ripple (SWR) complexes represent spatial trajectories through the environment, in both the same direction as actual trajectories (forward sequences) and in an ordering opposite that of behavior (backward sequences). Although hippocampal sequences could fulfill unique functional roles depending on the direction of the sequence and the animal's state when the sequence occurs, quantitative comparisons of sequence direction across behavioral and physiological states within the same experiment, employing consistent methodology, are lacking. Here, we used cross-correlation and Bayesian decoding to measure the direction of hippocampal sequences in rats during active behavior, awake rest and slow-wave sleep. During pretask sleep, few sequences were detected in either direction. Sequences within theta cycles during active behavior were overwhelmingly forward. Sequences during quiescent moments of behavior were both forward and backward, in equal proportion. During postbehavior sleep, sequences were again expressed in both directions, but significantly more forward than backward sequences were detected. The shift in the balance of sequence direction could reflect changing functional demands on the hippocampal network across behavioral and physiological states.
Estrogens fluctuate across the lifespan in women, with circulating 17-estradiol levels higher pre-menopause than estrone and circulating estrone levels higher postmenopause than 17-estradiol. Estrone is a common component of hormone replacement therapies, but research shows that 17-estradiol may have a greater positive impact on cognition. Previous studies show that acute estrone and 17-estradiol impact hippocampus-dependent learning and cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus in a dose-dependent manner in adult female rats. The current study explores how chronic treatment with estrone and 17-estradiol differentially influences spatial learning, hippocampal neurogenesis and activation of new neurons in response to spatial memory. Adult female rats received daily injections of vehicle (sesame oil), or a 10 g dose of either 17-estradiol or estrone for 20 days. One day following the first hormone injection all rats were injected with the DNA synthesis marker, bromodeoxyuridine. On days 11-15 after BrdU injection rats were trained on a spatial reference version of the Morris water maze, and five days later (day 20 of estrogens treatment) were given a probe trial to assess memory retention. Cell proliferation was assessed by the endogenous cell cycle marker, Ki67, cell survival was assessed by counting the number and density of BrdU-ir cells in the dentate gyrus and cell activation was assessed by the percentage of BrdU-ir cells that were co-labelled with the immediate early gene product zif268. There were no significant differences between groups in acquisition or retention of Morris water maze. However, the 17-estradiol group had significantly higher, while the estrone group had significantly lower, levels of cell survival (BrdU-ir cells) in the dentate gyrus compared to controls. Furthermore, rats injected with 17-estradiol showed significantly higher levels of activation of new neurons in response to spatial memory compared to controls. These results provide insight into how estrogens differentially influence the brain and behavior, and may provide insight into the development of hormone replacement therapies for women.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a widely produced, endocrine disrupting compound that is pervasive in the environment. Data suggest that developmental exposure to BPA during sexual differentiation of the brain leads to later behavioral consequences in offspring. Outbred deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus bairdii) are an excellent animal model for such studies as they exhibit well-defined sex- and steroid-dependent behaviors. Here, dams during gestation and lactation were fed with a phytoestrogen-free control diet, the same diet supplemented with either ethinyl estradiol (0.1 ppb), or one of the three doses of BPA (50 mg, 5 mg, 50 g/kg feed weight). After weaning, the pups were maintained on control diet until they reached sexual maturity and then assessed for both spatial learning capabilities and anxiety-like and exploratory behaviors. Relative to controls, males exposed to the two upper but not the lowest dose of BPA demonstrated similar impairments in spatial learning, increased anxiety and reduced exploratory behaviors as ethinyl estradiol-exposed males, while females exposed to ethinyl estradiol, but not to BPA, consistently exhibited masculinized spatial abilities. We also determined whether dams maintained chronically on the upper dose of BPA contained environmentally relevant concentrations of BPA in their blood. While serum concentrations of unconjugated BPA in controls were below the minimum level of detection, those from dams on the BPA diet were comparable (5.482.07 ng/ml) to concentrations that have been observed in humans. Together, these studies demonstrate that developmental exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of BPA can disrupt adult behaviors in a dose- and sex-dependent manner.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show that a distributed fronto-parietal visuomotor integration network is recruited to overcome automatic responses to both biological and nonbiological cues. Activity levels in these areas are similar for both cue types. The functional connectivity of this network, however, reveals differential coupling with thalamus and precuneus (biological cues) and extrastriate cortex (nonbiological cues). This suggests that a set of cortical areas equally activated in two tasks may accomplish task goals differently depending on their network interactions. This supports models of brain organization that emphasize efficient coding through changing patterns of integration between regions of specialized function.
Cerebral white matter damage is not only a commonly reported consequence of healthy aging, but is also associated with cognitive decline and dementia. The aetiology of this damage is unclear; however, individuals with hypertension have a greater burden of white matter signal abnormalities (WMSA) on MR imaging than those without hypertension. It is therefore possible that elevated blood pressure (BP) impacts white matter tissue structure which in turn has a negative impact on cognition. However, little information exists about whether vascular health indexed by BP mediates the relationship between cognition and white matter tissue structure. We used diffusion tensor imaging to examine the impact of vascular health on regional associations between white matter integrity and cognition in healthy older adults spanning the normotensive to moderate-severe hypertensive BP range (43-87 years; N = 128). We examined how white matter structure was associated with performance on tests of two cognitive domains, executive functioning (EF) and processing speed (PS), and how patterns of regional associations were modified by BP and WMSA. Multiple linear regression and structural equation models demonstrated associations between tissue structure, EF and PS in frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital white matter regions. Radial diffusivity was more prominently associated with performance than axial diffusivity. BP only minimally influenced the relationship between white matter integrity, EF and PS. However, WMSA volume had a major impact on neurocognitive associations. This suggests that, although BP and WMSA are causally related, these differential metrics of vascular health may act via independent pathways to influence brain structure, EF and PS.
In humans, the Crumbs homolog-1 (CRB1) gene is mutated in progressive types of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa and Leber congenital amaurosis. However, there is no clear genotype-phenotype correlation for CRB1 mutations, which suggests that other components of the CRB complex may influence the severity of retinal disease. Therefore, to understand the physiological role of the Crumbs complex proteins, we generated and analysed conditional knockout mice lacking CRB2 in the developing retina. Progressive disorganization was detected during late retinal development. Progressive thinning of the photoreceptor layer and sites of cellular mislocalization was detected throughout the CRB2-deficient retina by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and spectral domain optical coherence tomography. Under scotopic conditions using electroretinography, the attenuation of the a-wave was relatively stronger than that of the b-wave, suggesting progressive degeneration of photoreceptors in adult animals. Histological analysis of newborn mice showed abnormal lamination of immature rod photoreceptors and disruption of adherens junctions between photoreceptors, Mller glia and progenitor cells. The number of late-born progenitor cells, rod photoreceptors and Mller glia cells was increased, concomitant with programmed cell death of rod photoreceptors. The data suggest an essential role for CRB2 in proper lamination of the photoreceptor layer and suppression of proliferation of late-born retinal progenitor cells.
Mutations in the gene encoding the iron-sulfur-containing DNA helicase DDX11 (ChlR1) were recently identified as a cause of a new recessive cohesinopathy, Warsaw breakage syndrome (WABS), in a single patient with severe microcephaly, pre- and postnatal growth retardation, and abnormal skin pigmentation. Here, using homozygosity mapping in a Lebanese consanguineous family followed by exome sequencing, we identified a novel homozygous mutation (c.788G&gt;A [p.R263Q]) in DDX11 in three affected siblings with severe intellectual disability and many of the congenital abnormalities reported in the WABS original case. Cultured lymphocytes from the patients showed increased mitomycin C-induced chromosomal breakage, as found in WABS. Biochemical studies of purified recombinant DDX11 indicated that the p.R263Q mutation impaired DDX11 helicase activity by perturbing its DNA binding and DNA-dependent ATP hydrolysis. Our findings thus confirm the involvement of DDX11 in WABS, describe its phenotypical spectrum, and provide novel insight into the structural requirement for DDX11 activity.

Given a single index, the receiver operational characteristic (ROC) curve analysis is routinely utilized for characterizing performances in distinguishing two conditions/groups in terms of sensitivity and specificity. Given the availability of multiple data sources (referred to as multi-indices), such as multimodal neuroimaging data sets, cognitive tests, and clinical ratings and genomic data in Alzheimers disease (AD) studies, the single-index-based ROC underutilizes all available information. For a long time, a number of algorithmic/analytic approaches combining multiple indices have been widely used to simultaneously incorporate multiple sources. In this study, we propose an alternative for combining multiple indices using logical operations, such as AND, OR, and at least n (where n is an integer), to construct multivariate ROC (multiV-ROC) and characterize the sensitivity and specificity statistically associated with the use of multiple indices. With and without the leave-one-out cross-validation, we used two data sets from AD studies to showcase the potentially increased sensitivity/specificity of the multiV-ROC in comparison to the single-index ROC and linear discriminant analysis (an analytic way of combining multi-indices). We conclude that, for the data sets we investigated, the proposed multiV-ROC approach is capable of providing a natural and practical alternative with improved classification accuracy as compared to univariate ROC and linear discriminant analysis.
CXCL8 and its receptors (CXCR1 and CXCR2) play important roles in CNS development, neuronal survival, modulation of excitability, and neuroimmune response. The aim of this study is to evaluate gene expression of CXCL8 and CXCR1/CXCR2 in peripheral blood cells (PBCs) of Iranian patients with relapsing remitting (RR) form of Multiple sclerosis (MS). We explored the mRNA expression of CXCL8 and its receptors in PBCs of 49 RR-MS patients in remitting status and 60 healthy controls by quantitative Real-Time PCR. Median expression of CXCL8 mRNA in peripheral blood of MS patients decreased more than 3-fold compared to control group (p&lt;0.001), while there were not significant differences in CXCR1 and CXCR2 gene expression between MS patients and healthy subjects (p=0.159 and p=0.248, respectively). There was a significant negative correlation of CXCR2 expression with EDSS (rs=-0.432, p=0.004). It appears that decreased expression of CXCL8 may lead to a raised risk of MS.
Human experience in, health and disease, always has a spiritual dimension. pirituality is accepted as one of the defining determinants of health and it no more remains a sole preserve of religion and mysticism. In recent years, pirituality has been an area of research in neurosciences and both in the nderstanding of psychiatric morbidity and extending therapeutic interventions it seems to be full of promises. Sufism has been a prominent spiritual tradition in Islam deriving influences from major world religions, such as, Christianity and Hinduism and contributing substantially toward spiritual well-being of a large number of people within and outside Muslim world. Though Sufism started in early days of Islam and had many prominent Sufis, it is in the medieval period it achieved great height culminating in many Sufi orders and their major proponents. The Sufism aims communion with God through spiritual realization; soul being the agency of this communion, and propounding the God to be not only the cause of all existence but the only real existence. It may provide a vital link to understand the source of religious experience and its impact on mental health.
Yoga is a traditional life-style practice used for spiritual reasons. However, the physical components like the asanas and pranayaamas have demonstrated physiological and therapeutic effects. There is evidence for Yoga as being a potent antidepressant that matches with drugs. In depressive disorder, yoga 'corrects' an underlying cognitive physiology. In schizophrenia patients, yoga has benefits as an add-on intervention in pharmacologically stabilized subjects. The effects are particularly notable on negative symptoms. Yoga also helps to correct social cognition. Yoga can be introduced early in the treatment of psychosis with some benefits. Elevation of oxytocin may be a mechanism of yoga effects in schizophrenia. Certain components of yoga have demonstrated neurobiological effects similar to those of vagal stimulation, indicating this (indirect or autogenous vagal stimulation) as a possible mechanism of its action. It is time, psychiatrists exploited the benefits if yoga for a comprehensive care in their patients.





Accurate matching of cortical surfaces is necessary in many neuroscience applications. In this context diffeomorphisms are often sought, because they facilitate further statistical analysis and atlas building. Present methods for computing diffeomorphisms are based on optimizing flows or on inflating surfaces to a common template, but they are often computationally expensive. It typically takes several hours on a conventional desktop computer to match a single pair of cortical surfaces having a few hundred thousand vertices. We propose a very fast alternative based on an application of spectral graph theory on a novel association graph. Our symmetric approach can generate a diffeomorphic correspondence map within a few minutes on high-resolution meshes while avoiding the sign and multiplicity ambiguities of conventional spectral matching methods. The eigenfunctions are shared between surfaces and provide a smooth parameterization of surfaces. These properties are exploited to compute differentials on highly folded cortical surfaces. Diffeomorphisms can thus be verified and invalid surface folding detected. Our method is demonstrated to attain a vertex accuracy that is at least as good as that of FreeSurfer and Spherical Demons but in only a fraction of their processing time. As a practical experiment, we construct an unbiased atlas of cortical surfaces with a speed several orders of magnitude faster than current methods.




A wide range of comorbid psychiatric disorders overlap with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) across the life span. There is a robust and complex link between ADHD and substance use disorders (SUD). The aim of this report was to review the neurobiological and other vulnerability factors explaining the comorbidity of ADHD and an addictive disorder, as well as the key aspects of the assessment and diagnosis of dually diagnosed ADHD patients. A comprehensive and systematic search of relevant databases (PubMed, Embase, and PsychINFO) was conducted to identify studies published in peer-reviewed journals until July 31, 2012, with the aim of exploring the association of ADHD and SUD with postgraduate training and residency education. Across the life span, ADHD is associated with significant impairment and comorbidity. Data from epidemiological, clinical and epidemiological studies show a very solid link between ADHD and SUD. Therefore, it is very important to carefully and systematically assess for any substance use in patients with suspected ADHD coming to initial assessment, and vice versa. While there are various valid and reliable rating and screening scales, diagnosis cannot solely rely on any of the instruments available for both SUD and ADHD in adult patients with dual pathology. The most important and effective tool in the assessment of dually diagnosed patients with ADHD and SUD is a full and comprehensive clinical and psychosocial assessment. Hence, it is essential to actively incorporate training opportunities on the assessment, diagnosis, and management of adult ADHD and dually diagnosed ADHD patients during postgraduate education residency or specialist training.

Objective. To verify whether systemic biometals dysfunctions affect neurotransmission in living Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Methods. We performed a case-control study using magnetoencephalography to detect sensorimotor fields of AD patients, at rest and during median nerve stimulation. We analyzed position and amount of neurons synchronously activated by the stimulation in both hemispheres to investigate the capability of the primary somatosensory cortex to reorganize its circuitry disrupted by the disease. We also assessed systemic levels of copper, ceruloplasmin, non-Cp copper (i.e., copper not bound to ceruloplasmin), peroxides, transferrin, and total antioxidant capacity. Results. Patients' sensorimotor generators appeared spatially shifted, despite no change of latency and strength, while spontaneous activity sources appeared unchanged. Neuronal reorganization was greater in moderately ill patients, while delta activity increased in severe patients. Non-Cp copper was the only biological variable appearing to be associated with patient sensorimotor transmission. Conclusions. Our data strengthen the notion that non-Cp copper, not copper in general, affects neuronal activity in AD. Significance. High plasticity in the disease early stages in regions controlling more commonly used body parts strengthens the notion that physical and cognitive activities are protective factors against progression of dementia.
Objective. To understand who dementia patients identify as their family and how dementia affects family life. Background. Dementia care is often delivered in family settings, so understanding the constituency and needs of the family unit involved in care is important for determining contributors to family quality of life. Design/Methods. Seventy-seven families receiving care at an academic dementia clinic completed questionnaires regarding the affected person and the family. Responses were categorized as focused on an individual's needs or the family's needs. Results. Respondents identified a mean of 3.77 family members involved in care. Spouse (80.5%), daughter (58.4%), son (46.8%), and stepchild or child-in-law (37.7%) were the most frequently listed family members. Questions regarding the effect of dementia-related changes in cognition and mood were most likely to elicit a family-focused response. Questionnaire items that inquired about specific medical questions and strategies to improve family function were least likely to elicit a family-focused response. Conclusions. Both caregivers and persons with dementia frequently provided family-focused responses, supporting the construct of dementia as an illness that affects life in the family unit. This finding reinforces the potential utility of family-centered quality of life measures in assessing treatment success for people with dementia.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia and represents a significant burden on the global economy and society. The role of transition metals, in particular copper (Cu), in AD has become of significant interest due to the dyshomeostasis of these essential elements, which can impart profound effects on cell viability and neuronal function. We tested the hypothesis that there is a systemic perturbation in Cu compartmentalization in AD, within the brain as well as in the periphery, specifically within erythrocytes. Our results showed that the previously reported decrease in Cu within the human frontal cortex was confined to the soluble (P &lt; 0.05) and total homogenate (P &lt; 0.05) fractions. No differences were observed in Cu concentration in erythrocytes. Our data indicate that there is a brain specific alteration in Cu levels in AD localized to the soluble extracted material, which is not reflected in erythrocytes. Further studies using metalloproteomics approaches will be able to elucidate the metabolic mechanism(s) that results in the decreased brain Cu levels during the progression of AD.


Substantial evidence implicates -amyloid (A) peptides in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A is produced by the proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein by - and -secretase suggesting that -secretase inhibition may provide therapeutic benefit for AD. Although many -secretase inhibitors have been shown to be potent at lowering A, some have also been shown to have side effects following repeated administration. All of these side effects can be attributed to altered Notch signaling, another -secretase substrate. Here we describe the in vivo characterization of the novel -secretase inhibitor SCH 697466 in rodents. Although SCH 697466 was effective at lowering A, Notch-related side effects in the intestine and thymus were observed following subchronic administration at doses that provided sustained and complete lowering of A. However, additional studies revealed that both partial but sustained lowering of Aand complete but less sustained lowering of A were successful approaches for managing Notch-related side effects. Further, changes in several Notch-related biomarkers paralleled the side effect observations. Taken together, these studies demonstrated that, by carefully varying the extent and duration of A lowering by -secretase inhibitors, it is possible to obtain robust and sustained lowering of A without evidence of Notch-related side effects.

Anthocynanins, found in fruits and vegetables, have a variety of protective properties, which have generally been attributed to their antioxidant capacity. However, antioxidants are generally strong reductants, and some reductants have been found to block apoptosis by reducing cytosolic cytochrome c, which prevents caspase activation. We tested the ability of various anthocyanins: to reduce cytochrome c, to support cytochrome c-induced mitochondrial respiration and to inhibit apoptosis induced by heart ischemia. Anthocyanins such as delphinidin-3-glucoside (Dp3G) and cyanidin-3-glucoside (Cy3G) were able to reduce cytochrome c directly and rapidly, whereas pelargonidin-3-glucoside (Pg3G), malvinidin-3-glucoside (Mv3G) and peonidin-3-glucoside (Pn3G) had relatively low cytochrome c reducing activities. Dp3G and Cy3G but not Pg3G supported mitochondrial state 4 respiration in the presence of exogenous cytochrome c. Pre-perfusion of hearts with 20 M Cy3G but not Pg3G prevented ischemia-induced caspase activation. This suggests that the ability of anthocyanins to block caspase activation may be due to their ability to reduce cytosolic cytochrome c. This article is part of a Directed Issue entitled: Bioenergetic dysfunction, adaptation and therapy.
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease caused by a deficiency in the production of insulin and/or by the effects of insulin resistance. Insulin deficiency leads to hyperglycemia which is the major initiator of diabetic cardiovascular complications escalating with time and driven by many complex biochemical and molecular processes. Four hypotheses, which propose mechanisms of diabetes-associated pathophysiology, are currently considered. Cardiovascular impairment may be caused by an increase in polyol pathway flux, by intracellular advanced glycation end-products formation or increased flux through the hexosamine pathway. The latter of these mechanisms involves activation of the protein kinase C. Cellular and mitochondrial metabolism alterations observed in the course of diabetes are partially associated with an excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Among many processes and factors involved in ROS production, the 66 kDa isoform of the growth factor adaptor shc (p66Shc protein) is of particular interest. This protein plays a key role in the control of mitochondria-dependent oxidative balance thus it involvement in diabetic complications and other oxidative stress based pathologies is recently intensively studied. In this review we summarize the current understanding of hyperglycemia induced cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction with an emphasis on the oxidative stress and p66Shc protein. This article is part of a Directed Issue entitled: Bioenergetic dysfunction, adaptation and therapy.
Parkinson's Disease (PD) causing mutations in -synuclein gene are ALA30PRO, GLU46LYS and ALA53THR. The conformational changes in proteins with respect to all the three mutations were analysed. These were used to predict the structures of Short Interfering RNA (siRNA) antisense strand and siRNA region. The siRNA binds with the argonaute protein forming RNA Induced Silencing Complex (RISC). Then, siRNA antisense-strand was attached to RISC. The structure of dicer (RNase-III-enzyme) cleaves double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) into two siRNA-strands. Incorporation of single siRNA-strand into RISC guides to pair with the complementary -synuclein target-messenger RNA (mRNA) thereby enabling it to cleave the target.







Previous research has demonstrated that a hypnotic intervention can reduce hot flashes, a significant problem for some women. Based on the authors' previous research, the present study was developed to evaluate the feasibility of a guided self-hypnosis intervention for hot flashes. Thirteen postmenopausal women received 5 sessions of guided self-hypnosis in which all hypnotic inductions were recordings. Guidance regarding symptom monitoring, individualization of mental imagery, and practice of self-hypnosis were provided. Hot flashes were determined through diaries. Results indicated average frequency of hot flashes decreased by 72% (p &lt; .001) and hot-flash scores decreased by 76% (p &lt; .001) on average. Guided self-hypnosis reduced perceived hot flashes in the pilot study with postmenopausal women supporting the possible feasibility and potential benefit of the intervention.
Parkinson's disease is a severe neurodegenerative disorder with a prevalence rate of approximately 1.6% in elderly Americans. This case study reports on a 51-year-old male Parkinson's patient who received 3 weekly sessions of a hypnosis intervention, as well as instruction in self-hypnosis. Actigraphy was used to assess rest-tremor severity. Results revealed a 94% reduction in rest tremors following treatment. Self-reported levels of anxiety, depression, sleep quality, pain, stiffness, libido, and quality of life also showed improvements. The patient reported a high level of satisfaction with treatment. These findings suggest clinical hypnosis is potentially feasible and beneficial treatment for some Parkinson's symptoms. Further investigation with diverse samples and an ambulatory monitoring device is warranted.
More than 98% of ectopic pregnancies occur in the Fallopian tube. Because many facets of tubal ectopic pregnancy remain unclear, prediction, prevention and treatment of tubal ectopic pregnancy are still a major clinical challenge. Compelling evidence suggests that angiogenic growth factors are involved in normal and abnormal implantation. While acknowledging the importance of an intrauterine pregnancy requires the development of a local blood supply and angiogenesis, we hypothesize that the hypoxic- and estrogen-dependent regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor/placental growth factor expression, secretion, and signaling pathways that are possibly involved in the pathophysiology of tubal ectopic pregnancy. Our hypothesis may also lead to a new therapeutic strategy for women with tubal ectopic pregnancy.

In this study we have investigated by real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) the expression of cytokines, which are well known angiogenic and anti-angiogenic molecules, during chick embryo development in four organs, namely the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM), heart, liver and optic tectum at four different stages. We have studied the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), angiopoietin-1 (ANG-1), hypoxia inducible factor-1 and -2 alpha (HIF-1 and HIF-2), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and of endostatin. All the pro-angiogenic cytokines examined showed a progressive increase in their expression in brain, heart, and liver, through all the stages of development, and parallel endostatin reduces its expression. In contrast, in the CAM, all the pro-angiogenic factors examined, with the exception of ANG-1, showed a stably-decreased expression during development, whereas endostatin progressively increased its expression. The CAM as an extraembryonic membrane which mediates gas and nutrient exchange until hatching, may be considered an outer organ and not an intrinsic organ of the developing embryo in which the mechanisms regulating the development of the vascular tree are different.

Introduction. A role for vitamin D deficiency in Parkinson's disease (PD) has recently been proposed. Given the growing body of evidence for the association of vitamin D with several neurodegenerative disorders and unavailability of any published study in the Middle East, the present study is aimed to determine the associations of circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) levels with the severity of PD in an Iranian sample. Methods. In 109 patients, the severity of PD was evaluated by using Hoehn &amp; Yahr (HR) stages and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Stage (UPDRS) Part III compared with 25OHD level in a double-blind and cross-sectional study. Results. Mean  SD levels of 25OHD were 28.5  1.4 and 27.1  1.5, for males and females, respectively. Also, 38.4% of the patients showed deficiency levels of 25OHD (&lt;20ng/mL), and 72.8% had insufficient levels (&lt;30ng/mL). High prevalence of 25OHD insufficiency in subjects with early disease was not associated with HR stage and UPDRS scores even after multivariate adjustment for possible confounders including disease duration. Conclusions. These findings are consistent with the possibility that vitamin D status does not seem to deteriorate during the early disease stages of PD. Further studies are needed to reveal the natural role and significance of vitamin D insufficiency in PD.

Background. Graft pretreatment to limit postoperative damage has the advantage of overcoming a current issue in liver transplantation (LT). The strategic potential of graft pretreatment in vivo by a specific agonist for  -aminobutyric acid receptor (GABAR) was investigated in the rat LT model with a small-for-size graft (SFSG). Methods. Recipient rats were divided into three groups according to donor treatments and recipient surgeries: (i) saline and laparotomy, (ii) saline and split orthotopic liver transplantation (SOLT) with 40%-SFSG, and (iii) GABAR agonist and SOLT with 40%-SFSG. Survival was evaluated. Blood and liver samples were collected 6h after surgery. Immunohistological assessment for apoptotic induction and western blotting for 4-hydroxynonenal, ataxia-telangiectasia mutated kinase (ATM), histone H2AX, phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K), Akt, and free radical scavenging enzymes were performed. Results. Pretreatment by GABAR showed improvement in survival, histopathological assessment, and biochemical tests. Apoptotic induction and oxidative stress were observed after SOLT with an SFSG, and this damage was limited by GABAR regulation. GABAR regulation appeared to reduce DNA damage via the ATM/H2AX pathway and to promote cell survival via the PI3K/Akt pathway. Conclusions. Pretreatment in vivo by GABAR regulation improves graft damage after SOLT with an SFSG. This strategy may be advantageous in LT.
Angiotensin II increases blood pressure and stimulates thirst and sodium appetite in the brain. It also stimulates secretion of aldosterone from the adrenal zona glomerulosa and epinephrine from the adrenal medulla. The rat has 3 subtypes of angiotensin II receptors: AT1a, AT1b, and AT2. mRNAs for all three subtypes occur in the adrenal and brain. To immunohistochemically differentiate these receptor subtypes, rabbits were immunized with C-terminal fragments of these subtypes to generate receptor subtype-specific antibodies. Immunofluorescence revealed AT1a and AT2 receptors in adrenal zona glomerulosa and medulla. AT1b immunofluorescence was present in the zona glomerulosa, but not the medulla. Ultrastructural immunogold labeling for the AT1a receptor in glomerulosa and medullary cells localized it to plasma membrane, endocytic vesicles, multivesicular bodies, and the nucleus. AT1b and AT2, but not AT1a, immunofluorescence was observed in the anterior pituitary. Stellate cells were AT1b positive while ovoid cells were AT2 positive. In the brain, neurons were AT1a, AT1b, and AT2 positive, but glia was only AT1b positive. Highest levels of AT1a, AT1b, and AT2 receptor immunofluorescence were in the subfornical organ, median eminence, area postrema, paraventricular nucleus, and solitary tract nucleus. These studies complement those employing different techniques to characterize Ang II receptors.
Classical inflammation is a well-characterized secondary response to many acute disorders of the central nervous system. However, in recent years, the role of neurogenic inflammation in the pathogenesis of neurological diseases has gained increasing attention, with a particular focus on its effects on modulation of the blood-brain barrier BBB. The neuropeptide substance P has been shown to increase blood-brain barrier permeability following acute injury to the brain and is associated with marked cerebral edema. Its release has also been shown to modulate classical inflammation. Accordingly, blocking substance P NK1 receptors may provide a novel alternative treatment to ameliorate the deleterious effects of neurogenic inflammation in the central nervous system. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the role of substance P and neurogenic inflammation in acute injury to the central nervous system following traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, stroke, and meningitis.




Neurological diseases represent a medical, social, and economic problem of paramount importance in developed countries. Although their etiology is generally known, developing therapeutic interventions for the central nervous system is challenging due to the impermeability of the blood-brain barrier. Thus, the fight against neurological diseases usually struggles &quot;at the gates&quot; of the brain. Flooding the bloodstream with drugs, where only a minor fraction reaches its target therapeutic site, is an inefficient, expensive, and dangerous procedure, because of the risk of side effects at nontargeted sites. Currently, advances in the field of nanotechnology have enabled development of a generation of multifunctional molecular platforms that are capable of transporting drugs across the blood-brain barrier, targeting specific cell types or functional states within the brain, releasing drugs in a controlled manner, and enabling visualization of processes in vivo using conventional imaging systems. The marriage between drug delivery and molecular imaging disciplines has resulted in a relatively new discipline, known as theranostics, which represents the basis of the concept of personalized medicine. In this study, we review the concepts of the blood-brain barrier and the strategies used to traverse/bypass it, the role of nanotechnology in theranostics, the wide range of nanoparticles (with emphasis on liposomes) that can be used as stealth drug carriers, imaging probes and targeting devices for the treatment of neurological diseases, and the targets and targeting strategies envisaged in the treatment of different types of brain pathology.
Optogenetic technology, also known as optogenetics, is a novel multidisciplinary field in biotechnology that integrates genetic engineering, electrophysiology, and optical and electronic engineering. This recently developed technology has evolved rapidly and generated considerable excitement in neuroscience research. This technology successfully solves the severe problem of achieving both high temporal and spatial precision within intact neural tissues of animals that electrical stimulation and pharmacological methods cannot achieve. It allows neurons to express light-sensitive genes that enable the identification, dissection, and manipulation of specific neural populations and their connections in the tissues and organs of awake animals with unprecedented spatial and temporal precision. Light-sensitive genes chiefly including the genetically targeted light-gated channels channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and halorhodopsin (NpHR) cause intracellular ion flow during optical illumination. Subsequently, the neurons undergo a series of changes resulting from membrane depolarization or hyperpolarization. To date, there are many published research articles and reviews that describe this new technology; however, few of the reports concern its application to neuropsychiatric diseases. In this review, we summarize the most recent optogenetic research in these diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD), epilepsy, schizophrenia, anxiety, fear, reward behaviors, and sleep disorders. We propose that novel optogenetics technology creates excellent opportunities for innovative treatment strategies of neuropsychiatric diseases.
Hearing aid technology has improved dramatically in the last decade, especially in the ability to adaptively respond to dynamic aspects of background noise. Despite these advancements, however, hearing aid users continue to report difficulty hearing in background noise and having trouble adjusting to amplified sound quality. These difficulties may arise in part from current approaches to hearing aid fittings, which largely focus on increased audibility and management of environmental noise. These approaches do not take into account the fact that sound is processed all along the auditory system from the cochlea to the auditory cortex. Older adults represent the largest group of hearing aid wearers; yet older adults are known to have deficits in temporal resolution in the central auditory system. Here we review evidence that supports the use of the auditory brainstem response to complex sounds (cABR) in the assessment of hearing-in-noise difficulties and auditory training efficacy in older adults.
Background. Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders among children. The aim of this study was to evaluate risk factors for ADHD in children. Method. In this case-control study, 404 children between 4 and 11 years old were selected by cluster sampling method from preschool children (208 patients as cases and 196 controls). All the participants were interviewed by a child and adolescent psychiatrist to survey risk factors of ADHD. Results. Among cases, 59.3% of children were boys and 38.4% were girls, which is different to that in control group with 40.7% boys and 61.6% girls. The chi-square showed statistically significance (P value &lt; 0.0001). The other significant factors by chi-square were fathers' somatic or psychiatric disease (P value &lt; 0.0001), history of trauma and accident during pregnancy (P value = 0.039), abortion proceeds (P value &lt; 0.0001), unintended pregnancy (P value &lt; 0.0001), and history of head trauma (P value &lt; 0.0001). Conclusions. Findings of our study suggest that maternal and paternal adverse events were associated with ADHD symptoms, but breast feeding is a protective factor.
The dense representation of trigeminal mechanosensitive afferents in the lip vermilion, anterior tongue, intraoral mucosa, and temporomandibular joint allows the infant's orofacial system to encode a wide range of somatosensory experiences during the critical period associated with feed development. Our understanding of how this complex sensorium processes texture is very limited in adults, and the putative role of texture encoding in the infant is unknown. The purpose of this study was to examine the short-term effects of a novel textured pacifier experience in healthy term infants (N = 28). Nonnutritive suck (NNS) compression pressure waveforms were digitized in real time using a variety of custom-molded textured pacifiers varying in spatial array density of touch domes. MANCOVA, adjusted for postmenstrual age at test and sex, revealed that infants exhibited an increase in NNS burst attempts at the expense of a degraded suck burst structure with the textured pacifiers, suggesting that the suck central pattern generator (sCPG) is significantly disrupted and reorganized by this novel orocutaneous experience. The current findings provide new insight into oromotor control as a function of the oral somatosensory environment in neurotypically developing infants.
Nonreducible cystine isosteres represent important peptide design elements in that they can maintain a near-native tertiary conformation of the peptide while simultaneously extending the in vitro and in vivo half-life of the biomolecule. Examples of these cystine mimics include dicarba, diselenide, thioether, triazole, and lactam bridges. Each has unique physicochemical properties that impact upon the resulting peptide conformation. Each also requires specific conditions for its formation via chemical peptide synthesis protocols. While the preparation of peptides containing two lactam bonds within a peptide is technically possible and reported by others, to date there has been no report of the chemical synthesis of a heterodimeric peptide linked by two lactam bonds. To examine the feasibility of such an assembly, judicious use of a complementary combination of amine and acid protecting groups together with nonfragment-based, total stepwise solid phase peptide synthesis led to the successful preparation of an analogue of the model peptide, insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), in which both of the interchain disulfide bonds were replaced with a lactam bond. An analogue containing a single disulfide-substituted interchain lactam bond was also prepared. Both INSL3 analogues retained significant cognate RXFP2 receptor binding affinity.
Neuronal morphology is highly sensitive to ischemia, although some re-organization may promote neuroprotection. In this study we investigate the role of actin regulating proteins (ARP2, ARP3 and WAVE-1) and their role in rapid ischemic tolerance. Using an established in vitro model of rapid ischemic tolerance, we show that WAVE-1 protein levels are stabilized following brief tolerance inducing ischemia (preconditioning). The stabilization appears to be due to a reduction in the ubiquitination of WAVE-1. Levels of ARP2, ARP3 and N-WASP were not affected by ischemic preconditioning. Immunocytochemical studies show a relocalization of ARP2 and ARP3 proteins in neurons following preconditioning ischemia, as well as a re-organization of actin. Blocking the protein kinase CK2 using emodin blocks ischemic tolerance, and our data suggests CK2 binds to WAVE-1 in neurons. We observe an increase in binding of the ARP2 subunit with WAVE-1. The neuroprotection observed following preconditioning is inhibited when cells are transduced with an N-WASP CA domain that blocks the activation of ARP2/3. Together these data show that ischemia affects actin regulating enzymes, and that the ARP2/3 pathway plays a role in rapid ischemic tolerance induced neuroprotection.



Studies of gender differences using primarily young individuals show that males, on average, perform better than females in physical activities but worse than females on tests of verbal abilities. There is however a controversy about the existence of these sex differences in adulthood. Our study used 1271 participants from four cultural backgrounds (Chinese, multi-generation Canadians, Indu-Canadians, and European-Canadians) divided in five age groups. We measured sex differences in the time required for participants to complete a lexical task experiment, and also assessed their verbal tempo and physical endurance using a validated temperament test (Structure of Temperament Questionnaire). We found a significant female advantage in time on the lexical task and on the temperament scale of social-verbal tempo, and a male advantage on the temperament scale of physical endurance. These sex differences, however, were more pronounced in young age groups (17-24), fading in older groups. This &quot;middle age-middle sex&quot; phenomenon suggests that sex differences in these two types of abilities observed in younger groups might be &quot;a matter of age,&quot; and should not be attributed to gender in general. A one-dimensional approach to sex differences (common in meta-analytic studies) therefore overlooks a possible interaction of sex differences with age.
One of the current issues of debate in the study of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is deviations of oscillatory brain responses from normal brain states and its dynamics. This work aims to characterize the differences of power in brain oscillations during the execution of a recognition memory task in MCI subjects in comparison with elderly controls. Magnetoencephalographic (MEG) signals were recorded during a continuous recognition memory task performance. Oscillatory brain activity during the recognition phase of the task was analyzed by wavelet transform in the source space by means of minimum norm algorithm. Both groups obtained a 77% hit ratio. In comparison with healthy controls, MCI subjects showed increased theta (p&lt;0.001), lower beta reduction (p&lt;0.001) and decreased alpha and gamma power (p&lt;0.002 and p&lt;0.001 respectively) in frontal, temporal and parietal areas during early and late latencies. Our results point towards a dual pattern of activity (increase and decrease) which is indicative of MCI and specific to certain time windows, frequency bands and brain regions. These results could represent two neurophysiological sides of MCI. Characterizing these opposing processes may contribute to the understanding of the disorder.
The present study examined whether monolinguals and balanced bilinguals perceive speech sounds similarly or whether the two phonological systems in bilinguals interact so that one language is affected by the other. Two groups, monolingual native speakers of Finnish and balanced Finnish-Swedish bilinguals, were tested. We measured mismatch negativity (MMN) responses and used individually selected, native language, stimuli. The results revealed that balanced bilinguals had a significantly longer MMN latency than the monolinguals which suggests slower and weaker preattentive processing in the bilinguals. This implies that the two phonological systems are intertwined which decreases the access of exemplars.
Cognitive impairment after stroke is common and can cause disability with major impacts on quality of life and independence. There are also indirect effects of cognitive impairment on functional recovery after stroke through reduced participation in rehabilitation and poor adherence to treatment guidelines. In this article, we attempt to establish the following:  whether there is a distinct profile of cognitive impairment after stroke;  whether the type of cognitive deficit can be associated with the features of stroke-related damage; and  whether interventions can improve poststroke cognitive performance. There is not a consistent profile of cognitive deficits in stroke, though slowed information processing and executive dysfunction tend to predominate. Our understanding of structure-function relationships has been advanced using imaging techniques such as lesion mapping and will be further enhanced through better characterization of damage to functional networks and identification of subtle white matter abnormalities. Effective cognitive rehabilitation approaches have been reported for focal cortical deficits such as neglect and aphasia, but treatments for more diffusely represented cognitive impairment remain elusive. In the future, the hope is that different techniques that have been shown to promote neural plasticity (e.g., exercise, brain stimulation, and pharmacological agents) can be applied to improve the cognitive function of stroke survivors.
Early rehabilitation is widely regarded as an important feature of effective stroke care. But what is 'early', and what kinds of therapies should, or can, we begin soon after stroke onset? In this commentary, some of the barriers and drivers for early rehabilitation research and practice are explored.

It is becoming recognized that the extraembryonic domains of developing vertebrates, that is, those that make no cellular contribution to the embryo proper, act as important signaling centers that induce and pattern the germ layers and help establish the key embryonic axes. In the embryos of teleost fish, in particular, significant progress has been made in understanding how signaling activity in extraembryonic domains, such as the enveloping layer, the yolk syncytial layer, and the yolk cell, might help regulate development via a combination of inductive interactions, cellular dynamics, and localized gene expression. Ca(2+) signaling in a variety of forms that include propagating waves and standing gradients is a feature found in all three teleostean extraembryonic domains. This leads us to propose that in addition to their other well-characterized signaling activities, extraembryonic domains are well suited (due to their relative stability and continuity) to act as Ca(2+) signaling centers and conduits.
Tourette syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by the chronic presence of multiple motor tics and at least one vocal/phonic tic for the duration of 1 year. The clinical picture of patients with Tourette syndrome is often complicated by tic-related behavioral problems and associated psychopathology. The pathophysiology of Tourette syndrome is not thoroughly understood, however converging evidence from neuroimaging studies suggests abnormalities within the frontostriatal pathways which are mediated by several neurotransmitters. The pharmacological management of the tic symptoms focuses on the dopaminergic and noradrenergic pathways and aims to improve the health-related quality of life of patients. The most common medications are neuroleptics and atypical antipsychotics, which have a strong D2 blocking action. Also, preliminary studies have documented the efficacy of antiepileptic drugs in controlling tics. Thus far, two anticonvulsants (topiramate and levetiracetam) have been tested with a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled procedure in the treatment of tics. A study has reported an improvement in the control of tics with topiramate. This pharmacological agent was also reported to be well tolerated by the patients. However, the most frequent observed topiramate side effects (such as somnolence, cognitive problems, and weight loss) could not have manifested because of the short trial duration. Levetiracetam has shown conflicting results. A study found significant improvements in the control of tics, also associated with improvement in school performance. These results, however, were not replicated in other studies. Further investigations are therefore needed to assess the real efficacy of antiepileptic drugs in the treatment of tics.
There is sparse evidence suggesting the participation of neuroendocrine mechanisms, mainly involving sex and stress steroid hormones, to the pathophysiology of neurodevelopmental disorders such as Tourette syndrome (TS) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Patients with TS exhibit a sex-specific variability in gender distribution (male/female ratio=3-4/1) and in its natural history, with a severity peak in the period around puberty. The administration of exogenous androgens may worsen tics in males with TS, whereas drugs counteracting the action of testosterone might show some antitic efficacy. This suggests a higher susceptibility of patients with TS to androgen steroids. There are insufficient data on the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis in TS. However, preliminary evidence suggests that a subgroup of women with TS might be more sensitive to the premenstrual trough of estrogen levels. Patients with TS exhibit differences in a number of behavioral, cognitive, and anatomical traits that appear to be sex related. There is a body of evidence supporting, albeit indirectly, the hypothesis of an increased exposure to androgenic steroids during the very early phases of neural development. Animal models in rodents suggest a complex role of gonadal hormones upon the modulation of anxiety-related and stereotyped behaviors during adult life. Patients with TS exhibit an enhanced reactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to external stressors, despite a preserved diurnal cortisol rhythm and a normal restoration of the baseline activity of the axis following the acute stress response. Preliminary evidence suggests the possible implication of oxytocin (OT) in disorders related to the TS spectrum, especially non-tic-related OCD. The injection of OT in the amygdala of rodents was shown to be able to induce hypergrooming, suggesting the possible involvement of this neuropeptide in the pathophysiology of complex, stereotyped behaviors. In contrast, there is anecdotal clinical evidence that tics improve following periods of affectionate touch and sexual intercourse.
Tourette Syndrome (TS) is a neurological disorder characterized by motor and phonic tics affecting approximately 1% of the pediatric population. Behavioral comorbidities often include obsessive-compulsive behavior and impaired attention. The neurobiological substrates associated with TS generally entail abnormalities in neurotransmitter circuitry regulating basal ganglia activity. The neurotransmitters most often associated with TS are dopamine, serotonin, and GABA. TS origin roots in genetic predisposing factors, and environmental variables favoring tic onset and exacerbation. Among the latter, repeated infections with group A beta-hemolytic Streptococcus and psychosocial stressors encountered during development have been proposed to constitute likely susceptibility factors. In this chapter, we describe how this clinical/epidemiological knowledge has been translated into animal models of TS. Specifically, we review several studies attempting to reproduce TS-like symptoms (tics and behavioral stereotypies) and comorbidities (impaired attention, increased locomotion, and perseverative responding) in laboratory rodents. Additionally, we discuss studies in which the genetic and environmental predisposing factors have been modeled in experimental subjects. Ultimately, we propose a unifying perspective recapitulating dependent and independent variables in the preclinical study of TS and discuss its potential theoretical and heuristic implications.
This review summarizes animal models of Tourette syndrome (TS) and associated tic disorders that have been developed through pharmacological manipulation. These models provide a useful platform to explore the pathophysiology and the therapeutic interventions available for these disorders. The current pharmacological models, primarily using rodents and nonhuman primates, are classified in this review into two major categories depending on the methodology used for administration, that is, systemic and focal (intracerebral) injection protocols. The systemic protocol primarily targets monoamines such as dopamine and serotonin, whereas the focal protocol mainly manipulates local transmission of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Each category is capable of inducing behavioral abnormalities that are characteristic of TS spectrum disorders, ranging from sensorimotor to cognitive and emotional symptoms to various degrees. Among a variety of pharmacological models, focal microinjection of GABA antagonists into the sensorimotor striatum has helped identify abnormal neural discharge in the global networks which underlie tourettism, including not only the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia but also the cerebellum, consistent with recent neuroimaging studies for TS subjects. This unique model also provides the opportunity to clarify the effect and mechanisms of therapeutic deep brain stimulation. Continuing efforts to incorporate cutting-edge knowledge into the existing models, as well as to combine different model platforms, will allow further refinement of animal models, thereby leading to a greater understanding of TS and associated tic disorders.
In this chapter, we report the first experimental explorations of reinforcement learning in Tourette syndrome, realized by our team in the last few years. This report will be preceded by an introduction aimed to provide the reader with the state of the art of the knowledge concerning the neural bases of reinforcement learning at the moment of these studies and the scientific rationale beyond them. In short, reinforcement learning is learning by trial and error to maximize rewards and minimize punishments. This decision-making and learning process implicates the dopaminergic system projecting to the frontal cortex-basal ganglia circuits. A large body of evidence suggests that the dysfunction of the same neural systems is implicated in the pathophysiology of Tourette syndrome. Our results show that Tourette condition, as well as the most common pharmacological treatments (dopamine antagonists), affects reinforcement learning performance in these patients. Specifically, the results suggest a deficit in negative reinforcement learning, possibly underpinned by a functional hyperdopaminergia, which could explain the persistence of tics, despite their evident inadaptive (negative) value. This idea, together with the implications of these results in Tourette therapy and the future perspectives, is discussed in Section 4 of this chapter.
The therapeutic success of haloperidol in the treatment of Tourette syndrome (TS) put an end to the discussion about a &quot;hysteric&quot; or &quot;neurotic&quot; origin of TS. The cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuit has been identified as an underlying neurobiological correlate of TS. In this review we explore the main findings of structural alterations in TS including cortical areas, basal ganglia, hippocampus, amygdala, midbrain, and cerebellum. Based on the structural changes we examine the functional pattern described by the findings of fMRI and (15)O-PET/(18)FDG PET investigations. From the neuroimaging findings a cortical origin of the generation of tics is indicated. Future research on the neuronal footprint of TS should be directed towards addressing the question of which patterns of connectivity distinguish individuals in whom tics disappear during early adulthood from those in whom the tics persist. The understanding of this pathomechanism could provide a key on how to influence dysconnectivity in TS, for example, by more specific pharmaceutical intervention or by individually adopted EEG and/or fMRI neurofeedback.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is the primary tic disorder that reaches most commonly medical attention and monitoring, with an estimated prevalence close to 1% between 5 and 18 years of age. Motor and phonic tics are the core features of TS. In addition to their well-characterized phenomenology, tics display a peculiar variability over time, which is strongly influenced by a variety of contextual factors. The sensory phenomena of TS are increasingly recognized as another crucial symptom of TS and consist of premonitory urges and somatic hypersensitivity. A relevant proportion of patients with TS display complex, tic-like, repetitive behaviors that include echophenomena, coprophenomena, and nonobscene socially inappropriate behaviors (NOSIBs). The burden of behavioral comorbidities is very important in determining the degree of disability of TS patients. Only a small minority of TS patients presents exclusively with a tic disorder. Obsessive-compulsive symptoms and related disorder (OCD) are common in TS, and the clinical distinction between compulsions and complex tics may be difficult in some cases. Probably, the presence of comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the main determinant of cognitive dysfunction in TS patients and influences heavily also the risk of developing disruptive behaviors. Affective disorders, impulse control disorders, autism spectrum disorders, and personality disorders complete the wide psychopathological spectrum of this condition, but have been less investigated than OCD and ADHD. The complexity of the Tourette spectrum has been confirmed by cluster and factor analytical approaches, and is likely to inform the study of the genetic basis of this disorder, as well as future reappraisal of its nosography, with the development of novel clinical subtypes.

Neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders result from complex interactions between critical genetic factors and as-yet-unknown environmental components. To gain clinical insight, it is critical to develop a comprehensive understanding of these genetic components. RBFOX1, an RNA splicing factor, regulates expression of large genetic networks during early neuronal development, and haploinsufficiency causes severe neurodevelopmental phenotypes including autism spectrum disorder (ASD), intellectual disability, and epilepsy. Genomic testing in individuals and large patient cohorts has identified phenotypically similar cases possessing copy number variations in RBFOX1, implicating the gene as an important cause of neurodevelopmental disease. However, a significant proportion of the observed structural variation is inherited from phenotypically normal individuals, raising questions regarding overall pathogenicity of variation at the RBFOX1 locus. In this chapter, we discuss the molecular, cellular, and clinical evidence supporting the role of RBFOX1 in neurodevelopment and present a comprehensive model for the contribution of structural variation in RBFOX1 to ASD.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) impair social cognition and communication, key higher-order functions centered in the human neocortex. The assembly of neocortical circuitry is a precisely regulated developmental process susceptible to genetic alterations that can ultimately affect cognitive abilities. Because ASD is an early onset neurodevelopmental disorder that disrupts functions executed by the neocortex, miswiring of neocortical circuits has been hypothesized to be an underlying mechanism of ASD. This possibility is supported by emerging genetic findings and data from imaging studies. Recent research on neocortical development has identified transcription factors as key determinants of neocortical circuit assembly, mediating diverse processes including neuronal specification, migration, and wiring. Many of these TFs (TBR1, SOX5, FEZF2, and SATB2) have been implicated in ASD. Here, I will discuss the functional roles of these transcriptional programs in neocortical circuit development and their neurobiological implications for the emerging etiology of ASD.
Language is a human-specific trait that likely facilitated the rapid increase in higher cognitive function in our species. A consequence of the selective pressures that have permitted language and cognition to flourish in humans is the unique vulnerability of humans to developing cognitive disorders such as autism. Therefore, progress in understanding the genetic and molecular mechanisms of language evolution should provide insight into such disorders. Here, we discuss the few genes that have been identified in both autism-related pathways and language. We also detail the use of animal models to uncover the function of these genes at a mechanistic and circuit level. Finally, we present the use of comparative genomics to identify novel genes and gene networks involved in autism. Together, all of these approaches will allow for a broader and deeper view of the molecular brain mechanisms involved in the evolution of language and the gene disruptions associated with autism.
Over the last four decades, there has been an increasing interest in acupuncture treatment of substance abuse around the world. Three important steps can be identified in this field. Dr. Wen of Hong Kong was the first (1972) to report that acupuncture at four body points and two ear points combined with electric stimulation can relieve opioid withdrawal signs in the addicts. The second major step was made by Dr. M. Smith in New York, the head of the National Acupuncture Detoxification Association (NADA) of the United States, who finalized a protocol (1985), using only ear points without electric stimulation for the treatment of cocaine dependence. The recent advance in this field was made by Dr. Han of the Peking University, Beijing, who characterized a protocol (2005), using electric stimulation of identified frequencies on body points to ameliorate heroin withdrawal signs and reduce relapse of heroin use. In this chapter, the efficacy of acupuncture and related techniques for the treatment of drug dependence in experimental settings and clinical practice will be reviewed, and the possible mechanisms underlying this effect be discussed.
The discovery of adult neurogenesis was a turning point in the field of neuroscience. Adult neurogenesis offers an enormous possibility to open a new therapeutic paradigm of neurodegenerative diseases and stroke. Recently, several studies suggested that acupuncture may enhance adult neurogenesis. Acupuncture has long been an important treatment for brain diseases in the East Asia. The scientific mechanisms of acupuncture treatment for the diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke, have not been clarified yet; however, the neurogenic effect of acupuncture can be a possible reason. Here, we have reviewed the studies on the effect of stimulation at various acupoints for neurogenesis, such as ST36 and GV20. The suggested mechanisms are also discussed including upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and neuropeptide Y, and activation of the function of primo vascular system.
Lysosomal storage disorders are a group of about 50 rare metabolic diseases that result from defects in lysosomal function. The majority is recessively inherited and caused by mutations in genes encoding lysosomal proteins as the basis for its pathobiology. The lysosome plays a pivotal role in a cell's ability to recycle and degrade unwanted material. One of its functions relates to regulating iron levels throughout the body. Iron is a double-edged sword: It is absolutely required for an organism's survival, but high levels of iron quickly lead to cell death. In addition, recent results have put the lysosome on the map of pathways leading to common neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. It is plausible that the mechanisms through which the lysosome acts in these diseases also involve iron and this would have significant implications in our understanding of the molecular etiology of these disorders.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) enables a noninvasive in vivo quantification of iron in various organs. Several techniques have been developed that detect signal alterations derived mainly from the magnetic properties of ferritin and hemosiderin, the major iron storage compounds. High magnetic susceptibility of ferritin shortens the transversal relaxation time of nearby water protons and thus induces a focal signal extinction of iron-rich areas in T2-weighted (T2w) MRI. T2w tissue contrast is additionally influenced by other factors such as water content, myelin density, and the presence of other metals. Therefore, more specific methods are needed with higher specificity to iron. These in vivo techniques can be divided into three groups: relaxometry, magnetic field correlation imaging and phase-based contrast covering susceptibility-weighted imaging, and quantitative susceptibility mapping. The differential diagnosis of various neurological disorders is aided by characteristic patterns of iron depositions. Reliable estimates of cerebral tissue iron concentration are equally important in studying physiological age-related as well as pathological conditions in neurodegenerative, neuroinflammatory, and vascular diseases. In the future, monitoring changes in iron storage and content may serve as sensitive biomarker for diagnosis as well as treatment monitoring.
Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) comprises a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by the presence of radiologically discernible high brain iron, particularly within the basal ganglia. A number of childhood NBIA syndromes are described, of which two of the major subtypes are pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) and PLA2G6-associated neurodegeneration (PLAN). PKAN and PLAN are autosomal recessive NBIA disorders due to mutations in PANK2 and PLA2G6, respectively. Presentation is usually in childhood, with features of neurological regression and motor dysfunction. In both PKAN and PLAN, a number of classical and atypical phenotypes are reported. In this chapter, we describe the clinical, radiological, and genetic features of these two disorders and also discuss the pathophysiological mechanisms postulated to play a role in disease pathogenesis.
The peripheral nervous system has the intrinsic capacity to regenerate axons into target tissues, and peripheral nerves severely damaged or transected can be reconstructed by microsurgical techniques. The aim of peripheral nerve surgery is to pave way for fast and most possible thorough functional recovery. However, full functional recovery is rarely seen and several reasons for this have already been discovered. Based on these discoveries, therapeutic strategies supplementary to nerve microsurgery have been conceived with electrical stimulation of the denervated muscles or the proximal nerve stump or reconstructed area itself being among them. This chapter shortly describes the commonly accepted reasons for incomplete functional recovery and reviews the effects of varying electrical stimulation paradigms on the essentials for axonal regeneration and functional target reinnervation. We conclude the chapter with promising examples where electrical stimulation did already demonstrate to accelerate and increase functional recovery in the clinic.
Nervous system injuries lead to loss of control of sensory, motor, and autonomic functions of the affected areas of the body. Provided the high amount of people worldwide suffering from these injuries and the impact on their everyday life, numerous and different neuroprostheses and hybrid bionic systems have been developed to restore or partially mimic the lost functions. A key point for usable neuroprostheses is the electrode that interfaces the nervous system and translates not only motor orders into electrical outputs that activate the prosthesis but is also able to transform sensory information detected by the machine into signals that are transmitted to the central nervous system. Nerve electrodes have been classified with regard to their invasiveness in extraneural, intraneural, and regenerative. The more invasive is the implant the more selectivity of interfacing can be reached. However, boosting invasiveness and selectivity may also heighten nerve damage. This chapter provides a general overview of nerve electrodes as well as the state-of-the-art of their biomedical applications in neuroprosthetic systems.
Various biomaterials have been proposed to build up scaffolds for promoting neural repair. Among them, chitosan, a derivative of chitin, has been raising more and more interest among basic and clinical scientists. A number of studies with neuronal and glial cell cultures have shown that this biomaterial has biomimetic properties, which make it a good candidate for developing innovative devices for neural repair. Yet, in vivo experimental studies have shown that chitosan can be successfully used to create scaffolds that promote regeneration both in the central and in the peripheral nervous system. In this review, the relevant literature on the use of chitosan in the nervous tissue, either alone or in combination with other components, is overviewed. Altogether, the promising in vitro and in vivo experimental results make it possible to foresee that time for clinical trials with chitosan-based nerve regeneration-promoting devices is approaching quickly.
Injured axons of the peripheral nerve are able to regenerate and, eventually, reinnervate target organs. However, functional recovery is usually poor after severe nerve injuries. The switch of Schwann cells to a proliferative state, secretion of trophic factors, and the presence of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules (such as collagen, laminin, or fibronectin) in the distal stump are key elements to create a permissive environment for axons to grow. In this review, we focus attention on the ECM components and their tropic role in axonal regeneration. These components can also be used as molecular cues to guide the axons through artificial nerve guides in attempts to better mimic the natural environment found in a degenerating nerve. Most used scaffolds tested are based on natural molecules that form the ECM, but use of synthetic polymers and functionalization of hydrogels are bringing new options. Progress in tissue engineering will eventually lead to the design of composite artificial nerve grafts that may replace the use of autologous nerve grafts to sustain regeneration over long gaps.
Promoting neuromuscular recovery after neural injury is a major clinical issue. While techniques for nerve reconstruction are continuously improving and most peripheral nerve lesions can be repaired today, recovery of the lost function is usually unsatisfactory. This evidence claims for innovative nonsurgical therapeutic strategies that can implement the outcome after neural repair. Although no pharmacological approach for improving posttraumatic neuromuscular recovery has still entered clinical practice, various molecules are explored in experimental models of neural repair. One of such molecules is the circulating peptide hormone ghrelin. This hormone has proved to have a positive effect on neural repair after central nervous system lesion, and very recently its effectiveness has also been demonstrated in preventing posttraumatic skeletal muscle atrophy. By contrast, no information is still available about its effectiveness on peripheral nerve regeneration although preliminary data from our laboratory suggest that this molecule can have an effect also in promoting axonal regeneration after nerve injury and repair. Should this be confirmed, ghrelin might represent an ideal candidate as a therapeutic agent for improving posttraumatic neuromuscular recovery because of its putative effects at all the various structural levels involved in this regeneration process, namely, the central nervous system, the peripheral nerve, and the target skeletal muscle.
Nerve repair is no more regarded as merely a matter of microsurgical reconstruction. To define this evolving reconstructive/regenerative approach, the term tissue engineering is being increasingly used since it reflects the search for interdisciplinary and integrated treatment strategies. However, the drawback of this new approach is its intrinsic complexity, which is the result of the variety of scientific disciplines involved. This chapter presents a synthetic overview of the state of the art in peripheral nerve tissue engineering with a look forward at the most promising innovations emerging from basic science investigation. This review is intended to set the stage for the collection of papers in the thematic issue of the International Review of Neurobiology that is focused on the various interdisciplinary approaches in peripheral nerve tissue engineering.
We used ramelteon to treat two patients with secondary REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) complications along with neurodegenerative diseases including multiple system atrophy and Parkinson's disease. These two patients not only improved in terms of their clinical RBD symptoms but also exhibited a decrease in the proportion of REM sleep without atonia (from 8.5% to 3.5% and from 10.9% to 3.9% in the two patients). Although clonazepam is the standard first-line therapy for the treatment of RBD, ramelteon might be an effective treatment alternative in patients with RBD who cannot take clonazepam due to either ineffectiveness or adverse effects.
We herein report a case of late-onset Huntington's disease (HD) that presented without any involuntary movement. The patient was in her forties at onset, and she lacked any rigidity; thus, the HD in this case was completely different than the Westphal variant. The diagnosis was made by confirming the expansion of CAG repeats in the HD gene after obtaining information about her sister's clinical features, since her sister presented with typical HD. In late onset HD, involuntary movement is thought to be the core feature; therefore, the clinical features of this case are considered to be unique and noteworthy.


Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that preferentially affects the optic nerves and spinal cord. An autoantibody (NMO-IgG) targeting the aquaporin-4 water channel distinguishes NMO from other inflammatory disorders of the CNS. Recent studies have demonstrated that the area postrema and other circumventricular organs (CVOs) can be targeted in NMO.We herein report the case of a 12-year-old girl who experienced anorexia six months before the onset of NMO. Anorexia caused by hypothalamic or CVO dysfunction may herald the onset of NMO.
We herein report unusual basal ganglia hyperintense lesions on noncontrast T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in a patient with central nervous system metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma that was treated with gefitinib. T2*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging showed no hypointense lesions, thereby excluding the possibility of calcification or haemorrhage. A stereotactic brain biopsy of the left basal ganglia lesions revealed atypical cells, some of which formed a glandular lumen with a micropapillary pattern. These cells were immunopositive for markers of lung adenocarcinoma, thereby confirming the diagnosis of metastasis. We speculate that proteins, including carcinoembryonic antigens from the adenocarcinoma cells in the basal ganglia, may have contributed to the hyperintensity observed on noncontrast T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging.
The superior temporal sulcus (STS) and gyrus (STG) are commonly identified to be functionally relevant for multisensory integration of audiovisual (AV) stimuli. However, most neuroimaging studies on AV integration used stimuli of short duration in explicit evaluative tasks. Importantly though, many of our AV experiences are of a long duration and ambiguous. It is unclear if the enhanced activity in audio, visual, and AV brain areas would also be synchronised over time across subjects when they are exposed to such multisensory stimuli. We used intersubject correlation to investigate which brain areas are synchronised across novices for uni- and multisensory versions of a 6-min 26-s recording of an unfamiliar, unedited Indian dance recording (Bharatanatyam). In Bharatanatyam, music and dance are choreographed together in a highly intermodal-dependent manner. Activity in the middle and posterior STG was significantly correlated between subjects and showed also significant enhancement for AV integration when the functional magnetic resonance signals were contrasted against each other using a general linear model conjunction analysis. These results extend previous studies by showing an intermediate step of synchronisation for novices: while there was a consensus across subjects' brain activity in areas relevant for unisensory processing and AV integration of related audio and visual stimuli, we found no evidence for synchronisation of higher level cognitive processes, suggesting these were idiosyncratic.
Children and adults consistently match some words (e.g., kiki) to jagged shapes and other words (e.g., bouba) to rounded shapes, providing evidence for non-arbitrary sound-shape mapping. In this study, we investigated the influence of vowels on sound-shape matching in toddlers, using four contrasting pairs of nonsense words differing in vowel sound (/i/ as in feet vs. /o/ as in boat) and four rounded-jagged shape pairs. Crucially, we used reduplicated syllables (e.g., kiki vs. koko) rather than confounding vowel sound with consonant context and syllable variability (e.g., kiki vs. bouba). Toddlers consistently matched words with /o/ to rounded shapes and words with /i/ to jagged shapes (p &lt; 0.01). The results suggest that there may be naturally biased correspondences between vowel sound and shape.
A series of experiments measured the audiovisual stimulus onset asynchrony (SOAAV), yielding facilitative multisensory integration. We evaluated (1) the range of SOAAV over which facilitation occurred when unisensory stimuli were weak; (2) whether the range of SOAAV producing facilitation supported the hypothesis that physiological simultaneity of unisensory activity governs multisensory facilitation; and (3) whether AV multisensory facilitation depended on relative stimulus intensity. We compared response-time distributions to unisensory auditory (A) and visual (V) stimuli with those to AV stimuli over a wide range (300 and 20 ms increments) of SOAAV, across four conditions of varying stimulus intensity. In condition 1, the intensity of unisensory stimuli was adjusted such that d'  2. In condition 2, V stimulus intensity was increased (d' &gt; 4), while A stimulus intensity was as in condition 1. In condition 3, A stimulus intensity was increased (d' &gt; 4) while V stimulus intensity was as in condition 1. In condition 4, both A and V stimulus intensities were increased to clearly suprathreshold levels (d' &gt; 4). Across all conditions of stimulus intensity, significant multisensory facilitation occurred exclusively for simultaneously presented A and V stimuli. In addition, facilitation increased as stimulus intensity increased, in disagreement with inverse effectiveness. These results indicate that the requirements for facilitative multisensory integration include both physical and physiological simultaneity.
Objective(s): Quinolinic acid (QA)-mediated excitotoxicity has been widely used as a model for studying neurodegenerative disorders. Recent studies suggested that saffron (Crocus sativus) or its active metabolite, i.e. safranal, exerts pharmacological actions on central nervous system including anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, and neuroprotective properties. The present study aimed to investigate the effect safranal pretreatment on QA-induced oxidative damage in rat hippocampus. Materials and Methods: Under anesthesia, a guide cannula was stereotaxically inserted into left ventral hippocampus of rats. The rats were then given either saline or safranal (72.75, 145.5, and 291 mg/kg, IP) 30 min before administration of QA (300 nmol, intrahippocampal injection). The markers of oxidative stress including thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS, as an index of lipid preoxidation), total sulfhydryl groups, antioxidant capacity of hippocampus (using FRAP assay), and oxidative DNA damage (%tail DNA, using comet assay) were measured in hippocampus. Results: The QA induced a significant increase in TBARS levels and %tail DNA and remarkable decrease in antioxidant power (FRAP value) and total sulfhydryl content of hippocampus, in comparison with control animals. Systemic administration of safranal (291 mg/kg, IP), effectively and dose-dependently decreased the QA-induced lipid peroxidation (P&lt;0.001) and oxidative DNA damage (P&lt;0.001). Safranal also prevented the decrease of hippocampal thiol redox and antioxidant status (P&lt;0.001) produced by QA. Conclusion: Safranal have protective effects on different markers of oxidative damage in hippocampal tissue following QA administration. Our findings might raise a possibility of potential therapeutic application of safranal for preventing and treating neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.



Nearly 15% to 25% of patients in general hospitals have a catheter at some time during their stay. Up to 97% of nosocomial urinary tract infections (UTIs) are related to catheter. The type of bacteremia is usually polymicrobial which makes the treatment more difficult. Previous studies showed an increase in mortality from bacteremia in these patients. The aim of the present study was to compare the prevalence of UTIs among patients with and without catheter, and to detect the type of bacteriuria and antibacterial resistance pattern. In this cross sectional study, samples were taken between Jan 2011 and July 2011. 678 hospitalized patients in different wards of Afzalipour hospital, Kerman- Iran, were enrolled in the study. E-test was applied to detect the pattern of resistance to gentamicin, nitrofurantoin, ciprofloxacin, ceftriaxon and co-trimoxazole. Results showed positive culture samples in 86% of female patients. Escherichia coli, Candida and Staphylococcus aureus were detected in 72, 20 and 7 percent of the positive cultures, respectively. 52.3% of detected E.coli was sensitive to gentamicin , 62% to ceftriaxone, 71.4% to ciprofloxacin, and 91.9% were sensitive to nitrofurantoin. Therefore, the most sensitive antibiotics in UTIs were ciprofloxacin and ceftriaxone. Unfortunately, the rate of antibacterial drug resistance was high in comparison with developed countries. Wise selection of antibiotics at hospitals and increasing the knowledge of patients to prevent self use of antibiotics can reduce antimicrobial resistance.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of the central nervous system (CNS) believed to arise from a dysfunctional immune-mediated response in a genetically susceptible host. The actual cause of MS is not known, and there is ongoing debate about whether this CNS disorder is predominantly an inflammatory versus a degenerative condition. The afferent visual pathway (AVP) is frequently involved in MS, such that one in every five individuals affected presents with acute optic neuritis (ON). As a functionally eloquent system, the AVP is amenable to interrogation with highly reliable and reproducible tests that can be used to define a structural-functional paradigm of CNS injury. The AVP has numerous unique advantages as a clinical model of MS. In this review, the parameters and merits of the AVP model are highlighted. Moreover, the roles the AVP model may play in elucidating mechanisms of brain injury and repair in MS are described.
Primate vision is served by rapid shifts of gaze called saccades. This review will survey current knowledge and particular problems concerning the neural control and guidance of gaze shifts.
It has been suggested that children with autism are particularly deficient at imitating novel gestures or gestures without goals. In the present study, we asked high-functioning autistic children and age-matched typically developing children to imitate several types of gestures that could be either already known or novel to them. Known gestures either conveyed a communicative meaning (i.e., intransitive) or involved the use of objects (i.e., transitive). We observed a significant interaction between gesture type and group of participants, with children with autism performing known gestures better than novel gestures. However, imitation of intransitive and transitive gestures did not differ across groups. These findings are discussed in light of a dual-route model for action imitation.
Motor skill learning may induce behavioral and neurophysiological adaptations after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Learning a new motor skill is associated with dendritic reorganization and requires protein synthesis and expression of MAP-2. The purpose of this study was to evaluate motor performance and expression of MAP-2 in the motor cortex of rats submitted to intracerebral hemorrhage model (ICH) and skill task training (SK) or unskilled training (US) during 4 weeks. The Staircase test was used for behavioral evaluation, and relative optical densities and morphometrical analysis were used to estimate MAP-2 immunoreactivity and parameters of brain tissue in both motor cortices. Results show that skill task training performed with the impaired forelimb was able to increase MAP-2 immunoreactivity in the motor cortex either in sham or in ICH groups in both cortices: ipsilesional [F (5,35) = 14.25 (P &lt; 0.01)] and contralesional hemispheres [F (5,35) = 9.70 (P &lt; 0.01)]. ICH alone also increased MAP-2 immunoreactivity despite the absence of functional gains. Behavioral evaluation revealed that ICH-SK group performed better than ICH and ICH-US animals in the Staircase test. Data suggest that motor skill training induces plastic modifications in both motor cortices, either in physiological or pathological conditions and that skill motor training produces higher brain plasticity and positive functional outcomes than unskilled training after experimental intracerebral hemorrhage.

Background. Bone damage in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and in psoriatic arthritis (PsA) includes an accelerated bone mineral density (BMD) reduction. The objective was to evaluate BMD variations of the metacarpophalangeal joints (MCPs) in patients starting treatment with methotrexate (MTX) or etanercept. Methods. Patients affected by RA or PsA with hand joints involvement and with moderate or high disease activity, were enrolled in this study. All patients underwent clinical examination, laboratory exams, and a DXA scan of the most affected hand, as assessed with an ultrasound examination at the baseline, at the time of enrolment and after 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Patients non-responders to MTX received combination therapy, while patients with no previous treatment initiated MTX. Results. 22 patients were enrolled. In both RA and PsA groups, BMD increased independently of the treatment. However, in the patients affected by RA, a slight BMD decrease was observed at the last checkup. Globally, the BMD variations of the MCPs were strongly correlated with the disease activity. At the reduction of DAS28, the scores corresponded an increase of BMD. Conclusions. MCPs BMD is inversely correlated to disease activity. BMD increase seems to be correlated with the response to treatment and not with the drug itself.

Delay tuning was studied in the auditory cortex of Pteronotus quadridens. All the 136 delay-tuned units that were studied responded strongly to heteroharmonic pulse-echo pairs presented at specific delays. In the heteroharmonic pairs, the first sonar call harmonic marks the timing of pulse emission while one of the higher harmonics (second or third) indicates the timing of the echo. Delay-tuned units are organized chronotopically along a rostrocaudal axis according to their characteristic delay. There is no obvious indication of multiple cortical axes specialized in the processing of different harmonic combinations of pulse and echo. Results of this study serve for a straight comparison of cortical delay-tuning between P. quadridens and the well-studied mustached bat, Pteronotus parnellii. These two species stem from the most recent and most basal nodes in the Pteronotus lineage, respectively. P. quadridens and P. parnellii use comparable heteroharmonic target-range computation strategies even though they do not use biosonar calls of a similar design. P. quadridens uses short constant-frequency (CF)/frequency-modulated (FM) echolocation calls, while P. parnellii uses long CF/FM calls. The ability to perform &quot;heteroharmonic&quot; target-range computations might be an ancestral neuronal specialization of the genus Pteronotus that was subjected to positive Darwinian selection in the evolution.
Previous psychophysical work on sound localization in humans has proposed that a midline channel be added to the current two-channel model of mammalian sound localization mechanisms. Evidence for this third channel has been found in interaural time difference (ITD) studies with low-frequency tones, and interaural level difference (ILD) studies with both high- and low-frequency tones. The latter is interesting because it suggests that, despite the fact that low frequencies do not generate significant ILDs for humans in natural settings, there is a constancy of ILD coding mechanisms across the frequency domain. To complement this finding, the present study sought to determine whether the three-channel model holds for ITDs at high frequencies. In three experiments, a selective adaptation paradigm was used in combination with transposed tones to probe for the existence of three (left, right, and midline) perceptual channels for sound source azimuth. The experiments provided evidence for lateral hemifield ITD channels but little evidence for a midline ITD channel at high frequencies.
Attempts to relate the perceptual dimensions of timbre to quantitative acoustical dimensions have been tenuous, leading to claims that timbre is an emergent property, if measurable at all. Here, a three-pronged analysis shows that the timbre space of sustained instrument tones occupies 5 dimensions and that a specific combination of acoustic properties uniquely determines gestalt perception of timbre. Firstly, multidimensional scaling (MDS) of dissimilarity judgments generated a perceptual timbre space in which 5 dimensions were cross-validated and selected by traditional model comparisons. Secondly, subjects rated tones on semantic scales. A discriminant function analysis (DFA) accounting for variance of these semantic ratings across instruments and between subjects also yielded 5 significant dimensions with similar stimulus ordination. The dimensions of timbre space were then interpreted semantically by rotational and reflectional projection of the MDS solution into two DFA dimensions. Thirdly, to relate this final space to acoustical structure, the perceptual MDS coordinates of each sound were regressed with its joint spectrotemporal modulation power spectrum. Sound structures correlated significantly with distances in perceptual timbre space. Contrary to previous studies, most perceptual timbre dimensions are not the result of purely temporal or spectral features but instead depend on signature spectrotemporal patterns.
Introduction and Aim. Substance abuse imposes hazards on human health in all biopsychosocial aspects. Limited studies exist on epidemiology of substance abuse and its trend in rural areas. The present study aimed to compare substance abuse in one of the rural areas of southeast Iran, in a 12-year period (2000 and 2012). Design and Methods. In a household survey conducted in 2012, in Dashtkhak/Kerman, 1200 individuals above 12 years of age completed a questionnaire to determine their frequency of substance abuse. The questionnaire included the following three areas: demographic characteristics, frequency of substance abuse and ease of access to various drugs. Results. Among 900 completed questionnaires, majority of the participants (61.8%) were below 30 years of age and among them 54.4% were male. Cigarette (17.0%), opium (15.7%) and opium residue (9.0%) were the most frequent substances abused on a daily basis. Based on the participant's opinion, we conclude that the ease of access to cigarette, waterpipe and opium contributed to their increase in consumption compared with earlier years. Discussion and Conclusion. The steady rise in substance abuse in rural communities demands immediate attention and emergency preventive measures from policy makers.
Age-related white matter lesions (WML) are a risk factor for stroke, cognitive decline, and dementia. Different requirements are imposed on methods for the assessment of WML in clinical settings and for research purposes, but reliability analysis is of major importance. In this study, WML assessment with three different methods was evaluated. In the Gothenburg mild cognitive impairment study, MRI scans from 152 participants were used to assess WML with the Fazekas visual rating scale on T2 images, a manual volumetric method on FLAIR images, and FreeSurfer volumetry on T1 images. Reliability was acceptable for all three methods. For low WML volumes (2/3 of the patients), reliability was overall lower and nonsignificant for the manual volumetric method. Unreliability in the assessment of patients with low WML with manual volumetry may mainly be due to intensity variation in the FLAIR sequence used; hence, intensity standardization and normalization methods must be used for more accurate assessments. The FreeSurfer segmentations resulted in smaller WML volumes than the volumes acquired with the manual method and showed deviations from visible hypointensities in the T1 images, which quite likely reduces validity.
Neuroinflammation is a process related to the onset of several neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Increasing sets of evidence support the major role of deregulation of the interaction patterns between glial cells and neurons in the pathway toward neuronal degeneration, a process we are calling neuroimmunomodulation in AD. On the basis of the hypothesis that pathological tau aggregates induce microglial activation with the subsequent events of the neuroinflammatory cascade, we have studied the effects of tau oligomeric species and filamentous structures over microglial cells in vitro. Tau oligomers and fibrils were induced by arachidonic acid and then their actions assayed upon addition to microglial cells. We showed activation of the microglia, with significant morphological alterations as analyzed by immunofluorescence. The augmentation of nitrites and the proinflammatory cytokine IL-6 was evaluated in ELISA assays. Furthermore, conditioned media of stimulated microglia cells were exposed to hippocampal neurons generating altered patterns in these cells, including shortening of neuritic processes and cytoskeleton reorganization.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered as a prodromal stage for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the majority of cases. Event-related oscillations might be used for detection of cognitive deficits. Our group's earlier results showed diminished delta visual and auditory target oscillatory responses in AD, and we investigated whether this prevails for MCI. Eighteen MCI subjects and 18 age-matched healthy elderly controls were investigated. The maximum peak-to-peak amplitudes of oscillatory responses for each subject's averaged oscillatory target responses in delta, theta, and alpha frequency bands upon application of visual oddball paradigm were measured. Repeated measures of ANOVA was used to analyze four locations (frontal, central, parietal, occipital), at three coronal (left, midline, right) sites. Independent t tests were applied for post-hoc analyses. The oddball target delta response (0.5-3.0 Hz) was 26-32% lower in MCI than healthy controls over fronto-central-parietal regions [F(1.34) = 4.562, p = 0.04]. Without a group effect, theta oscillatory responses (4-7 Hz) showed significant differences in coronal electrodes indicating highest values over mid-electrode sites, and a anteriorposterior x coronal effect, being maximum at mid-central. Alpha frequency band analyses indicated no statistical differences. Peak-to-peak amplitudes of visual target delta oscillatory responses were lower in fronto-central-parietal regions in MCI than in healthy controls. This supports our earlier findings in AD, showing hypoactive delta fronto-central-parietal regions during cognitive tasks. These results indicate that event-related oscillations may detect early changes of brain dynamics in MCI, and deserves to be investigated as a candidate biomarker in further studies using multimodal techniques.
Based on enlarged blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses in cognitively normal subjects at risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD), compensatory neuronal hyperactivation has been proposed as an early marker for diagnosis of AD. The BOLD response results from neurovascular coupling, i.e., hemodynamic response induced by neuronal activity. However, there has been no evidence of task-induced increases in hemodynamic response in animal models of AD. Here, we observed an augmented hemodynamic response pattern in a transgenic APP(SWE)/PS1E9 mouse model of AD using three in vivo imaging methods: intrinsic optical signal imaging, multi-photon laser scanning microscopy, and laser Doppler flowmetry. Sensory stimulation resulted in augmented and prolonged hemodynamic responses in transgenic mice evidenced by changes in total, oxygenated, and deoxygenated hemoglobin concentration. This difference between transgenic and wild-type mice was significant at 7 months of age when amyloid plaques and cerebral amyloid angiopathy had developed but not at younger or older ages. Correspondingly, sensory stimulation-induced pial arteriole diameter was also augmented and prolonged in transgenic mice at 7 months of age. Cerebral blood flow response in transgenic mice was augmented but not prolonged. These results are consistent with the existence of BOLD signal hyperactivation in non-demented AD-risk human subjects, supporting its potential use as an early diagnostic marker of AD.
The objective of this study was to elucidate the effect of VDAC1 on Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related genes, mitochondrial activity, and synaptic viability. Recent knockout studies of VDAC1 revealed that homozygote VDAC1 knockout (VDAC1-/-) mice exhibited disrupted learning and synaptic plasticity, and in contrast, VDAC1+/- mice appeared normal in terms of lifespan, fertility, and viability relative to wild-type mice. However, the effects of reduced VDAC1 on mitochondrial/synaptic genes and mitochondrial function in AD-affected neurons are not well understood. In the present study, we characterized mitochondrial/synaptic and AD-related genes and mitochondrial function in VDAC1+/- mice and VDAC1+/+ mice. We found reduced mRNA levels in the AD-related genes, including APP, Tau, PS1, PS2, and BACE1; increased levels of the mitochondrial fusion genes Mfn1, Mfn2; reduced levels of the fission genes Drp1 and Fis1; and reduced levels of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore genes VDAC1, ANT, and CypD in VDAC1+/- mice relative to VDAC1+/+ mice. Hexokinase 1 and 2 were significantly upregulated in the VDAC+/- mice. The synaptic genes synaptophysin, synapsin 1 and 2, synaptobrevin 1 and 2, neurogranin, and PSD95 were also upregulated in the VDAC1+/- mice. Free radical production and lipid peroxidation levels were reduced in the VDAC1+/- mice, and cytochrome oxidase activity and ATP levels were elevated, indicating enhanced mitochondrial function in the VDAC1+/- mice. These findings suggest that reduced VDAC1 expression, such as that we found in the VDAC1+/- mice, may be beneficial to synaptic activity, may improve function, and may protect against toxicities of AD-related genes.
A key characteristic of Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies is the progressive accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles mainly composed of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. In the present study, we use transgenic Drosophila melanogaster as a model to analyze in vivo the effect of expressing pseudophosphorylated tau (S199E/T212E/T231E/S262E tau) on pathological human tau (PH-tau) and on the FTDP-17 mutant R406W (PH-tauR406W). We used two different inducers that produced different levels of tau expression. The expression of these forms of tau did not significantly affect the lifespan of the flies. Flies expressing PH-tau displayed a clear locomotor dysfunction compared to those expressing normal tau regardless of the level of expression. At lower level of expression, this pathological phenotype was found to be age-dependent. At 35 days old, PH-tau flies showed the strongest locomotor impairment compare to flies expressing human tau or control flies (46%, 18% and 18% of flies remained on the bottom of the vials, respectively). At higher levels of expression, PH-tau flies showed these defects at seven days of age and the dysfunction also became significant for flies expressing tauR406W and PH-tauR406W. Whole brain immunochemistry analysis revealed that PH-tau as well as PH-tauR406W appeared to have abnormal mushroom body structures, critical structures involved in olfactory learning and memory in Drosophila. Severe olfactory learning deficits were induced by the expression of PH-tau. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that PH-tau induced a toxic effect in Drosophila, as flies develop both an abnormal motor deficit, associated with disruption of the mushroom body neurons, and impaired olfactory learning.

Copper homeostasis abnormalities have been shown to be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), possibly by accelerating amyloid- toxicity and plaque formation. The ATP7B gene plays a key role in controlling body copper balance. Our previous studies showed an association between ATP7B variants and AD risk. Among these variants, an intronic single nucleotide polymorphism, rs2147363, was associated with AD risk. In order to understand this intronic association, we screened a population of 286 AD patients and 283 healthy controls, and verified the presence of other functional coding variants in linkage disequilibrium (LD). Then we searched for a regulatory function region close to rs2147363. An LD analysis revealed the presence of an LD between rs2147363 and a Wilson's disease-causing variant, rs7334118. However, this mutation did not explain the observed genetic association. Conversely, in silico analyses of rs2147363 functionality highlighted that this variant is located in a binding site of a transcription factor, and is, consequently, associated with regulatory function. These data suggest that the genetic variation in cis-regulatory elements located in non-coding regions can have a role in determining ATP7B functionality and account for some of the AD missing hereditability.

There is accumulating evidence showing that lifestyle factors like diet may influence the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our previous studies suggest that a multi-nutrient diet, Fortasyn, containing nutritional precursors and cofactors for membrane synthesis, viz. docosahexaenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, uridine-mono-phosphate, choline, phospholipids, folic acid, vitamins B6, B12, C, E, and selenium, has an ameliorating effect on cognitive deficits in an AD mouse model. In the present study we analyzed learning strategies and memory of 11-month-old APPswe/PS1dE9 (APP/PS1) mice in the Morris water maze (MWM) task performed after nine months of dietary intervention with a control diet or a Fortasyn diet to characterize diet-induced changes in cognitive performance. The Fortasyn diet had no significant effect on MWM task acquisition. To assess hippocampus-dependent learning, the strategies that the mice used to find the hidden platform in the MWM were analyzed using the swim path data. During the fourth day of the MWM, APP/PS1 mice on control diet more often used the non-spatial random search strategy, while on the Fortasyn diet, the transgenic animals exhibited more chaining strategy than their wild-type littermates. During the probe trial, APP/PS1 mice displayed no clear preference for the target quadrant. Notably, in both transgenic and nontransgenic mice on Fortasyn diet, the latency to reach the former platform position was decreased compared to mice on the control diet. In conclusion, this specific nutrient combination showed a tendency to improve searching behavior in APP/PS1 mice by increasing the use of a more efficient search strategy and improving their swim efficiency by decreasing the latency to reach the former platform position.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a consequence of degenerative brain pathology with amyloid plaque deposition and neurofibrillary tangle formation. These distinct aspects of AD neuropathology have been suggested to induce a cascade of pathological events ultimately leading to neurodegeneration as well as cognitive and behavioral decline. Amyloid and tau neuropathology is known to develop along distinct stages and affect parts of the brain differentially. In this study, we examined two mouse AD lines (APPPS1-21 and Tau22 mice), which mimic different partial aspects of AD pathology, at comparable stages of their pathology. Since prefrontal cortex (PFC) is one of the first regions to be affected in clinical AD, we compared long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic responses in medial PFC of APPPS1-21 and Tau22 mice. Frontal LTP was impaired in APPPS1-21 mice, but not in Tau22 mice. Consequently, we observed different behavioral defects between APPPS1-21 and Tau22 animals. Apart from spatial learning deficits, APPPS1-21 transgenic mice were impaired in fear learning, aversion learning, and extinction learning, whereas THY-Tau22 were impaired in appetitive responding. Discriminant function analysis identified critical behavioral variables that differentiated APPPS1-21 and THY-Tau22 mice from wild type littermates, and further confirmed that amyloid- versus tau-pathology differentially affects brain function.
Previous studies demonstrated that a high fat/high cholesterol (HFC) diet results in a loss of working memory in mice correlated with neuroinflammatory changes and increased APP processing (Thirumangalakudi et al. (2008) J Neurochem 106, 475-485). To further explore the nature of the molecular correlates of cognitive impairment, in this study, we examined changes in tau phosphorylation, insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) including GSK3, and levels of specific synaptic proteins. Immunoblot analysis of hippocampal tissue from C57BL/6 mice fed HFC for 2 months with anti-phospho-tau (i.e., PHF1 and phospho-Thr-231 tau) antibodies demonstrated the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau. The tau phosphorylation correlated with activated GSK3, a prominent tau kinase normally kept inactive under the control of IIS. That IIS itself was impaired due to the hyperlipidemic diet was confirmed by a down-regulation of insulin receptor substrate-1 and phospho-Akt levels. Although no significant changes in the levels of the pre-synaptic protein (i.e., synaptophysin) in response to HFC were apparent in immunoblot analysis, there was a clear down-regulation of the post-synaptic protein, PSD95, and drebrin, a dendritic spine-specific protein, indicative of altered synaptic plasticity. The results, in concert with previous findings with the same model, suggest that high dietary fat/cholesterol elicits brain insulin resistance and altered IIS leading to Alzheimer's disease-like cognitive impairment in 'normal' mice.

In this longitudinal study we investigated the effect of apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype on the relation between cognitive decline and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) F2-isoprostanes, the reference marker for oxidative stress. Twenty non-demented subjects, 58 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, and 63 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with measurements of CSF F2-isoprostanes at two time points (with a mean interval of 2.0  1.1 years) and known APOE genotype were included. Mean clinical follow-up time was 3.9  2.4 years. For change in F2-isoprostanes over time and associations with Mini-Mental State Examination scores, age- and gender-adjusted linear mixed models were used. Analyses were done for APOE 4 carriers and non-carriers separately. In APOE 4 carriers, annual change in F2-isoprostane levels appeared larger than in APOE 4 non-carriers ([SE] 2.5[0.5], p &lt; 0.001 versus 1.8[0.5], p &lt; 0.01). In addition, increase in F2-isoprostanes was associated with further cognitive decline in APOE 4 carriers (p &lt; 0.05), but not in non-carriers (p = 0.28). Our results reiterate the importance of oxidative stress in neurodegeneration, especially in APOE 4 carrying patients. Future studies should focus on the possibility of increased vulnerability to oxidative damage in APOE 4 carriers.
Progranulin (GRN) mutations are typically associated with the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia and the non-fluent variant of primary progressive aphasia phenotypes. Hereby, we describe a patient affected by semantic variant of primary progressive aphasia (svPPA) with a highly positive family history of dementia, carrying a novel GRN missense variation in exon 11 [g.2897 C &gt; T (p.Thr409Met)], predicted in silico to be damaging to protein structure and function. The variant was absent in 175 frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) patients and in 38 healthy subjects. This case confirms that GRN represents one of the most frequent FTLD genetic causes, suggesting that a screening is indicated in the case of svPPA presentation.
Amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) is recognized as the prodromal phase of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence showed that patients with multiple-domain (MD) aMCI were at higher risk of converting to dementia and exhibited more severe gray matter atrophy than single-domain (SD) aMCI. The investigation of the microstructural abnormalities of white matter (WM) among different subtypes of aMCI and their relations with cognitive performances can help to understand the variations among aMCI subtypes and to construct potential imaging based biomarkers to monitor the progression of aMCI. Diffusion-weighted MRI data were acquired from 40 patients with aMCI (aMCI-SD: n = 19; aMCI-MD: n = 21) and 37 healthy controls (HC). Voxel-wise and atlas-based analyses of whole-brain WM were performed among three groups. The correlations between the altered diffusion metrics of the WM tracts and the neuropsychological scores in each subtype of aMCI were assessed. The aMCI-MD patients showed disrupted integrity in multiple WM tracts across the whole-brain when compared with HCs or with aMCI-SD. In contrast, only few WM regions with diffusion changes were found in aMCI-SD as compared to HCs and with less significance. For neuropsychological correlations, only aMCI-MD patients exhibited significant associations between disrupted WM connectivity (in the body of the corpus callosum and the right anterior internal capsules) and cognitive impairments (MMSE and Digit Symb-Coding scores), whereas no such correlations were found in aMCI-SD. These findings indicate that the degeneration extensively exists in WM tracts in aMCI-MD that precedes the development of AD, whereas underlying WM pathology in aMCI-SD is imperceptible. The results are consistent with the view that aMCI is not a uniform disease entity and presents heterogeneity in the clinical progression.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative mental illness characterized by memory loss, multiple cognitive impairments, and changes in personality and behavior. The purpose of our study was to determine the interaction between monomeric and oligomeric amyloid- (A) and phosphorylated tau in AD neurons. Using postmortem brains from AD patients at different stages of disease progression and control subjects, and also from APP, APPxPS1, and 3xTg-AD mice, we studied the physical interaction between A and phosphorylated tau. Using immunohistological and double-immunofluorescence analyses, we also studied the localization of monomeric and oligomeric A with phosphorylated tau. We found monomeric and oligomeric A interacted with phosphorylated tau in neurons affected by AD. Further, these interactions progressively increased with the disease process. These findings led us to conclude that A interacts with phosphorylated tau and may damage neuronal structure and function, particularly synapses, leading to cognitive decline in AD patients. Our findings suggest that binding sites between A and phosphorylated tau need to be identified and molecules developed to inhibit this interaction.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a global health crisis with limited treatment options. Despite major advances in neurotherapeutics, poor brain penetration due to the blood-brain barrier continues to pose a big challenge in overcoming the access of therapeutics to the central nervous system. In that regard, the non-invasive intranasal route of brain targeting is gaining considerable attention. The nasal mucosa offers a large surface area, rapid absorption, and avoidance of first-pass metabolism increasing drug bioavailability with less systemic side effects. Intranasal delivery is known to utilize olfactory, rostral migratory stream, and trigeminal routes to reach the brain. This investigation confirmed that intranasal delivery of oligomeric amyloid- antibody (NU4) utilized all three routes to enter the brain with a resident time of 96 hours post single bolus intranasal administration, and showed evidence of perikaryal and parenchymal uptake of NU4 in 5XFAD mouse brain, confirming the intranasal route as a non-invasive and efficient way of delivering therapeutics to the brain. In addition, this study demonstrated that intranasal delivery of NU4 antibody lowered cerebral amyloid- and improved spatial learning in 5XFAD mice.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is considered a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). To elucidate the links between both pathological conditions, we compared behavioral and cognitive functions, cerebral amyloid- peptide (A) levels and vasculature integrity of 11-month-old T2D and AD mice. For this purpose, we performed behavioral tests (open field, object recognition, Y-maze, and elevated plus maze tests), ELISA to assess plasma markers of endothelial/vascular dysfunction, spectrophotometric assays to evaluate cerebral vascular permeability and enzymatic activities, and immunohistochemistry for the assessment of A levels. Both T2D and AD showed similar behavioral and cognitive anomalies characterized by increased fear and anxiety and decreased learning and memory abilities. Interestingly, both groups of animals presented increased plasma markers of endothelial/vascular dysfunction and permeability of cerebral vasculature and impaired mitochondrial enzymatic activities. In addition, a significant increase in A levels was observed in the cortex and hippocampus of T2D mice. These results support the notion that T2D predisposes to cerebrovascular alterations, cognitive decline, and development of AD.
Previous studies indicate that apolipoprotein D (apoD) may have a lipid antioxidant function in the brain. We have shown that apoD can reduce free radical-generating lipid hydroperoxides to inert lipid hydroxides in a reaction that involves conversion of surface exposed apoD methione-93 (Met93) residue to Met93-sulfoxide (Met93-SO). One consequence of this reaction is the formation of a stable dimerized form of apoD. As cerebral lipid peroxidation is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in the present study we aimed to assess the possible presence of apoD dimers in postmortem hippocampal and cerebellar tissues derived from a cohort of pathologically defined cases ranging from control to late stage AD. Both soluble and insoluble (requiring guanidine HCl extraction) fractions of tissue homogenates were analyzed for apoD and its dimerized form. We also assessed amyloid- levels by ELISA and levels of lipid peroxidation by lipid conjugated diene and F2-isoprostane analysis. Our studies reveal a significant association between soluble apoD levels and AD Braak stage whereas apoD dimer formation appears to increase predominantly in the advanced stages of disease. The formation of apoD dimers is closely correlated to lipid conjugated diene levels and occurs in the hippocampus but not in the cerebellum. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that apoD acts as a lipid antioxidant in the brain.
C9ORF72 repeat expansion is currently considered as a major genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and, in particular, of combined frontotemporal dementia-motor neuron disorder (FTD-MND) pedigrees. Studies of large series of patients have indicated that various phenotypic presentations may be observed even in the same family. Here, we describe four patients carrying a C9ORF72 mutation with heterogeneous clinical presentation sharing a rapid disease course. Cases #1 and #2 presented with predominant semantic deficits, accompanied in one patient by clinical signs of ALS. Case #3 showed a phenotype compatible with a diagnosis of behavioral variant of FTD. Case #4 presented with memory impairments, apathy, and social withdrawal, and had negative cerebrospinal fluid markers for Alzheimer's disease. Two patients showed a positive familiar history of MND and dementia (at least one first-degree family member affected). The two other patients were apparently sporadic cases. Our data provide further evidence for the heterogeneity of phenotypes associated with the C9ORF72 mutation and indicate its association with a fluent progressive aphasia phenotype. The present findings confirm the importance of screening for the hexanucleotide repeat expansion in chromosome 9 in the case not only of familial, but also of sporadic FTD, and in the presence of atypical cognitive disorders.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small (20-22 nucleotides) regulatory non-coding RNAs that strongly influence gene expression. Most prior studies addressing the role of miRNAs in neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) have focused on individual diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), making disease-to-disease comparisons impossible. Using RNA deep sequencing, we sought to analyze in detail the small RNAs (including miRNAs) in the temporal neocortex gray matter from non-demented controls (n = 2), AD (n = 5), dementia with Lewy bodies (n = 4), hippocampal sclerosis of aging (n = 4), and frontotemporal lobar dementia (FTLD) (n = 5) cases, together accounting for the most prevalent ND subtypes. All cases had short postmortem intervals, relatively high-quality RNA, and state-of-the-art neuropathological diagnoses. The resulting data (over 113 million reads in total, averaging 5.6 million reads per sample) and secondary expression analyses constitute an unprecedented look into the human cerebral cortical miRNome at a nucleotide resolution. While we find no apparent changes in isomiR or miRNA editing patterns in correlation with ND pathology, our results validate and extend previous miRNA profiling studies with regard to quantitative changes in NDs. In agreement with this idea, we provide independent cohort validation for changes in miR-132 expression levels in AD (n = 8) and FTLD (n = 14) cases when compared to controls (n = 8). The identification of common and ND-specific putative novel brain miRNAs and/or short-hairpin molecules is also presented. The challenge now is to better understand the impact of these and other alterations on neuronal gene expression networks and neuropathologies.
Plasma progranulin (PGRN) levels constitute a potentially invaluable biomarker for neurodegenerative diseases including frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and, perhaps, Alzheimer's disease (AD). We assessed plasma PGRN levels in 107 AD patients, 36 FTLD patients, and 107 controls. We found that, in female AD patients, there is a positive correlation between PGRN levels and age. Although no significant differences were found between patients and controls, we observed higher levels in females compared to males; in AD patients, a positive correlation between PGRN levels and age was observed in females. In conclusion, our data suggest that PGRN may not be a good biomarker for AD; moreover, gender may influence the plasma PGRN levels of AD patients.
Tangier disease (TD) is a rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) gene, which results in impaired cellular cholesterol efflux and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol deficiency. Animal and in vitro studies indicate that ABCA1 is involved in the production of amyloid- (A), a pivotal protein in Alzheimer's disease. We here examined whether plasma A levels are altered in TD patients. Plasma from 5 TD patients and 5 controls were analyzed for A1-40, A1-42, AX-40, and AX-42 but no differences were found. In conclusion, loss of ABCA1 function may not have any profound effect on A metabolism in humans, at least not in the periphery, as reflected by plasma A levels.
The relationship of cerebrovascular risk and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology to cognition in pre-dementia has been extensively investigated and is well-established. Cerebrovascular risk can be measured using a Framingham Stroke Risk Profile (FSRP) score, while positron emission tomography (PET) scans with 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile (FDDNP) measure AD neuropathology (i.e., amyloid- plaques and tau tangles). Here we report results of 75 healthy non-demented subjects (mean age, 63 years) who underwent neuropsychological testing, physical assessments, and FDDNP-PET scans. Controlling for AD family history, education, and APOE4 status in a general linear model, higher FSRP risk and global FDDNP-PET binding were each associated with poorer cognitive functioning. The interaction of FSRP and global FDDNP-PET binding was not significant in the model, indicating that stroke risk and plaque and tangle burden each contributed to worse cognitive performance. Within our healthy volunteers, age, blood pressure, and antihypertensive medication use were vascular risks that contributed significantly to the above findings. These findings suggest that even mild cerebrovascular risk may influence the extent of cognitive dysfunction in pre-dementia, along with amyloid- and tau burden.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major cause of dementia in the world. Abnormal extracellular accumulation of amyloid- (A) peptide and tau hyperphosphorylation, forming neurofibrillary tangles in the brain, are hallmarks of the disease. Oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial and synaptic dysfunction are also observed in AD and often correlated to intracellular A. This peptide results from the cleavage of the amyloid- protein precursor by - and -secretases and tends to be secreted after its production. However, secreted A can be internalized by the interaction with membrane receptors, namely N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, advanced glycation end products receptors, and/or alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Inside the cell, A interacts with several organelles, including mitochondria and nucleus, and there is growing evidence pointing to a possible role of A in the regulation of gene transcription. Accordingly, transcriptional deregulation was observed in several AD models and human samples from AD patients through modified expression, phosphorylation levels, function, and subcellular localization of some transcription factors, resulting in the suppression of neuroprotective transcription both in the nucleus and the mitochondria. In this review we focus on key transcription regulators related with mitochondrial biogenesis and antioxidant defenses that seem to be altered in AD models and also on the role of intranuclear A in the pathogenesis of the disease.

The ability to predict future decline in cognitive systems using the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers 42 amino acid form of amyloid- (A42) and total tau (T-tau) is not fully understood. In a clinical sample ranging from cognitively healthy to dementia (n = 326), linear regression models were performed in order to investigate the ability of CSF biomarkers to predict cognitive decline in all cognitive domains from baseline to 2-year follow-up. Gender, age, and years of education were included as covariates. In patients with subjective cognitive impairment, T-tau had a small impact on executive functions (r2 = 0.07). T-tau had a small to moderate influence (r2 = 0.06-0.11) on all cognitive functions with the exception of visuospatial functions in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In patients with dementia, the impact of T-tau was large (r2 = 0.29) on semantic memory. A42 had a small effect (r2 = 0.07) on speed and executive functions in MCI. In patients with dementia, A42 had a moderate influence (r2 = 0.13-0.24) on semantic and verbal working memory/fluency. Our results speak in favor of the notion that CSF biomarkers reflect the rate of cognitive decline across the continuum of cognitive impairment from healthy to dementia. CSF predicted subsequent decline in more cognitive domains among MCI cases, but the impact was most pronounced in patients with dementia.
The complement system has been implicated in both physiological synapse elimination and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we investigated associations between four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in complement genes and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for AD in 452 neurochemically or neuropathologically verified AD cases and 678 cognitively normal controls. None of the SNPs associated with risk of AD but there were potential associations of rs9332739 in the C2 gene and rs4151667 in the complement factor B gene with CSF tau levels (p = 0.023) and Mini-Mental State Examination scores (p = 0.012), both of which may be considered markers of disease intensity/severity.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), cognition and function are only moderately correlated in cross-sectional studies, and studies of their longitudinal association are less common. One potential non-cognitive contributor to function is depression, which has been associated with poorer clinical outcomes. The current study investigated longitudinal associations between functional abilities, cognitive status, and depressive symptoms in AD. 517 patients diagnosed with probable AD and enrolled in The Multicenter Study of Predictors of Disease Course in Alzheimer's Disease were included. Patients were followed at 6-month intervals over 5.5 years. Longitudinal changes in the Blessed Dementia Rating Scale, modified Mini-Mental State Exam, and the depression subscale of the Columbia University Scale for Psychopathology in AD were examined in a multivariate latent growth curve model that controlled for gender, age, education, and recruitment site. Results showed that cognition and function worsened over the study period, whereas depressive symptoms were largely stable. Rates of change in cognition and function were correlated across participants and coupled within participants, indicating that they travel together over time. Worse initial cognitive status was associated with faster subsequent functional decline, and vice versa. Higher level of depressive symptoms was associated with worse initial functioning and faster subsequent cognitive and functional decline. These findings highlight the importance of both cognitive and psychiatric assessment for functional prognosis. Targeting both cognitive and depressive symptoms in the clinical treatment of AD may have incremental benefit on functional abilities.
Cholesterol metabolism alteration is a hot topic in the field of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, data on plasma lipoproteins cholesterol distribution and oxidation in AD and their possible genetic determinants are lacking. The paraoxonase-1 (PON1) gene -107C/T promoter polymorphisms have been found associated with AD. One of the fundamental functions of PON1 enzyme is the inhibition of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) oxidation. We therefore evaluated plasma lipoprotein profile and LDL density and oxidation in late-onset AD patients and healthy elderly subjects, without neuroimaging evidence of cerebrovascular lesions and not on lipid-lowering treatment, and their interaction with PON1 -107C/T and apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes. Mean plasma total cholesterol and LDL levels were higher in AD than controls (p &lt; 0.05). Lipoproteins cholesterol distribution shifted toward a greater prevalence of smaller, denser LDL (sd-LDL, p &lt; 0.05) only in AD patients with PON1 -107TT genotype, who also showed increased plasma levels of oxidized LDL (ox-LDL, p = 0.02). A significant association was observed between sd-LDL and ox-LDL levels (p &lt; 005) in AD patients. APOE genotype did not modulate lipoprotein distribution. Increased levels of sd-LDL and ox-LDL particles in the AD PON1 TT patients could be explained by the combined effect of an AD-related pro-oxidant milieu and an ineffective PON1 gene polymorphism-related antioxidant capacity. The functional correlate of the association between PON1 -107C/T polymorphism and AD may be the abnormal modulation of LDL oxidation. Ox-LDL may amplify the processes of endothelial injury promoted by vascular amyloid deposition, which represents one of the potential pathways explaining the cross-road between vascular and neurodegenerative pathomechanisms in AD.
Rapidly progressive dementia (RPD) is a rare presentation of different neurological disorders characterized by cognitive impairment leading to loss of functional independence within 24 months or less. The increasing recognition of treatable non-prion causes of RPD has made the differential diagnosis with sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) of crucial importance. We therefore assessed the frequency of different etiologies of RPD and evaluated the accuracy of newly proposed diagnostic criteria for sCJD. Clinical records of patients with RPD referred to Memory Clinic between 2007 and 2012 were retrospectively analyzed. The accuracy of diagnostic criteria for sCJD was evaluated by: a) MRI images in DWI and FLAIR sequences; and (b) CSF 14-3-3 protein. In addition, CSF total tau protein level was also assessed. Final diagnosis was obtained after a 1-year follow-up or after autopsy. Among 37 patients with RPD, the most frequent causes were non-prion diseases, either untreatable (38%) or potentially treatable (32%), thus leaving sCJD as a less frequent cause (30%). DWI images had a sensitivity of 73% and specificity of 96%, while FLAIR yielded a very low sensitivity (40%). CSF 14-3-3 protein had a sensitivity of 100%, but a very low specificity (43%). The strongest independent predictor of sCJD diagnosis was the CSF tau level (p = 0.002) (91% sensitivity, 83% specificity). Treatable causes of RPD are as frequent as sCJD and a rapid differential diagnosis is mandatory. We suggest that DWI images and CSF analysis combining 14-3-3 and total tau protein determination hold the best informative diagnostic values.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are increasingly used in research centers, clinical trials, and clinical settings. However, their broad-scale use is hampered by lack of standardization across analytical platforms and by interference from binding of amyloid- (A) to matrix proteins as well as self-aggregation. Here, we report on a matrix effect-resistant method for the measurement of the AD-associated 42 amino acid species of A (A42), together with A40 and A38 in human CSF based on mass spectrometric quantification using selected reaction monitoring (SRM). Samples were prepared by solid-phase extraction and quantification was performed using stable-isotope labeled A peptides as internal standards. The diagnostic performance of the method was evaluated on two independent clinical materials with research volunteers who were cognitively normal and AD patients with mild to moderate dementia. Analytical characteristics of the method include a lower limit of quantification of 62.5 pg/mL for A42 and coefficients of variations below 10%. In a pilot study on AD patients and controls, we verified disease-association with decreased levels of A42 similar to that obtained by ELISA and even better separation was obtained using the A42/A40 ratio. The developed assay is sensitive and is not influenced by matrix effects, enabling absolute quantification of A42, A40, and A38 in CSF, while it retains the ability to distinguish AD patients from controls. We suggest this SRM-based method for A peptide quantification in human CSF valuable for clinical research and trials.
The aim of our study was to elucidate whether specific patterns of gray matter loss were associated with apolipoprotein E 4 (APOE 4) and microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT)-H1) genetic variants in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at a baseline visit. Gray matter voxel-based morphometry analysis of T1 magnetic resonance imaging scans were performed in 65 amnestic-MCI subjects. MCI APOE 4 carriers compared with non-carriers showed increased brain atrophy in right hippocampus and rostral amygdala, superior and middle temporal gyrus, and right parietal operculum, including inferior frontal gyrus, inferior parietal, and supramarginal gyrus. MAPT-H1/H1 MCI carriers showed an increased bilateral atrophy in superior frontal gyri (including frontal eye fields and left prefrontal cortex) and precentral gyrus but also unilateral left atrophy in the inferior temporal gyrus and calcarine gyrus. In addition, MCI subjects carrying both APOE 4 and MAPT-H1/H1 variants showed gray matter loss in the supplementary motor area and right pre- and postcentral gyri. The effect of APOE 4 on gray matter loss in right hippocampus suggests that, at least in some AD sub-types, the neuronal vulnerability could be increased in the right hemisphere. The pattern of frontal gray matter loss observed among MCI MAPT H1/H1 carriers has also been found in other tauopathies, suggesting that MCI may share etiological factors with other tauopathies. Frontal and parietal cortex vulnerability was found when adding MAPT H1/H1 and APOE 4 effects, suggesting a synergistic effect of these variants. These results could be due to changes in APOE 4 and MAPT expression.
Vitamin D has been investigated in association with cognitive function in older adults. It is unclear whether hypovitaminosis D could be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our objective was to systematically review and quantitatively synthesize the association of low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) concentrations with AD in adults. A Medline and PsycINFO search was conducted on May 2012, with no limit of date, using the MeSH terms &quot;Vitamin D&quot; OR &quot;Hydroxycholecalciferols&quot; combined with the MeSH terms &quot;Alzheimer disease&quot; OR &quot;Dementia&quot; OR &quot;Cognition&quot; OR &quot;Cognition disorders&quot; OR &quot;Memory&quot; OR &quot;Memory Disorders&quot; OR &quot;Executive Function&quot; OR &quot;Attention&quot; OR &quot;Neuropsychological Tests&quot;. Of the 284 selected studies, 10 observational studies (including 9 case-controls and 1 cohort study) met the selection criteria. All were of good quality. The number of AD cases ranged from 20 to 211 (40%-100% female). Finally, 7 case-control studies were eligible for fixed and random-effects meta-analyses of bias-corrected effect size of the difference in serum 25OHD concentrations between AD cases and controls using an inverse-variance method. The pooled effect size in random-effects meta-analysis was 1.40 (95% CI: 0.26;2.54), a 'large' effect size that indicates that serum 25OHD concentrations were 1.4 standard deviation units lower in AD cases compared to cognitively healthy controls (p = 0.016). In conclusion, AD cases had lower serum vitamin D concentrations than matched controls. This reinforces the conceptualization of vitamin D as a 'neurosteroid hormone' and as a potential biomarker of AD.
Cerebrovascular risk factors and stroke are highly prevalent with advancing age, and stroke may be more common than Alzheimer's disease, particularly among older men. While stroke mortality continues to decline, the prevalence of individuals with various vascular risk factors continues to rise and many are undiagnosed or undertreated. Asymptomatic cerebrovascular brain injury that includes asymptomatic brain infarction and white matter hyperintensities as well as accelerated brain atrophy is even more frequent than clinical stroke. Moreover, the impact of cerebrovascular risk factors on brain injury appears to begin in middle life and additively increases the likelihood of later life dementia. This review focuses on the use of neuroimaging and genetics to understand the impact of asymptomatic vascular risk factors on the trajectories of cognitive aging as well as incident cognitive impairment, stroke, and mortality. Results of this review emphasize the need for early detection and treatment of vascular risk factors to improve the cognitive health of our rapidly aging population.
Recent studies suggest that significant memory problems are not specific to Alzheimer's disease (AD) but can be also observed in other neurodegenerative conditions, such as behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). We investigated whether orientation (spatial &amp; temporal) information is a better diagnostic marker for AD compared to memory and whether their atrophy correlates of orientation and memory differ. A large sample (n = 190) of AD patients (n = 73), bvFTD patients (n = 54), and healthy controls (n = 63) underwent testing. A subset of the patients (n = 72) underwent structural imaging using voxel-based morphometry analysis of magnetic resonance brain imaging. Orientation and memory scores from the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination showed that AD patients had impaired orientation and memory, while bvFTD patients performing at control level for orientation but had impaired memory. A logistic regression showed that 78% of patients could be classified on the basis of orientation and memory scores alone at clinic presentation. Voxel-based morphometry analysis was conducted using orientation and memory scores as covariates, which showed that the neural correlates for orientation and memory also dissociated with posterior hippocampus cortex being related to orientation in AD, while the anterior hippocampus was associated with memory performance in the AD and bvFTD patients. Orientation and memory measures discriminate AD and bvFTD to a high degree and tap into different hippocampal regions. Disorientation and posterior hippocampus appears therefore specific to AD and will allow clinicians to discriminate AD patients from other neurodegenerative conditions with similar memory deficits at clinic presentation.
Activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis occurs in response to the organism's innate need for homeostasis. The glucocorticoids (GCs) that are released into the circulation upon acute activation of the HPA axis perform stress-adaptive functions and provide negative feedback to turn off the HPA axis, but can be detrimental when in excess. Long-term activation of the HPA axis (such as with chronic stress) enhances susceptibility to neuronal dysfunction and death, and increases vulnerability to Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, little is known how components of the HPA axis, upstream of GCs, impact vulnerability to AD. This study examined basal gene expression of stress-related molecules in brains of 3xTg-AD mice during early-stage pathology. Basal GC levels and mRNA expression of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), and corticotropic releasing hormone (CRH) in several stress- and emotionality-related brain regions were measured in 3-4-month-old 3xTg-AD mice. Despite normal GC levels, young 3xTg-AD mice exhibit an activated central HPA axis, with altered mRNA levels of MR and GR in the hippocampus, GR and CRH in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, GR and CRH in the central nucleus of the amygdala, and CRH in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. This HPA axis activation is present during early-stage neuropathology when 3xTg-AD mice show mild behavioral changes, suggesting an ongoing neuroendocrine regulation that precedes the onset of severe AD-like pathology and behavioral deficits.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an aging disorder characterized by amyloid- (A) accumulation in extracellular plaques and formation of intracellular tangles containing hyperphosphorylated tau (p-Tau). Autophagic defects, leading to accumulation of autophagosomes, are recognized in AD. Parkin is an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in degradation of proteins via autophagy and the proteasome. We investigated the role of parkin in postmortem brain tissues from 21 AD patients and 15 control subjects. We detected decreased parkin solubility in AD cortex and parkin co-localization with intraneuronal A(1-42) in the hippocampus and cortex of AD patients. Parkin accumulation with intraneuronal A and p-Tau was detected in autophagosomes in AD brains. To determine the role of parkin in A clearance, we generated gene transfer animals expressing lentiviral A(1-42)with and without parkin and examined autophagic mechanisms. Lentiviral expression of A(1-42) led to p-Tau accumulation and induced autophagic defects, leading to accumulation of autophagic vacuoles. However, co-expression of wild type parkin facilitated autophagic clearance and promoted deposition of A(1-42) and p-Tau into the lysosome. Taken together, these data suggest that A(1-42) alters normal autophagy and parkin enhances autophagic clearance. In conclusion, decreased parkin solubility may lead to co-localization with intraneuronal A(1-42) and compromise the cell autophagic clearance ability. Parkin may clear autophagic defects via autophagosome degradation.
Previous studies have suggested a pathogenetic role of autoantibodies (Abs) against ATP synthase (ATPs) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using a mouse model, we found that intracerebroventricular administration of anti-ATPs-Abs, purified from AD patients, leads to poor cognitive performance and pronounced cell damage in the hippocampus, a brain region specifically involved in learning and memory processes, which is severely affected in AD. Our results are suggestive of a role of anti-ATPs-Abs in the onset and progression of AD and also provide a fruitful model for the study of memory disturbances in neurodegenerative diseases.
The retrogenesis model states that the progression of brain aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) deterioration proceeds inversely to human ontogenic acquisition patterns. Our aim was to assess if the progressive decline of cognitive abilities and functional capacity in AD follows an inverse sequence of acquisition compared to normal developmental patterns. One hundred eighty one children ranging in age from 4 to 12 years and 148 adults (cognitively normal, subjects with mild cognitive impairment, and mild-moderately severe AD) were assessed with the same cognitive and functional tools. The statistical analyses showed a progressive and inverse distribution on cognitive, functional, and mental age scores when comparing results of children classified by chronological age and patients by dementia staging. The pattern of cognitive acquisition in children showed a progressive development of overall cognitive function along all age ranges, in addition to a simultaneous acquisition of instrumental and basic daily living activities in the functional domain. AD patients showed a progressive decline in cognitive and functional domains, which concurs with the sequence of impairment reported in this dementia. Our findings provide support to the inverse and progressive pattern of functional and cognitive decline observed in AD patients compared to the developmental acquisition of these capacities in children, as stated by the retrogenesis model. Nonetheless, certain differences should be considered when comparing the sequence of acquisition during ontogenic development with that of progressive loss during the course of AD. Retrogenesis may account for the progressive loss of neocortical-related functions in AD.
Conditional overexpression of four-repeat human tau containing the P301L missense mutation in the rTg4510 mouse model of tauopathy leads to progressive accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and hyperphosphorylated, sarkosyl-insoluble tau species, which are biochemically comparable to abnormal tau characteristic of hereditary tauopathies termed FTDP-17. To fully understand the impact of tau species at different stages of self-assembly on neurodegeneration, we fractionated rTg4510 brain representing several stages of tauopathy to obtain TBS-extractable (S1), high salt/sarkosyl-extractable (S3), and sarkosyl-insoluble (P3) fractions. Under reducing condition, the S1 fraction was demonstrated by western blotting to contain both 50-60 kDa normally-sized and 64 kDa tau. Both are thermo-stable, but the 64 kDa tau showed a higher degree of phosphorylation. Under non-reducing condition, nearly all TBS-extractable 64 kDa tau were detected as 130 kDa species consistent with the size of dimer. Quantitative analysis showed 80 times more 64 kDa tau in S1 than P3 fraction. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed tau-positive granules/short filaments in S1 fraction. These structures displayed MC1 immunoreactivities indicative of conformational/pathological change of tau. MC1 immunoreactivity was detected by dot blotting in samples from 2.5 month-old mice, whereas Ab39 immunoreactivity indicative of late stages of tau assembly was detected only in P3 fraction. Quantitative analysis also demonstrated a significant inverse correlation between brain weight and 64 kDa tau, but the level of TBS-extractable 64 kDa tau reflects neurodegeneration better than that of sarkosyl-insoluble 64 kDa tau. Together, the findings suggest that TBS-extractable 64 kDa tau production is a potential target for therapeutic intervention of tauopathies.
Vascular deposition of amyloid- (A) leads to the death of cerebrovascular smooth muscle cells (CVSMCs) in cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype influences the severity of CAA and development of vasculopathic complications. We have studied the relationship between uptake of A into human CVSMCs and cell death, and the influence of ApoE isoforms on this process. We found that both A42 and A40 were taken up by human CVSMCs, and that this uptake-particularly that of A42-caused disruption to smooth muscle actin and cell death. Uptake of A42 was partially blocked by the addition of receptor-associated protein (RAP), implicating low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP-1) as the cell surface receptor. RAP significantly reduced the death of CVSMCs exposed to A42. In further experiments, CVSMCs were exposed to A42 in the presence of the different isoforms of exogenous ApoE and high-density lipoprotein (HDL). All three isoforms of ApoE in the presence of HDL (HDL-ApoE) reduced the uptake of fluorescein-tagged A42 but only HDL-ApoE3 significantly decreased cell death. We conclude that HDL-ApoE3, acting as an A chaperone molecule, significantly reduces the death of CVSMCs that result from LRP-1-mediated uptake of A. This may contribute to the differential effects of APOE genotype on severity of CAA and the risk of rupture of A-laden blood vessels.
In the search for molecules that may alter the formation of amyloid- (A) protofibrils, it has been shown that the Nogo-system can interact and bind to amyloid- protein precursor and thus affect the amount of A that is formed and deposited in the brain. To further address this issue in vivo, we crossed mice that overexpress Nogo receptor 1 (NgR1), &quot;MemoFlex&quot;, in forebrain neurons, with plaque forming APPswe/PSEN1(E9) mice, to investigate if increased levels of NgR1 would influence plaque load or cognitive function in the resulting MemoFlex/APPswe/PSEN1(E9) transgenic mice. We used a radial arm water maze and the Morris water maze to measure cognitive function. We did not find any significant effect of NgR1 overexpression on the performance of APPswe/PSEN1(E9) mice in the radial arm water maze test. However, MemoFlex/APPswe/PSEN1(E9) mice were found to be significantly impaired in the Morris water maze. We also analyzed the amount of plaques in the two mouse models without finding any significant difference in plaque load in the cerebral cortex or the hippocampal formation. It therefore appears that overexpression of NgR1 in APPswe/PSEN1(E9) mice does not have any marked effects on A levels, yet appears to impair spatial cognitive abilities. We conclude that strong overexpression of NgR1 in forebrain neurons impairs aspects of cognitive function but does not markedly alter plaque load in plaque-forming APPswe/PSEN1(E9) mice. Thus high levels of membrane-bound NgR1 present since early postnatal life does not influence the development of plaques in mice carrying the two human plaque-causing mutations APPswe and PSEN1(E9).
Drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been unsuccessful in preventing its devastating cognitive deficits and progressive neurodegeneration. The lack of a definitive diagnostic for AD has been a major obstacle to AD drug discovery. Here, we describe a novel, highly accurate peripheral diagnostic for AD patients based on quantitatively measured complexity of skin-sampled fibroblast networks. A significant number of samples were studied under double-blind conditions and had autopsy and/or genetic validation. An additional sample confirmed the diagnostic discrimination on freshly obtained skin samples. A sub-sample of these diagnostic differences were induced by oligomerized amyloid-1-42. Based on the accuracy of these measures that utilize physical principles such as fractal dimension and lacunarity as well as the significant correlation with disease duration, this biomarker profile appears to identify accurately AD patients for therapeutic intervention.
The Chinese hamster ovary cell line 7PA2, stably transfected with the 751 amino acid isoform of amyloid- protein precursor (APP) containing the Val  Phe mutation at residue 717, is one of the most used models to study the biochemistry and toxicity of secreted amyloid- (A) peptides, particularly A oligomers, which are considered to be of relevance to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we present a detailed immunochemical and mass spectrometric characterization of primary structures of A peptides secreted by 7PA2 cells. Immunoprecipitation and western blot of 7PA2 cell culture media revealed abundant anti-A immunoreactive bands in the molecular weight range of 4-20 kDa. Mass spectrometric analysis showed that these bands contain several APP/A peptides, starting at the N-terminal of the A sequence and extending across the BACE1 cleavage site. Treatment of cells with a BACE1 inhibitor decreased the abundance of the A monomer band by western blot and resulted in lower levels of A1-40, A1-42, and sAPP as measured by ELISA. However, western blot bands thought to represent oligomers of A increased in response to BACE1 inhibition. This increase was paralleled by the emergence of N-terminally truncated A species (A5-40 in particular) and A species that spanned the -secretase site in APP according to mass spectrometric analyses. The formation of these APP/A peptides may have implications for the use of the 7PA2 cell line as a model for A pathology. The enzyme(s) responsible for this particular BACE1-independent APP-processing remains to be identified.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive memory deficits and other cognitive disturbances. Neuropathologically, AD is characterized by the progressive loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons that innervate the hippocampus and cortex and the abnormal extracellular accumulation of amyloid- and intracellular tau protein. Current research on AD is focused on the mechanisms underlying the abnormal oligomerization, fibrillation, and accumulation of the amyloid- and tau proteins, mechanisms that may alter the dynamics of this accumulation and on experimental therapeutics approaches aimed at the clearance of the abnormally folded proteins and other potentially neuroprotective interventions. This review will summarize the main areas of investigation in AD and present ways forward for future work.
This review focuses on six key papers published in the mid 2000 s based on work conducted in Cambridge. The first two relate to clinico-pathological studies which established that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a relatively common cause of focal cortical syndromes, notably progressive aphasia (largely nonfluent), progressive apraxia, and posterior cortical atrophy with complex visual symptoms. Building on these findings, criteria for the progressive aphasias have been developed which define the variant associated with AD (progressive logopenic aphasia). Memory in the dementias has been a major area of interest and one paper discussed here explored the neural basis for episodic and semantic memory failure in AD and semantic dementia. Despite very different memory profiles, the two disorders both cause severe hippocampal hypometabolism and atrophy but differ in the degree of involvement of other memory related structures. This work drew attention to the role of pathology in non-hippocampal structures early in AD. The next two articles deal with the behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) which we have shown is associated with breakdown in theory of mind, social reasoning, empathy, and emotion processing and contributed towork on the neural basis of social cognition. We also identified a subgroup of bvFTD who fail to progress over many years, termed phenocopy cases, who are differentiated by their lack of atrophy on MRI. The final paper described the application of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-Revised, which has proven a useful brief assessment tool for the early detection of a range of neurodegenerative disorders including AD and FTD. It also appears to be helpful in predicting those with mild cognitive impairment who will progress to frank dementia.
The identification of TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) as the major disease protein in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin inclusions has defined a new class of neurodegenerative conditions: the TDP-43 proteinopathies. This breakthrough was quickly followed by mutation analysis of TARDBP, the gene encoding TDP-43. Herein, we provide a review of our previously published efforts that led to the identification of 3 TARDBP mutations (p.M337V, p.N345K, and p.I383V) in familial ALS patients, two of which were novel. With over 40 TARDBP mutations now discovered, there exists conclusive evidence that TDP-43 plays a direct role in neurodegeneration. The onus is now on researchers to elucidate the mechanisms by which mutant TDP-43 confers toxicity, and to exploit these findings to gain a better understanding of how TDP-43 contributes to the pathogenesis of disease. Our biochemical analysis of TDP-43 in ALS patient lymphoblastoid cell lines revealed a substantial increase in TDP-43 truncation products, including a  25 kDa fragment, compared to control lymphoblastoid cell lines. We discuss the putative harmful consequence of abnormal TDP-43 fragmentation, as well as highlight additional mechanisms of toxicity associated with mutant TDP-43.
The past decades have witnessed an enormous expansion of the literature on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is now clear that a triplet of CSF biomarkers (total-tau, phospho-tau, and the 42 amino acid fragment of amyloid-) reflects core neuropathological features of AD and contributes diagnostically relevant information if measured in a proper manner. Here, we discuss what is needed for these biomarkers to become generally implemented in the clinical routine. We also discuss novel CSF biomarkers, the challenge of differential diagnosis-making in diseases with shared pathologies, and if CSF biomarkers will survive in the long run, given the advancements in molecular neuroimaging and ultra-sensitive blood tests.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a ubiquitously expressed serine/threonine kinase that plays a key role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). GSK3 phosphorylates tau in most serine and threonine residues hyperphosphorylated in paired helical filaments, and GSK3 activity contributes both to amyloid- production and amyloid--mediated neuronal death. Thus, mice generated in our laboratory with conditional overexpression of GSK3 in forebrain neurons (Tet/GSK3 mice) recapitulate aspects of AD neuropathology such as tau hyperphosphorylation, apoptotic neuronal death, and reactive astrocytosis, as well as spatial learning deficit. In this review, we describe recent contributions of our group showing that transgene shutdown in that animal model leads to normal GSK3 activity, normal phospho-tau levels, diminished neuronal death, and suppression of the cognitive deficit, thus further supporting the potential of GSK3 inhibitors for AD therapeutics. In addition, we have combined transgenic mice overexpressing the enzyme GSK3 with transgenic mice expressing tau with a triple FTDP-17 mutation that develop prefibrillar tau-aggregates. Our data suggest that progression of the tauopathy can be prevented by administration of lithium when the first signs of neuropathology appear. Further, it is possible to partially reverse tau pathology in advanced stages of the disease, although the presence of already assembled neurofibrillary tangle-like structures cannot be reversed.
The pathological accumulation of the microtubule-binding protein tau is linked to an increasing number of neurodegenerative conditions associated with aging, though the mechanisms by which tau accumulates in disease are unclear. In this review, we will summarize our previous research assessing the mechanism of action, as well as the therapeutic potential of Hsp90 inhibition for the treatment of tauopathies. Specifically, we describe the development of a high-throughput screening approach to identify and rank compounds, and demonstrate the selective elimination of aberrant p-tau species in the brain following treatment with an Hsp90 inhibitor. Additionally, we identify CHIP as an essential component of the Hsp90 chaperone complex that mediates tau degradation, and present evidence to suggest that CHIP functions to identify and sequester neurotoxic tau species. Finally, we discuss recent data identifying an additional mechanism by which CHIP modulates protein triage decisions involving Hsp90. Specifically, CHIP indirectly regulates Hsp90 chaperone activity by modulating steady-state levels of the Hsp90 deacetylase, HDAC6, thus influencing both the acetylation state and function of Hsp90. Thus future research directions will focus on the manipulation of this network to promote degradation of pathogenic tau species in disease.
Obtaining an animal's body temperature is essential for the assessment of its clinical status. For many species, rectal thermometry is the technique used most often; however, this method in macaques typically requires sedation or considerable physical restraint. A noninvasive and inexpensive temporal artery (TA) thermometer was evaluated as an alternative method for collecting body temperature measurements from macaques used in neuroscience research. Rectal and arterial temperatures were obtained from 86 macaques (mean age, 10.2 y) that had received ketamine (10 mg/kg IM) or Telazol (5 mg/kg IM); the arterial measurements were taken from behind the right ear. In addition, arterial temperatures were measured behind both ears in a cohort of awake, chaired macaques with cephalic restraint pedestals only (n = 8) or with cephalic restraint pedestals and recording chambers (n = 14). Within-subject repeatability for TA thermometry and agreement between rectal and arterial temperature measurements were assessed by using the Bland-Altman method. Temperature measurements indicated that values from TA thermometry were lower than those from rectal thermometry by 1.57 C with a 95% agreement limit of  1.27 C. Results show satisfactory repeatability with TA thermometry and agreement between arterial and rectal temperatures, demonstrating that TA thermometry can be a valuable tool in conscious, chaired macaques with restrained heads.

'Evo-devo', an interdisciplinary field based on developmental biology, includes studies on the evolutionary processes leading to organ morphologies and functions. One fascinating theme in evo-devo is how fish fins evolved into tetrapod limbs. Studies by many scientists, including geneticists, mathematical biologists, and paleontologists, have led to the idea that fins and limbs are homologous organs; now it is the job of developmental biologists to integrate these data into a reliable scenario for the mechanism of fin-to-limb evolution. Here, we describe the fin-to-limb transition based on key recent developmental studies from various research fields that describe mechanisms that may underlie the development of fins, limb-like fins, and limbs.
Studies in humans and animals have linked abnormal programming of adult tissue function to excess glucocorticoids during perinatal development. The current study investigated the hypothesis that physiological variations in glucocorticoid concentrations during early neonatal life of the foal alter the secretory responses of the pancreatic  cells 2 and 12 wk after treatment. Spontaneously delivered foals received either saline or long-acting ACTH for 5 d from 1 d after birth to maintain an endogenous rise in cortisol concentrations. Starting at d 10, pancreatic  cell function was studied using an intravenous (i.v.) glucose tolerance test, an i.v. arginine challenge, and an i.v. tolbutamide challenge. The maximum increment in plasma insulin achieved in response to exogenous glucose was less in ACTH-treated foals at both 2 and 12 wk of age (P&lt;0.05). By 12 wk of age, developmental changes also occurred in the magnitude and biphasic pattern of glucose-stimulated insulin release. The area under the insulin curve during the early phase of insulin secretion (0 to 30 min) was not different between the 2- and 12-wk-old animals but was significantly greater during the later phase (30 to 120 min) at 12 wk than at 2 wk (P&lt;0.05). Arginine infusion induced a brief 5 to 15 min increase in plasma concentrations of insulin that was not different in saline- and ACTH-treated foals. The -cell response to tolbutamide infusion was rapid and monophasic, and there was no difference (P&gt;0.05) in the area under the insulin curve with treatment at 2 or at 12 wk. However, after tolbutamide, plasma insulin concentrations remained increased for a longer period in the ACTH-treated than in the saline-treated foals at 12 wk of age (P&lt;0.05). Hence, this is the first study to show altered pancreatic -cell function after ACTH-induced glucocorticoid overexposure during early postnatal life in foals.
Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often have difficulty with social-emotional cues. This study examined the neural, behavioral, and autonomic correlates of emotional face processing in adolescents with ASD and typical development (TD) using eye-tracking and event-related potentials (ERPs) across two different paradigms. Scanning of faces was similar across groups in the first task, but the second task found that face-sensitive ERPs varied with emotional expressions only in TD. Further, ASD showed enhanced neural responding to non-social stimuli. In TD only, attention to eyes during eye-tracking related to faster face-sensitive ERPs in a separate task; in ASD, a significant positive association was found between autonomic activity and attention to mouths. Overall, ASD showed an atypical pattern of emotional face processing, with reduced neural differentiation between emotions and a reduced relationship between gaze behavior and neural processing of faces.
The executive dysfunction theory attempts to explain not only the repetitive behaviours but also the socio-communicative difficulties in autism. While it is clear that some individuals with autism perform poorly on certain executive function tasks, it remains unclear what underlies these impairments. The most consistent and striking difficulties are seen on tasks that are open-ended in structure, lack explicit instructions and involve arbitrary rules. I propose that impairment on such tasks is not due to executive dysfunction; instead, poor performance results from difficulties forming an implicit understanding of the experimenter's expectations for the task, resulting in egocentric and idiosyncratic behaviour. These difficulties in taking another's perspective may be explained parsimoniously by the mentalising difficulties robustly demonstrated to exist in autism.

High-throughput optical imaging is critical to obtain large-scale neural connectivity information of brain in neuroscience. Using a digital mirror device and a scientific complementary metal-oxide semiconductor camera, we report a significant speed improvement of structured illumination microscopy (SIM), which produces a maximum SIM net frame rate of 133 Hz. We perform three-dimensional (3-D) imaging of mouse brain slices at diffraction-limited resolution and demonstrate the fast 3-D imaging capability to a large sample with an imaging rate of 6.910(7)pixel/s of our system, an order of magnitude faster than previously reported.
Polycystin-1 is a large transmembrane protein, which, when mutated, causes autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, one of the most common life-threatening genetic diseases that is a leading cause of kidney failure. The REJ (receptor for egg lelly) module is a major component of PC1 ectodomain that extends to about 1000 amino acids. Many missense disease-causing mutations map to this module; however, very little is known about the structure or function of this region. We used a combination of homology molecular modeling, protein engineering, steered molecular dynamics (SMD) simulations, and single-molecule force spectroscopy (SMFS) to analyze the conformation and mechanical stability of the first ~420 amino acids of REJ. Homology molecular modeling analysis revealed that this region may contain structural elements that have an FNIII-like structure, which we named REJd1, REJd2, REJd3, and REJd4. We found that REJd1 has a higher mechanical stability than REJd2 (~190 pN and 60 pN, resp.). Our data suggest that the putative domains REJd3 and REJd4 likely do not form mechanically stable folds. Our experimental approach opens a new way to systematically study the effects of disease-causing mutations on the structure and mechanical properties of the REJ module of PC1.
Glioma is among the ten most common causes of cancer-related death and has no effective treatment for it, so we are trying to find a new target for anticancer treatment. This study investigates the different expression of SRPK1 as a novel protein in glioma, which can influence tumor cells biological characteristics in normoxic and hypoxic environment. The expression levels of SRPK1 protein in glioma cell lines transfected with siSRPK1 or not were examined using immunofluorescence, RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. The impact of SRPK1 on the biological characteristics of U251 cells was further studied using methylthiazol tetrazolium assays, flow cytometry, and Transwell invasion chamber assays. The results showed that knockdown of SRPK1 inhibited tumor cells growth, invasion and migration in normoxic condition, but portion of the effect could be reversed in hypoxia. SRPK1 expression was induced in glioma cells by DDP treated, but not TMZ, in both normoxia and hypoxia conditions. We propose SRPK1 as a new molecular player contributing to the early treatment of glioma.
Water homeostasis of the nervous system is important during neural signal transduction. Astrocytes are crucial in water transport in the central nervous system under both physiological and pathological conditions. To date, five aquaporins (AQP) have been found in rat brain astrocytes. Most studies have focused on AQP4 and AQP9, however, little is known about the expression of AQP3, -5, and -8 as well as their regulating mechanism in astrocytes. The expression patterns of AQP3, -5, and -8 in astrocytes exposed to hyperosmotic solutions were examined to clarify the roles of AQP3, -5, and -8 in astrocyte water movement. The expression of AQP4 and AQP9 under the same hyperosmotic conditions was also investigated. The AQP4 and AQP9 expressions continuously increased until 12 h after hyperosmotic solution exposure, whereas the AQP3, -5, and -8 expressions continued to increase until 6 h after hyperosmotic solution exposure. The different AQPs decreased at corresponding time points (24 h for AQP4 and AQP9; 12 h for AQP3, -5, and -8 after hyperosmotic solution exposure). The ERK inhibitor can attenuate the expression of AQP3, -5, and -8 after hyperosmotic solution exposure. The p38 inhibitor can inhibit the AQP4 and AQP9 expressions in cultured astrocytes. AQP expression is directly related to the extracellular hyperosmotic stimuli. Moreover, different AQPs can be regulated by a distinct MAPK signal transduction pathway.

Pur-alpha is an essential protein for postnatal brain development which localizes specifically to dendrites where it plays a role in the translation of neuronal RNA. Mice lacking Pur-alpha display decreased neuronogenesis and impaired neuronal differentiation. Here we examined two Rho GTPases, Rac1 and RhoA, which play opposing roles in neurite outgrowth and are critical for dendritic maturation during mouse brain development in the presence and absence of Pur-alpha. Pur-alpha is developmentally regulated in the mouse brain with expression beginning shortly after birth and rapidly increasing to peak during the third week of postnatal development. RhoA levels analyzed by Western blotting rapidly fluctuated in the wild-type mouse brain, however, in the absence of Pur-alpha, a decrease in RhoA levels shortly after birth and a delay in the cycling of RhoA regulation was observed leading to reduced basal levels of RhoA after day 10 postnatal. Immunohistochemistry of brain tissues displayed reduced RhoA levels in the cortex and cerebellum and loss of perinuclear cytoplasmic labeling of RhoA within the cortex in the knockout mouse brain. While Rac1 levels remained relatively stable at all time points during development and were similar in both wild-type and Pur-alpha knockout mice, changes in subcellular localization of Rac1 were seen in the absence of Pur-alpha. These findings suggest that Pur-alpha can regulate RhoA at multiple levels including basal protein levels, subcellular compartmentalization, as well as turnover of active RhoA in order to promote dendritic maturation.
Protein acetylation affects synaptic plasticity and memory, but its effects on synapse composition have not been addressed. We found that protein acetylation promotes the dendritic clustering of the excitatory postsynaptic scaffold protein PSD95 in hippocampal neurons, without affecting the total levels of this protein. Cortactin, an F-actin-binding protein enriched in dendritic spines, is a substrate for acetylation and has a role in spine morphogenesis. Recent studies showed that cortactin acetylation changes its ability to bind F-actin and regulates cellular motility, but the function of cortactin acetylation in neuronal cells is so far unknown. We tested whether acetylation of cortactin influences its morphogenic function by overexpressing wild-type cortactin, or the mimetic mutants for acetylated or deacetylated cortactin, in hippocampal neurons, and found that cortactin acetylation has an impact on PSD95 clustering, independent from its function as actin dynamics regulator. Moreover, acetylated cortactin can rescue the reduction in PSD95 clustering mediated by knockdown of cortactin. We also found that acetylation of cortactin is correlated with decreased cortactin interaction with p140Cap and Shank1, and with lower cortactin phosphorylation at tyrosine 421. The neurotrophin BDNF promoted the acetylation of cortactin in hippocampal neurons, suggesting that BDNF may regulate excitatory synapses and PSD95 dendritic clustering at least in part by changing the acetylation level of cortactin. Our findings unravel an unsuspected role for cortactin acetylation in the regulation of PSD95 dendritic clustering, which may work in concert with cortactin's role in spine development.
It has been hypothesized that myelin acts like a mitochondrion, generating ATP across the membranes of its sheath. By calculating the proton motive force across the myelin membrane based on known values for the pH and membrane potential of the oligodendrocyte, we find that insufficient energy could be harvested from proton flow across the myelin membrane to synthesize ATP. In fact, if the respiratory chain were present in the myelin membrane, then the ATP synthase would function in reverse, hydrolyzing rather than synthesizing ATP. This calculation places the hypothesis of an energy-producing role for myelin in considerable doubt.
The brain is in many ways an immunologically and pharmacologically privileged site. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) of the cerebrovascular endothelium and its participation in the complex structure of the neurovascular unit (NVU) restrict access of immune cells and immune mediators to the central nervous system (CNS). In pathologic conditions, very well-organized immunologic responses can develop within the CNS, raising important questions about the real nature and the intrinsic and extrinsic regulation of this immune privilege. We assess the interactions of immune cells and immune mediators with the BBB and NVU in neurologic disease, cerebrovascular disease, and intracerebral tumors. The goals of this review are to outline key scientific advances and the status of the science central to both the neuroinflammation and CNS barriers fields, and highlight the opportunities and priorities in advancing brain barriers research in the context of the larger immunology and neuroscience disciplines. This review article was developed from reports presented at the 2011 Annual Blood-Brain Barrier Consortium Meeting.
Rosiglitazone, a synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- (PPAR) agonist, prevents cell death after cerebral ischemia in animal models, but the underlying mechanism has not been clarified. In this study, we examined how rosiglitazone protects neurons against ischemia. Mice treated with rosiglitazone were subjected to 60 minutes of focal ischemia followed by reperfusion. Rosiglitazone reduced infarct volume after ischemia and reperfusion. We show that this neuroprotective effect was reversed with a PPAR antagonist. Western blot analysis showed a significant increase in expression of phosphorylated stress-activated protein kinases (c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38) in ischemic brain tissue. Rosiglitazone blocked this increase. Furthermore, we observed that rosiglitazone increased expression of the dual-specificity phosphatase 8 (DUSP8) protein and messenger RNA in ischemic brain tissue. Dual-specificity phosphatase 8 is a mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase that can dephosphorylate JNK and p38. Another key finding of the present study was that knockdown of DUSP8 in primary cultured cortical neurons that were subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation diminished rosiglitazone's effect on downregulation of JNK phosphorylation. Thus, rosiglitazone's neuroprotective effect after ischemia is mediated by blocking JNK phosphorylation induced by ischemia via DUSP8 upregulation.
In Southwestern USA, the jimsonweed Datura wrightii and the nocturnal sphinx moth Manduca sexta form a pollinator-plant and herbivore-plant association. While certain plant volatile organic compounds (VOCs) attract moths for oviposition, it is likely that other host-derived olfactory cues, such as herbivore-induced VOCs, repel moths for oviposition. Here, we studied the oviposition preference of female M. sexta towards intact and damaged host plants of three species: D. wrightii, D. discolor (a less preferred feeding resource but also used by females for oviposition), and Solanum lycopersicum-tomato-(used by moths as an oviposition resource only). Damage was inflicted to the plants either by larval feeding or artificial damage. Mated females were exposed to an intact plant and a damaged plant and allowed to lay eggs for 10min. Oviposition preferences of females were highly heterogeneous in all cases, but a larger proportion of moths laid significantly fewer eggs on feeding-damaged and artificially damaged plants of S. lycopersicum. Many females also avoided feeding-damaged D. discolor and D. wrightii plants induced by treatment with methyl jasmonate. Chemical analyses showed a significant increase in the total amount of VOCs released by vegetative tissues of feeding-damaged plants, as well as species-specific increases in emission of certain VOCs. In particular, feeding-damaged S. lycopersicum plants emitted (-)-linalool, an odorant that repels moths for oviposition. Finally, the emission of D. wrightii floral VOCs, which are important in mediating feeding by adult moths (and hence pollination), did not change in plants damaged by larval feeding. We propose that the observed differential effects of herbivory on oviposition choice are due to different characteristics (i.e., mutually beneficial or parasitic) of the insect-plant interaction.
The enzyme aromatase is important for regulating sexual and aggressive behaviors during the reproductive season, including many aspects of courtship. In birds, aromatase is expressed at high levels in a number of different brain regions. Although this expression does vary among species, the extent to which the distribution of aromatase positive cells reflects species differences in courtship and other behaviors is not well established. Here, we examine the distribution of aromatase immunoreactive (ARO) neurons in the brain of a species with a unique courtship display, the ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus). Unlike most other galliforms, male ruffed grouse do not vocalize as part of their courtship and instead use their wings to create a non-vocal auditory signal to attract females. Because aromatase is involved in courtship behaviors in several bird species, including other galliforms, we hypothesized that aromatase distribution in the ruffed grouse would differ from that of other galliforms. We used an antibody raised against quail aromatase to examine aromatase immunoreactivity in the ruffed grouse, the closely related spruce grouse (Falcipennis canadensis) and the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica). In all three species, ARO neurons were identified in the medial preoptic nucleus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the nucleus ventromedialis hypothalami. Both grouse species had ARO neurons in two regions of the telencephalon, the hyperpallium, and entopallium, and the ruffed grouse also in field L. ARO neurons were only found in one region in the telencephalon of the Japanese quail, the septum. In general, breeding male ruffed grouse had significantly more ARO neurons and those neurons were larger than that of both the non-breeding male and female ruffed grouse. Aromatase expression in the telencephalon of the ruffed grouse suggests that steroid hormones might modulate responses to visual and acoustic stimuli, but how this relates to species differences in courtship displays and co-expression with estrogenic receptors is yet to be determined.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) play an important role in the development of pain and migraine pathogenesis. Increase in plasma CGRP levels is associated with delayed migraine-like attacks in migraine patients. Although several lines of evidence have indicated a key role of CGRP in migraine pain, its mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate the functional role of CGRP on trigeminal nociceptive pathway by determining the alteration in TRPV1 levels in trigeminal ganglion (TG) and the activation of trigeminal nucleus caudalis (TNC) of rat. Post intravenous injection of CGRP (600ng/kg) at 60min significantly increased the levels of TRPV1, CGRP, phosphorylated protein kinase C and phosphorylated cyclic AMP responsive element-binding protein in TG of rats. The number of small and medium TRPV1 and CGRP positive immunostaining neurons accompanying with co-localization of TRPV1 with CGRP neurons were significantly increased in TG of CGRP-injected rats. The sustained increase in c-Fos expression in TNC neurons was also observed in CGRP-injected rats. These results indicate that CGRP may participate in trigeminal nociceptive system sensitization by induced increase in TRPV1 and CGRP levels in TG neurons and activation of the central neurons in TNC.
Synaptogenesis can be detected in tissue sections by immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle glycoprotein that serves as a marker of synaptic maturation. Reactivity was prospectively studied postmortem in sections of the striatum, globus pallidus, and substantia nigra in 172 normal human fetuses and neonates of 6 to 41 weeks' gestation. Caudate nucleus and putamen show patchy reactivity beginning at 13 weeks' gestation around some intracapsular neurons; the pattern is well developed in all regions before midgestation. Near-uniform reactivity throughout the striatum is achieved by 34 weeks, but subtle patchiness is still perceived at term. The globus pallidus shows uniform reactivity without stria from 13 weeks and the substantia nigra from 9 weeks. Synaptic patchiness in the fetal corpus striatum appears to correspond to the &quot;striosomes of Graybiel&quot; that define adjacent neurotransmitter-rich and neurotransmitter-poor zones. Clinical correlation is proposed with dystonic postures and athetoid movements observed in normal preterm neonates of 26 to 32 weeks.

The aim of the present study was to investigate the clinical usefulness of an observational tool--the Disruptive Behavior Diagnostic Observation Schedule (DB-DOS)--in the diagnosis of disruptive behavior disorders (DBD) and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in preschoolers. We hypothesized that the DB-DOS may help support the presumption of a diagnosis generated by the information from parents and teachers (or other caregivers). Participants were referred preschool children with externalizing behavioral problems (N = 193; 83% male) and typically developing children (N = 58; 71% male). In view of the clinical validity study each child was given a diagnosis of either DBD (N = 40), or ADHD (N = 54) or comorbid (DBD + ADHD; N = 66) based on best-estimate diagnosis. The DB-DOS demonstrated good interrater and test-retest reliability for DBD and ADHD symptom scores. Confirmatory factor analysis demonstrated an excellent fit of the DB-DOS multidomain model of DBD symptom scores and a satisfactory fit of ADHD symptom scores. The DB-DOS demonstrated good convergent validity, moderate divergent validity, and good clinical validity on a diagnostic group level for DBD and ADHD symptom scores. The Receiver Operating Characteristic curve analyses revealed that for DBD the sensitivity and specificity are moderate and for ADHD good to excellent. The presumption of a diagnosis based on information from parents, teachers, and cognitive assessment was supported by the DB-DOS in 60% for DBD and 75% for ADHD. The DB-DOS can be used to help support a presumption of a DBD and/or ADHD diagnosis in preschool children.
Family factors such as conflict, blame, and poor cohesion have been found to attenuate response to cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for pediatric obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). This study examined the feasibility and acceptability of a brief, personalized intervention for cases of pediatric OCD complicated by these family features. Twenty youth with a primary Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed.) diagnosis of OCD (M age=12.50 years; 55% male; 60% Caucasian) and their families participated. To be included in the study, families were required to evidence poor functioning on measures of blame, conflict, and/or cohesion. Eligible families were randomly assigned either to standard treatment (ST) with 12 weeks of individual child CBT that included weekly parent check-ins and psychoeducation or to Positive Family Interaction Therapy (PFIT), which consisted of 12 weeks of individual child CBT plus an additional 6 sessions of family treatment aimed at shifting family dynamics. Clinical outcomes were determined by blind independent evaluators using the Clinician's Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) scale. All families completed the study. High levels of satisfaction were reported among participants in both arms of the study, despite the added burden of attending the PFIT sessions. Both mothers and fathers attended 95% of the PFIT family sessions. Families in the ST condition demonstrated a 40% response rate on the CGI-I; families in the PFIT condition demonstrated a 70% response rate. Treatment gains were maintained in both conditions at 3-month follow-up. Preliminary data suggest that PFIT is acceptable and feasible. Further testing and treatment development are needed to optimize outcomes for complicated cases of pediatric OCD.

We explored the value of a battery of socioemotional tasks for differentiating between frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients with FTLD (n = 13) or AD (n = 13) and healthy controls (n = 26) underwent a neuropsychological assessment and the socioemotional battery (an empathy questionnaire, an emotion recognition task, and theory of mind tasks). Socioemotional processes were markedly impaired in FTLD but relatively unaffected in mild AD. The computed Socioemotional Index discriminated more accurately between FTLD from AD than behavioral and executive assessments did. Furthermore, impairments in socioemotional processes were correlated with indifference to others.
Event-related brain potential paradigms for the detection of concealed information commonly involve presenting probes embedded within a series of irrelevant items. This study investigated the impact of similarity of the irrelevant items with the probe. For the task, a card was shown followed by the sequential presentation of six &quot;test&quot; cards, one of which was the same as the initial card (the probe) along with five &quot;irrelevant&quot; cards that varied in terms of similarity with the probe. Participants either identified or denied recognition of the probe. The results show that P300 amplitude is modulated by stimulus similarity and highlight the importance of the irrelevant items on deception detection rates.
The primary purpose of the current study was to examine the relationship between performance on executive tasks and white matter integrity, assessed by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in multiple sclerosis (MS). A second aim was to examine how processing speed affects the relationship between executive functioning and fractional anisotropy (FA). This relationship was examined in two executive tasks that rely heavily on processing speed: the Color-Word Interference Test and the Trail Making Test (Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System). It was hypothesized that reduced FA is related to poor performance on executive tasks in MS, but that this relationship would be affected by the statistical correction of processing speed from the executive tasks. A total of 15 healthy controls and 25 persons with MS participated. Regression analyses were used to examine the relationship between executive functioning and FA, both before and after processing speed was removed from the executive scores. Before processing speed was removed from the executive scores, reduced FA was associated with poor performance on the Color-Word Interference Test and Trail Making Test in a diffuse network including corpus callosum and superior longitudinal fasciculus. However, once processing speed was removed, the relationship between executive functions and FA was no longer significant on the Trail Making Test, and significantly reduced and more localized on the Color-Word Interference Test.
The most common cognitive impairments in multiple sclerosis (MS) have been documented in specific domains, including new learning and memory, working memory, and information processing speed. However, little attempt has been made to increase our understanding of their relationship to one another. While recent studies have shown that processing speed impacts new learning and memory abilities in MS, the role of working memory in this relationship has received less attention. The present study examines the relative contribution of impaired working memory versus processing speed in new learning and memory functions in MS. Participants consisted of 51 individuals with clinically definite MS. Participants completed two measures of processing speed, two measures of working memory, and two measures of episodic memory. Data were analyzed via correlational and multiple regression analysis. Results indicate that the variance in new learning abilities in this sample was primarily associated with processing speed, with working memory exerting much less of an influence. Results are discussed in terms of the role of cognitive rehabilitation of new learning and memory abilities in persons with MS.
The side of motor symptom predominance may influence cognitive performance in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD): PD patients with right-side motor symptom predominance typically present difficulties in tasks of language and verbal memory, whereas PD patients with left-side motor symptom predominance typically present difficulties in visuospatial tasks. The current study aimed at investigating the relationship between motor symptom lateralization and cognitive performance in PD patients without the possible confounding effect of dopaminergic drugs, which may enhance or impair cognition on the basis of assessed function and disease stage. From the initial sample of 137 consecutive newly diagnosed drug-nave (de novo) PD patients, clinical follow-ups and neurological examinations identified 108 right-handed patients with a unilateral motor presentation or a clear motor asymmetry (59 right-PD: 54.6%; 49 left-PD: 45.4%). Any cognitive difference emerged between right-PD patients and left-PD patients at this disease stage. Scores of lateralized motor impairment severity correlated with some cognitive performances: Right motor impairment correlated with a measure of set shifting (Trail Making Test B-A), and left motor impairment correlated with phonemic fluency and tasks with visuospatial material (Colored Progressive Matrices of Raven, Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Copy and Immediate Recall). Findings of the current study supported the conclusion that the side of clinical motor predominance scarcely influences cognition in the early untreated stages of PD, suggesting that cognitive differences between subgroups of lateralized PD patients probably may appear in more advanced disease stages.
International studies of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) are needed to determine the viral and host factors associated with cognitive impairment particularly as more than 80% of HIV+ subjects reside in resource-limited settings. Recent diagnostic nomenclature of HAND requires comparison of cognitive performance specifically to local normative data. To evaluate this need for local norms, we compared normative data obtained locally in Thailand to Western norms. The current study examined cognitive performance in 477 seronegative Thai participants (male = 211, female = 266) who completed a battery of tests sensitive to cognitive changes in HIV. The cohort was divided into three age brackets (20-34; 35-49; 50-65 years) and four educational levels (no education or primary education, less than secondary certificate, high-school/associates degree, bachelor's degree or greater). The Thai cohort was compared (using analysis of covariance, ANCOVA) on a number of measures to a seronegative US cohort (n=236; male = 198, female = 38) to examine cultural differences in performance. Normative data are provided with age and education stratification. The Thai and US groups performed significantly differently on all neuropsychological measures with the exception of verbal fluency. The Thai group performed better on measures of verbal learning (p &lt; .001) and memory (p &lt; .001) and measures of psychomotor speed (p &lt; .001). Education was a more powerful predictor of performance in the Thai cohort than in the US group. These results highlight the continued need for the development of normative data within local populations. The use of Western norms as a comparison group could lead to inaccurate identification of HAND in culturally distinct groups.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is a rare, probably immune-mediated chronic disorder characterized by asymmetric distal limb weakness and conduction block. The exact pathogenesis of MMN is still unclear, but IgM anti-GM1 antibodies, which can be detected in sera from approximately half of all MMN patients, are thought to play an important role. Treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is effective in the vast majority of patients, but, despite IVIG maintenance treatment, many patients experience a slowly progressive decline in muscle strength. In this review we will summarize the results from studies on pathogenesis. We will discuss current treatment strategies of MMN and how insight into MMN pathogenesis may translate into novel therapies in the future.
A steering committee of the Asian Australasian Society of Neurological Surgeons (AASNS) first met on 17 October, 1961, and between 29 and 31 October 1964, the First Congress was held in Canberra, Australia. A Constitution was accepted and Sir Ian (Douglas) Miller was elected as the first President. The Society was established &quot;to facilitate personal association of neurosurgeons in the region&quot; and to develop training programs and neurosurgical services. The progress of the Society meetings is best tracked through the four-yearly scientific meetings, of which 13 have now been held. The AASNS is now a continental body within the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies (WFNS), established in Geneva, Switzerland. Two special milestones have included the establishment of the Journal of Clinical Neuroscience in 1993 and the launching of the Asian Australasian Travelling Fellowship in 1987. The current President of the AASNS is Professor Andrew H. Kaye from Melbourne, Australia, and the President-elect of the WFNS is Professor Yong-Kwang Tu from Taipei, Taiwan.
Approximately one-third of people with epilepsy receive insufficient benefit from currently available anticonvulsant medication, and some evidence suggests that this may be due to a lack of effective penetration into brain parenchyma. The current study investigated the ability of biodegradable polymer implants loaded with levetiracetam to ameliorate seizures following implantation above the motor cortex in the tetanus toxin model of temporal lobe epilepsy in rats. The implants led to significantly shorter seizures and a trend towards fewer seizures for up to 1 week. The results of this study indicate that drug-eluting polymer implants represent a promising evolving treatment option for intractable epilepsy. Future research is warranted to investigate issues of device longevity and implantation site.
Lamotrigine has been demonstrated to be effective as both an antiepileptic drug and a mood stabiliser. For epilepsy it is less efficacious than valproate in primary generalised epilepsy, but it is comparable to some traditional drugs in partial epilepsy. In psychiatry it has significant advantages over other mood stabilisers for the treatment and prevention of depressive phases of bipolar illness, but not for the treatment of mania. It has a more benign adverse effect profile than older antiepileptic agents and is not a proven teratogen. Risk of adverse reactions is reduced by commencing treatment at a markedly reduced dose that is gradually increased.


This study examined the cortical representation of vibrotactile detection in humans using event-related fMRI paired with psychophysics. Suprathreshold vibrotactile stimulation activated several areas, including primary (SI) and second somatosensory cortices (SII/PV). For threshold-level stimuli, poststimulus activity in contralateral and ipsilateral SII/PV was the best correlate of detection success. In these areas, evoked signals on hit trials were significantly greater than on missed trials in all participants, and the relative activity level across stimulation amplitudes matched perceptual performance. Activity in the anterior insula and superior temporal gyrus also correlated with hits and misses, suggesting that a &quot;ventral stream&quot; of somatosensory representations may play a crucial role in detection. In contrast, poststimulus activity in Area SI was not well correlated with perception and showed an overall negative response profile for threshold-level stimulation. A different correlate of detection success was, however, observed in SI. Activity in this representation immediately before stimulus onset predicted performance, a finding that was unique to SI. These findings emphasize the potential role of SII/PV in detection, the importance of state dynamics in SI for perception, and the possibility that changes in the temporal and spatial pattern of SI activity may be essential to the optimal representation of threshold-level stimuli for detection.
In the long history of the study of the nervous system, there have been a number of major developments that involved radical and permanent changes in fundamental beliefs and assumptions about the nervous system and in tactics and strategies for studying it. These may be termed Revolutions in Neuroscience. This essay considers eight of these, ranging from the 6th century BCE to the end of the 20th century.
Neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) show a remarkable diversity in their responses to sound, but it has been difficult to relate these responses to their morphology. Large cells, which are found in all subdivisions of the IC, may form an exception. We found that large neurons of the mouse dorsal cortex of the IC were GABAergic and were contacted by vesicular glutamate transporter 2-containing somatic terminals, as previously observed for the rat IC. Large cells, which were targeted under two-photon guidance, typically had a low input resistance in comparison with the other cells in the dorsal cortex of the IC. Large cells received short-latency excitatory inputs and had short first-spike latencies. These excitatory inputs were often followed by long-latency inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In four cells, it was possible to reconstruct the ascending axon following labeling with biocytin. We found evidence that they projected to both the ventral and the dorsal divisions of the medial geniculate body of the thalamus, but they also branched off large collaterals while passing through the brachium of the IC. Our data indicate that, owing to their somatic glutamatergic inputs, large GABAergic tectothalamic projection neurons can generate short-latency, well-timed, feed-forward inhibition, which affects not only the thalamus, but also other ascending nuclei. Their remarkably homogeneous properties, which generally differed from those of the other cells in the dorsal cortex of the IC, suggest that large neurons form a distinct subclass within the dorsal cortex of the IC.
We have characterized, by intracellular recording and staining, a unique type of centrifugal neuron in the brain olfactory center of two heliothine moth species; one in Heliothis virescens and one in Helicoverpa armigera. This unilateral neuron, which is not previously described in any moth, has fine processes in the dorsomedial region of the protocerebrum and extensive neuronal branches with blebby terminals in all glomeruli of the antennal lobe. Its soma is located dorsally of the central body close to the brain midline. Mass-fills of antennal-lobe connections with protocerebral regions showed that the centrifugal neuron is, in each brain hemisphere, one within a small group of neurons having their somata clustered. In both species the neuron was excited during application of non-odorant airborne signals, including transient sound pulses of broad bandwidth and air velocity changes. Additional responses to odors were recorded from the neuron in Heliothis virescens. The putative biological significance of the centrifugal antennal-lobe neuron is discussed with regard to its morphological and physiological properties. In particular, a possible role in multisensory processes underlying the moth's ability to adapt its odor-guided behaviors according to the sound of an echo-locating bat is considered.

Acquired cerebellar tonsillar herniation and syringomyelia associated with posterior fossa mass lesions is an exception rather than the rule. In the present article, we describe the neuroimaging findings in a case of 28-year-old female patient presented with a history of paraesthesia involving right upper limb of 8-month duration. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a giant retrocerebellar arachnoid causing tonsillar herniation with cervical syringomyelia. The findings in the present case supports that the one of the primary mechanism for the development of syringomyelia may be the obstruction to the flow of cerebrospinal fluid causing alterations in the passage of extracellular fluid in the spinal cord and leading to syringomyelia.
The authors report an unusual case involving a 70 year old man who came with severe low back pain radiating to both legs, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lumbosacral spine reveled nodular spinal intradural lesions involving Cauda equina for which he was operated. Histopathological examination of the operative specimen revealed large granulomas with multinucleate giant cells lining zones of necrosis and within the granuloma numerous septate branching hyphae of Apsergillus spp highlighted by Gomori methenamine silver stains which was suggestive of aspergillosis. There is no reported case of Cauda equina aspergilloma in an apparently immunocompetent person before this.


The frequency-lag hypothesis proposes that bilinguals have slowed lexical retrieval relative to monolinguals and in their nondominant language relative to their dominant language, particularly for low-frequency words. These effects arise because bilinguals divide their language use between 2 languages and use their nondominant language less frequently. We conducted a picture-naming study with hearing American Sign Language (ASL)-English bilinguals (bimodal bilinguals), deaf signers, and English-speaking monolinguals. As predicted by the frequency-lag hypothesis, bimodal bilinguals were slower, less accurate, and exhibited a larger frequency effect when naming pictures in ASL as compared with English (their dominant language) and as compared with deaf signers. For English there was no difference in naming latencies, error rates, or frequency effects for bimodal bilinguals as compared with monolinguals. Neither age of ASL acquisition nor interpreting experience affected the results; picture-naming accuracy and frequency effects were equivalent for deaf signers and English monolinguals. Larger frequency effects in ASL relative to English for bimodal bilinguals suggests that they are affected by a frequency lag in ASL. The absence of a lag for English could reflect the use of mouthing and/or code-blending, which may shield bimodal bilinguals from the lexical slowing observed for spoken language bilinguals in the dominant language.

Psychological models of temporal discounting have now successfully displaced classical economic theory due to the simple fact that many common behavior patterns, such as impulsivity, were unexplainable with classic models. However, the now dominant hyperbolic model of discounting is itself becoming increasingly strained. Numerous factors have arisen that alter discount rates with no means to incorporate the different influences into standard hyperbolic models. Furthermore, disparate literatures are emerging that propose theoretical constructs that are seemingly independent of hyperbolic discounting. We argue that, although hyperbolic discounting provides an eminently useful quantitative measure of discounting, it fails as a descriptive psychological model of the cognitive processes that produce intertemporal preferences. Instead, we propose that recent contributions from cognitive neuroscience indicate a path for developing a general model of time discounting. New data suggest a means by which neuroscience-based theory may both integrate the diverse empirical data on time preferences and merge seemingly disparate theoretical models that impinge on time preferences.
For millions of years, parasites have altered the behaviour of their hosts. Parasites can affect host behaviour by: (1) interfering with the host's normal immune-neural communication, (2) secreting substances that directly alter neuronal activity via non-genomic mechanisms and (3) inducing genomic- and/or proteomic-based changes in the brain of the host. Changes in host behaviour are often restricted to particular behaviours, with many other behaviours remaining unaffected. Neuroscientists can produce this degree of selectivity by targeting specific brain areas. Parasites, however, do not selectively attack discrete brain areas. Parasites typically induce a variety of effects in several parts of the brain. Parasitic manipulation of host behaviour evolved within the context of the manipulation of other host physiological systems (especially the immune system) that was required for a parasite's survival. This starting point, coupled with the fortuitous nature of evolutionary innovation and evolutionary pressures to minimize the costs of parasitic manipulation, likely contributed to the complex and indirect nature of the mechanisms involved in host behavioural control. Because parasites and neuroscientists use different tactics to control behaviour, studying the methods used by parasites can provide novel insights into how nervous systems generate and regulate behaviour. Studying how parasites influence host behaviour will also help us integrate genomic, proteomic and neurophysiological perspectives on behaviour.
Strong interest exists in developing a rodent model of visual cognition to conduct research into the neural mechanisms of visual categorization. Yet, doubt remains as to whether rats perform visual categorization tasks as do humans and nonhuman primates. Here, we trained eight rats on two visual categorization tasks using photographs of eight objects from each of four basic-level categories: chairs, flowers, cars, and humans. In Experiment 1, rats learned to categorize chairs versus flowers; in Experiment 2, rats learned to categorize cars versus humans. After rats learned each discrimination, we tested them with eight novel pictures from each of the categories. The rats performed at reliably above-chance levels during these generalization tests. To determine which dimension(s) of the stimuli controlled the rats' behavior, we conducted regression analyses using several image dimensions. The chair versus flower discrimination was mainly controlled by the convexity of the stimuli, whereas the car versus human discrimination was mainly controlled by the aspect ratio of the stimuli. These results demonstrate that rats can categorize complex visual objects using shape-based properties of photographs.
In two experiments we investigated the role of hierarchical S-(R-O) associations, as opposed to associative alternatives, in solving biconditional discrimination problems in rats. Using lesions of posterior dorsomedial striatum known to attenuate R-O associative learning, and lesions of the dorsolateral striatum that attenuate S-R learning, we found that whereas the lesions affecting R-O learning abolished biconditional discrimination, lesions of dorsolateral striatum did not (Experiment 1). Furthermore, in Experiment 2, we found, using a more challenging discrimination protocol, that dorsolateral striatal lesions actually enhanced biconditional discrimination learning. These results provide evidence that hierarchical S-(R-O) associations influence instrumental discrimination learning and compete with S-R associations for control of performance.
Individuals experience less interference from conflicting information following events that contain conflicting information. Recently, Jimnez, Lupiez, and Vaquero (2009) demonstrated that such adaptations to conflict occur even when the source of conflict arises from implicit knowledge of sequences. There is accumulating evidence that momentary changes in adaptations made in response to conflicting information are conflict-type specific (e.g., Funes, Lupiez, &amp; Humphreys, 2010a), suggesting that there are multiple modes of control. The current study examined whether conflict-specific sequential congruency effects occur when the 2 sources of conflict are implicitly learned. Participants implicitly learned a motor sequence while simultaneously learning a perceptual sequence. In a first experiment, after learning the 2 orthogonal sequences, participants expressed knowledge of the 2 sequences independently of each other in a transfer phase. In Experiments 2 and 3, within each sequence, the presence of a single control trial disrupted the expression of this specific type of learning on the following trial. There was no evidence of cross-conflict modulations in the expression of sequence learning. The results suggest that the mechanisms involved in transient shifts in conflict-specific control, as reflected in sequential congruency effects, are also engaged when the source of conflict is implicit.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are the collective term for the various vesicles that are released by cells into the extracellular space. Such vesicles include exosomes and microvesicles, which vary by their size and/or protein and genetic cargo. With the discovery that EVs contain genetic material in the form of RNA (evRNA) has come the increased interest in these vesicles for their potential use as sources of disease biomarkers and potential therapeutic agents. Rapid developments in the availability of deep sequencing technologies have enabled the study of EV-related RNA in detail. In October 2012, the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles (ISEV) held a workshop on &quot;evRNA analysis and bioinformatics.&quot; Here, we report the conclusions of one of the roundtable discussions where we discussed evRNA analysis technologies and provide some guidelines to researchers in the field to consider when performing such analysis.

Vibration of the stereociliary bundles activates calcium-permeable mechanotransducer (MT) channels to initiate sound detection in cochlear hair cells. Different regions of the cochlea respond preferentially to different acoustic frequencies, with variation in the unitary conductance of the MT channels contributing to this tonotopic organization. Although the molecular identity of the MT channel remains uncertain, two members of the transmembrane channel-like family, Tmc1 and Tmc2, are crucial to hair cell mechanotransduction. We measured MT channel current amplitude and Ca(2+) permeability along the cochlea's longitudinal (tonotopic) axis during postnatal development of wild-type mice and mice lacking Tmc1 (Tmc1-/-) or Tmc2 (Tmc2-/-). In wild-type mice older than postnatal day (P) 4, MT current amplitude increased ~1.5-fold from cochlear apex to base in outer hair cells (OHCs) but showed little change in inner hair cells (IHCs), a pattern apparent in mutant mice during the first postnatal week. After P7, the OHC MT current in Tmc1-/- (dn) mice declined to zero, consistent with their deafness phenotype. In wild-type mice before P6, the relative Ca(2+) permeability, P(Ca), of the OHC MT channel decreased from cochlear apex to base. This gradient in P(Ca) was not apparent in IHCs and disappeared after P7 in OHCs. In Tmc1-/- mice, P(Ca) in basal OHCs was larger than that in wild-type mice (to equal that of apical OHCs), whereas in Tmc2-/-, P(Ca) in apical and basal OHCs and IHCs was decreased compared with that in wild-type mice. We postulate that differences in Ca(2+) permeability reflect different subunit compositions of the MT channel determined by expression of Tmc1 and Tmc2, with the latter conferring higher P(Ca) in IHCs and immature apical OHCs. Changes in P(Ca) with maturation are consistent with a developmental decrease in abundance of Tmc2 in OHCs but not in IHCs.


Swine flu (H1N1) reached pandemic proportions in 2009, yet ambivalence was met concerning intentions to be vaccinated. The present investigation determined predictors of perceived H1N1 contraction risk and vaccination intentions among Canadian adults (N = 1,027) responding to an online questionnaire. The relatively low rate of vaccination intent (30.12%, and 34.99% being unsure of their intent) was related to a sense of invulnerability regarding illness contraction and symptom severity. Most individuals were skeptical that H1N1 would be widespread, believing that less than 10% of the population would contract H1N1. Yet, they also indicated that their attitudes would change once a single person they knew contracted the illness. Also, worry regarding H1N1 was related to self-contraction risk and odds of individuals seeking vaccination. Moreover, vaccination intent was related to the perception that the threat was not particularly great, mistrust of the media to provide accurate information regarding H1N1, and whether individuals endorsed problem-focused versus avoidant coping strategies. Given the role media plays in public perceptions related to a health crisis, trust in this outlet and credibility regarding the threat are necessary for adherence to recommended measures to minimize health risk.




The interdisciplinary trend in &quot;Mind, Brain, and Education&quot; has witnessed dynamic international growth in recent years. Yet, it remains little known that the National University of La Plata in Argentina probably holds the historical precedent as the world's first institution of higher education that formally included neurobiology in the curriculum of an educational department, having done so as early as 1922. The responsibility of teaching neurobiology to educators was assigned to Professor Christofredo Jakob (1866-1956). In the present article, we highlight Jakob's emphasis on interdisciplinarity and, in particular, on the neuroscientific foundations of education, including special education.
Neurosurgeon Wilder Penfield played a singularly important role in expanding our knowledge of functional neuroanatomy and neurophysiology in the twentieth century. Trained under Charles Sherrington, William Osler, and Otfrid Foerster, Penfield was an early leader in efforts to map the cerebral cortex via direct electrical stimulation of the brain. In 1937, Penfield introduced an entirely new concept for illustrating the relative sizes and locations of discrete functional regions within the sensorimotor cortex--the homunculus-to exemplify the &quot;order and comparative extent&quot; of specific functional regions. Over the subsequent two decades, Penfield and colleagues introduced several more &quot;little men&quot; to portray the functional maps of other important brain structures (i.e., supplementary motor area, insular cortex, thalamus). These later homunculi were more crudely drawn, and Penfield referred to them as essentially heuristic devices. The actual intent in producing these homunculi remains uncertain, and despite the extraordinary impact of these artistic renderings on the field, the question is raised as to whether the allure of the artwork seemed to wrest control from-and then to guide-the dissemination of science, rather than the other way around.
Hebb and Vygotsky are two of the most influential figures of psychology in the first half of the twentieth century. They represent cultural and biological approaches to explaining human development, and thus a number of their ideas remain relevant to current psychology and cognitive neuroscience. In this article, we examine similarities and differences between these two important figures, exploring possibilities for a theoretical synthesis between their two literatures, which have had little contact with each other. To pursue these goals, the following topics are discussed: (a) Hebb and Vygotsky's lives and training; (b) their innovations in theory building relating to an &quot;objective psychology&quot; and objective science of mind; (c) their developmental approach; (d) their treatment of mediation and neuropsychology; and (e) their current relevance and possible integration of their views. We argue that considering the two together improves prospects for a more complete and integrated approach to mind and brain in society.



Elisabeth Winterhalter was a German neuroanatomist, physician, feminist, and promoter of the arts. After earning her medical degree and completing postgraduate work in surgery and gynecology she was denied the opportunity to take the medical licensing exam in her native Germany. In 1896, while working part time in Frankfurt as an assistant to two physicians, she used Golgi staining to identify neurons in human ovaries. Others, including one of the period's leading researchers of reproductive biology, were unable to find &quot;Winterhalter's ganglia&quot; in their preparations and concluded that Winterhalter had observed non-neuronal cells. Almost a century later, researchers using histochemical techniques rediscovered autonomic neurons in primate ovaries, vindicating Winterhalter and supporting parts of her &quot;nervous influence theory&quot; of ovarian function.
There are some arguments that Friedrich Nietzsche suffered from the autosomal dominant vascular microangiopathy: Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). Here, a hypothesis is formulated supporting that CADASIL presenting with symptoms of bipolar disorder and Gastaut-Geschwind syndrome would contribute to the increased insight and creativity of a philosopher whose perceptions and intuitions often bear out the results of modern neuroscience. Alterations of the brain default and reward networks would account for such an increased level of introspection and creativity. A new framework on approaching illness is proposed, which, in conformity with Nietzsche's positive view, outlines the enabling aspects of some otherwise highly disabling neuropsychiatric disorders.
Dr. Haakon Sthre was a leader of Norwegian neurology and psychiatry. He was resourceful, compassionate and had immense pride in his independent homeland. He described Sthre-Chotzen syndrome (acrocephalosyndactyly type III). When Nazi Germany occupied Norway during World War II, Sthre fearlessly and actively resisted, from revoking his medical association membership, to hiding persecuted Jews as patients in his psychiatric ward and aiding in their escape to Sweden, to managing the largest &quot;illegal&quot; food warehouse in Oslo with Danish humanitarian aid. As a prominent and noticeable citizen, he was arrested and executed by the Nazis in reprisal for the resistance's assassination of a hated Norwegian Nazi. His legacy lives on in Norway, where he was honored by a scholarship fund, a portrait and multiple plaques at Ullevl Hospital, and a street and memorial statue in his hometown. He was a hero and should be remembered by all who practice neurology.
During the 1790s, Alexander von Humboldt (1769-1859), who showed an early interest in many facets of natural philosophy and natural history, delved into the controversial subject of galvanism and animal electricity, hoping to shed light on the basic nature of the nerve force. He was motivated by his broad worldview, the experiments of Luigi Galvani, who favored animal electricity in more than a few specialized fishes, and the thinking of Alessandro Volta, who accepted specialized fish electricity but was not willing to generalize to other animals, thinking Galvani's frog experiments flawed by his use of metals. Differing from many German Naturphilosophen, who shunned &quot;violent&quot; experiments, the newest instruments, and detailed measurement, Humboldt conducted thousands of galvanic experiments on animals and animal parts, as well as many on his own body, some of which caused him great pain. He interpreted his results as supporting some but not all of the claims made by both Galvani and Volta. Notably, because of certain negative findings and phenomenological differences, he remained skeptical about the intrinsic animal force being qualitatively identical to true electricity. Hence, he referred to a &quot;galvanic force,&quot; not animal electricity, in his letters and publications, a theoretical position he would abandon with Volta's help early in the new century.
After extensive experimentation during the 1790s, Alexander von Humboldt remained skeptical about &quot;animal electricity&quot; (and metallic electricity), writing instead about an ill-defined galvanic force. With his worldview and wishing to learn more, he studied electric eels in South America just as the new century began, again using his body as a scientific instrument in many of his experiments. As had been the case in the past and for many of the same reasons, some of his findings with the electric eel (and soon after, Italian torpedoes) seemed to argue against biological electricity. But he no longer used galvanic terminology when describing his electric fish experiments. The fact that he now wrote about animal electricity rather than a different &quot;galvanic&quot; force owed much to Alessandro Volta, who had come forth with his &quot;pile&quot; (battery) for multipling the physical and perceptable effects of otherwise weak electricity in 1800, while Humboldt was deep in South America. Humboldt probably read about and saw voltaic batteries in the United States in 1804, but the time he spent with Volta in 1805 was probably more significant in his conversion from a galvanic to an electrical framework for understanding nerve and muscle physiology. Although he did not continue his animal electricity research program after this time, Humboldt retained his worldview of a unified nature and continued to believe in intrinsic animal electricity. He also served as a patron to some of the most important figures in the new field of electrophysiology (e.g., Hermann Helmholtz and Emil du Bois-Reymond), helping to take the research that he had participated in to the next level.

Myths are not uncommon in the history of neuroscience and their tenacity even when faced with suitable correctives is impressive. The possible origins and transmission of one such myth is examined: the oft repeated quotation, attributed to Luigi Galvani, that he was the &quot;frog's dancing master.&quot; The statement does not occur in Galvani's writing and appears to have accrued features in the early nineteenth century, largely from French writers. In the 1870s, the quotation was used by William Crookes, the discoverer of thallium and inventor of Crookes' tube, in implicit support of his investigations into spiritualist phenomena. Crookes arranged sances with the psychic Daniel Dunglas Home and, being unable to explain them, introduced the concept of psychic force. A related myth concerns Galvani's accidental discovery of the neuromuscular action of electricity in the course of preparing a beneficial broth for his ailing wife. The two myths became entwined in the tangled web woven by commentators of Galvani's work. The myth-information is magnified by the World Wide Web.
The 1975 publication of Seeman et al. (Proc Nat Acad Sci, USA), reporting the discovery of the antipsychotic receptor in the brain, is a classic example of translational medicine research. In searching for a pathophysiological mechanism of psychosis, the team sought to identify sites that bound the antipsychotic drug haloperidol. Their criterion was that haloperidol bound to the site at one to two nanomoles per liter, corresponding to haloperidol concentrations found in spinal fluid or plasma water in treated patients. They requested de novo synthesis of tritiated haloperidol, and it readily detected specific haloperidol binding sites in brain striatum. With dopamine binding the haloperidol-labeled sites with higher potency than other neurotransmitters, the sites were named antipsychotic/dopamine receptors (now designated dopamine D2 receptors). Most significantly, they found that all antipsychotics bound these sites at concentrations and with a rank order of potencies that were directly related to the mean daily antipsychotic dose taken by patients with schizophrenia. Their findings enabled screening for new antipsychotics, initiated D2 receptor measurements in brain of living patients, and determination of minimum occupancy (65%) of D2 receptors for antipsychotic benefit. The collective work is generally viewed as providing a fundamental basis for the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia.
As of spring 2011, 150 years have passed since the death of one of the most famous neurological patients of the nineteenth century. A Frenchman, &quot;Monsieur Leborgne&quot; also known by the nickname &quot;Tan,&quot; was hospitalized due to an almost complete loss of speech. His case was presented in 1861, during a seating of the Socit d'Anthropologie de Paris by a physician, Pierre Paul Broca (1824-1880), who used this occasion to report that he had discovered, in the middle part of patient's left frontal lobe, the cortical speech center. This area was later named &quot;Broca's area.&quot; Both the patient and his medical records were the subject of numerous descriptions and citations in the medical literature. The patient's full identity and social background has remained a mystery until now. This article presents biographical data concerning Leborgne and his family based on archive registers in France.
Aristotle is well known to have taught that the brain was a mere coolant apparatus for overheated blood and to have located the hegemonikon in the heart. This teaching was hotly disputed by his immediate successors in the Alexandrian Museum, who showed that the brain played the central role in psychophysiology. This was accepted and developed by the last great biomedical figure of classical antiquity - Claudius Galen. However, Aristotle's cardiocentric theory did not entirely disappear and this article traces its influence through the Arabic physicians of the Islamic ascendancy, into the European Middle Ages where Albertus Magnus' attempt to reconcile cardiocentric and cerebrocentric physiology was particularly influential. It shows how cardiocentricity was sufficiently accepted to attract the attention of, and require refutation by, many of the great names of the Renaissance, including Vesalius, Fernel, and Descartes, and was still taken seriously by luminaries such as William Harvey in the mid-seventeenth century. The article, in rehearsing this history, shows the difficulty of separating the first-person perspective of introspective psychology and the third-person perspective of natural science. It also outlines an interesting case of conflict between philosophy and physiology.

Riley Day syndrome, commonly referred to as familial dysautonomia (FD), is a genetic disease with extremely labile blood pressure owing to baroreflex deafferenation. Chronic renal disease is very frequent in these patients and was attributed to recurrent arterial hypotension and renal hypoperfusion. Aggressive treatment of hypotension, however, has not reduced its prevalence. We evaluated the frequency of kidney malformations as well as the impact of hypertension, hypotension and blood pressure variability on the severity of renal impairment. We also investigated the effect of fludrocortisone treatment on the progression of renal disease. Patients with FD appeared to have an increased incidence of hydronephrosis/reflux and patterning defects. Patients &lt;4 years old had hypertension and normal estimated glomerular filtration rates (eGFR). Patients with more severe hypertension and greater variability in their blood pressure had worse renal function (both, P&lt;0.01). In contrast, there was no relationship between eGFR and the lowest blood pressure recorded during upright tilt. The progression of renal disease was faster in patients receiving fludrocortisone (P&lt;0.02). Hypertension precedes kidney disease in these patients. Moreover, increased blood pressure variability as well as mineralocorticoid treatment accelerate the progression of renal disease. No association was found between hypotension and renal disease in patients with FD.
Tuberculous meningitis is a central nervous system tuberculosis caused by M. tuberculosis. It causes high mortality if delayed in diagnosis and treatment. In this comparative study, Cerebrospinal fluid from TBM and non TBM patients were analyzed by ELISA and Dot-blot for anti-tuberculous antibodies. About 70% of the TBM samples showed positivity by Dot-blot and 72.5% by ELISA. Among the non TBM controls, 2.9% showed positivity by Dot-blot and 4.4% by ELISA. Both methods did not differ significantly as seen by Fisher's exact test (p = 0.50). Thus, Dot-blot could be an easy alternative to ELISA for quick diagnosis of TBM.
Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family receptors and the specific adapter signaling lymphocytic activation molecule-associated protein modulate the development of innate-like lymphocytes. In this study, we show that the thymus of Ly9-deficient mice contains an expanded population of CD8 single-positive cells with the characteristic phenotype of innate memory-like CD8(+) T cells. Moreover, the proportion of these innate CD8(+) T cells increased dramatically postinfection with mouse CMV. Gene expression profiling of Ly9-deficient mice thymi showed a significant upregulation of IL-4 and promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger. Analyses of Ly9(-/-)IL4ra(-/-) double-deficient mice revealed that IL-4 was needed to generate the thymic innate CD8(+) T cell subset. Furthermore, increased numbers of invariant NKT cells were detected in Ly9-deficient thymi. In wild-type mice, IL-4 levels induced by -galactosylceramide injection could be inhibited by a mAb against Ly9. Thus, Ly9 plays a unique role as an inhibitory cell surface receptor regulating the size of the thymic innate CD8(+) T cell pool and the development of invariant NKT cells.
Disorders of coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) biosynthesis represent the most treatable subgroup of mitochondrial diseases. Neurological involvement is frequently observed in CoQ(10) deficiency, typically presenting as cerebellar ataxia and/or seizures. The aetiology of the neurological presentation of CoQ(10) deficiency has yet to be fully elucidated and therefore in order to investigate these phenomena we have established a neuronal cell model of CoQ(10) deficiency by treatment of neuronal SH-SY5Y cell line with para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA). PABA is a competitive inhibitor of the CoQ(10) biosynthetic pathway enzyme, COQ2. PABA treatment (1 mM) resulted in a 54 % decrease (46 % residual CoQ(10)) decrease in neuronal CoQ(10) status (p &lt; 0.01). Reduction of neuronal CoQ(10) status was accompanied by a progressive decrease in mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme activities, with a 67.5 % decrease in cellular ATP production at 46 % residual CoQ(10). Mitochondrial oxidative stress increased four-fold at 77 % and 46 % residual CoQ(10). A 40 % increase in mitochondrial membrane potential was detected at 46 % residual CoQ(10) with depolarisation following oligomycin treatment suggesting a reversal of complex V activity. This neuronal cell model provides insights into the effects of CoQ(10) deficiency on neuronal mitochondrial function and oxidative stress, and will be an important tool to evaluate candidate therapies for neurological conditions associated with CoQ(10) deficiency.
Facial emotion expresses feelings, but is also a vehicle for social communication. Using five basic emotions (happiness, sadness, fear, disgust, and anger) in a comprehension paradigm, we studied how facial expression reflects inner feelings (emotional expression) but may be socially modulated to communicate a different emotion from the inner feeling (emotive communication, a form of affective theory of mind). Participants were 8- to 12-year-old children with TBI (n = 78) and peers with orthopedic injuries (n = 56). Children with mild-moderate or severe TBI performed more poorly than the OI group, and chose less cognitively sophisticated strategies for emotive communication. Compared to the OI and mild-moderate TBI groups, children with severe TBI had more deficits in anger, fear, and sadness; neutralized emotions less often; produced socially inappropriate responses; and failed to differentiate the core emotional dimension of arousal. Children with TBI have difficulty understanding the dual role of facial emotions in expressing feelings and communicating socially relevant but deceptive emotions, and these difficulties likely contribute to their social problems.
Williams syndrome (WS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe visuospatial deficits, particularly affecting spatial navigation and wayfinding. Creating egocentric (viewer-dependent) and allocentric (viewer-independent) representations of space is essential for the development of these abilities. However, it remains unclear whether egocentric and allocentric representations are impaired in WS. In this study, we investigate egocentric and allocentric frames of reference in this disorder. A WS group (n = 18), as well as a chronological age-matched control group (n = 20), a non-verbal mental age-matched control group (n = 20) and a control group with intellectual disability (n = 17), was tested with a computerized and a 3D spatial judgment task. The results showed that WS participants are impaired when performing both egocentric and allocentric spatial judgments even when compared with mental age-matched control participants. This indicates that a substantial deficit affecting both spatial representations is present in WS. The egocentric impairment is in line with the dorsal visual pathway deficit previously reported in WS. Interestingly, the difficulties found in performing allocentric spatial judgments give important cues to better understand the ventral visual functioning in WS.
The present study analyzed the awareness of deficits in 117 mild Alzheimer's disease participants. Since few studies have examined the cognitive and behavioral domains of reduced awareness in detail, we performed a domain-specific assessment using the Awareness of deficit Questionnaire - Dementia scale with the novel aim of describing the relationship with everyday executive dysfunction. Through the use of the subtests of the Behavioral Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome, we hypothesized that executive cognitive functions may play an important role in the reduced awareness of deficits. We also considered other variables of interest to provide a novel comprehensive explanation of this phenomenon. Our first approach to the study was a factor analysis considering the role of these variables in the awareness of deficits; subsequently, regression analysis models were used to define which variables were associated with a reduction of awareness in cognitive and behavioral domains. In particular, the factors retained from the factor analysis, in terms of inhibition, self-monitoring, set-shifting, and mood orientation changes, appear to be important skills for awareness of instrumental activities of daily living (R(2) = .32). We also found hypo manic mood orientation and a tendency through apathy to be prominent indications of reduced behavioral awareness (R(2) = .13).
Osmotic agents play a vital role in the reduction of elevated intracranial pressure and treatment of cerebral edema in Neurologic critical care. Both mannitol and hypertonic saline reduce cerebral edema in many clinical syndromes, yet there is controversy over agent selection, timing, and dosing regimens. Despite the lack of randomized, controlled trials, our knowledge base on the appropriate clinical use of osmotic agents continues to expand. This review will summarize the evidence for the use of mannitol and hypertonic saline in a variety of disease states causing cerebral edema, as well as outlining monitoring and safety considerations.





Perturbation theory is an important tool in the analysis of oscillators and their response to external stimuli. It is predicated on the assumption that the perturbations in question are sufficiently weak, an assumption that is not always valid when perturbative methods are applied. In this paper, we identify a number of concrete dynamical scenarios in which a standard perturbative technique, based on the infinitesimal phase response curve (PRC), is shown to give different predictions than the full model. Shear-induced chaos, i.e., chaotic behavior that results from the amplification of small perturbations by underlying shear, is missed entirely by the PRC. We show also that the presence of sticky phasespace structures tend to cause perturbative techniques to overestimate the frequencies and regularity of the oscillations. The phenomena we describe can all be observed in a simple 2D neuron model, which we choose for illustration as the PRC is widely used in mathematical neuroscience.


The inflammatory response is an immune response of the body when exposed to internal and external stimuli. Cyclooxygenases (COX) are major inflammatory mediators implicated in inflammation. COX-2 is reported to be involved in neuroinflammation. Moreover, 15-Deoxy-D (12,14)-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), an endogenous ligand of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-), has been demonstrated to have anti-inflammatory actions. In this study, we investigated whether co-therapy of a selective COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 and 15d-PGJ2 as a PPAR- ligand could exert additional neuroprotective effects in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Our findings showed that 15d-PGJ2 and NS-398 suppress the apoptotic pathway in PC12 cells exposed to H(2)O(2) by attenuation of the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. This effect was mediated through PPAR-, as it was reversed by GW9662 (a PPAR- inhibitor). Also, 15d-PGJ2 and NS-398 induced the Nrf2 signaling pathway and decreased NF-B level in a PPAR--dependent manner. We found that coadministration of a selective COX-2 inhibitor and a PPAR- ligand in PC12 cells has equal neuroprotective effect compared to their effects when used separately. Considering the higher affinity of 15d-PGJ2 for PPAR- than NS-398, it seems that the observed neuroprotection of this combination therapy was from 15d-PGJ2.
Synaptic plasticity in many regions of the central nervous system leads to the continuous adjustment of synaptic strength, which is essential for learning and memory. In this study, we show by visualizing synaptic vesicle release in mouse hippocampal synaptosomes that presynaptic mitochondria and, specifically, their capacities for ATP production are essential determinants of synaptic vesicle exocytosis and its magnitude. Total internal reflection microscopy of FM1-43 loaded hippocampal synaptosomes showed that inhibition of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation reduces evoked synaptic release. This reduction was accompanied by a substantial drop in synaptosomal ATP levels. However, cytosolic calcium influx was not affected. Structural characterization of stimulated hippocampal synaptosomes revealed that higher total presynaptic mitochondrial volumes were consistently associated with higher levels of exocytosis. Thus, synaptic vesicle release is linked to the presynaptic ability to regenerate ATP, which itself is a utility of mitochondrial density and activity.
, , and  adducins mediate F-actin remodeling of plasma membrane structures as heterotetramers. Here, we present two new functions of -adducin. (1) Overexpression of -adducin promoted formation of neurite-like processes in non-neuronal fibroblast COS7 cells. Conversely, overexpression of the C-terminal 38 amino acids of -adducin (Add(C38)) acting as a dominant negative inhibited formation of neurites/processes in Neuro2A cells and anterior pituitary AtT20 cells. (2) -Adducin appears to facilitate pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) exit from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) by re-organizing the actin network around the Golgi complex. Filamentous actins (F-actins) which formed puncti around the Golgi complex in control cells were dispersed in AtT20 cells stably transfected with Add(C38). Furthermore, Add(C38)-transfectants showed significant accumulation of POMC/adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) in the Golgi complex and diminished POMC/ACTH vesicles in the cell processes. The C-terminal 38 amino acids of -adducin interacted with F-actins around the Golgi complex, to facilitate F-actin-mediated budding of POMC/ACTH vesicles from the TGN. Thus, we propose that -adducin, via its interaction with F-actins, plays a critical role in actin remodeling to facilitate process/neurite outgrowth, as well as budding of POMC/ACTH vesicles from the TGN via its interaction with peri-Golgi F-actins.
Several partly overlapping diseases have Parkinsonism as a symptom and tools that may differentiate between these disorders would be helpful. The authors evaluated the discriminating properties of the objective automated posturo-locomotor-manual (PLM) L-DOPA test in regard to health, and the movement disorders Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple system atrophy (MSA), and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). A PLM test-retest procedure was performed in healthy controls (n = 37) and results were compared with PLM L-DOPA tests performed by 132 patients with Parkinsonism in intermediate to advanced stages (56 PD, 53 MSA, 23 PSP). The movement time (MT) for the standardized movement and its different components was measured. The discriminating abilities of individual, or combinations of, test variables were determined by forward stepwise multiple logistic regression and evaluated with receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Each PLM variable separated healthy persons from patients with Parkinsonism before administration of L-DOPA (area under the curve (AUC) = 0.94-0.99, p &lt; .001 for any separate variable). A combination of (MToff - MTon)/MToff and MTon had the highest ability to separate patients with PD from patients with atypical Parkinsonism (area under the curve = 0.91, p &lt; .001). The PLM test discriminates between healthy controls and patients with Parkinsonism, and between patients with Parkinson's disease and patients with atypical Parkinsonism.
Mild to moderate Parkinson's disease shows more denervation in the posterodorsal striatum and sparing of the anteroventral striatum. Dopaminergic medications can interfere with anteroventral striatum function by overdosing this relatively intact structure. The authors determined how regional striatal denervation affects medication-associated sequence learning impairment in Parkinson's disease. Eighteen Parkinson's patients performed motor sequence learning on and off levodopa. Patients underwent (11)C-dihydrotetrabenazine positron emission tomography scans to measure nigrostriatal denervation. Patients with more preserved putamen were more likely to exhibit levodopa-associated sequence learning impairments. Furthermore, the ratio of denervation in the anterior to posterior dorsal putamen predicted the level of learning differences on and off levodopa. These results demonstrate that the spatial pattern of nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation predicts medication responsiveness for motor sequence learning.
Elderly adults sway more than young adults. Based on the literature, the authors expected the mediolateral ankle postural control mechanism to be affected before age 60 years. Twelve healthy young adults (24.21  2.50 years) and 12 middle-aged adults (51.13  6.09 years) participated in the study. To challenge mediolateral stance, the conditions modified the mediolateral distance among the feet (narrow and standard distances), mandibular position (rest position, left and right laterality occlusion positions), and the occlusion with clenching (intercuspal occlusion, left and right maximal voluntary clenches). As we expected, middle-aged adults exhibited significantly reduced contribution of the ankle mechanism. It was so both in narrow and standard stances. A second objective was to show a greater contribution of the 2 mechanisms in narrow than in standard stances. The results confirmed our hypothesis. As we expected, mandibular conditions only had a significant effect on center of pressure sway. Unexpectedly, middle-aged adults did not increase their range of center of pressure sway in narrow stance. They may have overconstrained their center of pressure sway because of their ankle impairments. On the practical level, our results suggest that older adults should increase their stance width to relieve their hip and ankle control mechanisms and to stabilize their mediolateral posture.
The authors' aim was to determine the cortical mechanisms that underlie the transition from effective performance to its disruption. They thus used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to study changes of corticospinal excitability after a motor exercise that did not produce overt or perceived neuromuscular fatigue. Forty-four subjects performed either 5 or 10 min of repetitive finger movements paced by tones at 2 Hz, a frequency below the spontaneous movement rate. Changes of corticospinal excitability were assessed with TMS at rest and during motor response preparation (premovement facilitation paradigm). Over time, variability of movement rate increased, while the average movement rate shifted toward self-paced rhythms, without significant changes in other kinematic parameters. Amplitudes of motor evoked potentials at rest decreased depending on task duration and TMS intensity. Moreover, 5-min exercise induced fully compensatory increases in premovement facilitation, while 10-min exercise produced partially compensatory increases with loss of temporal modulation. Our findings suggest that protracted exercise induces significant decrements in corticospinal excitability with initial impairment of the phasic motor neurons that are recruited at higher stimulus intensities. Changes in premovement facilitation likely represent compensation of premotor areas for decreased efficiency of the primary motor cortex induced by exercise.
The authors aimed to investigate the effects of different sporting experience on nonspecific temporal preparation. They evaluated temporal preparation in tennis players (an open-skill sport) and their athletic (swimmers, a closed skill-sport) and nonathletic (sedentary students) controls using a go/no-go variable foreperiod paradigm in which one simple condition and two go/no-go conditions (central-go and mixed-go) were included, which can be used to study the temporal aspects of nonspecific preparation with decision making in inhibition with different levels of cognitive load. Tennis players responded faster than nonathletic controls while there was no significant difference relative to the athletic controls. Additionally, the main finding of the present study is that the difference in reaction time between tennis players and nonathletic controls was found selectively for short foreperiods in which temporal uncertainty is higher and less temporal preparation can occur. Moreover, correlation analysis revealed that superior temporal preparation was positively associated with enhanced go/no-go decision making in the higher difficulty condition. Our findings are consistent with tennis players showing superior temporal processing. The absence of a significant effect in athletic controls suggests that there is a specific benefit from tennis training and indicates that temporal preparation may be susceptible to modulation by fitness and appropriate training.
Considering the variety and scope of actions we perform together with others, it would seem unlikely that the entire range of joint actions can be exhaustively clarified by invoking a single mechanism. Guagnano et al. (2010) extended the field of joint actions by reporting a joint Simon effect with people carrying out separate assignments in adjacent locations, rather than with confederates collaborating to an assignment. In addition, they proposed that the space where two people act (peripersonal vs. extrapersonal) does matter in such a context. Here we comment on the inaccuracies in the theoretical, factual and methodological representation that Welsh et al. (2013) provide of Guagnano et al. (2010).
Viola betonicifolia (whole plant) has been used as a sedative and in various nervous disorders in Pakistani traditional medicines. The n-hexane extract of the whole plant of V. betonicifolia (HEVB) was investigated for neuropharmacological properties such as anxiolytic, muscle relaxant, sleep induction, antidepressant and sedative to ascertain its folk use. Anxiolytic activity was tested using the staircase test, while the muscle relaxing property of the extract was tested in various muscle relaxant paradigms, i.e. chimney test, traction test, rota rod and inclined plane. In anxiolytic and muscle relaxant tests, HEVB (0.3, 0.4 and 0.5g/kg, i.p.), diazepam (1mg/kg, i.p.) or distilled water (10ml/kg i.p.) were administered 30, 60 and 90min before performing the tests in mice. HEVB was also screened for a sleep-inducing effect. The antidepressant activity was determined by using the forced swimming test (FST), while line crossing in a special box was used for locomotor activity. HEVB showed a significant (P&lt;0.05) dose-dependent anxiolytic action in the staircase test. In muscle relaxant paradigms, a dose-dependent muscle relaxation was observed. For the phenobarbitone sleep induction test, HEVB notably (P&lt;0.05) reduced the latency time and increased the total sleeping duration. However, HEVB was devoid of any antidepressant activity, while the movements of mice were reduced significantly (P&lt;0.05) in locomotor activity. The results suggest that HEVB has anxiolytic, muscle relaxant, sleep-inducing (sedative) activity and, thus, provides pharmacological justification for the use of this plant as a sedative and for the relief of various nervous disorders.
Panic attacks have been reported by patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in response to catastrophic worry. This has not been characterized in the literature. We examined the prevalence of GAD panic attacks in an anxiety disorders clinic sample. Charts of 254 patients with DSM-IV GAD were retrospectively evaluated. The presence and type of panic attacks were examined as well as correlates including comorbidity, baseline symptom severity, demographic variables, and family history. Twenty-one percent had GAD panic attacks, 21.7% had situationally predisposed attacks, 15.6% had situationally bound attacks, and 39.4% had unexpected panic attacks. The individuals who had GAD panic attacks had higher scores on the Anxiety Sensitivity Index compared with those who also had other types of panic attacks. One in five patients with GAD reported GAD panic attacks; however, these individuals did not differ significantly on the correlates that were evaluated. These findings require replication and further evaluation.
Alcohol dependence is caused by complex interactions of multiple susceptibility genes with little effect each and environmental factors. Candidate genes influence metabolism of alcohol, such as alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase, and modulatory transmitter systems, such as the dopaminergic, serotonergic, acetylcholinergic, gamma-aminobutyric acidergic, and various neuropeptidergic systems. Dysfunctional behavioral choices, learning, and memory are involved in the etiology of alcohol dependence. Systematic promotion and maintenance of motivation is a lifetime challenge in the treatment of alcohol use disorders. The second step of treatment management is the discontinuation of alcohol consumption. Withdrawal symptoms can be treated with gamma-aminobutyric acidergic substances such as benzodiazepines. Long-term relapse prevention is another challenge. Multimodal treatment can include naltrexone, a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist, or acamprosate, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor modulator, which are first line for pharmacological treatment on the basis of recent Cochrane analyses. Due to the complexity of etiology with both psychological and neurobiological factors, future treatment management of alcoholism may include the combination of individualized disorder-specific psychotherapy and drugs acting on different neuronal pathways, on the basis of individual vulnerability. However, the question remains unsolved whether an individualized approach is feasible and how subgroups should be defined.
As a consequence of obstetric complications, neonatal hypoxia has been discussed as an environmental factor in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. However, the biological consequences of hypoxia are unclear. The neurodevelopmental hypothesis of schizophrenia suggests that the onset of abnormal brain development and neuropathology occurs perinatally, whereas symptoms of the disease appear in early adulthood. In our animal model of chronic neonatal hypoxia, we have detected behavioral alterations resembling those known from schizophrenia. Disturbances in cell proliferation possibly contribute to the pathophysiology of this disease. In the present study, we used postnatal rats to investigate cell proliferation in several brain areas following neonatal hypoxia. Rats were repeatedly exposed to hypoxia (89 % N(2), 11 % O(2)) from postnatal day (PD) 4-8. We then evaluated cell proliferation on PD 13 and 39, respectively. These investigations were performed in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), caudate-putamen (CPU), dentate gyrus, and subventricular zone. Rats exposed to hypoxia exhibited increased cell proliferation in the ACC at PD 13, normalizing at PD 39. In other brain regions, no alterations have been detected. Additionally, hypoxia-treated rats showed decreased CPU volume at PD 13. The results of the present study on the one hand support the assumption of chronic hypoxia influencing transient cell proliferation in the ACC, and on the other hand reveal normalization during ageing.
In 2000, Gorman et al. published a widely acknowledged revised version of their 1989 neuroanatomical hypothesis of panic disorder (PD). Herein, a 'fear network' was suggested to mediate fear- and anxiety-related responses: panic attacks result from a dysfunctional coordination of 'upstream' (cortical) and 'downstream' (brainstem) sensory information leading to heightened amygdala activity with subsequent behavioral, autonomic and neuroendocrine activation. Given the emergence of novel imaging methods such as fMRI and the publication of numerous neuroimaging studies regarding PD since 2000, a comprehensive literature search was performed regarding structural (CT, MRI), metabolic (PET, SPECT, MRS) and functional (fMRI, NIRS, EEG) studies on PD, which will be reviewed and critically discussed in relation to the neuroanatomical hypothesis of PD. Recent findings support structural and functional alterations in limbic and cortical structures in PD. Novel insights regarding structural volume increase or reduction, hyper- or hypoactivity, laterality and task-specificity of neural activation patterns emerged. The assumption of a generally hyperactive amygdala in PD seems to apply more to state than trait characteristics of PD, and involvement of further areas in the fear circuit, such as anterior cingulate and insula, is suggested. Furthermore, genetic risk variants have been proposed to partly drive fear network activity. Thus, the present state of knowledge generally supports limbic and cortical prefrontal involvement as originally proposed in the neuroanatomical hypothesis. Some modifications might be suggested regarding a potential extension of the fear circuit, genetic factors shaping neural network activity and neuroanatomically informed clinical subtypes of PD potentially guiding future treatment decisions.
Cue-induced heroin seeking after prolonged withdrawal is associated with neuronal activation and altered gene expression in prefrontal cortex (PFC). However, these previous studies assessed gene expression in all neurons regardless of their activity state during heroin seeking. Using Fos as a marker of neural activity, we describe distinct molecular alterations induced in activated versus non-activated neurons during cue-induced heroin seeking after prolonged withdrawal. We trained rats to self-administer heroin for 10 days (6 h/day) and assessed cue-induced heroin seeking in extinction tests after 14 or 30 days. We used fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS) to purify Fos-positive and Fos-negative neurons from PFC 90 min after extinction testing. Flow cytometry showed that Fos-immunoreactivity was increased in less than 10% of sparsely distributed PFC neurons. mRNA levels of the immediate early genes fosB, arc, egr1, and egr2, as well as npy and map2k6, were increased in Fos-positive, but not Fos-negative, neurons. In support of these findings, double-label immunohistochemistry indicated substantial coexpression of neuropeptide Y (NPY)- and Arc-immunoreactivity in Fos-positive neurons. Our data indicate that cue-induced relapse to heroin seeking after prolonged withdrawal induces unique molecular alterations within activated PFC neurons that are distinct from those observed in the surrounding majority of non-activated neurons.
Optic neuritis (ON), which is an acute inflammatory autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), often occurs in multiple sclerosis (MS). ON is an early diagnostic sign in most MS patients caused by damage to the optic nerve leading to visual dysfunction. Various features of both MS and ON can be studied following induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, in Lewis rats. Inflammation and cell death in the optic nerve, with subsequent damage to the retinal ganglion cells in the retina, are thought to correlate with visual dysfunction. Thus, characterizing the pathophysiological changes that lead to visual dysfunction in EAE animals may help develop novel targets for therapeutic intervention. We treated EAE animals with and without the calpain inhibitor calpeptin (CP). Our studies demonstrated that the Ca(2+)-activated neutral protease calpain was upregulated in the optic nerve following induction of EAE at the onset of clinical signs (OCS) of the disease, and these changes were attenuated following treatment with CP. These reductions correlated with decreases in inflammation (cytokines, iNOS, COX-2, and NF-B), and microgliosis (i.e. activated microglia). We observed that calpain inhibition reduced astrogliosis (reactive astroglia) and expression of aquaporin 4 (AQP4). The balance of Th1/Th2 cytokine production and also expression of the Th1-related CCR5 and CXCR3 chemokine receptors influence many pathological processes and play both causative and protective roles in neuron damage. Our data indicated that CP suppressed cytokine imbalances. Also, Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, production of tBid, PARP-1, expression and activities of calpain and caspases, and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation were attenuated after treatment with CP. Our results demonstrated that CP decreased demyelination [loss of myelin basic protein (MBP)] and axonal damage [increase in dephosphorylated neurofilament protein (de-NFP)], and also promoted intracellular neuroprotective pathways in optic nerve in EAE rats. Thus, these data suggest that calpain is involved in inflammatory as well as in neurodegenerative aspects of the disease and may be a promising target for treating ON in EAE and MS.
Several epidemiological and preclinical studies suggest that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX), reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can lower -amyloid (A) production and inhibit neuroinflammation. However, follow-up clinical trials, mostly using selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors, failed to show any beneficial effect in AD patients with mild to severe cognitive deficits. Recent data indicated that COX-1, classically viewed as the homeostatic isoform, is localized in microglia and is actively involved in brain injury induced by pro-inflammatory stimuli including A, lipopolysaccharide, and interleukins. We hypothesized that neuroinflammation is critical for disease progression and selective COX-1 inhibition, rather than COX-2 inhibition, can reduce neuroinflammation and AD pathology. Here, we show that treatment of 20-month-old triple transgenic AD (3  Tg-AD) mice with the COX-1 selective inhibitor SC-560 improved spatial learning and memory, and reduced amyloid deposits and tau hyperphosphorylation. SC-560 also reduced glial activation and brain expression of inflammatory markers in 3  Tg-AD mice, and switched the activated microglia phenotype promoting their phagocytic ability. The present findings are the first to demonstrate that selective COX-1 inhibition reduces neuroinflammation, neuropathology, and improves cognitive function in 3  Tg-AD mice. Thus, selective COX-1 inhibition should be further investigated as a potential therapeutic approach for AD.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its secreted form, sAPP, contribute to the development of neurons in hippocampus, a brain region critical for learning and memory. Full-length APP binds the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP), which stimulates APP endocytosis. LRP also contributes to neurite growth. Furthermore, the receptor associated protein (RAP) binds LRP in a manner that blocks APP-LRP interactions. To elucidate APP contributions to neurite growth for full-length APP and sAPP, we cultured wild type (WT) and APP knockout (KO) neurons in sAPP and/or RAP and measured neurite outgrowth at 1 day in vitro. Our data reveal that WT neurons had less axonal outgrowth including less axon branching. RAP treatment potentiated the inhibitory effects of APP. KO neurons had significantly more outgrowth and branching, especially in response to RAP, effects which were also associated with ERK2 activation. Our results affirm a major inhibitory role by full-length APP on all aspects of axonal and dendritic outgrowth, and show that RAP-LRP binding stimulated axon growth independently of APP. These findings support a major role for APP as an inhibitor of neurite growth and reveal novel signaling functions for LRP that may be disrupted by Alzheimer's pathology or therapies aimed at APP processing.
Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype affects outcomes of Alzheimer's disease and other conditions of brain damage. Using APOE knock-in mice, we have previously shown that APOE-4 Targeted Replacement (TR) mice have fewer dendritic spines and reduced branching in cortical neurons. As dendritic spines are post-synaptic sites of excitatory neurotransmission, we used APOE TR mice to examine whether APOE genotype affected the various elements of the glutamate-glutamine cycle. We found that levels of glutamine synthetase and glutamate uptake transporters were unchanged among the APOE genotypes. However, compared with APOE-3 TR mice, APOE-4 TR mice had decreased glutaminase levels (18%, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting decreased conversion of glutamine to glutamate. APOE-4 TR mice also had increased levels of the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (20%, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting that APOE genotype affects pre-synaptic terminal composition. To address whether these changes affected normal neurotransmission, we examined the production and metabolism of glutamate and glutamine at 4-5 months and 1 year. Using high-frequency (13)C/(1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, we found that APOE-4 TR mice have decreased production of glutamate and increased levels of glutamine. These factors may contribute to the increased risk of neurodegeneration associated with APOE-4, and also act as surrogate markers for Alzheimer's disease risk.


Cerebral coenurosis due to Taenia multiceps is a rare infection with no case reports from India. A 55-year-old male patient had presented with progressive symptoms of hemiparesis of 1-year duration. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of the lesion was performed that showed a septated cystic lesion in left parieto-occipital lobe. Multivoxel MRS through the lesion was performed using repetition time of 1500 ms and time to echo of 144 ms at 3T MRI. MRS showed mildly elevated choline (Cho), depressed creatine (Cr), and N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), a large peak of lactate, pyruvate, and acetate peaks. To best of our knowledge, there has been no reported case of in vivo proton MRS finding ever reported. We present MRS findings in this operatively proven case of T. multiceps cyst of the brain.

Studies investigating behavior in mice with a heterozygous null mutation of the NF1 gene (Nf1 (+/-)) have provided critical insights into the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying cognitive impairments associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Hyperactivation of the Ras-MAPK signaling cascade, which results in increased GABA-mediated inhibition and significantly reduced long-term potentiation, has been proposed as a core mechanism underlying Nf1 (+/-) mice deficits in visuospatial learning and attention. This assertion has been reinforced by preclinical trials that reveal that these impairments can be rescued both at a cognitive and cellular level. We attempted to demonstrate a phenotypic parallel between Nf1 (+/-) mice and children with NF1 using a well-validated measure of visuospatial learning. Children with NF1 (n = 71) and healthy controls (n = 29) were assessed on a computerized paired associate learning task. Interrelationships between visuospatial learning and other cognitive abilities that may influence performance, such as intelligence, attention and visuospatial function, were explored. Children with NF1 displayed significant impairments in visuospatial learning, with reduced initial retention and poorer learning across repeated trials. Importantly, we demonstrated that visuospatial learning was inferior in NF1 even after accounting for group differences in intelligence, sustained attention and visuospatial abilities. We have thus identified impaired visuospatial learning as a core phenotypic feature in children with NF1. These findings imply that hippocampal-based learning networks are dysfunctional in children with NF1 and provide validation for a primary outcome measure for clinical trials aiming to correct aberrant Ras signaling.
It is common that physicians are faced with patients who have severe steno-occlusion of intracranial arteries in the absence of clinical symptoms. This study is to determine whether a 7T magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA) could provide the improved depiction of microvessels of asymptomatic patients with steno-occlusive middle cerebral artery (MCA) and possible clues for diagnosis of their clinical symptoms. All the patients who were identified as severe MCA steno-occlusions underwent a 7T MRA study. Three of these also underwent conventional angiography (TFCA). The vascular densities around the steno-occlusive MCA and posterior cerebral artery (PCA) branches as control vessels were measured and the difference between the median values of 7T and 3T MRA data was also analyzed. The results of 7T MRA revealed numerous microvessels not visible by conventional MRA. These 7T MRA images were also comparable to those obtained by an invasive conventional angiography (TFCA). The median values of vascular densities observed by 7T MRA were significantly higher than those by 3T MRA (5.28 at 7T vs. 1.45 at 3T for steno-occlusive MCA, p = 0.012, while 3.39 at 7T vs. 3.32 at 3T for normal PCA, p = 0.093). Ultra-high-field 7T MRA is a totally noninvasive angiographic technique that is capable of visualizing microvascular circulation that is usually difficult with conventional MRA. This visualization technique, therefore, could provide an important avenue on the diagnosis of steno-occlusion as well as the search of the roles of the microvessel, especially collaterals, in the preservation of normal blood circulation in patients with asymptomatic MCA steno-occlusion.
Duodenal infusion of levodopa/carbidopa gel (Duodopa) is an effective treatment option for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Long-term clinical experience up to 16 years suggests that the safety of this procedure is acceptable, while several observational studies showed that Duodopa reduces motor fluctuations and dyskinesias improving patients' quality of life (QoL). The aim of this study is to investigate the long-term motor and cognitive outcome of Duodopa treatment in advanced PD patients and its' impact on the QoL. Twenty-five consecutive PD patients were assessed using the Unified PD rating scale (UPDRS), a battery of neuropsychological tests, and the PD questionnaire (PDQ-39) at baseline and after a mean period of three years of Duodopa treatment. Seventeen out of 25 patients reached the follow-up evaluation; five patients discontinued Duodopa and three patients died of causes unrelated to drug infusion. Duodopa improved motor complications (UPDRS-IV) and quality of life (PDQ-39). A sub-group of subjects (41 %) developed a significant deterioration of cognitive functions over time. The most common adverse events were dislocation and the kinking of the intestinal tube. In conclusion, Duodopa therapy is effective in the long-term treatment of advanced PD patients. Continuous enteral levodopa infusion achieves a reduction of motor fluctuations and dyskinesias improving patients' QoL, despite the progression of PD motor symptoms and a significant decline in cognitive functions in a sub-group of patients.
In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis is usually performed to exclude inflammatory processes of the central nervous system. Although in a small subset of patients an intrathecal synthesis of IgG is detectable, usually there is no clear explanation for this evidence. This study investigates the occurrence of oligoclonal bands (OCBs) in the CSF of a large series of ALS patients, attempting a correlation with genotype data. CSF was collected from 259 ALS patients. CSF parameters were measured according to standard procedures, and detection of OCBs performed by isoelectric focusing. The patients were screened for mutations in SOD1, FUS, TARDBP, ANG, OPTN, and C9ORF72. We observed the presence of OCBs in the CSF of 9/259 ALS patients (3.5 %), and of disease-associated mutations in 12 cases. OCBs were significantly more frequent in mutation carriers compared to the remaining cohort (3/12 vs 6/247; p &lt; 0.01). Among patients with OCBs, two patients had the TARDBP p.A382T mutation (one of which in homozygous state), and one the ANG p.P-4S variant. Both patients carrying the p.A382T mutation had an atypical phenotype, one of them manifesting signs suggestive of a cerebellar involvement, and the other presenting neuroradiological findings suggestive of an inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system. Our results suggest that ALS patients with OCBs may harbor mutations in disease-causing genes. We speculate that mutations in both TARDBP and ANG genes may disrupt the blood-brain barrier (BBB), promoting local immune responses and neuroinflammation. The role of mutant TARDBP and ANG genes on BBB integrity of ALS patients warrants further investigation.
Seizures appear at stroke presentation, during the acute phase or as a late complication of stroke. Thrombolysis has not been investigated as a risk factor despite its potential neurotoxic effect. We try to identify risk factors for seizures during the acute phase of ischemic stroke in a cohort including thrombolysed patients. We undertook a case-control study at a single stroke center using data from Acute Stroke Registry and Analyse of Lausanne (ASTRAL). Patients with seizure occurring during the first 7 days following stroke were retrospectively identified. Bi-variable and multivariable statistical analyses were applied to compare cases and randomly selected controls. We identified 28 patients experiencing from seizures in 2,327 acute ischemic strokes (1.2 %). All seizures occurred during the first 72 h. Cortical involvement, thrombolysis with rt-PA, arterial recanalization, and higher initial NIHSS were statistically associated with seizures in univariated analysis. Backward linear regression identified cortical involvement (OR 7.53, 95 % CI 1.6-35.2, p &lt; 0.01) and thrombolysis (OR 4.6, 95 % CI 1.6-13.4, p = 0.01) as being independently associated with seizure occurrence. Overall, 3-month outcome measured by the modified Rankin scale (mRS) was comparable in both groups. In the subgroup of thrombolysed patients, outcome was significantly worse at 3 months in the seizure group with 9/12 (75 %) patients with mRS  3, compared to 6/18 (33.3 %) in the seizure-free group (p = 0.03). Acute seizures in acute ischemic stroke were relatively infrequent. Cortical involvement and thrombolysis with rt-PA are the principal risk factors. Seizures have a potential negative influence on clinical outcome in thrombolysed patients.





Although the utilization of psychosurgery has commenced in early 19th century, when compared with other neurosurgical fields, it faced many obstacles resulting in the delay of advancement of this type of surgical methodology. This was due to the insufficient knowledge of both neural networks of the brain and the pathophysiology of psychiatric diseases. The aggressive surgical treatment modalities with high mortality and morbidity rates, the controversial ethical concerns, and the introduction of antipsychotic drugs were also among those obstacles. With the recent advancements in the field of neuroscience more accurate knowledge was gained in this field offering new ideas for the management of these diseases. Also, the recent technological developments aided the surgeons to define more sophisticated and minimally invasive techniques during the surgical procedures. Maybe the most important factor in the rerising of psychosurgery is the assemblage of the experts, clinicians, and researchers in various fields of neurosciences implementing a multidisciplinary approach. In this article, the authors aim to review the latest concepts of the pathophysiology and the recent advancements of the surgical treatment of psychiatric diseases from a neurosurgical point of view.
Gray matter lesions are thought to play a key role in the progression of disability and cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, but whether gray matter damage is caused by inflammation or secondary to axon loss in the white matter, or both, is not clear. In an analysis of postmortem brain samples from 44 cases of secondary progressive MS, 26 cases were characterized by meningeal inflammation with ectopic B-cell follicles and prominent gray matter pathology; subpial cortical lesions containing dense perivascular lymphocytic infiltrates were present in 11 of these cases. Because intracortical immune infiltrates were enriched in B-lineage cells and because we have shown previously that B cells accumulating in the MS brain support an active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, we investigated evidence of EBV in the infiltrated cortical lesions. Cells expressing EBV-encoded small RNA and plasma cells expressing EBV early lytic proteins (BZLF1, BFRF1) were present in all and most of the intracortical perivascular cuffs examined, respectively. Immunohistochemistry for CD8-positive cells, granzyme B, perforin, and CD107a indicated cytotoxic activity toward EBV-infected plasma cells that was consistently observed in infiltrated cortical lesions, suggesting active immune surveillance. These findings indicate that both meningeal and intraparenchymal inflammation may contribute to cortical damage during MS progression, and that intracortical inflammation may be sustained by an EBV-driven immunopathologic response, similar to findings in white matter lesions and meninges.
Intrinsic heterogeneity in networks of interconnected cells has profound effects on synchrony and spike-time reliability of network responses. Projection neurons of the globus pallidus (GPe) are interconnected by GABAergic inhibitory synapses and in vivo fire continuously but display significant rate and firing pattern heterogeneity. Despite being deprived of most of their synaptic inputs, GPe neurons in slices also fire continuously and vary greatly in their firing rate (1-70 spikes/s) and in regularity of their firing. We asked if this rate and pattern heterogeneity arises from separate cell types differing in rate, local synaptic interconnections, or variability of intrinsic properties. We recorded the resting discharge of GPe neurons using extracellular methods both in vivo and in vitro. Spike-to-spike variability (jitter) was measured as the standard deviation of interspike intervals. Firing rate and jitter covaried continuously, with slow firing being associated with higher variability than faster firing, as would be expected from heterogeneity arising from a single physiologically distinct cell type. The relationship between rate and jitter was unaffected by blockade of GABA and glutamate receptors. When the firing rate of individual neurons was altered with constant current, jitter changed to maintain the rate-jitter relationship seen across neurons. Long duration (30-60 min) recordings showed slow and spontaneous bidirectional drift in rate similar to the across-cell heterogeneity. Paired recordings in vivo and in vitro showed that individual cells wandered in rate independently of each other. Input conductance and rate wandered together, in a manner suggestive that both were due to fluctuations of an inward current.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) have provided crucial data concerning the time course of psychological processes, but the neural mechanisms producing ERP components remain poorly understood. This study continues a program of research in which we investigated the neural basis of attention-related ERP components by simultaneously recording intracranially and extracranially from macaque monkeys. Here, we compare the timing of attentional selection by the macaque homologue of the human N2pc component (m-N2pc) with the timing of selection in the frontal eye field (FEF), an attentional-control structure believed to influence posterior visual areas thought to generate the N2pc. We recorded FEF single-unit spiking and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously with the m-N2pc in monkeys performing an efficient pop-out search task. We assessed how the timing of attentional selection depends on task demands by direct comparison with a previous study of inefficient search in the same monkeys (e.g., finding a T among Ls). Target selection by FEF spikes, LFPs, and the m-N2pc was earlier during efficient pop-out search rather than during inefficient search. The timing and magnitude of selection in all three signals varied with set size during inefficient but not efficient search. During pop-out search, attentional selection was evident in FEF spiking and LFP before the m-N2pc, following the same sequence observed during inefficient search. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that feedback from FEF modulates neural activity in posterior regions that appear to generate the m-N2pc even when competition for attention among items in a visual scene is minimal.
Spontaneous miniature outward currents (SMOCs) are known to exist in smooth muscles and peripheral neurons, and evidence for the presence of SMOCs in central neurons has been accumulating. SMOCs in central neurons are induced through Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (K(Ca)) channels, which are activated through Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum via ryanodine receptors (RyRs). Previously, we found that some neurons in the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus (PHN) showed spontaneous outward currents (SOCs). In the present study, we used whole cell recordings in slice preparations of the rat brain stem to investigate the following: 1) the ionic mechanisms of SOCs, 2) the types of neurons exhibiting frequent SOCs, and 3) the effect of Ca(2+)-activated conductance on neuronal firing. Pharmacological analyses revealed that SOCs were induced via the activation of small-conductance-type K(Ca) (SK) channels and RyRs, indicating that SOCs correspond to SMOCs. An analysis of the voltage responses to current pulses of the fluorescence-expressing inhibitory neurons of transgenic rats revealed that inhibitory neurons frequently exhibited SOCs. Abolition of SOCs via blockade of SK channels enhanced the frequency of spontaneous firing of inhibitory PHN neurons. However, abolition of SOCs via blockade of RyRs reduced the firing frequency and hyperpolarized the membrane potential. Similar reductions in firing frequency and hyperpolarization were also observed when Ca(2+)-activated nonselective cation (CAN) channels were blocked. These results suggest that, in inhibitory neurons in the PHN, Ca(2+) release via RyRs activates SK and CAN channels, and these channels regulate spontaneous firing in a complementary manner.
We hypothesized that motor outputs are hierarchically organized such that descending temporal commands based on desired task-level goals flexibly recruit muscle synergies that specify the spatial patterns of muscle coordination that allow the task to be achieved. According to this hypothesis, it should be possible to predict the patterns of muscle synergy recruitment based on task-level goals. We demonstrated that the temporal recruitment of muscle synergies during standing balance control was robustly predicted across multiple perturbation directions based on delayed sensorimotor feedback of center of mass (CoM) kinematics (displacement, velocity, and acceleration). The modulation of a muscle synergy's recruitment amplitude across perturbation directions was predicted by the projection of CoM kinematic variables along the preferred tuning direction(s), generating cosine tuning functions. Moreover, these findings were robust in biphasic perturbations that initially imposed a perturbation in the sagittal plane and then, before sagittal balance was recovered, perturbed the body in multiple directions. Therefore, biphasic perturbations caused the initial state of the CoM to differ from the desired state, and muscle synergy recruitment was predicted based on the error between the actual and desired upright state of the CoM. These results demonstrate that that temporal motor commands to muscle synergies reflect task-relevant error as opposed to sensory inflow. The proposed hierarchical framework may represent a common principle of motor control across motor tasks and levels of the nervous system, allowing motor intentions to be transformed into motor actions.
Our brain is inexorably confronted with a dynamic environment in which it has to fine-tune spatiotemporal representations of incoming sensory stimuli and commit to a decision accordingly. Among those representations needing constant calibration is interval timing, which plays a pivotal role in various cognitive and motor tasks. To investigate how perceived time interval is adjusted by experience, we conducted a human psychophysical experiment using an implicit interval-timing task in which observers responded to an invisible bar drifting at a constant speed. We tracked daily changes in distributions of response times for a range of physical time intervals over multiple days of training with two major types of timing performance, mean accuracy and precision. We found a decoupled dynamics of mean accuracy and precision in terms of their time course and specificity of perceptual learning. Mean accuracy showed feedback-driven instantaneous calibration evidenced by a partial transfer around the time interval trained with feedback, while timing precision exhibited a long-term slow improvement with no evident specificity. We found that a Bayesian observer model, in which a subjective time interval is determined jointly by a prior and likelihood function for timing, captures the dissociative temporal dynamics of the two types of timing measures simultaneously. Finally, the model suggested that the width of the prior, not the likelihoods, gradually shrinks over sessions, substantiating the important role of prior knowledge in perceptual learning of interval timing.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) employing high-frequency stimulation (HFS) is commonly used in the globus pallidus interna (GPi) and the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for treating motor symptoms of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Although DBS improves motor function in most PD patients, disease progression and stimulation-induced nonmotor complications limit DBS in these areas. In this study, we assessed whether stimulation of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) improved motor function. Hemiparkinsonian rats predominantly touched with their unimpaired forepaw &gt;90% of the time in the stepping and limb-use asymmetry tests. After SNr-HFS (150 Hz), rats touched equally with both forepaws, similar to naive and sham-lesioned rats. In vivo, SNr-HFS decreased beta oscillations (12-30 Hz) in the SNr of freely moving hemiparkinsonian rats and decreased SNr neuronal spiking activity from 28  1.9 Hz before stimulation to 0.8  1.9 Hz during DBS in anesthetized animals; also, neuronal spiking activity increased from 7  1.6 to 18  1.6 Hz in the ventromedial portion of the thalamus (VM), the primary SNr efferent. In addition, HFS of the SNr in brain slices from normal and reserpine-treated rat pups resulted in a depolarization block of SNr neuronal activity. We demonstrate improvement of forelimb akinesia with SNr-HFS and suggest that this motor effect may have resulted from the attenuation of SNr neuronal activity, decreased SNr beta oscillations, and increased activity of VM thalamic neurons, suggesting that the SNr may be a plausible DBS target for treating motor symptoms of DBS.
Communication between neurones in the central nervous system depends on synaptic transmission. The efficacy of synapses is determined by pre- and postsynaptic factors that can be characterized using quantal parameters such as the probability of neurotransmitter release, number of release sites, and quantal size. Existing methods of estimating the quantal parameters based on multiple probability fluctuation analysis (MPFA) are limited by their requirement for long recordings to acquire substantial data sets. We therefore devised an algorithm, termed Bayesian Quantal Analysis (BQA), that can yield accurate estimates of the quantal parameters from data sets of as small a size as 60 observations for each of only 2 conditions of release probability. Computer simulations are used to compare its performance in accuracy with that of MPFA, while varying the number of observations and the simulated range in release probability. We challenge BQA with realistic complexities characteristic of complex synapses, such as increases in the intra- or intersite variances, and heterogeneity in release probabilities. Finally, we validate the method using experimental data obtained from electrophysiological recordings to show that the effect of an antagonist on postsynaptic receptors is correctly characterized by BQA by a specific reduction in the estimates of quantal size. Since BQA routinely yields reliable estimates of the quantal parameters from small data sets, it is ideally suited to identify the locus of synaptic plasticity for experiments in which repeated manipulations of the recording environment are unfeasible.
An important observation in motor physiology is that even the fastest feedback responses can be modified in a task-dependent manner. However, whether or not such responses in one limb can be modulated based on online sensory feedback from other limbs is still unknown. We tested this using a bimanual postural control task, in which the two hands either controlled two separate cursors (double-cursor task) or a single cursor displayed at the spatial average between the hands (single-cursor task). In the first experiment, the two hands were symmetrically perturbed outwards. In the double-cursor task, the participants therefore had to return their hands to the targets, whereas in the single-cursor task no correction was necessary. Within 50 ms, the electromyographic activity showed significantly smaller responses in the single- compared with the double-cursor task. In the second experiment, the perturbation direction of the left hand (inward/outward) was randomized, such that participants could not preplan their response before perturbation onset. Results show that the behavior of the right arm in the one-cursor task depended on online feedback coming from the left arm: the muscular response was modulated within 75 ms based on directionally specific information of the left arm. These results suggest that sensory feedback from one limb can quickly modify the perturbation response of another limb in a task-dependent manner.
Dopamine (DA) D2-like autoreceptors are an important component of the DA system, but their influence on postsynaptic DA signaling is not well understood. They are, directly or indirectly, involved in drug abuse and in treatment of schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactive disorder: DA autoreceptors influence the behavioral effect of cocaine and methylphenidate and may be the target of antipsychotic medications such as haloperidol. DA autoreceptors are active at two levels: Somatodendritic autoreceptors mainly influence firing rate of DA neurons, and presynaptic autoreceptors control release of neurotransmitter at axonal terminals. Here we develop a mathematical model that captures the dynamics of this dual autoregulation system. Our model predicts a biphasic autoreceptor response between DA terminals and somatodendritic regions that influences the postsynaptic integration of DAergic firing patterns. We applied our model to study how DA uptake inhibition affects the translation of DA cell firing into activation of postsynaptic DA receptors. While uptake inhibition increased tonic activation of low-affinity postsynaptic receptors, high-affinity state receptors saturated and thus became insensitive to phasic DA signaling. This effect had remarkable regional specificity: While high-affinity DA receptors saturated at low levels of uptake inhibition in nucleus accumbens, they only saturated at higher levels of uptake inhibition in dorsal striatum. Based on high-affinity receptor saturation, the model predicted that removal of autoreceptor control would lead to cocaine hypersensitivity.
Persistent forms of synaptic plasticity are widely thought to require the synthesis of new proteins. This feature of long-lasting forms of plasticity largely has been demonstrated using inhibitors of general protein synthesis, such as either anisomycin or emetine. However, these drugs, which inhibit elongation, cannot address detailed questions about the regulation of translation initiation, where the majority of translational control occurs. Moreover, general protein synthesis inhibitors cannot distinguish between cap-dependent and cap-independent modes of translation initiation. In the present study, we took advantage of two novel compounds, 4EGI-1 and hippuristanol, each of which targets a different component of the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF)4F initiation complex, and investigated their effects on long-term potentiation (LTP) at CA3-CA1 synapses in the hippocampus. We found that 4EGI-1 and hippuristanol both attenuated long-lasting late-phase LTP induced by two different stimulation paradigms. We also found that 4EGI-1 and hippuristanol each were capable of blocking the expression of newly synthesized proteins immediately after the induction of late-phase LTP. These new pharmacological tools allow for a more precise dissection of the role played by translational control pathways in synaptic plasticity and demonstrate the importance of multiple aspects of eIF4F in processes underlying hippocampal LTP, laying the foundation for future studies investigating the role of eIF4F in hippocampus-dependent memory processes.
Copper is an essential metal present at high levels in the CNS. Its role as a cofactor in mitochondrial ATP production and in essential cuproenzymes is well defined. Menkes and Wilson's diseases are severe neurodegenerative conditions that demonstrate the importance of Cu transport into the secretory pathway. In the brain, intracellular levels of Cu, which is almost entirely protein bound, exceed extracellular levels by more than 100-fold. Cu stored in the secretory pathway is released in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner and can transiently reach concentrations over 100 M at synapses. The ability of low micromolar levels of Cu to bind to and modulate the function of -aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, and voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels contributes to its effects on synaptic transmission. Cu also binds to amyloid precursor protein and prion protein; both proteins are found at synapses and brain Cu homeostasis is disrupted in mice lacking either protein. Especially intriguing is the ability of Cu to affect AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a monitor of cellular energy status. Despite this, few investigators have examined the direct effects of Cu on synaptic transmission and plasticity. Although the variability of results demonstrates complex influences of Cu that are highly method sensitive, these studies nevertheless strongly support important roles for endogenous Cu and new roles for Cu-binding proteins in synaptic function/plasticity and behavior. Further study of the many roles of Cu in nervous system function will reveal targets for intervention in other diseases in which Cu homeostasis is disrupted.
Reactivation of the human polyomavirus JC (JCV) in the CNS results in a fatal demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The lytic destruction of oligodendrocytes, which occurs at the terminal stage of the viral infection cycle, is considered a critical factor in the development of demyelination and the pathogenesis of PML. However, knowledge is limited about interaction of JCV with oligodendrocytes and its impact on the denudation of axons at the early stage of viral reactivation and prior to the destruction of the infected cells. We have developed an in vitro neuroprogenitor cell culture using human fetal brain that can be differentiated to the oligodendrocyte lineage to investigate interactions of JCV with its host cells. Results show that infection with JCV delays oligodendrocyte maturation as shown by reduced levels of oligodendrocytic markers, including myelin basic protein, proteolipid protein, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-. Furthermore, replication of JCV in these cells caused substantial dysregulation of several chemokines, including CCL5/RANTES, GRO, CXCL1/GRO, CXCL16, CXCL8/IL-8, CXCL5/ENA-78, and CXCL10/IP-10, all of which play a role in cell growth and differentiation.





Standardization and accreditation of fellowship training have been considered in the field of neuroanesthesiology. A prior survey of members of the Society for Neuroscience in Anesthesiology and Critical Care (SNACC) suggested strong support for accreditation and standardization. In response, SNACC created a Task Force that developed curricular guidelines for neuroanesthesiology fellowship training programs. These guidelines represent a first step toward standards for neuroanesthesiology training and will be useful if accreditation is pursued in the future.
Selection bias, common in traumatic brain injury research, limits the clinical usefulness and generalizability of study findings. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of different inclusion and exclusion criteria on patient enrollment, and the implications for generalizability, in a mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) study. The study was conducted at the emergency department (ED) of Tampere University Hospital. Our aim was to study outcome from MTBI in patients who do not have pre-existing conditions or other confounding factors. For this, all consecutive patients with acute head trauma (n=1344) were screened. The study design included three inclusion criteria and nine exclusion criteria. The World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Neurotrauma Task Force criteria for MTBI were used. Of all patients screened, 934 (69.5%) fulfilled the MTBI criteria. For those fulfilling the MTBI criteria, various inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied in order to yield those eligible for the outcome study. Applying these criteria excluded 95.1% of MTBI patients, leaving only 46 patients in the final sample. The final sample and the excluded patients with MTBI significantly differed in age, mechanism of injury, and injury severity characteristics. Many studies recruit fundamentally biased samples that are not generalizable to the population of persons who sustain an MTBI. Studying carefully selected samples is often necessary to address specific research questions, but such studies have serious limitations in terms of translating research findings into clinical practice.






Acupressure is an alternative medicine methodology that originated in ancient China. Treatment effects are achieved by stimulating acupuncture points using acute pressure. Acute pressure block of the sciatic nerve is a newly reported analgesic method based on a current neuroscience concept: stimulation of the peripheral nerves increases the pain threshold. Both methods use pressure as an intervention method. Herein, we compare the methodology and mechanism of these two methods, which exhibit several similarities and differences. Acupressure entails variation in the duration of manipulation, and the analgesic effect achieved can be short-or long-term. The acute effect attained with acupressure presents a scope that is very different from that of the chronic effect attained after long-term treatment. This acute effect appears to have some similarities to that achieved with acute pressure block of the sciatic nerve, both in methodology and mechanism. More evidence is needed to determine whether there is a relationship between the two methods.
AZ465 is a novel selective transient receptor potential cation channel, member A1 (TRPA1) antagonist identified during a focused drug discovery effort. In vitro, AZ465 fully inhibits activation by zinc, O-chlorobenzylidene malononitrile (CS), or cinnamaldehyde of the human TRPA1 channel heterologously expressed in human embryonic kidney cells. Our data using patch-clamp recordings and mouse/human TRPA1 chimeras suggest that AZ465 binds reversibly in the pore region of the human TRPA1 channel. Finally, in an ex vivo model measuring TRPA1 agonist-stimulated release of neuropeptides from human dental pulp biopsies, AZD465 was able to block 50%-60% of CS-induced calcitonin gene-related peptide release, confirming that AZ465 inhibits the native human TRPA1 channel in neuronal tissue.


Pellagra is a complex systemic disease resulting from inadequate dietary intake of coenzyme precursors nicotinamide and tryptophan. Improved nutritional habits in most developed economies have led to a decrease in clinicians' and researchers' attention to this condition and its pathophysiological bases, although new cases of pellagra have recently been identified in association with alcohol abuse and HIV infection in Western countries. Pellagra is characterized by a complex clinical picture, which can include neuropsychiatric symptoms and Parkinsonian features. Interestingly, pellagra and Parkinson's disease could share some basic pathophysiological mechanisms at the level of nicotinamide metabolism, resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction and alterations in dopaminergic pathways. Both neuropsychiatric and motor symptoms were mentioned in historical reports of pellagra cohorts. Here we present the English translation of the first detailed description of an original case of pellagra with Parkinsonian features, documented in a clinical note by Dr Giuseppe Paravicini one century ago.

Previous studies have suggested that impaired striatal dopamine function might be independently related to depression in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), but the results are not uniform. In this study, we investigated de novo unmedicated and medicated PD patients with more advanced disease using 18F-fluorodopa-PET. In unmedicated de novo patients, but not in medicated patients, higher depression scores were associated with lower striatal 18F-fluorodopa uptake. These results indicate that impaired striatal dopaminergic function in PD is related to depressive symptoms and that these effects can be observed in de novo patients without the confounding effects of advanced neurodegeneration and medications.


A significant number of autosomal dominantly inherited Parkinson's disease (PD) cases are due to mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene. In cells, these pathogenic mutations have a number of differing effects on LRRK2 enzymatic activity and protein stability. In particular, five of the six described pathogenic LRRK2 mutations ablate the constitutive phosphorylation of LRRK2 on Ser910 and Ser935, two residues required for binding of LRRK2 to 14-3-3 proteins. This suggests a potential pathogenic role for these residues. However, LRRK2 kinase inhibitors, which have shown early promise as neuroprotective agents, also ablate the phosphorylation of Ser910 and Ser935. Additionally, LRRK2 is phosphorylated on Ser910 and Ser935 following activation of the inflammatory toll-like receptor pathway and inflammatory cytokines are often increased in PD patients. Whether LRRK2 protein or phosphorylation is altered in idiopathic PD is unknown. We therefore measured LRRK2 protein and its phosporylation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 33 idiopathic Parkinson's disease patients and 27 age-matched controls. We found no significant difference in total LRRK2 protein levels in PBMCs from PD patients compared to controls. Furthermore, total LRRK2 protein expression was not effected by age, disease duration, disease severity or levodopa medication. The amount of phosphorylation on LRRK2 at both Ser910 and Ser935 correlated highly with total LRRK2 levels and was also unchanged in PD patients. Therefore, changes in LRRK2 Ser910/Ser935 phosphorylation in PBMCs are unlikely to contribute to idiopathic Parkinson's disease or be of utility as a disease biomarker. However, the invariance of Ser910 and Ser935 phosphorylation in PD PBMC's suggests that these residues could be used as pharmacodynamic biomarkers for the effectiveness of LRRK2 kinase inhibitors in patients.

Throughout the past decade it has been recognized that dopaminergic medication administered to remedy motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease is associated with an enhanced risk for impulse control disorders and related compulsive behaviors such as hobbyism, punding, and the dopamine dysregulation syndrome. These complications are relatively frequent, affecting 6-15.5% of patients, and they most often appear, or worsen, after initiation of dopaminergic therapy or dosage increase. Recently, impulse control disorders have also been associated with subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation. Here we present a systematic overview of literature published between 2000 and January 2013 reporting impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease. We consider prevalence rates and discuss the functional neuroanatomy, the impact of dopamine-serotonin interactions, and the cognitive symptomatology associated with impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease. Finally, perspectives for future research and management of impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease are discussed.
The development of dyskinesia upon chronic L-DOPA treatment is a major complication for the management of the motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Efforts are made to understand the underlying mechanisms and identify targets for the pharmacological alleviation of dyskinesia without affecting the therapeutic effect of L-DOPA. Previous studies have shown that the mTOR pathway is hyperactive in dyskinesia as a consequence of D1 receptor hypersensitivity. We investigated the effect of the FDA-approved mTOR inhibitor Temsirolimus (CCI-779), currently used in the clinic, on the development of LID and on the severity of already established LID in hemi-parkinsonian rats. Systemic delivery of CCI-779 prevented the development of LID and significantly alleviated the severity of dyskinesia in L-DOPA-primed animals. This was associated with a reduced activation of the mTOR pathway in striatal medium spiny neurons. Drugs with mTOR inhibiting activity that are actively developed in cancer research may be of interest for the management of LID in PD patients.



Modern western society and media often present the mother's choices for her birth as paramount. Various gurus provide the mother with often conflicting advice. But the reality is that childbirth often becomes a medicalized event with many interventions and less than ideal outcomes. In many instances, the choices are made to suit health professionals and hospital routines rather than the mother. All the aforementioned are based on ideas and assumptions which predate evidence-based medicine and recent neuroscience. In reproductive biology, the newborn is an active participant and agent in birthing (Alberts, 1994). Based on this, the perspective which has been lacking is what is best for the baby; our choices should be primarily based on the basic biological needs of the infant.
Nine studies examined the construct validity of the Need to Belong Scale. The desire for acceptance and belonging correlated with, but was distinct from, variables that involve a desire for social contact, such as extraversion and affiliation motivation. Furthermore, need to belong scores were not related to insecure attachment or unfulfilled needs for acceptance. Need to belong was positively correlated with extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism and with having an identity that is defined in terms of social attributes. Need to belong was associated with emotional reactions to rejection, values involving interpersonal relationships, and subclinical manifestations of certain personality disorders.
The aim was to study the validity of 2 personality instruments, the Health-Relevant Personality Inventory (HP5i) and the Junior Temperament and Character Inventory (JTCI), among adolescents with a substance use problem. Clinical interviews were completed with 180 adolescents and followed up after 12 months. Discriminant validity was demonstrated in the lack of correlation to intelligence in both instruments' scales. Two findings were in support of convergent validity: Negative affectivity (HP5i) and harm avoidance (JTCI) were correlated to internalizing symptoms, and impulsivity (HP5i) and novelty seeking (JTCI) were correlated to externalizing symptoms. The predictive validity of JTCI was partly supported. When psychiatric symptoms at baseline were controlled for, cooperativeness predicted conduct disorder after 12 months. Summarizing, both instruments can be used in adolescent clinical samples to tailor treatment efforts, although some scales need further investigation. It is important to include personality assessment when evaluating psychiatric problems in adolescents.
The abuse of inhaled chemical vapors is a growing problem especially among adolescent populations. This is partly driven by the fact that inhaled products are cheap, accessible, and provide a rapid 'high'. In the brain inhalants have multiple effects. They are neurotoxic, targeting primarily white matter pathways, which is believed to underlie the long-term neurological consequences associated with repeated use. Inhalants are also addictive, resulting in adaptive responses in pathways mediating reward and reinforcement. This includes an ability to alter dopaminergic cell firing and result in long-term mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic dysfunction. However, growing evidence suggests that the reinforcing properties of inhalants may also be driven by their ability to affect neurotransmitter systems other than the dopaminergic system. Both glutamatergic and g-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic systems are emerging as key targets of inhalants with differential responses observed following either acute or chronic exposures. These responses appear particularly important in circuits which appear vulnerable to inhalants and which can also modulate dopaminergic function such as the corticostriatal pathway. Thus in combination with the effects of inhalants on dopaminergic systems, our increased understanding of the role(s) of glutamatergic and GABAergic systems provide new and exciting targets to consider for intervention strategies to limit inhalant use.
The serotonin transporter (SERT) is involved in various psychiatric disorders, including depression and autism. Recently, chemical chaperones have been focused as potential therapeutic drugs that can improve endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related pathology. In this study, we used SERTtransfected COS-7 cells to investigate whether 4-phenylbutylate (4-PBA), a chemical chaperone, affects the membrane trafficking and uptake activity of SERT. Treatment with 4-PBA for 24 h dose-dependently increased the uptake activity of SERT. In accordance with increased SERT activity, the expression of maturely glycosylated SERT was increased, while the expression of immaturely glycosylated SERT was decreased. This finding suggests that 4-PBA increased the functional SERT with mature glycosylation via accelerating its folding and trafficking. 4-PBA also increased the activity of the C-terminus-deleted mutant SERT (SERTCT), which was stacked in the ER, and decreased SERTCT-induced ER stress, further supporting the idea that 4-PBA acts as a chemical chaperone for SERT. Imaging studies showed that fluorescence-labeled SERT was gradually and significantly translocated to the plasma membrane by 4-PBA. These results suggest that 4-PBA and related drugs can potentially affect serotonergic neural transmission by functioning as chaperones, thereby providing a novel therapeutic approach for SERT-related diseases.
To examine the functional regulation of serotonin transporter (SERT) by cAMP, we examined whether SERT uptake activity was affected by dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP), a cAMP analog, in SERT-transfected RN46A cells derived from embryonic rat raphe neurons. Long-term exposure (&gt; 4 h) of dbcAMP (1 mM) to SERT-expressing RN46A cells significantly up-regulated SERT activity. In addition, a selective PKA activator, but not a selective EPAC activator, increased the serotonin uptake activity of SERT, suggesting that this regulation was mainly mediated via PKA. Time-dependent up-regulation of SERT activity by dbcAMP was accompanied by neural differentiation of RN46A cells. Further investigation of dbcAMP-induced up-regulation of SERT revealed that dbcAMP elevated SERT protein levels without affecting SERT mRNA transcription. The chase assay for residual SERT protein revealed that dbcAMP slowed its degradation rate. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that plasma membrane-localized SERT was more abundant in dbcAMP-treated cells than in non-treated cells, suggesting that dbcAMP up-regulated SERT by decreasing its degradation and increasing its plasma membrane expression. These results raise the possibility that the elevation of intracellular cAMP up-regulated SERT function through a mechanism linked to the differentiation of RN46A cells and show the importance of SERT function during the developmental process of the serotonergic nervous system.

Substantial advances have been made in the last decade on our understanding of the basic physiology underlying neurogenesis in the postnatal mammalian brain. The bulk of the work in this area has been based on analysis of the adult brain. Relatively less is known about the capacity for neurogenesis in specific structures within the neonatal brain. Here we report that the production of medium spiny striatal projection neurons extends into the early neonatal period under normal physiological conditions in the rat brain. Birth-dating of newborn cells with bromodeoxyuridine at postnatal days 0, 2 and 5 showed a peak production close to birth, which sharply declined at the later time-points. Additionally, there was a low-level but stable contribution of neurons with interneuron identity over the same time-period. Importantly, retroviral labelling of new striatal projection neurons with green fluorescent protein showed long-term survival and terminal differentiation with characteristic morphology, including highly elaborated spiny dendrites, and appropriate axonal targeting of the globus pallidus and midbrain. This latent period of striatal neurogenesis in the early neonatal brain represents an interesting target for regenerative approaches aimed at restoring striatal circuitry in perinatal pathologies, such as hypoxic and ischaemic damage associated with cerebral palsy.
Emotional reactions such as vocalization take place during expiration, and thus expression of emotional behaviour requires a switch from inspiration to expiration. I investigated how the midbrain periaqueductal grey (PAG), a known behavioural modulator of breathing, influences the inspiratory-to-expiratory phase transition. Contemporary models propose that late inspiratory (late-I) and post-inspiratory (post-I) neurones found in the medulla, which are active during the inspiratory-to-expiratory phase transition are involved in converting inspiration to expiration. I examined the effect of excitatory amino acid (d,l-homocysteic acid; DLH) stimulation of the PAG on the discharge function of late-I and post-I neurones. The data show a topographical organization of DLH-induced late-I and post-I neuronal modulation within the PAG. Dorsal PAG stimulation induced tachypnoea and caused excitation of both the late-I and post-I neurones. Lateral PAG induced inspiratory prolongation and caused an excitation of late-I neurones but inhibition of post-I neurones. Ventrolateral PAG induced expiratory prolongation and caused a persistent activation of post-I neurones. As well, PAG stimulation modulated both the late-I and post-I cells for least two-three breaths even prior to the change in respiratory motor pattern. This indicates that the PAG influences the late-I and post-I cells independent of pulmonary or other sensory afferent feedback. I conclude that the PAG modulates the activity of the medullary late-I and post-I neurones, and this modulation contributes to the conversion of eupnoea into a behavioural breathing pattern.
Psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety are reported in patients with Huntington's disease (HD). Recent studies suggest beneficial effects of environmental enrichment (EE) on HD progression possibly through the serotonergic system. We investigated the potential effectiveness of EE in correcting the affective-like phenotype of female R6/1 HD mice. In addition to a behavioural battery of tests assessing depression and anxiety-related endophenotypes, we recorded physiological measures, including body temperature regulation and defecation rate as indices of stress reactivity. Finally, following identification of changes in serotonin (5-HT) receptor gene expression we measured the function of 5-HT(1A) auto- and hetero-receptors. We found that 8-week-old female HD mice exhibited higher immobility time in the forced swimming test and a decreased preference for saccharin solution. EE did not correct those depressive-like behaviours but reduced anxiety-related measures in unconditioned approach/avoidance conflict situations. Defecation rate in a large open field and change in temperature during exposure to the tail suspension test were both enhanced in HD compared to wild-type animals. Despite the enhanced hypothermic response to the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT exhibited by HD mice, we found a reduction in 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated stimulation of [(35)S]GTP--S binding in the dorsal raphe nucleus and the hippocampus of HD animals. EE did not change 5-HT(1A) receptor function. Our data suggest that early EE has beneficial effects on the anxiety-like, but not on depression-like, behaviours in HD. This is the first evidence that these affective endophenotypes can be dissociated via this form of environmental stimulation. As 5-HT(1A) receptor dysfunction was not affected by EE, this receptor is unlikely to underlie the anxiety-related phenotype of HD. However, the specific regulatory role of the 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor in mediating depressive-like behaviour in HD remains to be elucidated. Interestingly, by comparing in vivo and in vitro results, our findings suggest that 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia could be mediated by other targets besides the 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor, including hippocampal 5-HT(7) receptors.
Cell replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease has predominantly focused on ectopic transplantation of fetal dopamine (DA) neurons into the striatum as a means to restore neurotransmission, rather than homotopic grafts into the site of cell loss, which would require extensive axonal growth. However, ectopic grafts fail to restore important aspects of DA circuitry necessary for controlled basal ganglia output, and this may underlie the suboptimal and variable functional outcomes in patients. We recently showed that DA neurons in homotopic allografts of embryonic ventral mesencephalon (VM) can send long axonal projections along the nigrostriatal pathway in order to innervate forebrain targets, although the extent of striatal reinnervation remains substantially less than can be achieved with ectopic placement directly into the striatal target. Here, we examined the possible benefits of using younger VM donor tissue and over-expression of glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the striatal target to improve the degree of striatal innervation from homotopic grafts. Younger donor tissue, collected on embryonic day (E)10, generated 4-fold larger grafts with greater striatal targeting, compared to grafts generated from more conventional E12 donor VM. Over-expression of GDNF in the host brain also significantly increased DA axonal growth and striatal innervation. Furthermore, a notable increase in the number and proportion of A9 DA neurons, essential for functional recovery, was observed in younger donor grafts treated with GDNF. Behavioural testing confirmed functional integration of younger donor tissue and demonstrated that improved motor function could be attributed to both local midbrain and striatal innervation. Together, these findings suggest there is significant scope for further development of intra-nigral grafting as a restorative approach for Parkinson's disease.
The expression of Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC1) is responsible for high intracellular Cl(-) resulting in the excitatory action of GABA(A) receptor activation in the developing brain. Giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) are spontaneous network oscillations that involve GABA(A) receptors and are thought to be important in establishing neuronal circuit wiring. Earlier work established that seizure susceptibility in the GABA(A) 2(R43Q) epilepsy mouse is impacted by developmental consequences of impaired GABA(A) receptor function. We investigated the potential mechanism of the developmental influence by recording GDPs in the CA3 pyramidal neurons from brain slices of the neonatal GABA(A) 2(R43Q) mouse. Interestingly, the number of GPDs was significantly lower in slices from mutant mouse compared with wild-type control, suggesting an involvement in setting seizure susceptibility. To test this idea we blocked NKCC1 with bumetanide in neonatal mice and reduced the number of GDPs to a level similar to that seen in the mutant mice. We found that neonatal treatment with bumetanide resulted in a similar level of susceptibility to thermally induced seizures as described for the GABA(A) 2(R43Q) mouse. These results provide evidence that a human GABA(A) receptor epilepsy mutation exerts a developmental influence by modulating the number of GDPs. It also draws attention to the potential risk of early treatment with bumetanide.
While substantial alterations in myelination and axonal growth have been described during maturation, their interactions with the configuration and activity of axonal membrane ion channels to achieve impulse conduction have not been fully elucidated. The present study utilized axonal excitability techniques to compare the changes in nerve function across healthy infants, children, adolescents and adults. Multiple excitability indices (stimulus-response curve, strength-duration time constant, threshold electrotonus, current-threshold relationship and recovery cycle) combined with conventional neurophysiological measures were investigated in 57 subjects (22 males, 35 females; age range 0.46-24 years), stimulating the median motor nerve at the wrist. Maturational changes in conduction velocity were paralleled by significant alterations in multiple excitability parameters, similarly reaching steady values in adolescence. Maturation was accompanied by reductions in threshold (P &lt; 0.005) and rheobase (P = 0.001); depolarizing and hyperpolarizing electrotonus progressively reduced (P &lt; 0.001), or 'fanned-in'; resting current-threshold slope increased (P &lt; 0.0001); accommodation to depolarizing currents prolonged (P &lt; 0.0001); while greater threshold changes in refractoriness (P = 0.001) and subexcitability (P &lt; 0.01) emerged. Taken together, the present findings suggest that passive membrane conductances and the activity of K(+) conductances decrease with formation of the axo-glial junction and myelination. In turn, these functional alterations serve to enhance the efficiency and speed of impulse conduction concurrent with the acquisition of motor skills during childhood, and provide unique insight into the evolution of postnatal human peripheral nerve function. Significantly, these findings bring the dynamics of axonal development to the clinical domain and serve to further illuminate pathophysiological mechanisms that occur during development.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) has a fundamental function in transferring information between the hippocampus and the neocortex. EC layer V principal neurons are the main recipients of the hippocampal output and send processed information to the neocortex, likely playing an important role in memory processing and consolidation. Most of these neurons have apical dendrites that extend to the superficial layers and are rich in spines, which could be the targets of excitatory inputs from fibres innervating that region. We have used electrical stimulation of afferent fibres coupled with whole-cell patch-clamp somatic recordings to study the features of distal excitatory inputs and compare them with those of proximal ones. The amplitude of putative unitary excitatory responses was 1.5 times larger for distal compared with proximal inputs. The responses were purely glutamatergic, as they were abolished by a combination of AMPA and NMDA glutamatergic receptor antagonists. Blockade of I(h) by 4-ethylphenylamino-1,2-dimethyl-6-methylaminopyrimidinium chloride (ZD7288) increased temporal summation; the increase was comparable for proximal and distal inputs. Proximal inputs initiated a somatic spike more reliably than distal ones; in some instances, somatic action potentials triggered by distal stimulation were preceded by dendritic spikes that fully propagated to the soma. Altogether, our results show that medial layer V entorhinal neurons receive excitatory synapses at distal dendritic locations, which gives them access to information encoded by inputs to the superficial layers as well as the deep layers. These findings are fundamentally relevant to understanding the role of the EC in the formation and consolidation of episodic memory.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) plays a major role in central cardiovascular and volume control, and has been implicated in controlling sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) during volume expansion and in heart failure (HF). The objectives were to determine the role of the PVN on cardiac and renal SNA (CSNA and RSNA) in conscious normal sheep and sheep with pacing-induced heart failure. In normovolaemic sheep in the normal state and in HF, bilateral microinjection of the GABA agonist muscimol (2 mm, 500 nl), had no effects on resting mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), CSNA or RSNA. In addition, neither chemical inhibition of the PVN using the inhibitory amino acid glycine (0.5 m, 500 nl), nor electrolytic lesion of the PVN reduced the elevated level of CSNA in HF. Dysinhibition of the PVN with bilateral microinjection of bicuculline (1 mm, 500 nl) in normal sheep increased MAP, HR and CSNA, but decreased RSNA, whereas in HF bicuculline had no effects on MAP, HR or CSNA, but inhibited RSNA. During volume expansion in normal sheep, muscimol reversed the inhibition of RSNA, but not of CSNA. In summary, removal of endogenous GABAergic inhibition to the PVN indicated that CSNA is normally under inhibitory control. Although this inhibition was absent in HF, the responses to pharmacological inhibition, or lesion of the PVN, indicates that it does not drive the increased CSNA in HF. These findings indicate the PVN has a greater influence on RSNA than CSNA in the resting state in normal and HF sheep, and during volume expansion in normal sheep.
Melatonin has shown particular promise as a neuroprotective agent to prevent motoneuron death in animal models of both amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal cord injuries (SCI). However, an understanding of the roles of endogenous melatonin receptors including MT1, MT2, and orphan G-protein receptor 50 (GPR50) in neuroprotection is lacking. To address this deficiency, we utilized plasmids for transfection and overexpression of individual melatonin receptors in the ventral spinal cord 4.1 (VSC4.1) motoneuron cell line. Receptor-mediated cytoprotection following exposure to glutamate at a toxic level (25 m) was determined by assessing cell viability, apoptosis, and intracellular free Ca(2+) levels. Our findings indicate a novel role for MT1 and MT2 for increasing expression of the calcium-binding proteins calbindin D28K and parvalbumin. Increased levels of calbindin D28K and parvalbumin in VSC4.1 cells overexpressing MT1 and MT2 were associated with cytoprotective effects including inhibition of proapoptotic signaling, downregulation of inflammatory factors, and expression of prosurvival markers. Interestingly, the neuroprotective effects conferred by overexpression of MT1 and/or MT2 were also associated with increases in the estrogen receptor  (ER): estrogen receptor  (ER) ratio and upregulation of angiogenic factors. GPR50 did not exhibit cytoprotective effects. To further confirm the involvement of the melatonin receptors, we silenced both MT1 and MT2 in VSC4.1 cells using RNA interference technology. Knockdown of MT1 and MT2 led to an increase in glutamate toxicity, which was only partially reversed by melatonin treatment. Taken together, our findings suggest that the neuroprotection against glutamate toxicity exhibited by melatonin may depend on MT1 and MT2 but not GPR50.

Drosophila melanogaster, the common fruit fly, has been used as a model organism in both medical and scientific research for over a century. Work by Thomas Hunt Morgan (1866-1945) and his students at Columbia University at the beginning of the twentieth century led to great discoveries such as sex-linked inheritance and that ionising radiation causes mutations in genes. However, the use of Drosophila was not limited to genetic research. Experimentation with this model organism has also led to discoveries in neuroscience and neurodevelopment, including the basis of circadian rhythms. Its complex nervous system, conserved neurological function, and human disease-related loci allow Drosophila to be an ideal model organism for the study of neurodegenerative disease, for which it is used today, aiding research into diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, which are becoming more prevalent in today's ageing population.

Advances in robotic technology have recently enabled the development of powered lower-limb prosthetic limbs. A major hurdle in developing commercially successful powered prostheses is the control interface. Myoelectric signals are one way for prosthetic users to provide feedforward volitional control of prosthesis mechanics. The goal of this study was to assess motor learning in people with lower-limb amputation using proportional myoelectric control from residual-limb muscles. We examined individuals with transtibial amputation and nondisabled controls performing tracking tasks of a virtual object. We assessed how quickly the individuals with amputation improved their performance and whether years since amputation correlated with performance. At the beginning of training, subjects with amputation performed much worse than control subjects. By the end of a short training period, tracking error did not significantly differ between subjects with amputation and nondisabled subjects. Initial but not final performance correlated significantly with time since amputation. This study demonstrates that although subjects with amputation may initially have poor volitional control of their residual lower-limb muscles, training can substantially improve their volitional control. These findings are encouraging for the future use of proportional myoelectric control of powered lower-limb prostheses.
Auditory training has been shown to significantly improve cochlear implant (CI) users' speech and music perception. However, it is unclear whether posttraining gains in performance were due to improved auditory perception or to generally improved attention, memory, and/or cognitive processing. In this study, speech and music perception, as well as auditory and visual memory, were assessed in 10 CI users before, during, and after training with a nonauditory task. A visual digit span (VDS) task was used for training, in which subjects recalled sequences of digits presented visually. After the VDS training, VDS performance significantly improved. However, there were no significant improvements for most auditory outcome measures (auditory digit span, phoneme recognition, sentence recognition in noise, digit recognition in noise), except for small (but significant) improvements in vocal emotion recognition and melodic contour identification. Posttraining gains were much smaller with the nonauditory VDS training than observed in previous auditory training studies with CI users. The results suggest that posttraining gains observed in previous studies were not solely attributable to improved attention or memory and were more likely due to improved auditory perception. The results also suggest that CI users may require targeted auditory training to improve speech and music perception.



Participation in society is vital to mental health and is beneficial to individuals and society. The goal of this study was to provide insight into how people with cerebral palsy and spina bifida view their experiences of participation and to examine factors that might influence this issue. The results show that participants emphasized the importance of being accepted and treated equally. Living independently and being able to play an active and leading role in their lives was also essential. Participation was described as a process of interaction between a person and society, with mutual responsibility in respect to integration.
This study examined the combined effects of aerobic exercise intensity and duration on serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (sBDNF) levels in healthy human adult males aged 18-25 years. Forty five participants were randomly assigned to one of six exercise conditions based on varying intensity (80% or 60% of heart rate reserve, or control) and duration (20 or 40 min). Vigorous (80% heart rate reserve, &quot;Vig&quot;) and moderate (60% heart rate reserve, &quot;Mod&quot;) exercise was carried out on cycle ergometers. Control subjects remained seated and at rest during the exercise period. Pre- and post-exercise blood draws were conducted and sBDNF measured. Physical exercise caused an average ~ 32% increase in sBDNF levels relative to baseline that resulted in concentrations that were 45% higher than control conditions. Comparing the six conditions, sBDNF levels rose consistently among the four exercise conditions (Vig20 = 26.38  34.89%, Vig40 = 28.48  19.11%, Mod20 = 41.23  59.65%, Mod40 = 30.16  72.11%) and decreased consistently among the controls (Con20 = -14.48  16.50, Con40 = -10.51  26.78). Vig conditions had the highest proportion of subjects that experienced a significant (? 10%) increase in sBDNF levels, followed by Mod and control conditions. An analysis of modeled sBDNF integrals (area under the curve) demonstrated substantially greater values for Vig40 and Mod40 conditions compared to Vig20 and Mod20 conditions. Collectively, these results demonstrate that neither duration (20 vs. 40 min) nor intensity (60 vs. 80% HR reserve) significantly affects the benefits of exercise if only the sBDNF increase at a single post-exercise time point is considered. However, when comparing either the probability of achieving a significant BDNF gain or the integral (i.e. the volume of circulating BDNF over time) the Vig40 condition offers maximal benefits. Thus, we conclude that the future study of aerobic exercise effects on BDNF-mediated neuroprotection should take the volume of BDNF release over time into account. Key PointsAerobic exercise caused a ~32% increase in serum BDNF in adult human males while serum BDNF decreased 13% in sedentary control subjects.Vigorous intensity (80% heart rate reserve), long duration (40 min) exercise offered the greatest probability of a significant BDNF elevation.Long duration exercise offered the greatest numerical benefits in terms of BDNF integral.Neither intensity nor duration affected the mean elevation in BDNF amplitude caused by exercise.



This report describes a unique undergraduate research and teaching collaboration between investigators at two institutions, one a relatively small, primarily undergraduate institution and the other a large, urban research-intensive university. The program incorporates three major facets. First, undergraduates participate in a weekly collaborative lab meeting involving instructors from both institutions and held via remote video. Student-led discussions and presentations dominate these meetings, and the unique format promotes novel interactions between students and instructors. Second, students carry out investigative studies centered on understanding the role extracellular pH dynamics play in regulating neuronal processing. Students carry out studies on isolated neurons and glia throughout the fall and spring semesters, and primarily use a noninvasive electrophysiological technique, termed self-referencing, for extracellular pH measurements. The technique is relatively simple and readily learned and employed by undergraduates, while still being powerful enough to provide novel and meaningful research results. The research component is expanded for several students each summer who are selected to participate in summer research with both PIs and graduate students at the major research institution. Finally results gathered during the year and over the summer are disseminated at institutional symposia, undergraduate neuroscience symposia, national society meetings, and in submitted journal manuscripts. Preliminary observations and findings over three years support the aim of this research experience; to create a productive environment that facilitates deep-level understanding of neurophysiological concepts at the undergraduate level and promotes intellectual development while cultivating an excitement for scientific inquiry in the present and future.
Students in undergraduate laboratory settings learn many of the foundational principles of sensory processing in the comparatively simple, easy to study invertebrate nervous system. In this example preparation, the American cockroach, students record action potentials from the fibers in the ventral nerve cord (VNC) that participate in a well explained escape behavior in response to stimulation of its cerci, a pair of mechanosensitive abdominal appendages. A system that allows good control over the time and amplitude of the air pulse delivered to the cerci is described. This experimental setup enables students to extract and display temporal information from recordings to learn how to interpret those responses in the context of the properties of the stimulus. I offer examples of specific investigations and analyses that work well for this purpose in an undergraduate laboratory.
Service learning is becoming a keystone of the undergraduate learning experience. At Stonehill College, we implemented a service learning course, called a Learning Community, in Neuroscience. This course was created to complement the basic research available to Stonehill Neuroscience majors with experience in a more applied and &quot;clinical&quot; setting. The Neuroscience Learning Community is designed to promote a deep understanding of Neuroscience by combining traditional classroom instruction with clinical perspectives and real-life experiences. This Neuroscience Learning Community helps students translate abstract concepts within the context of neurodevelopment by providing students with contextual experience in a real-life, unscripted setting. The experiential learning outside of the classroom enabled students to participate in informed discussions in the classroom, especially with regard to neurodevelopmental disorders. We believe that all students taking this course gain an understanding of the importance of basic and applied Neuroscience as it relates to the individual and the community. Students also have used this concrete, learning-by-doing experience to make informed decisions about career paths and choice of major.
We developed a hands-on laboratory exercise for undergraduate students in which they can build and manipulate a neuron equivalent circuit. This exercise uses electrical circuit components that resemble neuron components and are easy to construct. We describe the methods for creating the equivalent circuit and how to observe different neuron properties through altering the structure of the equivalent circuit. We explain how this hands-on laboratory activity allows for the better understanding of this fundamental neuroscience concept. At the conclusion of this laboratory exercise, undergraduate students will be able to apply the principles of Ohm's law, cable theory with regards to neurons, and understand the functions of resistance and capacitance in a neuron.
Conveying scientific content with accuracy and fluency takes practice and requires deep understanding of the concepts being conveyed. This depth of knowledge comes from internalizing information and constructing it into a form that is unique and coherent to the individual. Often in science classrooms there is little or no opportunity for students to practice this type of thinking, activities that we believe are fundamental to effective science communication. This article describes the use of haiku - a 17 syllable poem - as a means for students to convey neurobiological concepts in a succinct manner by forcing them to focus on the most salient features of the observed processes. In our assignments haiku writing was successfully paired with explanations of the students' thought processes (Addiction course) or the scientific evidence to support claims (Neurodegenerative Disease course). We provide examples of student haiku and explanations as evidence of the power of this approach. The coupling of poetry and prose together create rich, accurate descriptions of scientific phenomena by encouraging higher-order thinking. Poetry writing can thus be used across the curriculum to forge comprehension of complex ideas in any discipline and to bridge the arts and the sciences.
This article describes a graduate class in presentation skills (&quot;PClass&quot;) as a model for how a class with similar objectives, expectations and culture might be mounted for undergraduates. The required class is given for students in neuroscience and physiology programs at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; I describe the class in the years I led it, from 2003-2012. The class structure centered on peer rehearsal, critiquing of PowerPoint, and chalk talks by the students; video-recording of student talks for later review by the student with the instructor; and presentation of polished talks in a formal setting. A different faculty visitor to the class each week gave the students a variety of perspectives. The students also gained insight into their own evolving skills by discussing the strengths and weaknesses of seminars given by visitors to the campus. A unique feature of the class was collaboration with a professional actor from the University's Department of Dramatic Arts, who helped the students develop techniques for keeping the attention of an audience, for speaking with confidence, and for controlling nervousness. The undergraduate campus would be expected to lend itself to this sort of interdisciplinary faculty cooperation. In addition, students worked on becoming adept at designing and presenting posters, introducing speakers graciously and taking charge of the speaker's question session, and speaking to a lay audience.
In a large (250 registrants) general education lecture course, neuroscience principles were taught by two professors as co-instructors, starting with simple brain anatomy, chemistry, and function, proceeding to basic brain circuits of pleasure and pain, and progressing with fellow expert professors covering relevant philosophical, artistic, marketing, and anthropological issues. With this as a base, the course wove between fields of high relevance to psychology and neuroscience, such as food addiction and preferences, drug seeking and craving, analgesic pain-inhibitory systems activated by opiates and stress, neuroeconomics, unconscious decision-making, empathy, and modern neuroscientific techniques (functional magnetic resonance imaging and event-related potentials) presented by the co-instructors and other Psychology professors. With no formal assigned textbook, all lectures were PowerPoint-based, containing links to supplemental public-domain material. PowerPoints were available on Blackboard several days before the lecture. All lectures were also video-recorded and posted that evening. The course had a Facebook page for after-class conversation and one of the co-instructors communicated directly with students on Twitter in real time during lecture to provide momentary clarification and comment. In addition to graduate student Teaching Assistants (TAs), to allow for small group discussion, ten undergraduate students who performed well in a previous class were selected to serve as discussion leaders. The Discussion Leaders met four times at strategic points over the semester with groups of 20-25 current students, and received one credit of Independent Study, thus creating a course within a course. The course grade was based on weighted scores from two multiple-choice exams and a five-page writing assignment in which each student reviewed three unique, but brief original peer-review research articles (one page each) combined with expository writing on the first and last pages. A draft of the first page, collected early in the term, was returned to each student by graduate TAs to provide individual feedback on scientific writing. Overall the course has run three times at ful or near enrollment capacity despite being held at an 8:00 AM time slot. Student-generated teaching evaluations place it well within the normal range, while this format importantly contributes to budget efficiency permitting the teaching of more required small-format courses (e.g., freshman writing). The demographics of the course have changed to one in which the vast majority of the students are now outside the disciplines of neuroscience or psychology and are taking the course to fulfill a General Education requirement. This pattern allows the wide dissemination of basic neuroscientific knowledge to a general college audience.
Undergraduate courses in the neurosciences, including biological psychology, often appeal to students because they offer perspectives on human behavior and experience that are so different from those students arrive with or are exposed to elsewhere on campus. Consider, for example, this passage from Crick's, Astonishing Hypothesis: &quot;You, your joys and your sorrows, your memories and your ambitions, your sense of personal identity and free will, are in fact no more than the behaviour of a vast assembly of nerve cells and their associated molecules.&quot; Unfortunately, because this perspective is at such odds with those many students arrive with, the very thing that makes these classes so interesting is also likely to engender resistance. With Crick's hypothesis serving as the theme of my introductory course in biological psychology, we explore the ways in which complex experiences and behaviors can be explained by lower-level, biological phenomena. Historically, and for a host of valid reasons, class assessment tends to focus on whether students understand the course material (e.g., Can you explain the role of Ca(2+) in synaptic transmission?), rather than whether students believe what they have been introduced to (e.g., Do you believe that the mind exists as something separate from the body?). For a number of years, however, I have also been collecting pre- and post-test data from students enrolled in three formats of the class in an effort to measure changes in beliefs. One format was a conventional standalone class, whereas the other two were more intensive and involved parallel coursework in the Philosophy of Mind with a second instructor. The full assessment, identical at both test intervals, was comprised of 56 items and included 16 items from a Theoretical Orientation Scale (TOS; Coan, 1979), several of which addressed whether human behavior was predictable; 14 items that addressed dualism, the veracity of our perceptions, personal responsibility, and other topics; and 26 items from the Organicism-Mechanism Paradigm Inventory (OMPI; Germer et al., 1982). Unlike most of the other test items, which addressed class topics specifically, the OMPI addressed general worldviews between two poles of mechanism and organicism. Mechanistic explanations, common in Neuroscience, tend to be highly reductive and treat organisms as more passive and reactive, whereas organismic explanations treat organisms as more active and the systems that give rise to their behaviors as non-reductive. Overall, analyses revealed statistically significant changes on a wide range of items that were generally, though not always, consistent with course objectives. The results of the OMPI indicated that the average student began the term closer to the organismic end of the scale, and became slightly more organismic by the end of the term. And yet, on a number of items related more specifically to the relationship between brain and behavior, students became more willing to endorse reductive and mechanistic positions. Although student beliefs can be very resistant to persuasion, change can occur.
In addition to being inherently interesting to students, case studies can serve as useful tools to teach neuroanatomy and demonstrate important relationships between brain structure and function. In most undergraduate courses, however, neuroanatomy is presented to students as a &quot;unit&quot; or chapter, much like other topics (e.g., receptors, pharmacology) covered in the course, over a period of a week or two. In this article, a relatively simple model of teaching neuroanatomy is described in which students are actively engaged in the presentation and discussion of case studies throughout the semester, following a general introduction to the structure of the nervous system. In this way, the teaching of neuroanatomy is &quot;distributed&quot; throughout the semester and put into a more user-friendly context for students as additional topics are introduced. Generally, students report enjoying learning brain structure using this method, and commented positively on the class activities associated with learning brain anatomy. Advantages and disadvantages of such a model are presented, as are suggestions for implementing similar models of undergraduate neuroanatomy education.
MetaNeuron, a neuron simulation program, is an effective interactive tool for teaching cellular neurophysiology. The computer program simulates a wide range of neuronal behavior in its six lessons: i) Resting Membrane Potential, ii) Membrane Time Constant, iii) Membrane Length Constant, iv) Axon Action Potential, v) Axon Voltage Clamp, and vi) Synaptic Potential. The program is designed foremost as a platform for conducting neurophysiology experiments in silico. Neuronal parameters are easily modified and a virtual stimulator injects single or double current pulses into the neuron. Phenomena such as temporal summation of synaptic potentials, passive spread of a synaptic potential from the dendrite to the soma, the refractory period, families of voltage-clamp traces, and the reversal potential of synaptic responses, are easily illustrated in MetaNeuron. Responses are displayed graphically and can be measured with a cursor. Families of traces can be generated and viewed in rotatable 3D plots. Mac and Windows versions of the program can be downloaded, free of charge, onto individual student computers from the website www.MetaNeuron.org. A manual containing operating instructions, a description of the lessons, and exercises conducted on MetaNeuron, can also be downloaded for free.
Research suggests that the key to optimal student learning, regardless of class size, is engaging students in active learning. It is my contention that to truly understand neural processing, one must not only understand the activities of the neuron as a living cell, but also how that cell works within the context of a neural network. The demonstration exercise described herein combines techniques expressed in three previously published articles, with certain modifications, allowing as few as 15 and as many as about 200 students to actively participate in the endeavor. Moreover, test scores from 158 students were examined, showing that students who participated in the demonstration performed significantly better on exam questions than students who did not take part.


Human vision requires fast eye movements (saccades). Each saccade causes a self-induced motion signal, but we are not aware of this potentially jarring visual input. Among the theorized causes of this phenomenon is a decrease in visual sensitivity before (presaccadic suppression) and during (intrasaccadic suppression) saccades. We investigated intrasaccadic suppression using a perceptual template model (PTM) relating visual detection to different signal-processing stages. One stage changes the gain on the detector's input; another increases uncertainty about the stimulus, allowing more noise into the detector; and other stages inject noise into the detector in a stimulus-dependent or -independent manner. By quantifying intrasaccadic suppression of flashed horizontal gratings at varying external noise levels, we obtained threshold-versus-noise (TVN) data, allowing us to fit the PTM. We tested if any of the PTM parameters changed significantly between the fixation and saccade models and could therefore account for intrasaccadic suppression. We found that the dominant contribution to intrasaccadic suppression was a reduction in the gain of the visual detector. We discuss how our study differs from previous ones that have pointed to uncertainty as an underlying cause of intrasaccadic suppression and how the equivalent noise approach provides a framework for comparing the disparate neural correlates of saccadic suppression.
Adaptation to specific visuomotor mappings becomes faster when switching back and forth between them. What is learned when repeatedly switching between the visuomotor mappings: the absolute mappings or the relative shift between the mappings? To test this, we trained participants in a rapid pointing task using a unique color cue as context for each mapping between pointing location and visual feedback. After extensive training, participants adapted to a new mapping using a neutral contextual cue. For catch trials (a change in cue and no visual feedback) different adaptation performances are predicted depending on how the mappings are encoded. When encoding an absolute mapping for each cue, participants would fall back to the mapping associated with the cue irrespective of the state they are currently in. In contrast, when a shift in mapping is encoded for the cue, pointing performance will shift relative to the current mapping by an amount equal to the difference between the previously learned mappings. Results indicate that the contextual cues signal absolute visuomotor mappings rather than relative shifts between mappings.

The association between future orientation and problem behaviors has received extensive empirical attention; however, previous work has not considered school contextual influences on this link. Using a sample of N=9,163 9th to 12th graders (51.0% females) from N=85 high schools of the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health, the present study examined the independent and interactive effects of adolescent future orientation and school contexts (school size, school location, school SES, school future orientation climate) on problem behaviors. Results provided evidence that adolescent future orientation was associated independently and negatively with problem behaviors. In addition, adolescents from large-size schools reported higher levels of problem behaviors than their age mates from small-size schools, controlling for individual-level covariates. Furthermore, an interaction effect between adolescent future orientation and school future orientation climate was found, suggesting influences of school future orientation climate on the link between adolescent future orientation and problem behaviors as well as variations in effects of school future orientation climate across different levels of adolescent future orientation. Specifically, the negative association between adolescent future orientation and problem behaviors was stronger at schools with a more positive climate of future orientation, whereas school future orientation climate had a significant and unexpectedly positive relationship with problem behaviors for adolescents with low levels of future orientation. Findings implicate the importance of comparing how the future orientation-problem behaviors link varies across different ecological contexts and the need to understand influences of school climate on problem behaviors in light of differences in psychological processes among adolescents.

The article begins with a review of the main conceptual steps involved in the development of our understanding of purinergic signalling, including non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC) neurotransmission; identification of ATP as a NANC transmitter; purinergic cotransmission; recognition of two families of purinoceptors [P1 (adenosine) and P2 (ATP/ADP)]; and, later, cloning and characterisation of P1 (G protein-coupled), P2X (ion channel) and P2Y (G protein-coupled) receptor subtypes. Further studies have established the involvement of ATP in synaptic neurotransmission in both ganglia and in the central nervous system; long-term (trophic) purinergic signalling in cell proliferation, differentiation and death occurring in development and regeneration; and short-term purinergic signalling in neurotransmission, neuromodulation and secretion. ATP is released from most cell types in response to gentle mechanical stimulation and is rapidly degraded to adenosine by ecto-nucleotidases. This review then focuses on the pathophysiology of purinergic signalling in a wide variety of systems, including urinogenital, cardiovascular, airway, musculoskeletal and gastrointestinal. Consideration is also given to the involvement of purinoceptors in pain, cancer and diseases of the central nervous system. Purinergic therapeutic approaches for the treatment of some of these diseases are discussed.







Background: A number of cardiovascular, neurological, musculoskeletal and other diseases have a limited capacity for repair and only a modest progress has been made in treatment of brain diseases. The discovery of stem cells has opened new possibilities for the treatment of these maladies, and cell therapy now stands at the cutting-edge of modern regenerative medicine and tissue engineering. Experimental data and the first clinical trials employing stem cells have shown their broad therapeutic potential and have brought hope to patients suffering from devastating pathologies of different organs and systems. Aims: Here, we briefly review the main achievements and trends in cell-based therapy, with an emphasis on the main types of stem cells: embryonic, mesenchymal stromal and induced pluripotent cells. Discussion: Many questions regarding the application of stem cells remain unanswered, particularly tumorigenicity, immune rejection and danger of gene manipulation. Currently, only MSC seems to be safe and might be considered to be a leading candidate for human application to treat pathologies that affect the cardiovascular, neurological and musculoskeletal systems.
The Geschwind-Behan-Galaburda (GBG) hypothesis links cerebral lateralisation with prenatal testosterone exposure. Digit ratio measures in adults have been established as potential markers of foetal sex hormonal milieu. The aim of the study was to evaluate the sex-dependent interaction of digit ratio measures and cerebral lateralization as well as their neurohemodynamic correlates using functional MRI (fMRI). Digit ratio measures-ratio of index finger (2D) length to ring finger (4D) length (2D:4D) and difference between 2D:4D of two hands, i.e., right minus left (DR-L)-were calculated using high resolution digital images in 70 right-handed participants (42 men) based on reliable and valid method. fMRI was acquired during the performance of a spatial working memory task in a subset of 25 individuals (14 men), and analysed using Statistical Parametric Mapping 8 (SPM8) and the Laterality Index toolbox for SPM8. Men had significantly less bilateral 2D:4D than women. There was a significant negative correlation between right 2D:4D and 2-Back task accuracy (2BACC) in women. A significant sex-by-right 2D:4D interaction was observed in left parahippocampal gyrus activation. Additionally, sex-by-DR-L interaction was observed in left IPL activation. DR-L showed a significant positive correlation with the whole brain Laterality Index (LI), and LI, in turn, demonstrated a significant negative correlation with 2BACC. Our study observations suggest several novel sex-differential relationships between 2D:4D measures and fMRI activation during spatial working memory task performance. Given the pre-existing background data supporting digit ratio measures as putative indicator of prenatal sex hormonal milieu, our study findings add support to the Geschwind-Behan-Galaburda (GBG) hypothesis.
There is considerable debate about whether population-level asymmetries in limb preferences are uniquely human or are a common feature among vertebrates. In the present article the results of studies investigating limb preferences in all non-extinct vertebrate orders are systematically analysed by employing cladographic comparisons. These studies analysed 119 different species, with 61 (51.26%) showing evidence for population-level asymmetries, 20 (16.81%) showing evidence for individual-level asymmetries and 38 (31.93%) showing no evidence for asymmetry. The cladographic comparison revealed that research in several key taxa in particular (e.g., Chondrichtyes, Crocodylia, Atlantogenata and Palaeognathae) would have important implications for our understanding of the evolution of vertebrate limb preferences. Furthermore, the findings of the present study support the position that population-level asymmetries in limb preferences as such represent a common vertebrate feature. Looking into the details, however, some important differences from human handedness become visible: Non-human limb preferences typically show a less-skewed lateralisation pattern and there are larger numbers of individuals without a preference in most species compared to humans. Moreover, limb preferences in non-human animals are often less task-invariant than human handedness and are more frequently modulated by external factors and individual characteristics.
The aim of the study was to explore whether the acoustic startle response shows signs of early lateralisation. Using non-invasive startle measurements (Automated Infant Motor Movement Startle Seat and Facial Action Coding System), an analysis of response latencies and intensities on the right and left body sides was performed, investigating the presence of asymmetries on the whole-body startle and on the facial component of the startle motor pattern in a group of 5-month-old infants. The findings suggest that the infant whole-body startle is a lateralised response, characterised by a right bias latency. This lateralisation could reflect an underlying lateralised organisation of the infant startle neural circuitry. On the other hand, the analysis of the facial component of the startle motor pattern did not reveal any significant asymmetry. The discrepancy found in the whole-body response and in the startle facial component will be discussed, reflecting on the limits of the adopted methodologies. The use of a high-speed camcorder might allow future research to analyse more in depth the startle fast face responses.
In the first decade of the twentieth century two influential researchers attempted to explain the origin and impact of left-handedness in human history. The first, the Turin physician Cesare Lombroso, often referred to as the father of modern criminology, was nearing the end of his long distinguished career. Lombroso tied left-handedness to criminality, insanity, and feeble mindedness. According to Lombroso, these groups shared biological regressions to primitive mentalities that could not be reversed by education or training. The second, French sociologist Robert Hertz, was at the beginning of a career cut short by his death in combat during the First World War. Hertz challenged Lombroso's claims, insisting that the predominance of right-handedness, whatever its biological substrate, was ultimately a cultural artefact driven by a primitive human urge to make sense of the world by dividing it into binary oppositions in which the right was viewed as sacred and the left as profane. Ending discrimination against left-handedness would, according to Hertz, unleash access to both hands and thus both hemispheres. The results, he insisted, would allow repressed talents and creativity to flourish. The conflicting views of Lombroso and Hertz have informed investigations of the causes and consequences of left-handedness until today. While the language of the debate has been reframed in current scientific discourses, left-handedness continues to be portrayed in the contradictory ways first elaborated by Lombroso and Hertz more than a century ago as either the cause of a variety of learning disabilities or as the key that can unlock creativity and talent. The debate also exposed the extent to which other cultural concerns, particularly anti-Semitism, informed theories of handedness.
A recent report found that left-handed adolescents were more than three times more likely to have an Apolipoprotein (APOE) 2 allele. This study was unable to replicate this association in young adults (N=166). A meta-analysis of nine other datasets (N=360 to 7559, Power &gt; 0.999) including that of National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center also failed to find an over-representation of 2 among left-handers indicating that this earlier outcome was most likely a statistical artefact.
Independent component analysis (ICA) is a widely accepted method to extract brain networks underlying cognitive processes from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. However, the application of ICA to multi-task fMRI data is limited due to the potential non-independency between task-related components. The ICA with projection (ICAp) method proposed by our group (Hum Brain Mapp 2009;30:417-31) is demonstrated to be able to solve the interactions among task-related components for single subject fMRI data. However, it still must be determined if ICAp is capable of processing multi-task fMRI data over a group of subjects. Moreover, it is unclear whether ICAp can be reliably applied to event-related (ER) fMRI data. In this study, we combined the projection method with the temporal concatenation method reported by Calhoun (Hum Brain Mapp 2008;29:828-38), referred to as group ICAp, to perform the group analysis of multi-task fMRI data. Both a human fMRI rest data-based simulation and real fMRI experiments, of block design and ER design, verified the feasibility and reliability of group ICAp, as well as demonstrated that ICAp had the strength to separate 4D multi-task fMRI data into multiple brain networks engaged in each cognitive task and to adequately find the commonalities and differences among multiple tasks.

Prostaglandin F(2) analogs (PGAs), including latanoprost, travoprost and bimatoprost, the first choice for the pharmaceutical treatment of glaucoma, are gaining more attention on their systemic side effects in recent years. The gastro-intestinal effects are among the most reported adverse effects upon topical application of PGAs. Yet, the underlying mechanism remains to be unknown. In the current study, we performed a molecular genetic analysis on the patient reported by Yu et al. (BMJ Case Rep, 2009), who developed nausea, vomiting and diarrhea after topical application of travoprost and latanoprost, but not bimatoprost, and then speculated that the mechanism underlying the gastro-intestinal distress secondary to PGA topical application should be attributed to their stimulation of smooth muscles of the gastric and intestinal tract via prostanoid receptors. We postulate that the diversified receptor selectivity of various PGAs might mediate their diversified gastro-intestinal effects. To further verificate the speculation, other three glaucoma patients who exhibited different gastro-intestinal responses to different PGA medications were enrolled. The results suggested that the relative expression level of FP receptor, versus EP receptors, might be associated with the severity of gastro-intestinal effects incurred by PGAs. Owing to the differed expression levels of FP receptor, the responses of various patients to different PGAs can be variable.
The human brain function involves complex processes with population codes of neuronal activities. Neuroscience research has demonstrated that when representing neuronal activities, sparsity is an important characterizing property. Inspired by this finding, significant amount of efforts from the scientific communities have been recently devoted to sparse representations of signals and patterns, and promising achievements have been made. However, sparse representation of fMRI signals, particularly at the population level of a group of different brains, has been rarely explored yet. In this paper, we present a novel group-wise sparse representation of task-based fMRI signals from multiple subjects via dictionary learning methods. Specifically, we extract and pool task-based fMRI signals for a set of cortical landmarks, each of which possesses intrinsic anatomical correspondence, from a group of subjects. Then an effective online dictionary learning algorithm is employed to learn an over-complete dictionary from the pooled population of fMRI signals based on optimally determined dictionary size. Our experiments have identified meaningful Atoms of Interests (AOI) in the learned dictionary, which correspond to consistent and meaningful functional responses of the brain to external stimulus. Our work demonstrated that sparse representation of group-wise fMRI signals is naturally suitable and effective in recovering population codes of neuronal signals conveyed in fMRI data.
Automated labeling of anatomical structures in medical images is very important in many neuroscience studies. Recently, patch-based labeling in the non-local manner has been widely investigated to alleviate the possible misalignment when registering atlases to the target image. However, the weights used for label fusion from the registered atlases in conventional methods are generally computed independently and thus lack the capability of preventing the ambiguous atlas patches from contributing to the label fusion. More critically, these weights are often calculated based only on the simple patch similarity, thus not necessarily providing optimal solution for label fusion. To address these issues, we present a novel patch-based label fusion method in multi-atlas scenario, for the goal of labeling each voxel in the target image by the best representative atlas patches that also have the lowest joint risk of mislabeling. Specifically, sparse coding is used to select a small number of atlas patches which best represent the underlying patch at each point of the target image, thus minimizing the chance of including the misleading atlas patches for labeling. Furthermore, we examine the joint risk of any pair of atlas patches in making similar labeling error, by analyzing the correlation of their morphological error patterns and also the labeling consensus among atlases. This joint risk will be further recursively updated based on the latest labeling results to correct the possible labeling errors. To demonstrate the performance of our proposed method, we have evaluated it on both whole brain parcellation and hippocampus segmentation, and achieved promising labeling results, compared with the state-of-the-art methods.
Estimation of the diffusion propagator from a sparse set of diffusion MRI (dMRI) measurements is a field of active research. Sparse reconstruction methods propose to reduce scan time and are particularly suitable for scanning un-coperative patients. Recent work on reconstructing the diffusion signal from very few measurements using compressed sensing based techniques has focussed on propagator (or signal) estimation at each voxel independently. However, the goal of many neuroscience studies is to use tractography to study the pathology in white matter fiber tracts. Thus, in this work, we propose a joint framework for robust estimation of the diffusion propagator from sparse measurements while simultaneously tracing the white matter tracts. We propose to use a novel multi-tensor model of diffusion which incorporates the biexponential radial decay of the signal. Our preliminary results on in-vivo data show that the proposed method produces consistent and reliable fiber tracts from very few gradient directions while simultaneously estimating the bi-exponential decay of the diffusion propagator.
Several data acquisition schemes for diffusion MRI have been proposed and explored to date for the reconstruction of the 2nd order tensor. Our main contributions in this paper are: (i) the definition of a new class of sampling schemes based on repeated measurements in every sampling point; (ii) two novel schemes belonging to this class; and (iii) a new reconstruction framework for the second scheme. We also present an evaluation, based on Monte Carlo computer simulations, of the performances of these schemes relative to known optimal sampling schemes for both 2nd and 4th order tensors. The results demonstrate that tensor estimation by the proposed sampling schemes and estimation framework is more accurate and robust.
Brain networks are becoming forefront research in neuroscience. Network-based analysis on the functional and structural connectomes can lead to powerful imaging markers for brain diseases. However, constructing the structural connectome can be based upon different acquisition and reconstruction techniques whose information content and mutual differences has not yet been properly studied in a unified framework. The variations of the structural connectome if not properly understood can lead to dangerous conclusions when performing these type of studies. In this work we present evaluation of the structural connectome by analysing and comparing graph-based measures on real data acquired by the three most important Diffusion Weighted Imaging techniques: DTI, HARDI and DSI. We thus come to several important conclusions demonstrating that even though the different techniques demonstrate differences in the anatomy of the reconstructed fibers the respective connectomes show variations of 20%.
A comprehensive framework for predicting response to therapy on the basis of heterogeneity in dceMRI parameter maps is presented. A motion-correction method for dceMRI sequences is extended to incorporate uncertainties in the pharmacokinetic parameter maps using a variational Bayes framework. Simple measures of heterogeneity (with and without uncertainty) in parameter maps for colorectal cancer tumours imaged before therapy are computed, and tested for their ability to distinguish between responders and non-responders to therapy. The statistical analysis demonstrates the importance of using the spatial distribution of parameters, and their uncertainties, when computing heterogeneity measures and using them to predict response on the basis of the pre-therapy scan. The results also demonstrate the benefits of using the ratio of Ktrans with the bolus arrival time as a biomarker.

Filtration during extracorporeal circulation (ECC) not only removes but also activates leukocytes; therefore, long-term leukocyte filtration may cause adverse effects. In the present study, we tested this hypothesis by priming ECC with 300 mL of canine blood and examining filtration effects in 3 groups (n = 6 each) during 60 min ECC. In the control group (Group C) blood was filtrated with an arterial filter for 60 min; in long-term (Group L) and short-term (Group S) groups, blood was filtrated with a leukocyte filter for 60 and 5 min. We found that about 90% of leukocytes were removed after 5 min of filtration in both Groups L and S. Although leukocyte count continued to reduce, mean fluorescent intensities of CD11/CD18, free hemoglobin, and neutrophil elastase increased in Group L and were higher than those in Groups C and S at 60 min. Leukocyte rupture, cytoplasmic leakage, and circulating naked nuclei were also found in Group L. The data support our hypothesis that long-term filtration can induce inflammation and lead to leukocyte destruction.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a complex group of neurodevelopment disorders steadily rising in frequency and treatment refractory, where the search for biological markers is of paramount importance. Although red blood cells (RBCs) membrane lipidomics and rheological variables have been reported to be altered, with some suggestions indicating an increased lipid peroxidation in the erythrocyte membrane, to date no information exists on how the oxidative membrane damage may affect cytoskeletal membrane proteins and, ultimately, RBCs shape in autism. Here, we investigated RBC morphology by scanning electron microscopy in patients with classical autism, that is, the predominant ASDs phenotype (age range: 6-26 years), nonautistic neurodevelopmental disorders (i.e., &quot;positive controls&quot;), and healthy controls (i.e., &quot;negative controls&quot;). A high percentage of altered RBCs shapes, predominantly elliptocytes, was observed in autistic patients, but not in both control groups. The RBCs altered morphology in autistic subjects was related to increased erythrocyte membrane F2-isoprostanes and 4-hydroxynonenal protein adducts. In addition, an oxidative damage of the erythrocyte membrane -actin protein was evidenced. Therefore, the combination of erythrocyte shape abnormalities, erythrocyte membrane oxidative damage, and -actin alterations constitutes a previously unrecognized triad in classical autism and provides new biological markers in the diagnostic workup of ASDs.
Previous studies have shown that prevention of leukocyte infiltration by targeting integrins involved in transendothelial migration may suppress the clinical and pathological features of neuroinflammatory disease. This study was designed to investigate the effects of C16, an 3 integrin-binding peptide, in an acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) rat model. Multiple histological and immunohistochemical staining, electron microscopy observation, ELISA assay, Western blot, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were employed to assess the degree of inflammation, axonal loss, neuronal apoptosis, white matter demyelination, and extent of gliosis in the brain and spinal cord of differently treated EAE models. The results showed that C16 treatment could inhibit extensive leukocyte and macrophage accumulation and infiltration and reduce cytokine tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and interferon- (IFN-) expression levels. A significantly lower clinical score at the peak time of disease was also demonstrated in the C16 treated group. Moreover, astrogliosis, demyelination, neuronal death, and axonal loss were all alleviated in C16 treated EAE animals, which may be attributed to the improvement of microenvironment. The data suggests that C16 peptide may act as a protective agent by attenuating inflammatory progression and thus affecting the expression of some proinflammatory cytokines during neuroinflammatory disease.
Cytokine concentrations are thought to be affected by methods of sampling and processing and by storage conditions. In this study we compared 17 cytokine concentrations obtained from plasma and serum at baseline and after a controlled thaw condition. We found that absolute agreement was poor between concentrations of cytokines in plasma and serum, except for MIP1  . A thaw condition significantly changed the concentrations of most cytokines, but serum appeared less affected by this than plasma was. Closer examination using Bland-Altman analyses revealed that for each comparison, agreement was moderately good for many cytokine concentrations. This is important because measures of agreement must be interpreted based on the required precision, which may differ between clinical and research demands. We also identified that for some cytokines, the relationship between serum and plasma is affected by concentration, thus advocating for the use of appropriate methods when performing such comparisons in studies such as systematic reviews and meta-analyses.
Substantial evidence indicates an association between clinical depression and altered immune function. Systemic administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is commonly used to study inflammation-associated behavioral changes in rodents. In these experiments, we tested the hypothesis that peripheral immune activation leads to neuroinflammation and depressive-like behavior in mice. We report that systemic administration of LPS induced astrocyte activation in transgenic GFAP-luc mice and increased immunoreactivity against the microglial marker ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 in the dentate gyrus of wild-type mice. Furthermore, LPS treatment caused a strong but transient increase in cytokine levels in the serum and brain. In addition to studying LPS-induced neuroinflammation, we tested whether sickness could be separated from depressive-like behavior by evaluating LPS-treated mice in a panel of behavioral paradigms. Our behavioral data indicate that systemic LPS administration caused sickness and mild depressive-like behavior. However, due to the overlapping time course and mild effects on depression-related behavior per se, it was not possible to separate sickness from depressive-like behavior in the present rodent model.

Chronic pain has to be considered in all respects a debilitating disease and 10-20% of the world's adult population is affected by this disease. In the most general terms, pain is symptomatic of some form of dysfunction and (often) the resulting inflammatory processes in the body. In the study of pain, great attention has been paid to the possible involvement of gonadal hormones, especially in recent years. In particular, testosterone, the main androgen, is thought to play a beneficial, protective role in the body. Other important elements to be related to pain, inflammation, and hormones are lipids, heterogenic molecules whose altered metabolism is often accompanied by the release of interleukins, and lipid-derived proinflammatory mediators. Here we report data on interactions often not considered in chronic pain mechanisms.



During the performance of cognitive tasks such as memory encoding, attention can become decoupled from the external environment and instead focused on internal thoughts related to the appraisal of the current task (task-related interferences; TRI), or personal thoughts unrelated to the task at hand (mind-wandering; MW). However, the association between the frequency of these thoughts experienced at encoding and retrieval accuracy in young and older adults remains poorly understood. In this study young and older adults encoded lists of words using one of two encoding tasks: judging whether words are man-made/natural (objective task), or whether they are pleasant/neutral (subjective task). We measured the frequency of TRI and MW at encoding, and related them to retrieval accuracy in both age groups. We found that encoding task influenced the type of internal thoughts experienced by young, but not older, adults: young exhibited greater MW in the subjective vs the objective task, and greater TRI in the objective vs subjective encoding task. Second, across both tasks we found marked age-related decreases in both MW and TRI at encoding, and frequency of these thoughts negatively impacted memory retrieval in young adults only. We discuss these findings in relation to current theories of ageing, attention and memory.
The field of affective neuroscience has emerged from the efforts of Jaak Panksepp in the 1990s and reinforced by the work of, among others, Joseph LeDoux in the 2000s. It is based on the ideas that affective processes are supported by brain structures that appeared earlier in the phylogenetic scale (as the periaqueductal gray area), they run in parallel with cognitive processes, and can influence behaviour independently of cognitive judgements. This kind of approach contrasts with the hegemonic concept of conscious processing in cognitive neurosciences, which is based on the identification of brain circuits responsible for the processing of (cognitive) representations. Within cognitive neurosciences, the frontal lobes are assigned the role of coordinators in maintaining affective states and their emotional expressions under cognitive control. An intermediary view is the Damasio-Bechara Somatic Marker model, which puts cognition under partial somatic-affective control. We present here our efforts to make a synthesis of these views, by proposing the existence of two interacting brain circuits; the first one in charge of cognitive processes and the second mediating feelings about cognitive contents. The coupling of the two circuits promotes an endogenous feedback that supports conscious processes. Within this framework, we present the defence that detailed study of both affective and cognitive processes, their interactions, as well of their respective brain networks, is necessary for a science of consciousness.
The study of consciousness is poised today at interesting crossroads. There has been a surge of research into various neurobiological underpinnings of consciousness in the past decade. The present article looks at the theories regarding this complex phenomenon, especially the ones that neurobiology, cognitive neuroscience and cognitive psychology have to offer. We will first discuss the origin and etymology of word consciousness and its usage. Neurobiological correlates of consciousness are discussed with structures like the ascending reticular activating system, the amygdala, the cerebellum, the thalamus, the frontoparietal circuits, the prefrontal cortex and the precuneus. The cellular and microlevel theories of consciousness and cerebral activity at the neuronal level contributing to consciousness are highlighted, along with the various theories posited in this area. The role of neuronal assemblies and circuits along with firing patterns and their ramifications for the understanding of consciousness are discussed. A section on the role of anaesthesia and its links to consciousness is presented, along with details of split-brain studies in consciousness and altered states of awareness, including the vegetative states. The article finally discusses the progress cognitive psychology has made in identifying and theorising various perspectives of consciousness, perceptual awareness and conscious processing. Both recent and past researches are highlighted. The importance and salient features of each theory are discussed along with the pitfalls, if present. A need for integration of various theories to understand consciousness from a holistic perspective is stressed, to enable one to reach a theory that explains the ultimate neurobiology of consciousness.
In 1952, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) system of creating, validating, studying and employing a diagnostic system in clinical psychiatric practice was introduced. There have been several updates and revisions to this manual and, regardless of its a theoretical framework, it actually does have a framework and presupposition. Essentially the DSM dictates that all psychiatric disorders are syndromes, or a collection of symptoms that commonly occur together and impair psychosocial functioning. These syndromes allow for homogenous groups of patients to be studied and psychotherapies and pharmacotherapies to be developed. This editorial will examine the DSM system with regards to its applicability to central nervous system dysfunction where psychiatric disorders are concerned. Specifically, the brain does not follow categorical, or syndromal, constructs. In fact, the psychiatric patient likely inherits several risk genes that promote abnormal proteins along several neuropathways in the brain. These abnormalities create dysfunctional neurocircuits which create individual psychiatric symptoms, but not a categorical syndrome or diagnosis. The concept that the DSM may be excellent for clinical diagnostic purposes, but less correct in its assumptions for a psychopharmacologist's treatment approaches will be discussed.

Disturbances in brain copper result in rare and severe neurological disorders and may play a role in the pathogenesis and progression of multiple neurodegenerative diseases. Our current understanding of mammalian brain copper transport is based on model systems outside the central nervous system and no data are available regarding copper transport systems in the human brain. To address this deficit, we quantified regional copper concentrations and examined the distribution and cellular localization of the copper transport proteins Copper transporter 1, Atox1, ATP7A, and ATP7B in multiple regions of the human brain using inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry, Western blot and immunohistochemistry. We identified significant relationships between copper transporter levels and brain copper concentrations, supporting a role for these proteins in copper transport in the human brain. Interestingly, the substantia nigra contained twice as much copper than that in other brain regions, suggesting an important role for copper in this brain region. Furthermore, ATP7A levels were significantly greater in the cerebellum, compared with other brain regions, supporting an important role for ATP7A in cerebellar neuronal health. This study provides novel data regarding copper regulation in the human brain, critical to understand the mechanisms by which brain copper levels can be altered, leading to neurological disease.
Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) performed using a laser scanning confocal microscope is a technique with single-molecule sensitivity that is becoming more accessible to cell biologists. In this chapter, we describe the use of FCS for the analysis of diffusion coefficients and receptor-receptor interactions in live cells in culture. In particular, we describe a protocol to collect fluorescence fluctuation data from fluorescence-tagged receptors as they diffuse into an out of a small laser-illuminated observation volume using a commercially available system such as the Zeiss ConfoCor 3 or LSM-780 microscope. Autocorrelation analysis of the fluctuations in fluorescence intensity provides information about the diffusion time and number of fluorescent molecules in the observation volume. A photon-counting histogram can be used to examine the relationship between fluorescence intensity and the number of fluorescent molecules to estimate the average molecular brightness of the sample. Since molecular brightness is directly proportional to the number of fluorescent molecules, it can be used to monitor receptor-receptor interactions and to decode the number of receptor monomers present in an oligomeric complex.
A large body of evidence indicates that G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) can form heteroreceptor complexes. In these complexes, the signaling from each interacting protomer is modulated to produce an integrated and therefore novel response upon agonist(s) activation. In the GPCR-RTK heteroreceptor complexes, GPCRs can activate RTK in the absence of added growth factor through the use of RTK signaling molecules. This integrative phenomenon is reciprocal and can place also RTK signaling downstream of GPCR. Formation of either stable or transient complexes by these two important classes of membrane receptors is involved in regulating all aspects of receptor function, from ligand binding to signal transduction, trafficking, desensitization, and downregulation among others. Functional phenomena can be modulated with conformation-specific inhibitors that stabilize defined GPCR states to abrogate both GPCR agonist- and growth factor-stimulated cell responses or by means of small interfering heteroreceptor complex interface peptides. The bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) technology has emerged as a powerful method to study the structure of heteroreceptor complexes closely associated with the study of receptor-receptor interactions in such complexes. In this chapter, we provide an overview of different BRET(2) assays that can be used to study the structure of GPCR-RTK heteroreceptor complexes and their functions. Various experimental designs for optimization of these experiments are also described.
This chapter presents a general approach for the application of spatial intensity distribution analysis (SpIDA) to pharmacodynamic quantification of receptor tyrosine kinase homodimerization in response to direct ligand activation or transactivation by G protein-coupled receptors. A custom graphical user interface developed for MATLAB is used to extract quantal brightness and receptor density information from intensity histograms calculated from single fluorescence microscopy images. This approach allows measurement of monomer/oligomer protein mixtures within subcellular compartments using conventional confocal laser scanning microscopy. Application of quantitative pharmacological analysis to data obtained using SpIDA provides a universal method for comparing studies between cell lines and receptor systems. In addition, because of its compatibility with conventional immunostaining approaches, SpIDA is suitable not only for use in recombinant systems but also for the characterization of mechanisms involving endogenous proteins. Therefore, SpIDA enables these biological processes to be monitored directly in their native cellular environment.
Freezing tissue is a convenient method for long-term storage. In addition, sectioning tissue under frozen conditions or embedded within a frozen matrix allows for stabilization of tissue during the sectioning process. This is advantageous for small and/or delicate tissue (e.g., rodent brains younger than postnatal day 7) and tissue that will be sectioned very thin (usually &lt;150 m).
Immunohistochemistry on free floating tissue sections is done for many reasons, all of which involve labeling tissue to visualize a certain cell type, protein, or structural component. Visualization is aided by mounting sections on microscope slides for stabilization, and is in most cases necessary for the appropriate use of objectives with a high numerical aperture and high degree of magnification.
RT-PCR is commonly used to test for genetic diseases and to characterize gene expression in various tissue types, cell types, and over developmental time courses. This serves as a form of expression profiling, but typically as a candidate approach. RT-PCR is also commonly used to clone cDNAs for further use with other molecular biology techniques (e.g., see Oligo(dT)-primed RT-PCR isolation of polyadenylated RNA degradation intermediates and Circularized RT-PCR (cRT-PCR): analysis of RNA 5' ends, 3' ends, and poly(A) tails).
Site-directed mutagenesis is a PCR-based method to mutate specified nucleotides of a sequence within a plasmid vector. This technique allows one to study the relative importance of a particular amino acid for protein structure and function. Typical mutations are designed to disrupt or map protein-protein interactions, mimic or block posttranslational modifications, or to silence enzymatic activity. Alternatively, noncoding changes are often used to generate rescue constructs that are resistant to knockdown via RNAi.
Disulfide bond formation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) requires the sequential transfer of electrons from thiol residues to protein disulfide isomerase and ER oxidase 1, with the final reduction of molecular oxygen to form hydrogen peroxide. Conditions that perturb correct protein folding lead to accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER lumen, which induce ER stress and oxidative stress. Oxidative damage of cellular macromolecules is a common marker of aging and various pathological conditions including diabetes, cancer, and neurodegenerative disease. As accumulating evidence suggests a tight connection between the ER stress and oxidative stress, analysis of appropriate markers becomes particularly important. Here, we describe methods to analyze markers of oxidative damage associated with ER stress.
This chapter presents a general approach for the application of spatial intensity distribution analysis (SpIDA) to the pharmacodynamic quantification of receptor tyrosine kinase homodimerization in response to direct ligand activation or transactivation by G-protein-coupled receptors. Intensity histograms are generated from single fluorescence microscopy images. These histograms are then fit with Poissonian distributions to obtain density maps and quantal brightness values of the labeled proteins underlying the images. This approach allows resolving monomer/oligomer protein mixtures within subcellular compartments using conventional confocal laser scanning microscopy. The application of quantitative pharmacological analysis to data obtained using SpIDA provides a universal method for comparing studies between cell lines and receptor systems. In contrast to methods based on resonance energy transfer, SpIDA is suitable not only for use in recombinant systems but also for the characterization of mechanisms involving endogenous proteins. Therefore, SpIDA enables these biological processes to be monitored directly in their native cellular environment.
The ability of GPCRs to assemble into multimeric complexes is one of the most recently studied and discussed topics for many reasons, including the possibility that GPCR assemblies show a distinct pharmacological profile offering an innovative avenue for the drug synthesis. In addition, the possible differential coupling of monomeric versus multimeric GPCRs to G proteins and other downstream partners, as well as the signaling, the regulation through desensitization and internalization, and the subcellular localization can well represent additional factors that contribute to GPCR-mediated physiopathological states. The standard biochemical techniques used to identify GPCR interactions, such as coimmunoprecipitation, have obvious limitations owing to the use of nonphysiological buffers and detergents that disrupt the natural cell environment and biological interactions and preclude the analysis of subcellular localization and compartmentalization. In the past decade, new biophysical proximity assays based on the resonance energy transfer (RET) between two chromophores allow the study of dimerization in intact living cells, thus proving more information on GPCR physiological roles. In this chapter, we detail the application of two RET techniques based on fluorescence (FRET) and bioluminescence (BRET) to the study of GPCR dimerization and describe the results that can be obtained.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) play critical roles in cellular processes and signaling and have been shown to form heteromers with diverge biochemical and/or pharmacological activities that are different from those of the corresponding monomers or homomers. However, despite extensive experimental results supporting the formation of GPCR heteromers in heterologous systems, the existence of such receptor heterocomplexes in the brain remains largely unknown, mostly because of the lack of appropriate methodology. Herein, we describe the in situ proximity ligation assay procedure underlining its high selectivity and sensitivity to image GPCR heteromers with confocal microscopy in brain sections. We describe here how the assay is performed and discuss advantages and disadvantages of this method compared with other available techniques.
GABA(B) receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that are activated by GABA, the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. Cell surface mobility of GABA(B) receptors is a key determinant of the efficacy of slow and prolonged synaptic inhibition initiated by GABA. Therefore, experimentally monitoring receptor mobility and how this can be regulated is of primary importance for understanding the roles of GABA(B) receptors in the brain, and how they may be therapeutically exploited. Unusually for a GPCR, heterodimerization between the R1 and R2 subunits is required for the cell surface expression and signaling by prototypical GABA(B) receptors. Here, we describe a minimal epitope-tagging method, based on the incorporation of an -bungarotoxin binding site (BBS) into the GABA(B) receptor, to study receptor internalization in live cells using a range of imaging approaches. We demonstrate how this technique can be adapted by modifying the BBS to monitor the simultaneous movement of both R1 and R2 subunits, revealing that GABA(B) receptors are internalized as heteromers.


Behavioral testing methods are described for determining whether female mice can discriminate between volatile urinary pheromones of conspecifics of the same vs. opposite sex and/or in different endocrine conditions, for determining sexual partner preference, for quantifying receptive (lordosis) behavior, and for monitoring the expression of male-typical mounting behavior in female mice.
The amenability to genetics of Drosophila melanogaster has made this organism one of the best-suited models for studying the neurobiology of pheromone-guided behavior. Single-male assays use the minigene encoding the thermosensitive channel dTrpA1 to activate neurons expressing fruitless (fru), a major courtship regulator gene, and thereby induce most of the elementary courtship acts in a solitary male exposed to temperature increase. Tethered male assays allow Ca(2+)-imaging of neuronal activities of a male fly displaying courtship behavior on a treadmill when stimulated with a female or pheromones. Here we describe technical details of these assays.
Electrical recordings from individual accessory olfactory bulb neurons allow exploration of the functional properties of this important pheromonal processing circuit. Several approaches to performing such recordings have been used. Here, we describe ex vivo methods that we have found useful for recording from accessory olfactory bulb neurons using simple extracellular glass electrodes.
Here we describe a general method for the construction of a lentivirus vector using a specific example of the construction of a lentivirus containing the luciferase reporter gene under the control of two hypothetical promoters and derived HIV-1 based lentivirus expression vector pLVX-Puro. This method can be used to compare the strength and regulation of different promoters. In this example, the target cells for transduction are human primary fetal astrocytes but the method is applicable to any primary cell culture from the CNS or other tissue and can be used to examine the strength of a particular promoter in different cell types. HIV based lentivirus particles are prepared by transfection of 4 plasmids into 293T cells using the Fugene 6 transfection reagent.
Efficient transfection of genes into neurons is a crucial step for the study of neuronal cell biology and functions. These include but are not limited to investigating gene function by overexpression of target proteins via expression plasmids and knocking down the expression levels of neuronal genes by RNA interference (RNAi). In addition, reporter gene constructs are widely used to investigate the promoter activities of neuronal genes. Numerous transfection techniques have been established to deliver genes into the cells. However, efficient transfection of post-mitotic cells, including neurons, still remains a challenging task. Here, we overview the advantages and disadvantages of various techniques for the transfection of primary neurons, and provide an optimized protocol for FuGENE-6 (Promega) which allows a suitable transfection efficiency of primary neuronal cultures.
Cell cultures constitute an important tool for research as a way to reproduce pathological processes in a controlled system. However, the culture of brain-derived cells in monolayer presents significant challenges that obscure the fidelity of in vitro results. After a few number of passages, glial and neuronal cells begin to lose their morphological characteristics, and most importantly, their specific cellular markers and phenotype. In recent years, the discovery of Neural Progenitor Cells and the methodology to culture them in suspension maintaining their potentiality while still retaining the ability to differentiate into astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons have made significant contributions to the fields of neuroscience and neuropathology.In the brain, progenitor cells are located in the Germinal Matrix, in the subventricular zone and play an essential role in the homeostasis of the brain by providing the source to replace differentiated cells that have been lost or damaged by different pathological processes, such as injury, genetic conditions or disease. The discovery of these Neural Stem Cells in an organ traditionally thought to have limited or no regenerative capacity has open the door to the development of novel treatments, which include cell replacement therapy. Here we describe the culture and differentiation of neural progenitor cells from Neurospheres, and the phenotyping of the resulting cells using immunocytochemistry. The immunocytological methods outlined are not restricted to the analysis of Neurosphere-derived cultures but are also applicable for cell typing of primary glial or cell line-derived samples.
In the enteric nervous system, there exist a lot of local intrinsic neurons which control the gastrointestinal functions. Culture of enteric neurons provides a good model system for physiological, electrophysiological, and pharmacological studies. Here, we describe two methods to obtain sufficient enteric neurons from mouse myenteric plexuses by directly culturing primary neurons or inducing neuronal differentiation of enteric neural stem/progenitor cells.
This chapter describes the culture and propagation of murine embryonic stem cells, F9 and P19 and strategies for differentiation of these stem cells into neurons. Protocols focus on maintenance and propagation of these cells and routine procedures employed for differentiation into neuronal cells. Additional protocols are also described for obtaining enriched populations of mature neurons from P19 cells and differentiation of F9 cells into serotonergic or catecholaminergic neurons.The protocols described herein can be employed for dissection of the pathways such as gliogenesis and neurogenesis that are involved in differentiation of pluripotent stem cells such as F9 and P19 into glial cells or terminally differentiated neurons.
The lack of a convenient, easily maintained and inexpensive in vitro human neuronal model to study neurodegenerative diseases, prompted us to develop a rapid, 1-h differentiated neuronal cell model based on human NT2 cells and C3 transferase. Here, we describe the rapid differentiation of human neuronal NT2 cells, and the differentiation, transduction and transfection of rat PC12 cells to obtain cells with the morphology of differentiated neurons that can express exogenous genes of interest at high level.
The use of primary mammalian neurons derived from embryonic central nervous system tissue is limited by the fact that once terminally differentiated into mature neurons, the cells can no longer be propagated. Transformed neuronal-like cell lines can be used in vitro to overcome this limitation. However, several caveats exist when utilizing cells derived from malignant tumors. In this context, the popular SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line and its use in in vitro systems is described. Originally derived from a metastatic bone tumor biopsy, SH-SY5Y (ATCC() CRL-2266) cells are a subline of the parental line SK-N-SH (ATCC() HTB-11). SK-N-SH were subcloned three times; first to SH-SY, then to SH-SY5, and finally to SH-SY5Y. SH-SY5Y were deposited to the ATCC() in 1970 by June L. Biedler.Three important characteristics of SH-SY5Y cells should be considered when using these cells in in vitro studies. First, cultures include both adherent and floating cells, both types of which are viable. Few studies address the biological significance of the adherent versus floating phenotypes, but most reported studies utilize adherent populations and discard the floating cells during media changes. Second, early studies by Biedler's group indicated that the parental differentiated SK-N-SH cells contained two morphologically distinct phenotypes: neuroblast-like cells and epithelial-like cells (Ross et al., J Nat Cancer Inst 71:741-747, 1983). These two phenotypes may correspond to the &quot;N&quot; and &quot;S&quot; types described in later studies in SH-SY5Y by Encinas et al. (J Neurochem 75:991-1003, 2000). Cells with neuroblast-like morphology are positive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine--hydroxylase characteristic of catecholaminergic neurons, whereas the epithelial-like counterpart cells lacked these enzymatic activities (Ross et al., J Nat Cancer Inst 71:741-747, 1983). Third, SH-SY5Y cells can be differentiated to a more mature neuron-like phenotype that is characterized by neuronal markers. There are several methods to differentiate SH-SY5Y cells and are mentioned below. Retinoic acid is the most commonly used means for differentiation and will be addressed in detail.
In this introductory chapter, we provide a general overview of neuronal cell culture. This is a rapidly evolving area of research and we provide an outline and contextual framework for the different chapters of this book. These chapters were all contributed by scientists actively working in the field who are currently using state-of-the-art techniques to advance our understanding of the molecular and cellular biology of the central nervous system. Each chapter provides detailed descriptions and experimental protocols for a variety of techniques ranging in scope from basic neuronal cell line culturing to advanced and specialized methods.
Numerous methods have been developed for the formation of disulfide bonds in recombinant DNA-derived and chemically synthesized peptides and proteins, but only a few have found widespread acceptance. The choice of method(s) for formation of disulfide in synthetic peptides and proteins needs to be tailored for each individual polypeptide in such a way so that the reaction conditions are selective, efficient, and safe and give the maximum yield. Here we describe the sequential formation of three disulfide bonds regioselectively which has been optimized for the synthesis of two-chained, heterodimeric polypeptide members of the insulin-relaxin superfamily.
Cell therapy is a promising experimental treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). It is based on the idea that new dopamine neurons transplanted directly into the forebrain of the patient can structurally and functionally compensate for those lost to the disease in order to restore motor function. While there is a highly active field of research focused on the development of stem cell-based procedures, fetal tissue remains the &quot;gold standard&quot; as a safe and reliable source of dopamine neuron progenitors capable of structural and functional integration with existing motor circuitry following transplantation. This chapter describes the basic procedures for preparation of dopamine progenitor rich cell suspensions of ventral mesencephalon as well as implantation into the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine model of PD and assessment of functional impact according to drug-induced rotational behavior. The description assumes a basic knowledge of animal handling and stereotaxic surgical procedures in rodents.
Flow cytometry is an advanced group of techniques for counting and quantifying microscopic particles such as cells, chromosomes, or functionalized beads. These approaches employ sophisticated optical and fluidic components to detect scattered light and fluorescent signals from cells as they sequentially pass an interrogation point. Cytometry plays a crucial role in the diagnosis of immunological disorders and cancers, and is a mainstay technique in basic research settings such as hematology, cell biology, and biomolecular screening. However, in spite of the breadth of applications spanning many fields, flow cytometry in neuroscience has been largely unexploited and has seen only a steady increase in interest until recent years. This is rather surprising as the potential of flow cytometry in neuroscience applications was recognized in the early 1980s as the technology was evolving.
The renewable source of neural stem cells (NSCs) with multi-lineage differentiation capability towards neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes represent an ideal supply for cell therapy of central nervous system (CNS) diseases. In spite of this, the clinical use of NSCs is hampered by heterogeneity, poor neuronal cell yield, predominant astrocytic differentiation of NSC progeny and possible uncontrolled proliferation, and tumor formation upon transplantation. The ability to generate highly enriched and defined neural cell populations from the renewable source of NSCs might overcome many of these impediments and pave the way towards their successful clinical applications. Here, we describe a simple method for NSC differentiation and subsequent purification of neuronal progenitor cells, taking advantage of size and granularity differences between neuronal cells and other NSC progeny. This highly enriched neuronal cell population provides an invaluable source of cells for both in vitro and in vivo studies.
Whereas neural stem cells and their niches have been extensively studied in the brain, little is known on these cells, their environment and their function in the adult spinal cord. Adult spinal cord neural stem cells are located in a complex niche surrounding the central canal and these cells expressed genes which are specifically expressed in the caudal central nervous system (CNS). In depth characterization of these cells in vivo and in vitro will provide interesting clues on the possibility to utilize this endogenous cell pool to treat spinal cord damages. We describe here a procedure to derive and culture neural spinal cord stem cells from adult mice using the neurosphere method.
RNA-seq or transcriptome analysis of individual cells and small-cell populations is essential for virtually any biomedical field. It is especially critical for developmental, aging, and cancer biology as well as neuroscience where the enormous heterogeneity of cells present a significant methodological and conceptual challenge. Here we present two methods that allow for fast and cost-efficient transcriptome sequencing from ultra-small amounts of tissue or even from individual cells using semiconductor sequencing technology (Ion Torrent, Life Technologies). The first method is a reduced representation sequencing which maximizes capture of RNAs and preserves transcripts' directionality. The second, a template-switch protocol, is designed for small mammalian neurons. Both protocols, from cell/tissue isolation to final sequence data, take up to 4 days. The efficiency of these protocols has been validated with single hippocampal neurons and various invertebrate tissues including individually identified neurons within a simpler memory-forming circuit of Aplysia californica and early (1-, 2-, 4-, 8-cells) embryonic and developmental stages from basal metazoans.
The revised version of cancer hallmarks, depicting the biological properties acquired during tumor development and progression, includes the capability to modify or reprogram cellular metabolism. High-resolution multinuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provides noninvasive means of monitoring metabolites that play a central role in several pathways, measuring the rates at which reactions within the pathways take place, and investigating how these rates are controlled in such a way that a metabolic precursor and cofactors are provided according to the demand. Here we describe comprehensive methods for assaying the activity of key enzymes involved in the phosphatidylcholine metabolic pathways responsible for phosphocholine accumulation in ovarian cancer cells using high-resolution (1)H and (31)P MRS analyses of cell lysates or cytosolic preparations.
Deep sequencing has many possible applications; one of them is the identification and quantification of RNA editing sites. The most common type of RNA editing is adenosine to inosine (A-to-I) editing. A prerequisite for this editing process is a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) structure. Such dsRNAs are formed as part of the microRNA (miRNA) maturation process, and it is therefore expected that miRNAs are affected by A-to-I editing. Indeed, tens of editing sites were found in miRNAs, some of which change the miRNA binding specificity. Here, we describe a protocol for the identification of RNA editing sites in mature miRNAs using deep sequencing data.
Cytokine measurement is a prerequisite to understand the inflammatory state of the body. Quantitative analysis of cytokines by Western blotting and ELISA is a daunting task as these are time-consuming and error-prone protocols. With the advent of flow cytometry, the estimation of cytokines using the classical antigen-antibody reaction has become a popular choice with researchers/clinicians. Here, we describe a protocol for multiple cytokine analysis using flow cytometry.
Ataxin-1 protein expression is found in the cytoplasm and nucleus of Purkinje cells, the primary site of spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). Phosphorylation at S776 occurs in the cytoplasm and stabilizes the protein through interaction with 14-3-3, allowing it to translocate into the nucleus where disease is initiated. Phosphorylation and stabilization are enhanced when the polyglutamine expansion is present. In this chapter, we present a model of neurodegeneration in SCA1 initiated through phosphorylation at S776 by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and enhanced by the presence of the polyglutamine expansion. The biological methods used to uncover SCA1 pathogenesis and phosphorylation at S776 are described.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by movement abnormalities, cognitive impairment, and abnormal behavior as well as sleep and weight problems. It is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a mutation in the huntingtin gene on the short arm of chromosome 4, which results in the progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia (caudate, putamen, and globus pallidus), cerebral cortex, brainstem, thalamus, and hypothalamus. This chapter considers four avenues of research: (a) the restoration of neurogenesis as an endogenous cell therapy in HD, (b) fetal tissue transplantation, (c) stem cell transplantation, and finally (d) the use of endogenous trophic factors such as brain derived neurotrophic factor.
Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by chronic and progressive neuronal loss. Being able to detect and quantify neurodegeneration is the first step to identify mechanisms underlying neuronal cell death and to develop novel therapeutic strategies. In this chapter, we describe a practical method for detecting and quantifying neurodegeneration in adult and aging mouse brains based on protocols developed in our laboratory over the last decade. We include protocols on sample preparation, immunohistochemical analysis, and stereological methods for counting neurons using examples of AD and PD mouse models. We also describe how to use Fluoro-Jade staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling to detect degenerating neurons and apoptotic cells, respectively, and how to use specific proteins as early markers of neurodegeneration.
Fragile X syndrome, the leading inherited cause of mental retardation and autism spectrum disorders worldwide, is caused by a tandem repeat expansion in the FMR1 (fragile X mental retardation 1) gene. It presents with a distinct behavioral phenotype which overlaps significantly with that of autism. Emerging evidence suggests that tandem repeat polymorphisms (TRPs) might also play a key role in modulating disease susceptibility for a range of common polygenic disorders, including the broader autism spectrum of disorders (ASD) and other forms of psychiatric illness such as schizophrenia, depression, and bipolar disorder [1]. In order to understand how TRPs and associated gene mutations mediate pathogenesis, various mouse models have been generated. A crucial step in such functional genomics is high-quality behavioral and cognitive phenotyping. This chapter presents a basic behavioral battery for standardized tests for assaying social phenotypes in mouse models of brain disorders, with a focus on aggression.
The preparation of tissue for histological study is a multi-step process in which potential loss of quality and the introduction of artifacts can occur during each step. Knowledge of the process and the potential pitfalls at each step will serve the investigator well. Here I describe the most basic histologic techniques, worked out so long ago they are often absent from current literature.
Immunofluorescence or IF is a technique allowing the visualization of a specific protein or antigen in cells or tissues by binding a specific antibody chemically conjugated with a fluorescence dye. Immunofluorescent staining is widely used in life science research, particularly for neuroscience. Here, we describe the immunofluorescent staining of whole-mount neonatal mouse diaphragms to study the morphological patterns of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) by using of presynaptic neuronal marker-neurofilament (NF) and synaptophysin antibodies; postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) were labeled with Alexa Fluor 594-conjugated -bungarotoxin (-BTX). Immunofluorescence-stained diaphragms were examined under a confocal microscope.
Quantifying dendrite morphology is a method for determining the effect of biochemical pathways and extracellular agents on neuronal development and differentiation. Quantification can be performed using Sholl analysis, dendrite counting, and length quantification. These procedures can be performed on dendrite-forming cell lines or primary neurons grown in culture. In this protocol, we describe the use of a set of computer programs to assist in quantifying many aspects of dendrite morphology, including changes in total and localized arbor complexity.
Luciferase reporter systems are widely employed to provide a quantitative readout of gene expression for studies of transcriptional regulation, translation efficiency, and cell signaling. The most common application of luciferase involves transient transfections into cells in vitro or in vivo. In both cases, the normal variability inherent in transfection approaches can introduce significant errors into the data that makes comparison between separate experiments problematic. The dual luciferase reporter assay system (DLR, Promega, WI, USA) is designed to control for this technical issue by using a co-transfection approach with two separate reporter proteins that emit at distinct wavelengths: one from firefly (Photinus pyralis) and the second from Renilla (Renilla reniformis). By normalizing experimental luciferase readings to an internal control transfected under the same conditions, these problems can be largely negated. Here, we describe a method for applying this technique to an in vivo system, the developing chick embryo neural tube. This system provides a physiologically relevant context for functional studies in a spatially and/or temporally controlled manner.
Immunofluorescence (IF), a form of immunohistochemistry (IHC) with specific applications, is commonly used for both basic research and clinical studies, including diagnostics, and involves visualizing the cellular distribution of target molecules (e.g., proteins, DNA, and small molecules) using a microscope capable of exciting and detecting fluorochrome compounds that emit light at specific, largely nonoverlapping wavelengths. The procedure for carrying out IF varies according to the tissue type and methods for processing and preparing tissue (e.g., fixative used to preserve tissue morphology and antigenicity). The protocol presented here provides a general guideline for multichannel IF staining using frozen embryonic mouse or chicken tissue sectioned on a cryostat. In general, the procedure involves the following: (1) fixing freshly dissected tissues in a 4 % paraformaldehyde solution buffered in the physiological pH range, (2) cryopreservation of tissue in a 30 % sucrose solution, (3) embedding and sectioning tissue in Optimal Cutting Temperature (OCT) matrix compound, (4) direct or indirect detection of the target antigen/s using fluorochrome-conjugated antibodies.
The developing spinal cord is a well-established model system widely used to study the signaling pathways and genetic programs that control neuronal/glial differentiation and neural circuit assembly. This is largely due to the relatively simple organization (compared to other CNS regions) and experimental accessibility of the neural tube, particularly in the chick embryo. In vivo transfection of cells within the developing chick neural tube using in ovo electroporation has emerged as a rapid and powerful experimental technique in that (1) transfected factors can be functionally tested in a spatially and temporally controlled manner and (2) the chick embryo provides a physiologically relevant in vivo environment to conduct biochemical studies such as dual-channel luciferase assay, co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), and Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP). In this chapter, we will take an in-depth look at the in ovo electroporation system in embryonic chicken spinal cord. In the following chapter, we will continue by examining the use of in ovo electroporation in the dual-channel luciferase assay as an example of its biochemical application.
Lentiviral vectors have become very useful tools for transgene delivery. Based on their ability to transduce both dividing and nondividing cells and to produce long-term transgene expression, lentiviruses have found numerous applications in the biomedical sciences, including developmental neuroscience. This protocol describes how to prepare lentiviral vectors by calcium phosphate transfection and to concentrate viral particles by ultracentrifugation. Functional vector titers can then be determined by methods such as fluorescence-activated cell sorting or immunostaining. Effective titers in the range of 10(8)-10(9) infectious units/ml can be routinely obtained using these protocols. Finally, we describe the infection of primary neuronal cultures with lentiviral vectors resulting in 85-90 % cell transduction using appropriate multiplicities of infection.
Biolistic transfection and diolistic labeling are techniques in which subcellular-sized particles, coated with DNA and lipophilic dyes, respectively, are propelled into cells. The gene-gun approach is particularly applicable for use on ex vivo organized tissue such as brain slices, where cells are not accessible for transfection with methods used in dissociated cell preparations. This simple and rapid method results in targeting of individual cells in a Golgi-like manner, allowing investigating structural and functional aspects of neuronal development.
The calcium phosphate transfection is a widely used method for introducing foreign DNA plasmids into cells. Mechanisms underlying this transfection method are not yet defined; however, DNA-calcium phosphate precipitates are internalized by the cells and DNA is efficiently expressed in almost all cell types. The cost-efficiency and simplicity of this method allows for use in primary neuronal cultures, despite issues of neurotoxicity. Here, we describe an optimized calcium phosphate transfection method for the delivery of DNA plasmid into primary dissociated neuronal cultures.
The use of enriched oligodendrocyte lineage cell cultures has yielded insight into functions of these cells and regulatory mechanisms. This chapter details methods that result in such cultures.
The use of cultures has informed us of functions and regulation of astrocytes that were previously unknown. This chapter details the methods that result in such cultures.
Nucleoside analog pulse labeling is an important technique which can assess the birthdate, cell cycle maintenance, or cycling rates of cells during development. This method has evolved over several decades of use and is now applied to a multitude of tissue subtypes and systems. The methodology in this chapter covers the classic uses for analog pulse labeling as well as their use in conjunction with the newly characterized technique of in utero electroporation (IUE).
Stem cell transplantation is a promising new therapeutic option in different neurological diseases. However, it is not yet possible to translate its potential from animal models to clinical application. One of the main problems of applying stem cell transplantation in clinical medium is the difficulty of detection, localization, and examination of the stem cells in vivo at both cellular and molecular levels. State-of-the-art molecular imaging techniques provide new and better means for noninvasive, repeated, and quantitative tracking of stem cell implant or transplant. From initial deposition to the survival, migration, and differentiation of the transplant/implanted stem cells, current molecular imaging methods allow monitoring of the infused cells in the same live recipient over time. The present review briefly summarizes and compares these molecular imaging methods for cell labeling and imaging in animal models as well as in clinical application and sheds light on consecutive new therapeutic options if appropriate.
Mis-regulation of gene expression due to epigenetic abnormalities has been linked with complex genetic disorders, psychiatric illness, and cancer. In addition, the dynamic epigenetic changes that occur in pluripotent stem cells are believed to impact regulatory networks essential for proper lineage development. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) is a technique used to enrich genomic fragments using antibodies against specific chromatin modifications, such as DNA-binding proteins or modified histones. Until recently, many ChIP protocols required large numbers of cells for each immunoprecipitation. This severely limited analysis of rare cell populations or post-mitotic, differentiated cell lines. Here, we describe a low cell number ChIP protocol with next generation sequencing and analysis that has the potential to uncover novel epigenetic regulatory pathways that were previously difficult or impossible to obtain.
Nanoparticle-based drug delivery systems have considerable potential for improvement of drug stability, bioavailability, and reduced dosing frequency. Important technological advantages of nanoparticles include high carrier capacity across biological membranes and controlled drug release. Ultimately, success of nanodelivery systems depends on toxicologic issues associated with the understanding of the fate of nanocarriers and their polymeric constituents within the targeted cells. Here we describe a method for determining subcellular distribution of nanoparticles by isolation and identification of organelles that come in direct contact with these structures.
Cell-mediated nanoparticle delivery has recently emerged as an efficacious method of delivering therapeutic agents across physiological barriers. Use of cells as nanodelivery vehicles requires accurate assessment of their loading capacity and identification of intracellular compartments where nanoparticles are sequestered. This is of great interest since specific endocytic trafficking routes can ultimately influence the mode of nanoparticle release and their efficacy and function. Here, we describe a technique that allows for the isolation of individual populations of nanoparticle-containing endosomes for subsequent quantitative analysis and more accurate description of where nanoparticles are stored on a subcellular level.
Recent discovery of the light-activated ion channel, channelrhodopsin (ChR), has provided researchers a powerful and convenient tool to manipulate the membrane potential of specific cells with light. With genetic targeting of these channels and illumination of light to a specific location, the experimenter can selectively activate the voltage-gated ion channels (VGICs) of ChR-expressing cells, initiating electrical signaling in temporally and spatially precise manners. In neuroscience research, this can be used to study electrical signal processing within one neuron at the cellular level, or the synaptic connectivity between neurons at the circuitry level. To conduct experiments with ChRs, these exogenous channels need to be introduced into the cells of interest, commonly through a viral approach. This chapter provides an overview of the design, production, and validation of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) for ChR expression that can be used in vitro or in vivo to infect neurons. The virus produced can be used to conduct &quot;optogenetic&quot; experiments in behaving animals, in vitro preparations and cultured cells, and can be used to study signal transduction and processing at a cellular or circuitry level.
Ion channels are integral membrane proteins that regulate the flow of ions across the plasma membrane and the membranes of intracellular organelles of both excitable and non-excitable cells. Ion channels are vital to a wide variety of biological processes and are prominent components of the nervous system and cardiovascular system, as well as controlling many metabolic functions. Furthermore, ion channels are known to be involved in many disease states and as such have become popular therapeutic targets. For many years now manual patch-clamping has been regarded as one of the best approaches for assaying ion channel function, through direct measurement of ion flow across these membrane proteins. Over the last decade there have been many remarkable breakthroughs in the development of technologies enabling the study of ion channels. One of these breakthroughs is the development of automated planar patch-clamp technology. Automated platforms have demonstrated the ability to generate high-quality data with high throughput capabilities, at great efficiency and reliability. Additional features such as simultaneous intracellular and extracellular perfusion of the cell membrane, current clamp operation, fast compound application, an increasing rate of parallelization, and more recently temperature control have been introduced. Furthermore, in addition to the well-established studies of over-expressed ion channel proteins in cell lines, new generations of planar patch-clamp systems have enabled successful studies of native and primary mammalian cells. This technology is becoming increasingly popular and extensively used both within areas of drug discovery as well as academic research. Many platforms have been developed including NPC-16 Patchliner() and SyncroPatch() 96 (Nanion Technologies GmbH, Munich), CytoPatch (Cytocentrics AG, Rostock), PatchXpress() 7000A, IonWorks() Quattro and IonWorks Barracuda, (Molecular Devices, LLC); Dynaflow() HT (Cellectricon AB, Mlndal), QPatch HT (Sophion A/S, Copenhagen), IonFlux HT (Fluxion Bioscience Inc, USA), which have demonstrated the capability to generate recordings similar in quality to that of conventional patch clamping. Here we describe features of Nanion's NPC-16 Patchliner() and processes and protocols suited for this particularly flexible and successful high-throughput automated platform, which is based on planar patch-clamp technology. However, many of the protocols and notes given in this chapter can be applied to other automated patch-clamp platforms, similarly.
Brain dopamine pathways serve wide-ranging functions including the control of movement, reward, cognition, learning, and mood. Consequently, dysfunction of dopamine transmission has been implicated in clinical conditions such as Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, addiction, and depression. Establishing factors that regulate dopamine release can provide novel insights into dopaminergic communication under normal conditions, as well as in animal models of disease in the brain. Here we describe methods for the study of somatodendritic and axonal dopamine release in brain slice preparations. Topics covered include preparation and calibration of carbon-fiber microelectrodes for use with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry, preparation of midbrain and forebrain slices, and procedures of eliciting and recording electrically evoked dopamine release from in vitro brain slices.
Optimal dopamine tone is required for the normal cortical function; however it is still unclear how cortical-dopamine-release affects information processing in individual cortical neurons. Thousands of glutamatergic inputs impinge onto elaborate dendritic trees of neocortical pyramidal neurons. In the process of ensuing synaptic integration (information processing), a variety of calcium transients are generated in remote dendritic compartments. In order to understand the cellular mechanisms of dopaminergic modulation it is important to know whether and how dopaminergic signals affect dendritic calcium transients. In this chapter, we describe a relatively inexpensive method for monitoring dendritic calcium fluctuations at multiple loci across the pyramidal dendritic tree, at the same moment of time (simultaneously). The experiments have been designed to measure the amplitude, time course and spatial extent of action potential-associated dendritic calcium transients before and after application of dopaminergic drugs. In the examples provided here the dendritic calcium transients were evoked by triggering the somatic action potentials (backpropagation-evoked), and puffs of exogenous dopamine were applied locally onto selected dendritic branches.
It is evident that G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) such as D2 dopamine receptor and functionally related Trace Amine Associated Receptor 1 (TAAR1) can engage both in G protein-dependent (e.g., cAMP-mediated) and -independent -arrestin-mediated signaling modalities. Both of these signaling events can be monitored in real-time and in live cells by using new biosensors based on a Bioluminescence Resonance Energy Transfer (BRET) approach. Here we discuss the practical applications of BRET to analyze dynamics of cAMP modulation via an EPAC biosensor as well as recruitment of -arrestin2 to the D2 dopamine receptor. Combination of these approaches allows for a comparison of activity of pharmacological compounds on these signaling modalities as demonstrated for various antipsychotics as regard to D2 dopamine receptor. Furthermore, analysis of cAMP concentrations in cells expressing TAAR1 provides a simple high-throughput screening method to identify new ligands for this receptor. These BRET approaches could be applied for the characterization of pharmacology and signaling of variety of other GPCRs.
In recent years advancements in proteomic techniques have contributed to the understanding of protein interaction networks (Interactomes) in various cell types. Today, high throughput proteomics promises to define virtually all of the components of a signaling and a regulatory network within cells for various molecules including membrane-spanning receptors. The D2 dopamine receptor (D2R) is a primary mediator of dopamine transmission in the brain. Signaling through D2Rs has been linked to dopamine-mediated effects on motivation, reward, locomotion and addiction to drugs of abuse. In the striatum, the D2R is a key mediatory of dopamine transmission. Actions on this receptor are an important pharmacological property of various drugs including typical antipsychotics and drugs of abuse. Here we provide an approach for the identification protein interaction networks of the D2R within striatal cells. We discuss key assays and techniques, such as cellular membrane protein fractionation, western blot analysis, magnetic bead coimmunoprecipitation, and liquid chromatography electrospray ionization (LC-ESI) mass spectrometry, that can be used for the isolation and characterization of D2R protein interaction networks. This approach presents a reliable method for the identification and characterization of D2R signaling within cells.
Dopamine is the main catecholamine found in the retina of most species, being synthesized from the L-amino acid tyrosine. Its effects are mediated by G protein coupled receptors subfamilies that are commonly coupled to adenylyl cyclase in opposite manners. There is evidence that this amine works as a developmental signal in the embryonic retina and several distinct roles have been attributed to dopamine in the retina such as proliferation, synaptogenesis, neuroprotection, increased signal transmission in cone, gap junction modulation, neuronal-pigmented epithelium-glial communication, and neuron-glia interaction. Here we describe methods that have been used in the study of the dopaminergic function in the retina in the last 40 years. We emphasize the approaches used in the studies on the development of the avian and rodent retina. The dopaminergic system is one of the first phenotypes to appear in the developing vertebrate retina.
RAGE (receptor for advanced glycation end products) is a multi-ligand receptor that belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily of transmembrane proteins. RAGE binds AGEs (advanced glycation end products), HMGB1 (high-mobility group box-1; also designated as amphoterin), members of the S100 protein family, glycosaminoglycans and amyloid  peptides. Recent studies using tools of structural biology have started to unravel common molecular patterns in the diverse set of ligands recognized by RAGE. The distal Ig domain (V1 domain) of RAGE has a positively charged patch, the geometry of which fits to anionic surfaces displayed at least in a proportion of RAGE ligands. Association of RAGE to itself, to HSPGs (heparan sulfate proteoglycans), and to Toll-like receptors in the cell membrane plays a key role in cell signaling initiated by RAGE ligation. Ligation of RAGE activates cell signaling pathways that regulate migration of several cell types. Furthermore, RAGE ligation has profound effects on the transcriptional profile of cells. RAGE signaling has been mainly studied as a pathogenetic factor of several diseases, where acute or chronic inflammation plays a role. Recent studies have suggested a physiological role for RAGE in normal lung function and in neuronal signaling.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are in wide use for in vivo gene transfer for the treatment of inherited retinal disease. AAV vectors have been tested in many animal models and have demonstrated efficacy with low toxicity. In this chapter we describe some of the recent methods for small-scale production of these vectors for use in a laboratory setting in volumes and purity appropriate for testing in small and large animals.
The introduction of large-scale gene expression profiling studies has greatly increased the need to rapidly obtain high-quality cellular expression patterns of genes found to exhibit differential expression. The use of large-scale nonradioactive RNA in situ hybridization makes this possible, and greatly increases the general usefulness of this data. Here, we describe protocols for parallel analysis of up to 50 different gene-specific probes in mouse retinal sections.
In biological science, there are still many interesting and fundamental yet difficult questions, such as those in neuroscience, remaining to be answered. Structural and functional studies of membrane proteins, which are key molecules of signal transduction in neural and other cells, are essential for understanding the molecular mechanisms of many fundamental biological processes. Technological and instrumental advancements of electron microscopy have facilitated comprehension of structural studies of biological components, such as membrane proteins. While X-ray crystallography has been the main method of structure analysis of proteins including membrane proteins, electron crystallography is now an established technique to analyze structures of membrane proteins in the lipid bilayer, which is close to their natural biological environment. By utilizing cryo-electron microscopes with helium-cooled specimen stages, structures of membrane proteins were analyzed at a resolution better than 3 . Such high-resolution structural analysis of membrane proteins by electron crystallography opens up the new research field of structural physiology. Considering the fact that the structures of integral membrane proteins in their native membrane environment without artifacts from crystal contacts are critical in understanding their physiological functions, electron crystallography will continue to be an important technology for structural analysis. In this chapter, I will present several examples to highlight important advantages and to suggest future directions of this technique.
Even now, most human cell lines used in research are derived from tumor cells. They are still widely used because they grow well in vitro and so far have helped answering several basic biological questions. However, as modern biology moves into more sophisticated areas, scientists now need human cell lines closer to normal primary cells and further from transformed cancerous cells. The recent identification of cellular genes involved in cell cycling and senescence, together with the development of molecular tools capable of cleanly integrating transgenes into the genome of target cells, have moved the frontier of genetic engineering. In this chapter, we present a detailed hands-on protocol, based on lentivirus-derived vectors and a combination of two native cellular genes that has proven very efficient in generating immortal cell lines from several human primary cells, while preserving most of their original properties.
In this chapter, we present the uPAINT method (Universal Point Accumulation Imaging in Nanoscale Topography), a simple single-molecule super-resolution method which can be implemented on any wide field fluorescence microscope operating in oblique illumination. The key feature of uPAINT lies in recording high numbers of single molecules at the surface of a cell by constantly labeling while imaging. In addition to generating super-resolved images, uPAINT can provide dynamical information on a single live cell with large statistics revealing localization-specific diffusion properties of membrane biomolecules. Interestingly, any membrane biomolecule that can be labeled with a fluorescent ligand can be studied, making uPAINT an extremely versatile method.
STED microscopy is a novel fluorescence microscopy technique that breaks the classic diffraction barrier of optical microscopy. It offers the chance to investigate dynamic processes inside living cells with a spatial resolution well below 100 nm, possibly even down to a few nanometers, essentially without forgoing the benefits of conventional light microscopy, such as labeling specificity, sensitivity, and contrast. STED microscopy has already been exploited for several important neurobiological experiments. Given the tremendous potential as a transforming technology, it is important to understand how it works, and what its scope and limitations are. Here, we present a primer on STED microscopy, its basic principles and practical implementation, presenting a how-to guide on building and operating a STED microscope.
Data on the production of inositol phosphates is a useful complement to measurements of intracellular Ca(2+). The basic principle is labeling of the inositol lipids by growing the appropriate cell line in culture in the presence of [3H]inositol for 2-3 days to reach labeling equilibrium. Lithium ions at 10 mM inhibits the degradation of inositol phosphates to free inositol and is used to trap the inositol in the inositol polyphosphate forms. Inositol phosphates can be separated with ease from free inositol by using anion exchange chromatography. A method capable of easily processing approximately 40-60 samples in a single day is presented.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 21-23-nucleotide-long small noncoding RNAs, function as mediators in gene silencing, and play essential roles in gene regulation in development, differentiation, and proliferation. Hundreds of miRNAs have been found, and tissue-specific or organ-specific expression of miRNAs has been detected. Here, I describe procedures for detection of miRNAs in the course of neuronal differentiation of human teratocarcinoma NTera2D1 and mouse embryonic carcinoma P19 cells.
Many neuroscience studies involve subcellular fractionation to produce isolated or enriched synaptic fractions. Synaptosomes are prepared by flotation of synaptic membranes on sucrose or Percoll gradients. Alternatively, synaptoneurosomes are prepared by filtration of tissue homogenate through a series of filters to obtain a fraction that is enriched in pinched-off dendritic spines. Whereas the protocol for making synaptosomes is reasonably well standardized and well described in the literature, there is (to our knowledge) no detailed lab protocol for making synaptoneurosomes. Here, we give the methods used in our laboratory to produce synaptoneurosomes that are suitable for studying RNAs and proteins.
Edelfosine and perifosine are alkylphospholipids that have been intensively studied as potential antitumor agents. Apoptotic cell death caused by these two compounds is mediated, at least in part, through mitochondria. Additionally, previous works demonstrated that edelfosine induces changes in mitochondrial membrane permeability that are somehow reduced by using cyclosporin A. Therefore, the objective of the present study was not only to confirm mitochondrial permeability transition but also identify direct effects of both ether lipids on mitochondrial hepatic fractions, namely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and generation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) through the respiratory chain. Results show that edelfosine and perifosine inhibit mitochondrial respiration and decrease transmembrane electric potential. However, despite these effects, edelfosine and perifosine were still able to induce mitochondrial permeability transition in non-energized mitochondria. Interestingly, edelfosine decreased H(2)O(2) production through the respiratory chain. In conclusion, the present work demonstrates previously unknown alterations of mitochondrial physiology directly induced by edelfosine and perifosine. The study is relevant in the understanding of mitochondrial-target effects of both compounds, as well as to acknowledge possible toxic responses in non-tumor organs.
High-resolution melting curve analysis (HRM) of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplicons has been described as a fast, cheap, and reliable closed-tube method of genotyping with no need for labeled primers or labeled probes. We adapted this melting analysis assay for the detection of the most common nonfunctional alleles of cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 2D6 in the Caucasian population that affect the metabolism of many commonly used drugs. We used this method to genotype 91 patients under paroxetine therapy. The presence and the constitution of the most common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (1846G&gt;A, 2988G&gt;A, 100C&gt;T, 2549delA, 2615_2617delAAG, and 1707delT) in poor and intermediate metabolizers from the Caucasian population were detected in short amplicons (148 bp). After fluorescence normalization, the wild-type, homozygous, and heterozygous samples were easily distinguishable from each other by their specific melting curve shape. A total of 92.6% of the 1846G&gt;A heterozygotes, 96% of the 100C&gt;T heterozygotes, and 100% of the 2988G&gt;A, 2549delA, 2615_2617delAAG, and 1707delT heterozygotes have been correctly distinguished from the wild types. One hundred percent of all the homozygotes in this group of patients have been detected without any error. HRM of short amplicons is a simple tool for effective, rapid, and reliable CYP2D6 genotyping that does not require real-time PCR, labeled probes, processing or any separations after PCR. The reaction is performed in a closed-tube system and is highly specific and sensitive. We proved that this technique is highly reliable for use in routine diagnostics.
Proteins of the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) are known for their role in the vertebrate adaptive immune response, and are required for normal postnatal brain development and plasticity. However, it remains unknown if MHCI proteins are present in the mammalian brain before birth. Here, we show that MHCI proteins are widely expressed in the developing mouse central nervous system at mid-gestation (E9.5-10.5). MHCI is strongly expressed in several regions of the prenatal brain, including the neuroepithelium and olfactory placode. MHCI is expressed by neural progenitors at these ages, as identified by co-expression in cells positive for neuron-specific class III -tubulin (Tuj1) or for Pax6, a marker of neural progenitors in the dorsal neuroepithelium. MHCI is also co-expressed with nestin, a marker of neural stem/progenitor cells, in olfactory placode, but the co-localization is less extensive in other regions. MHCI is detected in the small population of post-mitotic neurons that are present at this early stage of brain development, as identified by co-expression in cells positive for neuronal microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2). Thus MHCI protein is expressed during the earliest stages of neuronal differentiation in the mammalian brain. MHCI expression in neurons and neural progenitors at mid-gestation, prior to the maturation of the adaptive immune system, is consistent with MHCI performing non-immune functions in prenatal brain development. These results raise the possibility that disruption of the levels and/or patterns of MHCI expression in the prenatal brain could contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Previously we reported that amyloid- (A) leads to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in cultured cortical neurons and that ER-mitochondria Ca(2+) transfer is involved in A-induced apoptotic neuronal cell death. In cybrid cells which recreate the defect in mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity observed in platelets from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, we have shown that mitochondrial dysfunction affects the ER stress response triggered by A. Here, we further investigated the impact of COX inhibition on A-induced ER dysfunction using a neuronal model. Primary cultures of cortical neurons were challenged with toxic concentrations of A upon chemical inhibition of COX with potassium cyanide (KCN). ER Ca(2+) homeostasis was evaluated under these conditions, together with the levels of ER stress markers, namely the chaperone GRP78 and XBP-1, a mediator of the ER unfolded protein response (UPR). We demonstrated that COX inhibition potentiates the A-induced depletion of ER Ca(2+) content. KCN pre-treatment was also shown to enhance the rise of cytosolic Ca(2+) levels triggered by A and thapsigargin, a widely used ER stressor. This effect was reverted in the presence of dantrolene, an inhibitor of ER Ca(2+) release through ryanodine receptors. Similarly, the increase in GRP78 and XBP-1 protein levels was shown to be higher in neurons treated with A or thapsigargin in the presence of KCN in comparison with levels determined in neurons treated with the neurotoxins alone. Although the decrease in cell survival, the activation of caspase-9- and -3-mediated apoptotic cell death observed in A- and thapsigargin-treated neurons were also potentiated by KCN, this effect is less pronounced than that observed in Ca(2+) signalling and UPR. Furthermore, in neurons treated with A, the potentiating effect of the COX inhibitor in cell survival and death was not prevented by dantrolene. These results show that inhibition of mitochondrial COX activity potentiates A-induced ER dysfunction and, to a less extent, neuronal cell death. Furthermore, data supports that the effect of impaired COX on A-induced cell death occurs independently of Ca(2+) release through ER ryanodine receptors. Together, our data demonstrate that mitochondria dysfunction in AD enhances the neuronal susceptibility to toxic insults, namely to A-induced ER stress, and strongly suggest that the close communication between ER and mitochondria can be a valuable future therapeutic target in AD.
Mice deficient for the transcription factor Ebf2 lose a subset of Purkinje cells during development and have a hypotrophic cerebellar cortex. Related motor symptoms and the function of Purkinje cells surviving in the adult have not been studied so far. Ebf2 null mice presented locomotor impairment and a deficiency of motor coordination and motor learning. Ebf2 null Purkinje cells of the anterior lobe, relative to wild-type controls, were patch-clamp recorded in acutely prepared slices. While immature Purkinje cells (10-20 postnatal days) of Ebf2 null mice showed no significant difference relative to wild-types, in the adult they featured a higher input resistance, increased anomalous rectification, decreased first spike latency, higher initial firing frequency, lower voltage threshold and reduced afterhyperpolarizations and post-burst hyperpolarizations. These parameters indicate a difference in the response to both hyperpolarizing and depolarizing stimuli, corresponding to an altered cerebellar cortical output signaling. In contrast, adult climbing fibers attained a normal monoinnervation pattern and the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse showed evoked postsynaptic currents and paired-pulse facilitation functionally indistinguishable from wild-type PCs. These results suggest that the motor deficits exhibited by Ebf2 null mice could be due, at least in part, to an impairment of the firing properties of surviving Purkinje cells. These findings indicate that Ebf2 is important for the development and maintenance of normal Purkinje cell discharge properties.


Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its cognate receptor, TrkB (tropomyosin receptor kinase B), are widely expressed in the brain where they regulate a wide variety of biological processes, including energy homeostasis. However, the specific population(s) of TrkB-expressing neurons through which BDNF governs energy homeostasis remain(s) to be determined. Using the Cre-loxP recombination system, we deleted the mouse TrkB gene in RGS9-2-expressing cells. In this mouse mutant, TrkB expression was abolished in several hypothalamic nuclei, including arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial hypothalamus, and lateral hypothalamus. TrkB expression was also abolished in a small number of cells in other brain regions, including the cerebral cortex and striatum. The mutant animals developed hyperphagic obesity with normal energy expenditure. Despite hyperglycemia under fed conditions, these animals exhibited normal fasting blood glucose levels and normal glucose tolerance. These results suggest that BDNF regulates energy homeostasis in part through TrkB-expressing neurons in the hypothalamus.
Neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) control motivated behaviors such as feeding and ambulatory activity, in part by modulating mesolimbic dopamine (DA) circuits. The hormone, leptin, acts via the long form of the leptin receptor (LepRb) in the brain to signal the repletion of body energy stores, thereby decreasing feeding and promoting activity. LHA LepRb neurons, most of which contain neurotensin (Nts; LepRb(Nts) neurons) link leptin action to the control of mesolimbic DA function and energy balance. To understand potential roles for Nts in these processes, we examined mice null for Nts receptor 1 (NtsR1KO). While NtsR1KO mice consume less food than controls on a chow diet, they eat more and become obese when fed a high-fat, high-sucrose palatable diet; NtsR1KO mice also exhibit augmented sucrose preference, consistent with increased hedonic feeding in these animals. We thus sought to understand potential roles for NtsR1 in the control of the mesolimbic DA system and LHA leptin action. LHA Nts cells project to DA-containing midbrain areas, including the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the substantia nigra (SN), where many DA neurons express NtsR1. Furthermore, in contrast to wild-type mice, intra-LHA leptin treatment increased feeding and decreased VTA Th expression in NtsR1KO mice, consistent with a role for NtsR1 signaling from LHA LepRb neurons in the suppression of food intake and control of mesolimbic DA function. Additionally, these data suggest that other leptin-regulated LHA neurotransmitters normally oppose aspects of Nts action to promote balanced responses to leptin.
Type-1 cannabinoid (CB1) and leptin (ObR) receptors regulate metabolic and astroglial functions, but the potential links between the two systems in astrocytes were not investigated so far. Genetic and pharmacological manipulations of CB1 receptor expression and activity in cultured cortical and hypothalamic astrocytes demonstrated that cannabinoid signaling controls the levels of ObR expression. Lack of CB1 receptors also markedly impaired leptin-mediated activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 and 5 (STAT3 and STAT5) in astrocytes. In particular, CB1 deletion determined a basal overactivation of STAT5, thereby leading to the downregulation of ObR expression, and leptin failed to regulate STAT5-dependent glycogen storage in the absence of CB1 receptors. These results show that CB1 receptors directly interfere with leptin signaling and its ability to regulate glycogen storage, thereby representing a novel mechanism linking endocannabinoid and leptin signaling in the regulation of brain energy storage and neuronal functions.
The molecular mechanisms regulating secretion of the orexigenic-glucoregulatory hormone ghrelin remain unclear. Based on qPCR analysis of FACS-purified gastric ghrelin cells, highly expressed and enriched 7TM receptors were comprehensively identified and functionally characterized using in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo methods. Five Gs-coupled receptors efficiently stimulated ghrelin secretion: as expected the 1-adrenergic, the GIP and the secretin receptors but surprisingly also the composite receptor for the sensory neuropeptide CGRP and the melanocortin 4 receptor. A number of Gi/o-coupled receptors inhibited ghrelin secretion including somatostatin receptors SSTR1, SSTR2 and SSTR3 and unexpectedly the highly enriched lactate receptor, GPR81. Three other metabolite receptors known to be both Gi/o- and Gq/11-coupled all inhibited ghrelin secretion through a pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi/o pathway: FFAR2 (short chain fatty acid receptor; GPR43), FFAR4 (long chain fatty acid receptor; GPR120) and CasR (calcium sensing receptor). In addition to the common G subunits three non-common Gi/o subunits were highly enriched in ghrelin cells: GoA, GoB and Gz. Inhibition of Gi/o signaling via ghrelin cell-selective pertussis toxin expression markedly enhanced circulating ghrelin. These 7TM receptors and associated G subunits constitute a major part of the molecular machinery directly mediating neuronal and endocrine stimulation versus metabolite and somatostatin inhibition of ghrelin secretion including a series of novel receptor targets not previously identified on the ghrelin cell.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the knockdown or knockout of the three Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) isoforms, NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3, worsens ischemic brain damage. This suggests that the activation of these antiporters exerts a neuroprotective action against stroke damage. However, drugs able to increase the activity of NCXs are not yet available. We have here succeeded in synthesizing a new compound, named neurounina-1 (7-nitro-5-phenyl-1-(pyrrolidin-1-ylmethyl)-1H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepin-2(3H)-one), provided with an high lipophilicity index and able to increase NCX activity. Ca(2+) radiotracer, Fura-2 microfluorimetry, and patch-clamp techniques revealed that neurounina-1 stimulated NCX1 and NCX2 activities with an EC(50) in the picomolar to low nanomolar range, whereas it did not affect NCX3 activity. Furthermore, by using chimera strategy and site-directed mutagenesis, three specific molecular determinants of NCX1 responsible for neurounina-1 activity were identified in the -repeats. Interestingly, NCX3 became responsive to neurounina-1 when both -repeats were replaced with the corresponding regions of NCX1. In vitro studies showed that 10 nM neurounina-1 reduced cell death of primary cortical neurons exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation followed by reoxygenation. Moreover, in vitro, neurounina-1 also reduced -aminobutyric acid (GABA) release, enhanced GABA(A) currents, and inhibited both glutamate release and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. More important, neurounina-1 proved to have a wide therapeutic window in vivo. Indeed, when administered at doses of 0.003 to 30 g/kg i.p., it was able to reduce the infarct volume of mice subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion even up to 3 to 5 hours after stroke onset. Collectively, the present study shows that neurounina-1 exerts a remarkable neuroprotective effect during stroke and increases NCX1 and NCX2 activities.
4-(2-Butyl-6,7-dichloro-2-cyclopentyl-indan-1-on-5-yl) oxobutyric acid (DCPIB) was identified as the selective blocker of volume-regulated anion channels (VRAC). VRAC are permeable to small inorganic and organic anions, including the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. In recent years DCPIB has been increasingly used for probing the physiologic and pathologic roles of VRAC and was found to potently suppress pathologic glutamate release in cerebral ischemia. Because ischemic glutamate release can be mediated by a plethora of mechanisms, in this study we explored the selectivity of DCPIB toward the majority of previously identified glutamate transporters and permeability pathways. l-[(3)H]glutamate, d-[(3)H]aspartate, and l-[(14)C]cystine were used to trace amino acid release and uptake. We found that in addition to its well-characterized effect on VRAC, DCPIB potently inhibited glutamate release via connexin hemichannels and glutamate uptake via the glutamate transporter GLT-1 in rat glial cells. In contrast, DCPIB had no direct effect on vesicular glutamate release from rat brain synaptosomes or the cystine/glutamate exchange in astrocytes. The compound did not affect the astrocytic glutamate transporter GLAST, nor did it block glutamate release via the P2X(7)/pannexin permeability pathway. The ability of DCPIB to directly block connexin hemichannels was confirmed using a gene-specific siRNA knockdown approach. Overall, our data demonstrate that DCPIB influences several glutamate transport pathways and that its effects on VRAC in vivo should be verified using additional pharmacological controls.
Typical Rett syndrome (RTT) is a pediatric disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. The demonstrated reversibility of RTT-like phenotypes in mice suggests that MECP2 gene replacement is a potential therapeutic option in patients. We report improvements in survival and phenotypic severity in Mecp2-null male mice after neonatal intracranial delivery of a single-stranded (ss) AAV9/chicken -actin (CBA)-MECP2 vector. Median survival was 16.6 weeks for MECP2-treated versus 9.3 weeks for green fluorescent protein (GFP)-treated mice. ssAAV9/CBA-MECP2-treated mice also showed significant improvement in the phenotype severity score, in locomotor function, and in exploratory activity, as well as a normalization of neuronal nuclear volume in transduced cells. Wild-type (WT) mice receiving neonatal injections of the same ssAAV9/CBA-MECP2 vector did not show any significant deficits, suggesting a tolerance for modest MeCP2 overexpression. To test a MECP2 gene replacement approach in a manner more relevant for human translation, a self-complementary (sc) adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector designed to drive MeCP2 expression from a fragment of the Mecp2 promoter was injected intravenously (IV) into juvenile (4-5 weeks old) Mecp2-null mice. While the brain transduction efficiency in juvenile mice was low (~2-4% of neurons), modest improvements in survival were still observed. These results support the concept of MECP2 gene therapy for RTT.
Neurosin is a predominant serine protease in the central nervous system (CNS) and has been shown to play a role in the clearance of -synuclein (-syn) which is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Although it has been previously shown that neurosin and -syn colocalize and that neurosin degrades -syn aggregates in vitro, it is not clear if neurosin is dysregulated in the brains of patients with PD/DLB and to what extent delivery of neurosin into the CNS might ameliorate the deficits associated with -syn accumulation in vivo. We analyzed the levels of neurosin in the brains of patients with PD/DLB and in -syn transgenic (tg) models. With increased accumulation of -syn, we observed decreased neurosin expression. Lentiviral vector (LV) driven expression of neurosin in neuronal cell cultures reduced the accumulation of wild type but not A53T -syn and prevented -syn associated toxicity. Neuropathological analysis following delivery of LV-Neurosin to -syn tg mice resulted in reduced accumulation of -syn and reversal of neurodegenerative alterations in wild type but not A53T -syn tg mice. Therefore, viral vector driven expression of neurosin may warrant further investigation as a potential therapeutic tool for DLB.



The idea to use transplants of dopamine-producing cells to substitute for the lost midbrain dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) goes back to the 1970s. In this review we give an overview of the history of cell transplantation in animal models of PD, and summarize the experience gained from the open-label and placebo-controlled clinical trials performed so far using intrastriatal transplants of human fetal dopamine neuroblasts. Further development of this therapeutic approach face numerous challenges, for example in the development of protocols that allow generation of fully functional and safe midbrain dopamine neurons from stem cells. Based on recent promising advancements, efforts are now being made to develop standardized and efficient protocols, and adapt these protocols to good laboratory practice (GLP)/good manufacturing practice (GMP) conditions, to move this technology closer to clinical translation.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is more common among women than men. MS often goes into remission during pregnancy, when prolactin (PRL) levels are known to be high. In an animal model of demyelination, PRL promoted myelin repair, suggesting it has potential as a remyelinating therapy in MS. In this systematic review, we examined the known associations between PRL and MS, in order to elucidate its potential role in the pathophysiology and treatment of MS. A systematic search was performed in the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE, using the keywords &quot;prolactin&quot; AND &quot;multiple sclerosis.&quot; The inclusion criteria were met by 23 studies. These studies suggested to us that elevated PRL may be more common in MS patients than in controls. Hyperprolactinemia may also be associated with clinical relapse in MS, especially among patients with hypothalamic lesions or optic neuritis; however, it is unknown if this is a cause or consequence of a relapse. Overall, most people with MS have normal PRL levels. The impact of PRL on MS outcomes remains unclear.

The prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) is now considered to be medium-to-high in the Middle East and is rising, particularly among women. While the characteristics of the disease and the response of patients to disease-modifying therapies are generally comparable between the Middle East and other areas, significant barriers to achieving optimal care for MS exist in these developing nations. A group of physicians involved in the management of MS in ten Middle Eastern countries met to consider the future of MS care in the region, using a structured process to reach a consensus. Six key priorities were identified: early diagnosis and management of MS, the provision of multidisciplinary MS centres, patient engagement and better communication with stakeholders, regulatory body education and reimbursement, a commitment to research, and more therapy options with better benefit-to-risk ratios. The experts distilled these priorities into a single vision statement: &quot;Optimization of patient-centred multidisciplinary strategies to improve the quality of life of people with MS.&quot; These core principles will contribute to the development of a broader consensus on the future of care for MS in the Middle East.
There is need for a brief but comprehensive objective assessment tool to help clinicians evaluate relapse symptoms in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and their impact on daily functioning, as well as response to treatment. The 2-part Assessing Relapse in Multiple Sclerosis (ARMS) questionnaire was developed to achieve these aims. Part 1 consists of 7 questions that evaluate relapse symptoms, impact on activities of daily living (ADL), overall functioning, and response to treatment for previous relapses. Part 2 consists of 7 questions that evaluate treatment response in terms of symptom relief, functioning, and tolerability. The ARMS questionnaire has been evaluated in 103 patients with MS. The most commonly reported relapse symptoms were numbness/tingling (67%), fatigue (58%), and leg/foot weakness (55%). Over half of patients reported that ADL or overall functioning were affected very much (47%) or severely (11%) by relapses. Prescribed treatments for relapses included intravenous and/or oral corticosteroids (87%) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (13%). Nearly half of patients reported that their symptoms were very much (33%) or completely resolved (16%) following treatment. The most commonly reported adverse events were sleep disturbance (45%), mood changes (33%), weight gain (29%), and increased appetite (26%). Systematic assessment of relapses and response to relapse treatment may help clinicians to optimize outcomes for MS patients.
Humans are equipped with multiple sensory channels that provide both redundant and complementary information about the objects and events in the world around them. A primary challenge for the brain is therefore to solve the 'correspondence problem', that is, to bind those signals that likely originate from the same environmental source, while keeping separate those unisensory inputs that likely belong to different objects/events. Whether multiple signals have a common origin or not must, however, be inferred from the signals themselves through a causal inference process. Recent studies have demonstrated that cross-correlation, that is, the similarity in temporal structure between unimodal signals, represents a powerful cue for solving the correspondence problem in humans. Here we provide further evidence for the role of the temporal correlation between auditory and visual signals in multisensory integration. Capitalizing on the well-known fact that sensitivity to crossmodal conflict is inversely related to the strength of coupling between the signals, we measured sensitivity to crossmodal spatial conflicts as a function of the cross-correlation between the temporal structures of the audiovisual signals. Observers' performance was systematically modulated by the cross-correlation, with lower sensitivity to crossmodal conflict being measured for correlated as compared to uncorrelated audiovisual signals. These results therefore provide support for the claim that cross-correlation promotes multisensory integration. A Bayesian framework is proposed to interpret the present results, whereby stimulus correlation is represented on the prior distribution of expected crossmodal co-occurrence.
Multisensory integration is known to occur at high neural levels, but there is also growing evidence that cross-modal signals can be integrated at the first stages of sensory processing. We investigated whether touch specifically affected vision during binocular rivalry, a particular type of visual bistability that engages neural competition in early visual cortices. We found that tactile signals interact with visual signals outside of awareness, when the visual stimulus congruent with the tactile one is perceptually suppressed during binocular rivalry and when the interaction is strictly tuned for matched visuo-tactile spatial frequencies. We also found that voluntary action does not play a leading role in mediating the effect, since the interaction was observed also when tactile stimulation was passively delivered to the finger. However, simultaneous presentation of visual and tactile stimuli is necessary to elicit the interaction, and an asynchronous priming touch stimulus is not affecting the onset of rivalry. These results point to a very early cross-modal interaction site, probably V1. By showing that spatial proximity between visual and tactile stimuli is a necessary condition for the interaction, we also suggest that the two sensory spatial maps are aligned according to retinotopic coordinates, corroborating the hypothesis of a very early interaction between visual and tactile signals during binocular rivalry.
Previous research showing systematic localisation errors in touch perception related to eye and head position has suggested that touch is at least partially localised in a visual reference frame. However, many previous studies had participants report the location of tactile stimuli relative to a visual probe, which may force coding into a visual reference. Also, the visual probe could itself be subject to an effect of eye or head position. Thus, it is necessary to assess the perceived position of a tactile stimulus using a within-modality measure in order to make definitive conclusions about the coordinate system in which touch might be coded. Here, we present a novel method for measuring the perceived location of a touch in body coordinates: the Segmented Space Method (SSM). In the SSM participants imagine the region within which the stimulus could be presented divided into several equally spaced, and numbered, segments. Participants then simply report the number corresponding to the segment in which they perceived the stimulus. The SSM represents a simple and novel method that can be easily extended to other modalities by dividing any response space into numbered segments centred on some appropriate reference point (e.g. the head, the torso, the hand, or some point in space off the body). Here we apply SSM to the forearm during eccentric viewing and report localisation errors for touch similar to those previously reported using a crossmodal comparison. The data collected with the SSM strengthen the theory that tactile spatial localisation is generally coded in a visual reference frame even when visual coding is not required by the task.



This intervention study conducted in the Neurology outpatient Department of Mymensingh Medical College Hospital (MMCH) from January 2006 to December 2007 to compare efficacy of amitriptyline, pizotifen and propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine. Ninety cases were selected following certain inclusion and exclusion criteria. Result showed that the differences in duration, frequency and severity of attack were reduced in all groups but the differences among the groups were not significant (p&gt;0.05). However, compared with amitriptyline and pizotifen, the propranolol group needed tablet paracetamol as abortive therapy less frequently which was statistically significant (p&lt;0.05). All the drugs were well tolerated with minimum adverse effects.
Elucidating the mechanisms whereby neuroendocrine tissues coordinate their input and output signals to ensure appropriate hormone secretion is currently a topical issue. In particular, whether a direct communication mediated by gap junctions between neurosecretory cells contributes to hormone release in vivo still remains unknown. Here we address this issue using a microsurgical approach allowing combined monitoring of adrenal catecholamine secretion and splanchnic nerve stimulation in anaesthetised mice. Pharmacological blockade of adrenal gap junctions by the uncoupling agent carbenoxolone reduces nerve stimulation-evoked catecholamine release in control mice and to a larger extent in stressed mice. In parallel, the gap junction-coupled cell network is extended in stressed mice. Altogether, this argues for a significant contribution of adrenomedullary gap junctions to catecholamine secretion in vivo. As such, gap junctional signalling appears to be a substantial component for neuroendocrine function in the adrenal medulla, as it may represent an additional lever regulating hormone release.
Huntington's disease has been associated with a failure in energy metabolism and oxidative damage. Ascorbic acid is a powerful antioxidant highly concentrated in the brain where it acts as a messenger, modulating neuronal metabolism. Using an electrophysiological approach in R6/2 HD slices, we observe an abnormal ascorbic acid flux from astrocytes to neurons, which is responsible for alterations in neuronal metabolic substrate preferences. Here using striatal neurons derived from knock-in mice expressing mutant huntingtin (STHdhQ cells), we study ascorbic acid transport. When extracellular ascorbic acid concentration increases, as occurs during synaptic activity, ascorbic acid transporter 2 (SVCT2) translocates to the plasma membrane, ensuring optimal ascorbic acid uptake for neurons. In contrast, SVCT2 from cells that mimic HD symptoms (dubbed HD cells) fails to reach the plasma membrane under the same conditions. We reason that an early impairment of ascorbic acid uptake in HD neurons could lead to early metabolic failure promoting neuronal death.
There is strong evidence to show that men and women differ in terms of neurodevelopment, neurochemistry and susceptibility to neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disease. The molecular basis of these differences remains unclear. Progress in this field has been hampered by the lack of genome-wide information on sex differences in gene expression and in particular splicing in the human brain. Here we address this issue by using post-mortem adult human brain and spinal cord samples originating from 137 neuropathologically confirmed control individuals to study whole-genome gene expression and splicing in 12 CNS regions. We show that sex differences in gene expression and splicing are widespread in adult human brain, being detectable in all major brain regions and involving 2.5% of all expressed genes. We give examples of genes where sex-biased expression is both disease-relevant and likely to have functional consequences, and provide evidence suggesting that sex biases in expression may reflect sex-biased gene regulatory structures.
Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are major psychiatric disorders with high heritability and overlapping genetic variance. Here we perform a genome-wide association study in an ethnically homogeneous cohort of 904 schizophrenia cases and 1,640 controls drawn from the Ashkenazi Jewish population. We identify a novel genome-wide significant risk locus at chromosome 4q26, demonstrating the potential advantages of this founder population for gene discovery. The top single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP; rs11098403) demonstrates consistent effects across 11 replication and extension cohorts, totalling 23, 191 samples across multiple ethnicities, regardless of diagnosis (schizophrenia or bipolar disorder), resulting in Pmeta=9.49  10(-12) (odds ratio (OR)=1.13, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.08-1.17) across both disorders and Pmeta=2.67  10(-8) (OR=1.15, 95% CI: 1.08-1.21) for schizophrenia alone. In addition, this intergenic SNP significantly predicts postmortem cerebellar gene expression of NDST3, which encodes an enzyme critical to heparan sulphate metabolism. Heparan sulphate binding is critical to neurite outgrowth, axon formation and synaptic processes thought to be aberrant in these disorders.
Mitophagy, the autophagic degradation of mitochondria, is an important housekeeping function in eukaryotic cells, and defects in mitophagy correlate with ageing phenomena and with several neurodegenerative disorders. A central mechanistic question regarding mitophagy is whether mitochondria are consumed en masse, or whether an active process segregates defective molecules from functional ones within the mitochondrial network, thus allowing a more efficient culling mechanism. Here we combine a proteomic study with a molecular genetics and cell biology approach to determine whether such a segregation process occurs in yeast mitochondria. We find that different mitochondrial matrix proteins undergo mitophagic degradation at distinctly different rates, supporting the active segregation hypothesis. These differential degradation rates depend on mitochondrial dynamics, suggesting a mechanism coupling weak physical segregation with mitochondrial dynamics to achieve a distillation-like effect. In agreement, the rates of mitophagic degradation strongly correlate with the degree of physical segregation of specific matrix proteins.
Face recognition is a key component of successful social behaviour. However, the computational processes that underpin perceptual learning and recognition as faces transition from unfamiliar to familiar are poorly understood. In predictive coding, learning occurs through prediction errors that update stimulus familiarity, but recognition is a function of both stimulus and contextual familiarity. Here we show that behavioural responses on a two-option face recognition task can be predicted by the level of contextual and facial familiarity in a computational model derived from predictive-coding principles. Using fMRI, we show that activity in the superior temporal sulcus varies with the contextual familiarity in the model, whereas activity in the fusiform face area covaries with the prediction error parameter that updated facial familiarity. Our results characterize the key computations underpinning the perceptual learning of faces, highlighting that the functional properties of face-processing areas conform to the principles of predictive coding.
Learning induces plastic changes in synapses. However, the regulatory molecules that orchestrate learning-induced synaptic changes are largely unknown. Although it is well established that cholinergic inputs from the medial septum modulate learning and memory, evidence for the cholinergic regulation of learning-induced synaptic plasticity is lacking. Here we find that the activation of muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (mAChRs) mediates the contextual fear learning-driven strengthening of hippocampal excitatory pyramidal synapses through the synaptic incorporation of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Contextual fear learning also enhances the strength of inhibitory synapses on hippocampal pyramidal CA1 neurons, in a manner mediated by the activation of, not mAChRs, but, nicotinic AChRs (nAChRs). We observe a significant correlation between the learning-induced increases in excitatory and inhibitory synaptic strength at individual pyramidal neurons. Understanding the mechanisms underlying cholinergic regulation of learning-induced hippocampal synaptic plasticity may help the development of new therapies for cognitive disorders.
The possibility of generating neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) has opened a new avenue of research that might nurture bench-to-bedside translation of cell transplantation protocols in central nervous system myelin disorders. Here we show that mouse iPSC-derived NPCs (miPSC-NPCs)-when intrathecally transplanted after disease onset-ameliorate clinical and pathological features of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis. Transplanted miPSC-NPCs exert the neuroprotective effect not through cell replacement, but through the secretion of leukaemia inhibitory factor that promotes survival, differentiation and the remyelination capacity of both endogenous oligodendrocyte precursors and mature oligodendrocytes. The early preservation of tissue integrity limits blood-brain barrier damage and central nervous system infiltration of blood-borne encephalitogenic leukocytes, ultimately responsible for demyelination and axonal damage. While proposing a novel mechanism of action, our results further expand the therapeutic potential of NPCs derived from iPSCs in myelin disorders.
Circuit reactivations involve a stereotyped sequence of neuronal firing and have been behaviourally linked to memory consolidation. Here we use multiphoton imaging and patch-clamp recording, and observe sparse and stereotyped circuit reactivations that correspond to UP states within active neurons. To evaluate the effect of the circuit on synaptic plasticity, we trigger a single spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) pairing once per circuit reactivation. The pairings reliably fall within a particular epoch of the circuit sequence and result in long-term potentiation. During reactivation, the amplitude of plasticity significantly correlates with the preceding 20-25ms of membrane depolarization rather than the depolarization at the time of pairing. This circuit-dependent plasticity provides a natural constraint on synaptic potentiation, regulating the inherent instability of STDP in an assembly phase-sequence model. Subthreshold voltage during endogenous circuit reactivations provides a critical informative context for plasticity and facilitates the stable consolidation of a spatiotemporal sequence.
Echolocating bats use the time from biosonar pulse emission to the arrival of echo (defined as echo delay) to calculate the space depth of targets. In the dorsal auditory cortex of several species, neurons that encode increasing echo delays are organized rostrocaudally in a topographic arrangement defined as chronotopy. Precise chronotopy could be important for precise target-distance computations. Here we show that in the cortex of three echolocating bat species (Pteronotus quadridens, Pteronotus parnellii and Carollia perspicillata), chronotopy is not precise but blurry. In all three species, neurons throughout the chronotopic map are driven by short echo delays that indicate the presence of close targets and the robustness of map organization depends on the parameter of the receptive field used to characterize neuronal tuning. The timing of cortical responses (latency and duration) provides a binding code that could be important for assembling acoustic scenes using echo delay information from objects with different space depths.
Early binaural experience can recalibrate central auditory circuits that support spatial hearing. However, it is not known how binaural integration matures shortly after hearing onset or whether various developmental stages are differentially impacted by disruptions of normal binaural experience. Here we induce a brief, reversible unilateral conductive hearing loss (CHL) at several experimentally determined milestones in mouse primary auditory cortex (A1) development and characterize its effects ~1 week after normal hearing is restored. We find that CHL shapes A1 binaural selectivity during two early critical periods. CHL before P16 disrupts the normal coregistration of interaural frequency tuning, whereas CHL on P16, but not before or after, disrupts interaural level difference sensitivity contained in long-latency spikes. These data highlight an evolving plasticity in the developing auditory cortex that may relate to the aetiology of amblyaudia, a binaural hearing impairment associated with bouts of otitis media during human infancy.
TRPA1 is an ion channel and has been proposed as a thermosensor across species. In invertebrate and ancestral vertebrates such as fly, mosquito, frog, lizard and snakes, TRPA1 serves as a heat receptor, a sensory input utilized for heat avoidance or infrared detection. However, in mammals, whether TRPA1 is a receptor for noxious cold is highly controversial, as channel activation by cold was observed by some groups but disputed by others. Here we attribute the discrepancy to species differences. We show that cold activates rat and mouse TRPA1 but not human or rhesus monkey TRPA1. At the molecular level, a single residue within the S5 transmembrane domain (G878 in rodent but V875 in primate) accounts for the observed difference in cold sensitivity. This residue difference also underlies the species-specific effects of menthol. Together, our findings identify the species-specific cold activation of TRPA1 and reveal a molecular determinant of cold-sensitive gating.
Electrical and transcranial magnetic stimulations have proven to be therapeutically beneficial for patients suffering from neurological disorders. Moreover, these stimulation technologies have provided invaluable tools for investigating nervous system functions. Despite this success, these technologies have technical and practical limitations impeding the maximization of their full clinical and preclinical potential. Recently, micro-magnetic stimulation, which may offer advantages over electrical and transcranial magnetic stimulation, has proven effective in activating the neuronal circuitry of the retina in vitro. Here we demonstrate that this technology is also capable of activating neuronal circuitry on a systems level using an in vivo preparation. Specifically, the application of micro-magnetic fields to the dorsal cochlear nucleus activates inferior colliculus neurons. Additionally, we demonstrate the efficacy and characteristics of activation using different magnetic stimulation parameters. These findings provide a rationale for further exploration of micro-magnetic stimulation as a prospective tool for clinical and preclinical applications.
The presynaptic terminals of synaptic connections are composed of a complex network of interacting proteins that collectively ensure proper synaptic transmission and plasticity characteristics. The key components of this network are the members of the RIM protein family. Here we show that RIM1 can influence short-term plasticity at cerebellar parallel-fibre synapses. We demonstrate that the loss of a single RIM isoform, RIM1, leads to reduced calcium influx in cerebellar granule cell terminals, decreased release probability and consequently an enhanced short-term facilitation. In contrast, we find that presynaptic long-term plasticity is fully intact in the absence of RIM1, arguing against its necessary role in the expression of this important process. Our data argue for a universal role of RIM1 in setting release probability via interaction with voltage-dependent calcium channels at different connections instead of synapse-specific functions.
Studying the roles of different proteins and the mechanisms involved in synaptogenesis is hindered by the complexity and heterogeneity of synapse types, and by the spatial and temporal unpredictability of spontaneous synapse formation. Here we demonstrate a robust and high-content method to induce selectively presynaptic or postsynaptic structures at controlled locations. Neurons are cultured on micropatterned substrates comprising arrays of micron-scale dots coated with various synaptogenic adhesion molecules. When plated on neurexin-1-coated micropatterns, neurons expressing neuroligin-1 exhibit specific dendritic organization and selective recruitment of the postsynaptic scaffolding molecule PSD-95. Furthermore, functional AMPA receptors are trapped at neurexin-1 dots, as revealed by live-imaging experiments. In contrast, neurons plated on SynCAM1-coated substrates exhibit strongly patterned axons and selectively assemble functional presynapses. N-cadherin coating, however, is not able to elicit synapses, indicating the specificity of our system. This method opens the way to both fundamental and therapeutic studies of various synaptic systems.
Autophagy is a cellular recycling process that has an important anti-aging role, but the underlying molecular mechanism is not well understood. The mammalian transcription factor EB (TFEB) was recently shown to regulate multiple genes in the autophagy process. Here we show that the predicted TFEB orthologue HLH-30 regulates autophagy in Caenorhabditis elegans and, in addition, has a key role in lifespan determination. We demonstrate that hlh-30 is essential for the extended lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans in six mechanistically distinct longevity models, and overexpression of HLH-30 extends lifespan. Nuclear localization of HLH-30 is increased in all six Caenorhabditis elegans models and, notably, nuclear TFEB levels are augmented in the livers of mice subjected to dietary restriction, a known longevity-extending regimen. Collectively, our results demonstrate a conserved role for HLH-30 and TFEB in autophagy, and possibly longevity, and identify HLH-30 as a uniquely important transcription factor for lifespan modulation in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Epidemiological evidence supports a link between sleep loss and obesity. However, the detrimental impact of sleep deprivation on central brain mechanisms governing appetitive food desire remains unknown. Here we report that sleep deprivation significantly decreases activity in appetitive evaluation regions within the human frontal cortex and insular cortex during food desirability choices, combined with a converse amplification of activity within the amygdala. Moreover, this bi-directional change in the profile of brain activity is further associated with a significant increase in the desire for weight-gain promoting high-calorie foods following sleep deprivation, the extent of which is predicted by the subjective severity of sleep loss across participants. These findings provide an explanatory brain mechanism by which insufficient sleep may lead to the development/maintenance of obesity through diminished activity in higher-order cortical evaluation regions, combined with excess subcortical limbic responsivity, resulting in the selection of foods most capable of triggering weight-gain.
Imprinted, maternally silenced insulin-like growth factor-2 is expressed in both the foetus and placenta and has been shown to have roles in foetal and placental development in animal models. Here we compared mice engineered to be null for the placenta-specific P0 transcript (insulin-like growth factor-2-P0 KO) to mice with disruptions of all four insulin-like growth factor-2 transcripts, and therefore null for insulin-like growth factor-2 in both placenta and foetus (insulin-like growth factor-2-total KO). Both models lead to intrauterine growth restriction but dissociate between a situation where there is an imbalance between foetal demand and placental supply of nutrients (the insulin-like growth factor-2-P0 KO) and one where demand and supply is more balanced (the insulin-like growth factor-2-total KO). Increased reactivity to anxiety-provoking stimuli is manifested later in life only in those animals where there is a mismatch between placental supply and foetal demand for nutrients during gestation. Our findings further distinguish placental dysfunction from intrauterine growth restriction and reveal a role for the placenta in long-term programming of emotional behaviour.
Shifting between goal-directed and habitual actions allows for efficient and flexible decision making. Here we demonstrate a novel, within-subject instrumental lever-pressing paradigm, in which mice shift between goal-directed and habitual actions. We identify a role for orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in actions following outcome revaluation, and confirm that dorsal medial (DMS) and lateral striatum (DLS) mediate different action strategies. Simultaneous in vivo recordings of OFC, DMS and DLS neuronal ensembles during shifting reveal that the same neurons display different activities depending on whether presses are goal-directed or habitual, with DMS and OFC becoming more and DLS less engaged during goal-directed actions. Importantly, the magnitude of neural activity changes in OFC following changes in outcome value positively correlates with the level of goal-directed behavior. Chemogenetic inhibition of OFC disrupts goal-directed actions, whereas optogenetic activation of OFC specifically increases goal-directed pressing. These results also reveal a role for OFC in action revaluation, which has implications for understanding compulsive behavior.
Dipeptidyl-peptidase 6 is an auxiliary subunit of Kv4-mediated A-type K(+) channels that, in addition to enhancing channel surface expression, potently accelerates their kinetics. The dipeptidyl-peptidase 6 gene has been associated with a number of human central nervous system disorders including autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia. Here we employ knockdown and genetic deletion of dipeptidyl-peptidase 6 to reveal its importance for the formation and stability of dendritic filopodia during early neuronal development. We find that the hippocampal neurons lacking dipeptidyl-peptidase 6 show a sparser dendritic branching pattern along with fewer spines throughout development and into adulthood. In electrophysiological and imaging experiments, we show that these deficits lead to fewer functional synapses and occur independently of the potassium channel subunit Kv4.2. We report that dipeptidyl-peptidase 6 interacts with a filopodia-associated myosin as well as with fibronectin in the extracellular matrix. dipeptidyl-peptidase 6 therefore has an unexpected but important role in cell adhesion and motility, impacting the hippocampal synaptic development and function.
The surface area of early visual cortices varies several fold across healthy adult humans and is genetically heritable. But the functional consequences of this anatomical variability are still largely unexplored. Here we show that interindividual variability in human visual cortical surface area reflects a tradeoff between sensitivity to visual details and susceptibility to visual context. Specifically, individuals with larger primary visual cortices can discriminate finer orientation differences, whereas individuals with smaller primary visual cortices experience stronger perceptual modulation by global orientation contexts. This anatomically correlated tradeoff between discrimination sensitivity and contextual modulation of orientation perception, however, does not generalize to contrast perception or luminance perception. Neural field simulations based on a scaling of intracortical circuits reproduce our empirical observations. Together our findings reveal a feature-specific shift in the scope of visual perception from context-oriented to detail-oriented with increased visual cortical surface area.
Lesion experiments suggest that odour input to the olfactory bulb contains significant redundant signal such that rodents can discern odours using minimal stimulus-related information. Here we investigate the dependence of odour-quality perception on the integrity of glomerular activity by comparing odour-evoked activity maps before and after epithelial lesions. Lesions prevent mice from recognizing previously experienced odours and differentially delay discrimination learning of unrecognized and novel odour pairs. Poor recognition results not from mice experiencing an altered concentration of an odour but from perception of apparent novel qualities. Consistent with this, relative intensity of glomerular activity following lesions is altered compared with maps recorded in shams and by varying odour concentration. Together, these data show that odour recognition relies on comprehensively matching input patterns to a previously generated stimulus template. When encountering novel odours, access to all glomerular activity ensures rapid generation of new templates to perform accurate perceptual judgements.
In Alzheimer's disease, soluble amyloid- causes synaptic dysfunction and neuronal loss. Receptors involved in clearance of soluble amyloid- are not known. Here we use short hairpin RNA screening and identify the scavenger receptor Scara1 as a receptor for soluble amyloid- expressed on myeloid cells. To determine the role of Scara1 in clearance of soluble amyloid- in vivo, we cross Scara1 null mice with PS1-APP mice, a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, and generate PS1-APP-Scara1-deficient mice. Scara1 deficiency markedly accelerates A accumulation, leading to increased mortality. In contrast, pharmacological upregulation of Scara1 expression on mononuclear phagocytes increases A clearance. This approach is a potential treatment strategy for Alzheimer's disease.
Polarized membrane addition is crucial for axon development and elongation during neuronal morphogenesis. This process is believed to be regulated by directed membrane trafficking of Rab10-containing post-Golgi carriers. However, the mechanisms underlying the biogenesis of these carriers remain unclear. Here, we report that Rab10 interaction with myosin Vb (MYO5B) determines the formation of Rab10 carriers and is important for axon development. Rab10 interacts with the exon D-encoded domain of MYO5B. Downregulating the expression of MYO5B (+D) or blocking its interaction with Rab10 impairs the fission of Rab10 vesicles from trans-Golgi membranes, causes a decrease in the number of Rab10 transport carriers and inhibits axon development in cultured hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, the MYO5B-Rab10 system is required for axon development of vertebrate neocortical neurons or zebrafish retinal ganglion cells in vivo. Thus, specific interaction between Rab10 and MYO5B controls the formation of Rab10 vesicles, which is required for axon development.
Whether primary sensory cortices are essentially multisensory or whether they respond to only one sense is an emerging debate in neuroscience. Here we use a multivariate pattern analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging data in humans to demonstrate that simple and isolated stimuli of one sense elicit distinguishable spatial patterns of neuronal responses, not only in their corresponding primary sensory cortex, but in other primary sensory cortices. These results indicate that primary sensory cortices, traditionally regarded as unisensory, contain unique signatures of other senses and, thereby, prompt a reconsideration of how sensory information is coded in the human brain.
Proteoglycans like syndecan-3 have complex signaling roles in addition to their function as structural components of the extracellular matrix. Here, we show that syndecan-3 in the lateral hypothalamus has an unexpected new role in limiting compulsive cocaine intake. In particular, we observe that syndecan-3 null mice self-administer greater amounts of cocaine than wild-type mice. This effect can be rescued by re-expression of syndecan-3 in the lateral hypothalamus with an adeno-associated viral vector. Adeno-associated viral vector delivery of syndecan-3 to the lateral hypothalamus also reduces motivation for cocaine in normal mice. Syndecan-3 limits cocaine intake by modulating the effects of glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor, which uses syndecan-3 as an alternative receptor. Our findings indicate syndecan-3-dependent signaling as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of cocaine addiction.
The interaction between laminin and 1-integrin on the surface of Schwann cells regulates Schwann cell proliferation, maturation and differentiation. However, the signalling mediators that fine-tune these outcomes are not fully elucidated. Here we show that lymphoid cell kinase is the crucial effector of 1-integrin signalling in Schwann cells. Lymphoid cell kinase is activated after laminin treatment of Schwann cells, while downregulation of 1-integrin with short interfering RNAs inhibits lymphoid cell kinase phosphorylation. Treatment of Schwann cells with a selective lymphoid cell kinase inhibitor reveals a pathway that involves paxillin and CrkII, which ultimately elevates Rac-GTP levels to induce radial lamellipodia formation. Inhibition of lymphoid cell kinase in Schwann cell-dorsal root ganglion cocultures and dorsal root ganglions from Lck(-/-) mice show a reduction of Schwann cell longitudinal migration, reduced myelin formation and internode length. Finally, Lck(-/-) mice exhibit delays in myelination, thinner myelin with abnormal g-ratios and aberrant myelin outfoldings. Our data implicate lymphoid cell kinase as a major regulator of cytoskeletal dynamics, migration and myelination in the peripheral nervous system.
Nematode neurons generally produce graded potentials instead of action potentials. It is unclear how the graded potentials control postsynaptic cells under physiological conditions. Here we show that postsynaptic currents frequently occur in bursts at the neuromuscular junction of Caenorhabditis elegans. Cholinergic bursts concur with facilitated action potential firing, elevated cytosolic [Ca(2+)] and contraction of the muscle whereas GABAergic bursts suppress action potential firing. The bursts, distinct from artificially evoked responses, are characterized by a persistent current (the primary component of burst-associated charge transfer) and increased frequency and mean amplitude of postsynaptic current events. The persistent current of cholinergic postsynaptic current bursts is mostly mediated by levamisole-sensitive acetylcholine receptors, which correlates well with locomotory phenotypes of receptor mutants. Eliminating command interneurons abolishes the bursts whereas mutating SLO-1 K(+) channel, a potent presynaptic inhibitor of exocytosis, greatly increases the mean burst duration. These observations suggest that motoneurons control muscle by producing postsynaptic current bursts.
-Aminobutyric acid is the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in adults, acting through ionotropic chloride-permeable GABAA receptors (GABAARs), and metabotropic GABABRs coupled to calcium or potassium channels, and cyclic AMP signalling. During early development, -aminobutyric acid is the main neurotransmitter and is not hyperpolarizing, as GABAAR activation is depolarizing while GABABRs lack coupling to potassium channels. Despite extensive knowledge on GABAARs as key factors in neuronal development, the role of GABABRs remains unclear. Here we address GABABR function during rat cortical development by in utero knockdown (short interfering RNA) of GABABR in pyramidal-neuron progenitors. GABABR short interfering RNA impairs neuronal migration and axon/dendrite morphological maturation by disrupting cyclic AMP signalling. Furthermore, GABABR activation reduces cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation of LKB1, a kinase involved in neuronal polarization, and rescues LKB1 overexpression-induced defects in cortical development. Thus, non-hyperpolarizing activation of GABABRs during development promotes neuronal migration and morphological maturation by cyclic AMP/LKB1 signalling.
Functional studies of resident microglia require molecular tools for their genetic manipulation. Here we show that microRNA-9-regulated lentiviral vectors can be used for the targeted genetic modification of resident microglia in the rodent brain. Using transgenic reporter mice, we demonstrate that murine microglia lack microRNA-9 activity, whereas most other cells in the brain express microRNA-9. Injection of microRNA-9-regulated vectors into the adult rat brain induces transgene expression specifically in cells with morphological features typical of ramified microglia. The majority of transgene-expressing cells colabels with the microglia marker Iba1. We use this approach to visualize and isolate activated resident microglia without affecting circulating and infiltrating monocytes or macrophages in an excitotoxic lesion model in rat striatum. The microRNA-9-regulated vectors described here are a straightforward and powerful tool that facilitates functional studies of resident microglia.
The sensation of movement and position of the limbs is critical for normal behaviours in tetrapods. In the bony fishes it is unclear what proprioceptive feedback is provided from the paired fins, the piscine homologues of the tetrapod limbs. Here we test mechanosensory abilities of afferent nerves in the pectoral fin rays, limb structures used by many fish species in propulsion and manoeuvreing. We examine the bluegill sunfish, a fish that uses its pectoral fins extensively in locomotion. We find that the activity of fin ray nerve fibres reflects the amplitude and velocity of fin ray bending. Spike sorting analyses demonstrate the presence of both slowly and rapidly adapting afferent nerve fibres. The fin sensory abilities we describe substantially expand the diversity of known vertebrate proprioceptive capabilities, and suggest that the pectoral fins need to be considered as possible proprioceptive sensors in studies of their functional morphology, movement and evolution.
Pesticides that target cholinergic neurotransmission are highly effective, but their use has been implicated in insect pollinator population decline. Honeybees are exposed to two widely used classes of cholinergic pesticide: neonicotinoids (nicotinic receptor agonists) and organophosphate miticides (acetylcholinesterase inhibitors). Although sublethal levels of neonicotinoids are known to disrupt honeybee learning and behaviour, the neurophysiological basis of these effects has not been shown. Here, using recordings from mushroom body Kenyon cells in acutely isolated honeybee brain, we show that the neonicotinoids imidacloprid and clothianidin, and the organophosphate miticide coumaphos oxon, cause a depolarization-block of neuronal firing and inhibit nicotinic responses. These effects are observed at concentrations that are encountered by foraging honeybees and within the hive, and are additive with combined application. Our findings demonstrate a neuronal mechanism that may account for the cognitive impairments caused by neonicotinoids, and predict that exposure to multiple pesticides that target cholinergic signalling will cause enhanced toxicity to pollinators.
The dopamine transporter mediates reuptake of dopamine from the synaptic cleft. The cellular mechanisms controlling dopamine transporter levels in striatal nerve terminals remain poorly understood. The dopamine transporters contain a C-terminal PDZ (PSD-95/Discs-large/ZO-1) domain-binding sequence believed to bind synaptic scaffolding proteins, but its functional significance is uncertain. Here we demonstrate that two different dopamine transporter knock-in mice with disrupted PDZ-binding motifs (dopamine transporter-AAA and dopamine transporter+Ala) are characterized by dramatic loss of dopamine transporter expression in the striatum, causing hyperlocomotion and attenuated response to amphetamine. In cultured dopaminergic neurons and striatal slices from dopamine transporter-AAA mice, we find markedly reduced dopamine transporter surface levels and evidence for enhanced constitutive internalization. In dopamine transporter-AAA neurons, but not in wild-type neurons, surface levels are rescued in part by expression of a dominant-negative dynamin mutation (K44A). Our findings suggest that PDZ-domain interactions are critical for synaptic distribution of dopamine transporter in vivo and thereby for proper maintenance of dopamine homoeostasis.
Memories that can be recalled several hours after learning may paradoxically become inaccessible for brief periods after their formation. This raises major questions about the function of these early memory lapses in the structure of memory consolidation. These questions are difficult to investigate because of the lack of information on the precise timing of lapses. However, the use of a single-trial conditioning paradigm in Lymnaea solves this problem. Here we use electrophysiological and behavioural experiments to reveal lapses in memory recall at 30 min and 2 h post conditioning. We show that only during these lapses is consolidation of long-term memory susceptible to interruption by external disturbance. These shared time points of memory lapse and susceptibility correspond to transitions between different phases of memory that have different molecular requirements. We propose that during periods of molecular transition memory recall is weakened, allowing novel sensory cues to block the consolidation of long-term memory.
Phantom pain after arm amputation is widely believed to arise from maladaptive cortical reorganization, triggered by loss of sensory input. We instead propose that chronic phantom pain experience drives plasticity by maintaining local cortical representations and disrupting inter-regional connectivity. Here we show that, while loss of sensory input is generally characterized by structural and functional degeneration in the deprived sensorimotor cortex, the experience of persistent pain is associated with preserved structure and functional organization in the former hand area. Furthermore, consistent with the isolated nature of phantom experience, phantom pain is associated with reduced inter-regional functional connectivity in the primary sensorimotor cortex. We therefore propose that contrary to the maladaptive model, cortical plasticity associated with phantom pain is driven by powerful and long-lasting subjective sensory experience, such as triggered by nociceptive or top-down inputs. Our results prompt a revisiting of the link between phantom pain and brain organization.
In the central nervous system, most synapses show a fast mode of neurotransmitter release known as synchronous release followed by a phase of asynchronous release, which extends over tens of milliseconds to seconds. Synapsin II (SYN2) is a member of the multigene synapsin family (SYN1/2/3) of synaptic vesicle phosphoproteins that modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity, and are mutated in epileptic patients. Here we report that inhibitory synapses of the dentate gyrus of Syn II knockout mice display an upregulation of synchronous neurotransmitter release and a concomitant loss of delayed asynchronous release. Syn II promotes -aminobutyric acid asynchronous release in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner by a functional interaction with presynaptic Ca(2+) channels, revealing a new role in synaptic transmission for synapsins.
Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNT/A-G) act by blocking synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Whether BoNTs disrupt additional neuronal functions has not been addressed. Here we report that cleavage of syntaxin 1 by BoNT/C, and cleavage of SNAP-25 by BoNT/E both induce degeneration of neurons. Furthermore, although SNAP-25 cleaved by BoNT/A still supports neuron survival, it has reduced capacity to tolerate additional mutations. We demonstrate that syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 cooperate as SNARE proteins to support neuron survival. Exogenous expression of other homologous SNARE proteins, syntaxin 2/3/4 and SNAP-23, which are resistant to BoNT/C and E in neurons, can substitute syntaxin 1/SNAP-25 and prevent toxin-induced neuron death. Finally, we find that neuronal death is due to blockage of plasma membrane recycling processes that utilize syntaxin 1/SNAP-25, independent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. These findings establish neuronal cytotoxicity for BoNTs and reveal syntaxin 1/SNAP-25 as the ubiquitous and essential SNARE proteins mediating multiple fusion events on neuronal plasma membranes.
Gegenbaur's classical hypothesis of jaw-gill arch serial homology is widely cited, but remains unsupported by either palaeontological evidence (for example, a series of fossils reflecting the stepwise transformation of a gill arch into a jaw) or developmental genetic data (for example, shared molecular mechanisms underlying segment identity in the mandibular, hyoid and gill arch endoskeletons). Here we show that nested expression of Dlx genes--the 'Dlx code' that specifies upper and lower jaw identity in mammals and teleosts--is a primitive feature of the mandibular, hyoid and gill arches of jawed vertebrates. Using fate-mapping techniques, we demonstrate that the principal dorsal and ventral endoskeletal segments of the jaw, hyoid and gill arches of the skate Leucoraja erinacea derive from molecularly equivalent mesenchymal domains of combinatorial Dlx gene expression. Our data suggest that vertebrate jaw, hyoid and gill arch cartilages are serially homologous, and were primitively patterned dorsoventrally by a common Dlx blueprint.
Repetitive presentation of the same visual stimulus entails a response decrease in the action potential discharge of neurons in various areas of the monkey visual cortex. It is still unclear whether this repetition suppression effect is also present in single neurons in cortical premotor areas responding to visual stimuli, as suggested by the human functional magnetic resonance imaging literature. Here we report the responses of 'mirror neurons' in monkey area F5 to the repeated presentation of action movies. We find that most single neurons and the population at large do not show a significant decrease of the firing rate. On the other hand, simultaneously recorded local field potentials exhibit repetition suppression. As local field potentials are believed to be better linked to the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal exploited by functional magnetic resonance imaging, these findings suggest caution when trying to derive conclusions on the spiking activity of neurons in a given area based on the observation of BOLD repetition suppression.
To date, the functional organization of human auditory subcortical structures can only be inferred from animal models. Here we use high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging at ultra-high magnetic fields (7T) to map the organization of spectral responses in the human inferior colliculus, a subcortical structure fundamental for sound processing. We reveal a tonotopic map with a spatial gradient of preferred frequencies approximately oriented from dorsolateral (low frequencies) to ventromedial (high frequencies) locations. Furthermore, we observe a spatial organization of spectral selectivity (tuning) of functional magnetic resonance imaging responses in the human inferior colliculus. Along isofrequency contours, functional magnetic resonance imaging tuning is narrowest in central locations and broadest in the surrounding regions. Finally, by comparing subcortical and cortical auditory areas we show that functional magnetic resonance imaging tuning is narrower in human inferior colliculus than on the cortical surface. Our findings pave the way to noninvasive investigations of sound processing in human subcortical nuclei and for studying the interplay between subcortical and cortical neuronal populations.
Sexual differentiation leads to structural and behavioural differences between males and females. Here we investigate the intrinsic sex identity of the brain by constructing chicken chimeras in which the brain primordium is switched between male and female identities before gonadal development. We find that the female chimeras with male brains display delayed sexual maturation and irregular oviposition cycles, although their behaviour, plasma concentrations of sex steroids and luteinizing hormone levels are normal. The male chimeras with female brains show phenotypes similar to typical cocks. In the perinatal period, oestrogen concentrations in the genetically male brain are higher than those in the genetically female brain. Our study demonstrates that male brain cells retain male sex identity and do not differentiate into female cells to drive the normal oestrous cycle, even when situated in the female hormonal milieu. This is clear evidence for a sex-specific feature that develops independent of gonadal steroids.
In eukaryotes, hydrogen sulphide acts as a signalling molecule and cytoprotectant. Hydrogen sulphide is known to be produced from L-cysteine by cystathionine -synthase, cystathionine -lyase and 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase coupled with cysteine aminotransferase. Here we report an additional biosynthetic pathway for the production of hydrogen sulphide from D-cysteine involving 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase and D-amino acid oxidase. Unlike the L-cysteine pathway, this D-cysteine-dependent pathway operates predominantly in the cerebellum and the kidney. Our study reveals that administration of D-cysteine protects primary cultures of cerebellar neurons from oxidative stress induced by hydrogen peroxide and attenuates ischaemia-reperfusion injury in the kidney more than L-cysteine. This study presents a novel pathway of hydrogen sulphide production and provides a new therapeutic approach to deliver hydrogen sulphide to specific tissues.
Inorganic polyphosphate is known to be present in the mammalian brain at micromolar concentrations. Here we show that polyphosphate may act as a gliotransmitter, mediating communication between astrocytes. It is released by astrocytes in a calcium-dependent manner and signals to neighbouring astrocytes through P2Y(1) purinergic receptors, activation of phospholipase C and release of calcium from the intracellular stores. In primary neuroglial cultures, application of polyP triggers release of endogenous polyphosphate from astrocytes while neurons take it up. In vivo, central actions of polyphosphate at the level of the brainstem include profound increases in key homeostatic physiological activities, such as breathing, central sympathetic outflow and the arterial blood pressure. Together, these results suggest a role for polyphosphate as a mediator of astroglial signal transmission in the mammalian brain.
Voltage-dependent Na(+) channels are crucial for electrical signalling in excitable cells. Membrane depolarization initiates asynchronous movements in four non-identical voltage-sensing domains of the Na(+) channel. It remains unclear to what extent this structural asymmetry influences pore gating as compared with outwardly rectifying K(+) channels, where channel opening results from a final concerted transition of symmetric pore gates. Here we combine single channel recordings, cysteine accessibility and voltage clamp fluorimetry to probe the relationships between voltage sensors and pore conformations in an inactivation deficient Nav1.4 channel. We observe three distinct conductance levels such that DI-III voltage sensor activation is kinetically correlated with formation of a fully open pore, whereas DIV voltage sensor movement underlies formation of a distinct subconducting pore conformation preceding inactivation in wild-type channels. Our experiments reveal that pore gating in sodium channels involves multiple transitions driven by asynchronous movements of voltage sensors. These findings shed new light on the mechanism of coupling between activation and fast inactivation in voltage-gated sodium channels.
Skeletal muscle atrophy occurs in aging and pathological conditions, including cancer, diabetes and AIDS. Treatment of atrophy is based on either preventing protein-degradation pathways, which are activated during atrophy, or activating protein-synthesis pathways, which induce muscle hypertrophy. Here we show that neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) regulates load-induced hypertrophy by activating transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily V, member 1 (TRPV1). The overload-induced hypertrophy was prevented in nNOS-null mice. nNOS was transiently activated within 3 min after overload. This activation promoted formation of peroxynitrite, a reaction product of nitric oxide with superoxide, which was derived from NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4). Nitric oxide and peroxynitrite then activated Trpv1, resulting in an increase of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) that subsequently triggered activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Notably, administration of the TRPV1 agonist capsaicin induced hypertrophy without overload and alleviated unloading- or denervation-induced atrophy. These findings identify nitric oxide, peroxynitrite and [Ca(2+)](i) as the crucial mediators that convert a mechanical load into an intracellular signaling pathway and lead us to suggest that TRPV1 could be a new therapeutic target for treating muscle atrophy.


The posterior parietal cortex and the prefrontal cortex are associated with eye movements and visual attention, but their specific contributions are poorly understood. We compared the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) in monkeys using a memory saccade task in which a salient distractor flashed at a variable timing and location during the memory delay. We found that the two areas had similar responses to target selection, but made distinct contributions to distractor suppression. Distractor responses were more strongly suppressed and more closely correlated with performance in the dlPFC relative to LIP. Moreover, reversible inactivation of the dlPFC produced much larger increases in distractibility than inactivation of LIP. These findings suggest that LIP and dlPFC mediate different aspects of selective attention. Although both areas can contribute to the perceptual selection of salient information, the dlPFC has a decisive influence on whether and how attended stimulus is linked with actions.
Synapses and receptive fields of the cerebral cortex are plastic. However, changes to specific inputs must be coordinated within neural networks to ensure that excitability and feature selectivity are appropriately configured for perception of the sensory environment. We induced long-lasting enhancements and decrements to excitatory synaptic strength in rat primary auditory cortex by pairing acoustic stimuli with activation of the nucleus basalis neuromodulatory system. Here we report that these synaptic modifications were approximately balanced across individual receptive fields, conserving mean excitation while reducing overall response variability. Decreased response variability should increase detection and recognition of near-threshold or previously imperceptible stimuli. We confirmed both of these hypotheses in behaving animals. Thus, modification of cortical inputs leads to wide-scale synaptic changes, which are related to improved sensory perception and enhanced behavioral performance.
Epigenetic changes influence gene expression without altering the DNA sequence. DNA methylation, histone modification and microRNA-associated post-transcriptional gene silencing are three key epigenetic mechanisms. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of the CNS with both inflammatory and neurodegenerative features. Although studies on epigenetic changes in MS only began in the past decade, a growing body of literature suggests that epigenetic changes may be involved in the development of MS, possibly by mediating the effects of environmental risk factors, such as smoking, vitamin D deficiency and Epstein-Barr virus infection. Such studies are also beginning to deliver important insights into the pathophysiology of MS. For example, inflammation and demyelination in relapsing-remitting MS may be related to the increased differentiation of T cells toward a T-helper 17 phenotype, which is an important epigenetically regulated pathophysiological mechanism. In progressive MS, other epigenetically regulated mechanisms, such as increased histone acetylation and citrullination of myelin basic protein, might exacerbate the disease course. In this Review, we summarize current knowledge on the role of epigenetic changes in the pathophysiology of MS.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)--a member of a small family of secreted proteins that includes nerve growth factor, neurotrophin 3 and neurotrophin 4--has emerged as a key regulator of neural circuit development and function. The expression, secretion and actions of BDNF are directly controlled by neural activity, and secreted BDNF is capable of mediating many activity-dependent processes in the mammalian brain, including neuronal differentiation and growth, synapse formation and plasticity, and higher cognitive functions. This Review summarizes some of the recent progress in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neurotrophin regulation of neural circuits. The focus of the article is on BDNF, as this is the most widely expressed and studied neurotrophin in the mammalian brain.
The voltage-gated sodium channel Na(V)1.7 is preferentially expressed in peripheral somatic and visceral sensory neurons, olfactory sensory neurons and sympathetic ganglion neurons. Na(V)1.7 accumulates at nerve fibre endings and amplifies small subthreshold depolarizations, poising it to act as a threshold channel that regulates excitability. Genetic and functional studies have added to the evidence that Na(V)1.7 is a major contributor to pain signalling in humans, and homology modelling based on crystal structures of ion channels suggests an atomic-level structural basis for the altered gating of mutant Na(V)1.7 that causes pain.

In 1628 the English physician William Harvey (1578-1657) published his revolutionary theory that blood circulates through the body driven by the heart. This challenged the long-standing teachings of Hippocrates and Galen concerning 4 different bodily fluids or 'humours' that flowed through separate arterial and venous vascular systems. Harvey gained considerable influence in society as a member of the prestigious Royal College of Physicians in London and as personal physician to King James I and King Charles I. He strove for a more empirical foundation of medicine by means of anatomic demonstrations and vivisections. Despite enduring considerable criticism he managed to disseminate his ideas around the influential universities of Europe in the course of his lifetime. However, consequent changes in practice would not be brought about until decades after Harvey's death, when Galenist treatments such as blood-letting were gradually abandoned.
Quantitative sensory testing (QST) consists of several non-invasive, standardised tests aimed at examining different aspects of the entire somatosensory nervous system. Important advantages of QST over existing supplementary tests such as electromyography are the ability to test the function of thin and unmyelinated nerve fibres as well as the subjective sensation of a somatosensory stimulus. QST is validated in diagnosing small fibre neuropathy, diabetic neuropathy chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy and neuropathic pain. In scientific research, QST is useful in the study into pathophysiological mechanisms of diseases and syndromes with sensory symptoms and in the evaluation of the effect of analgesic treatment on the function of the somatosensory nervous system. In the future, QST could be a useful diagnostic and prognostic test in more forms of neuropathy and in other clinical conditions such as chronic unexplained pain syndromes (e.g. fibromyalgia and whiplash-associated disorder.




The significance of the selective enrichment in omega-3 essential fatty acids (docosahexaenoyl - DHA - chains of membrane phospholipids, 22C and 6 double bonds) in the nervous system (e.g. synaptic membranes and dendrites) has remained, until recently, incompletely understood. While studying mechanisms of neuronal survival, we contributed to the discovery of a docosanoid synthesized by 15-lipoxygenase-1 from DHA, which we dubbed neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1;10R,17S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,11E,13E,15E,19Z hexaenoic acid). NPD1 is a docosanoid because it is derived from a 22C precursor (DHA), unlike eicosanoids, which are derived from the 20C arachidonic acid family of essential fatty acids not enriched in the nervous system. We found that NPD1 is promptly made in response to oxidative stress, seizures and brain ischemia-reperfusion. NPD1 is neuroprotective in experimental brain damage, retinal pigment epithelial cells, and in human brain cells. Thus, NPD1 acts as a protective sentinel, one of the very first defenses activated when cell homeostasis is threatened by neurodegenerations. NPD1 also has been shown to have a specificity and potency that provides beneficial bioactivity during initiation and early progression of neuronal and retinal degenerations, epilepsy and stroke. In short, NPD1 regulation promotes homeostatic regulation of neural circuitry integrity.
Hormones are both growth stimulatory and growth inhibitory in utero. They act as environmental and maturational signals in regulating tissue accretion and differentiation during late gestation. They ensure that fetal development is appropriate for the nutrient supply and is optimal for neonatal survival. Growth-stimulatory hormones, such as insulin, the insulin-like growth factors and the thyroid hormones, have anabolic effects on fetal metabolism and increase cellular nutrient uptake and energy production for tissue accretion. Thyroid hormones also have specific effects on tissue differentiation at key developmental milestones. Similarly, leptin appears to affect development of specific fetal tissues and may counterbalance the maturational actions of other hormones near term. Glucocorticoids inhibit growth in utero but are essential for prepartum tissue differentiation in preparation for delivery. They also affect fetal bioavailability of most of the other growth-regulatory hormones. In addition, many of these hormones alter the placental capacity to supply nutrients for fetal growth. In producing a fetoplacental epigenome specific to the prevailing intrauterine environment, hormones interact to produce phenotypical diversity with potential health consequences long after birth.
An important research topic in neuroscience is the study of mechanisms underlying memory and the estimation of the information capacity of the biological system. In this report we investigate the performance of a modular attractor network with recurrent connections similar to the cortical long-range connections extending in the horizontal direction. We considered a single learning rule, the BCPNN, which implements a kind of Hebbian learning and we trained the network with sparse random patterns. The storage capacity was measured experimentally for networks of size between 500 and 46K units with a constant activity level, gradually diluting the connectivity. We show that the storage capacity of the modular network with patchy connectivity is comparable with the theoretical values estimated for simple associative memories and furthermore we introduce a new technique to prune the connectivity, which enhances the storage capacity up to the asymptotic value.
We simulate the inhibition of Ia-glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) by preceding it with glycinergic recurrent (REN) and reciprocal (REC) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). The inhibition is evaluated in the presence of voltage-dependent conductances of sodium, delayed rectifier potassium, and slow potassium in five -motoneurons (MNs). We distribute the channels along the neuronal dendrites using, alternatively, a density function of exponential rise (ER), exponential decay (ED), or a step function (ST). We examine the change in EPSP amplitude, the rate of rise (RR), and the time integral (TI) due to inhibition. The results yield six major conclusions. First, the EPSP peak and the kinetics depending on the time interval are either amplified or depressed by the REC and REN shunting inhibitions. Second, the mean EPSP peak, its TI, and RR inhibition of ST, ER, and ED distributions turn out to be similar for analogous ranges of G. Third, for identical G, the large variations in the parameters' values can be attributed to the sodium conductance step (g(Na_step)) and the active dendritic area. We find that small g(Na_step) on a few dendrites maintains the EPSP peak, its TI, and RR inhibition similar to the passive state, but high g(Na_step) on many dendrites decrease the inhibition and sometimes generates even an excitatory effect. Fourth, the MN's input resistance does not alter the efficacy of EPSP inhibition. Fifth, the REC and REN inhibitions slightly change the EPSP peak and its RR. However, EPSP TI is depressed by the REN inhibition more than the REC inhibition. Finally, only an inhibitory effect shows up during the EPSP TI inhibition, while there are both inhibitory and excitatory impacts on the EPSP peak and its RR.
Our previous work developed Synthetic Brain Imaging to link neural and schema network models of cognition and behavior to PET and fMRI studies of brain function. We here extend this approach to Synthetic Event-Related Potentials (Synthetic ERP). Although the method is of general applicability, we focus on ERP correlates of language processing in the human brain. The method has two components: Phase 1: To generate cortical electro-magnetic source activity from neural or schema network models; and Phase 2: To generate known neurolinguistic ERP data (ERP scalp voltage topographies and waveforms) from putative cortical source distributions and activities within a realistic anatomical model of the human brain and head. To illustrate the challenges of Phase 2 of the methodology, spatiotemporal information from Friederici's 2002 model of auditory language comprehension was used to define cortical regions and time courses of activation for implementation within a forward model of ERP data. The cortical regions from the 2002 model were modeled using atlas-based masks overlaid on the MNI high definition single subject cortical mesh. The electromagnetic contribution of each region was modeled using current dipoles whose position and orientation were constrained by the cortical geometry. In linking neural network computation via EEG forward modeling to empirical results in neurolinguistics, we emphasize the need for neural network models to link their architecture to geometrically sound models of the cortical surface, and the need for conceptual models to refine and adopt brain-atlas based approaches to allow precise brain anchoring of their modules. The detailed analysis of Phase 2 sets the stage for a brief introduction to Phase 1 of the program, including the case for a schema-theoretic approach to language production and perception presented in detail elsewhere. Unlike Dynamic Causal Modeling (DCM) and Bojak's mean field model, Synthetic ERP builds on models of networks that mediate the relation between the brain's inputs, outputs, and internal states in executing a specific task. The neural networks used for Synthetic ERP must include neuroanatomically realistic placement and orientation of the cortical pyramidal neurons. These constraints pose exciting challenges for future work in neural network modeling that is applicable to systems and cognitive neuroscience.
Freezing is an effective defense strategy for some prey, because their predators rely on visual motion to distinguish objects from their surroundings. An object moving over a background progressively covers (deletes) and uncovers (accretes) background texture while simultaneously producing discontinuities in the optic flow field. These events unambiguously specify kinetic occlusion and can produce a crisp edge, depth perception, and figure-ground segmentation between identically textured surfaces--percepts which all disappear without motion. Given two abutting regions of uniform random texture with different motion velocities, one region appears to be situated farther away and behind the other (i.e., the ground) if its texture is accreted or deleted at the boundary between the regions, irrespective of region and boundary velocities. Consequently, a region with moving texture appears farther away than a stationary region if the boundary is stationary, but it appears closer (i.e., the figure) if the boundary is moving coherently with the moving texture. A computational model of visual areas V1 and V2 shows how interactions between orientation- and direction-selective cells first create a motion-defined boundary and then signal kinetic occlusion at that boundary. Activation of model occlusion detectors tuned to a particular velocity results in the model assigning the adjacent surface with a matching velocity to the far depth. A weak speed-depth bias brings faster-moving texture regions forward in depth in the absence of occlusion (shearing motion). These processes together reproduce human psychophysical reports of depth ordering for key cases of kinetic occlusion displays.
Theoreticians have been enchanted by the secrets of the brain for many years: how and why does it work so well? There has been a long history of searching for its mechanisms. Theoretical or even mathematical scientists have proposed various models of neural networks which has led to the birth of a new field of research. We can think of the 'pre-historic' period of Rashevski and Wiener, and then the period of perceptrons which is the beginning of learning machines, neurodynamics approaches, and further connectionist approaches. Now is currently the period of computational neuroscience. I have been working in this field for nearly half a century, and have experienced its repeated rise and fall. Now having reached very old age, I would like to state my own endeavors on establishing mathematical neuroscience for half a century, from a personal, even biased, point of view. It would be my pleasure if my experiences could encourage young researchers to participate in mathematical neuroscience.


Methylcobalamin (MeCbl), the activated form of vitamin B12, has been used to treat some nutritional diseases and other diseases in clinic, such as Alzheimer's disease and rheumatoid arthritis. As an auxiliary agent, it exerts neuronal protection by promoting regeneration of injured nerves and antagonizing glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Recently several lines of evidence demonstrated that MeCbl may have potential analgesic effects in experimental and clinical studies. For example, MeCbl alleviated pain behaviors in diabetic neuropathy, low back pain and neuralgia. MeCbl improved nerve conduction, promoted the regeneration of injured nerves, and inhibited ectopic spontaneous discharges of injured primary sensory neurons. This review aims to summarize the analgesic effect and mechanisms of MeCbl at the present.
A series of discoveries spanning for the last few years has challenged our view of microglial function, the main form of immune defense in the brain. The surveillance of neuronal circuits executed by each microglial cell overseeing its territory occurs in the form of regular, dynamic interactions. Microglial contacts with individual neuronal compartments, such as dendritic spines and axonal terminals, ensure that redundant or dysfunctional elements are recognized and eliminated from the brain. Microglia take on a new shape that is large and amoeboid when a threat to brain integrity is detected. In this defensive form, they migrate to the endangered sites, where they help to minimize the extent of the brain insult. However, in neurodegenerative diseases that are associated with misfolding and aggregation of synaptic proteins, these vital defensive functions appear to be compromised. Many microglial functions, such as phagocytosis, might be overwhelmed during exposure to the abnormal levels of misfolded proteins in their proximity. This might prevent them from attending to their normal duties, such as the stripping of degenerating synaptic terminals, before neuronal function is irreparably impaired. In these conditions microglia become chronically activated and appear to take on new, destructive roles by direct or indirect inflammatory attack.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) are pivotal for synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Conventional NMDAR consist of heterotetrameric structures composed of GluN1 and GluN2 subunits. A third subunit, GluN3, can also assemble with NMDAR subunits giving a remarkable modification of their heteromeric structure, forming a &quot;nonconventional&quot; NMDAR. As a consequence, the stoichiometry and kinetic properties of the receptors are dramatically changed. Among the GluN3 family, the GluN3A subunit has been the focus of a large amount of studies during recent years. These studies reveal that GluN3A is transiently expressed during development and could play a role in the fine tuning of neuronal networks as well as associated diseases. Moreover, GluN3A distribution outside the postsynaptic densities, including perisynaptic astrocytes, places it at a strategic position to play an important role in the interactions between neurons and glial cells. This review highlights GluN3A properties and addresses its role in neurophysiology and associated pathologies.
The most dramatic progress in the restoration of hearing takes place in the first months after cochlear implantation. To map the brain activity underlying this process, we used positron emission tomography at three time points: within 14 days, three months, and six months after switch-on. Fifteen recently implanted adult implant recipients listened to running speech or speech-like noise in four sequential PET sessions at each milestone. CI listeners with postlingual hearing loss showed differential activation of left superior temporal gyrus during speech and speech-like stimuli, unlike CI listeners with prelingual hearing loss. Furthermore, Broca's area was activated as an effect of time, but only in CI listeners with postlingual hearing loss. The study demonstrates that adaptation to the cochlear implant is highly related to the history of hearing loss. Speech processing in patients whose hearing loss occurred after the acquisition of language involves brain areas associated with speech comprehension, which is not the case for patients whose hearing loss occurred before the acquisition of language. Finally, the findings confirm the key role of Broca's area in restoration of speech perception, but only in individuals in whom Broca's area has been active prior to the loss of hearing.
Astrocytes regulate synaptic transmission and play a role in the formation of new memories, long-term potentiation (LTP), and functional synaptic plasticity. Specifically, astroglial release of glutamate, ATP, and cytokines likely alters the survivability and functioning of newly formed connections. Among these pathways, regulation of glutamate appears to be most directly related to the promotion of LTP, which is highly dependent on the synchronization of synaptic receptors through the regulation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Moreover, regulation of postsynaptic glutamate receptors, particularly AMPA receptors, is dependent on signaling by ATP synthesized in astrocytes. Finally, cytokine signaling is also implicated in regulating LTP, but is likely most important in plasticity following tissue damage. Despite the role of these signaling factors in regulating LTP and functional plasticity, an integrative model of these factors has not yet been elucidated. In this review, we seek to summarize the current body of evidence on astrocytic mechanisms for regulation of LTP and functional plasticity, and provide an integrative model of the processes.
Noninvasive rehabilitation strategies for children with unilateral cerebral palsy are routinely used to improve hand motor function, activity, and participation. Nevertheless, the studies exploring their effects on brain structure and function are very scarce. Recently, structural neuroplasticity was demonstrated in adult poststroke patients, in response to neurorehabilitation. Our purpose is to review current evidence on the effects of noninvasive intervention strategies on brain structure or function, in children with unilateral cerebral palsy. The main literature databases were searched up to October 2013. We included studies where the effects of upper limb training were evaluated at neurofunctional and/or neurostructural levels. Only seven studies met our selection criteria; selected studies were case series, six using the intervention of the constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) and one used virtual reality therapy (VR). CIMT and VR seem to produce measurable neuroplastic changes in sensorimotor cortex associated with enhancement of motor skills in the affected limb. However, the level of evidence is limited, due to methodological weaknesses and small sample sizes of available studies. Well-designed and larger experimental studies, in particular RCTs, are needed to strengthen the generalizability of the findings and to better understand the mechanism of intervention-related brain plasticity in children with brain injury.
The molecular mechanisms that regulate Tau phosphorylation are complex and currently incompletely understood. In the present study, pharmacological inhibitors were deployed to investigate potential processes by which the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors modulates Tau phosphorylation in rat hippocampal slices. Our results demonstrated that Tau phosphorylation at Ser199-202 residues was decreased in NMDA-treated hippocampal slices, an effect that was not reproduced at Ser262 and Ser404 epitopes. NMDA-induced reduction of Tau phosphorylation at Ser199-202 was further promoted when NR2A-containing receptors were pharmacologically isolated and were completely abrogated by the NR2A receptor antagonist NVP-AAM077. Compared with nontreated slices, we observed that NMDA receptor activation was reflected in high Ser9 and low Tyr216 phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK3), suggesting that NMDA receptor activation might diminish Tau phosphorylation via a pathway involving GSK3 inhibition. Accordingly, we found that GSK3 inactivation by a protein kinase C- (PKC-) dependent mechanism is involved in the NMDA-induced reduction of Tau phosphorylation at Ser199-202 epitopes. Taken together, these data indicate that NR2A receptor activation may be important in limiting Tau phosphorylation by a PKC/GSK3 pathway and strengthen the idea that these receptors might act as an important molecular device counteracting neuronal cell death mechanisms in various pathological conditions.
The role of cerebellar plasticity has been increasingly recognized in learning. The privileged relationship between the cerebellum and the inferior olive offers an ideal circuit for attempting to integrate the numerous evidences of neuronal plasticity into a translational perspective. The high learning capacity of the Purkinje cells specifically controlled by the climbing fiber represents a major element within the feed-forward and feedback loops of the cerebellar cortex. Reciprocally connected with the basal ganglia and multimodal cerebral domains, this cerebellar network may realize fundamental functions in a wide range of behaviors. This review will outline the current understanding of three main experimental paradigms largely used for revealing cerebellar functions in behavioral learning: (1) the vestibuloocular reflex and smooth pursuit control, (2) the eyeblink conditioning, and (3) the sensory envelope plasticity. For each of these experimental conditions, we have critically revisited the chain of causalities linking together neural circuits, neural signals, and plasticity mechanisms, giving preference to behaving or alert animal physiology. Namely, recent experimental approaches mixing neural units and local field potentials recordings have demonstrated a spike timing dependent plasticity by which the cerebellum remains at a strategic crossroad for deciphering fundamental and translational mechanisms from cellular to network levels.
Traditionally, the pathophysiology of cervical dystonia has been regarded mainly in relation to neurochemical abnormities in the basal ganglia. Recently, however, substantial evidence has emerged for cerebellar involvement. While the absence of neurological &quot;cerebellar signs&quot; in most dystonia patients may be considered at least provoking, there are more subtle indications of cerebellar dysfunction in complex, demanding tasks. Specifically, given the role of the cerebellum in the neural representation of time, in the millisecond range, dysfunction to this structure is considered to be of greater importance than dysfunction of the basal ganglia. In the current study, we investigated the performance of cervical dystonia patients on a computer task known to engage the cerebellum, namely, the interception of a moving target with changing parameters (speed, acceleration, and angle) with a simple response (pushing a button). The cervical dystonia patients achieved significantly worse results than a sample of healthy controls. Our results suggest that the cervical dystonia patients are impaired at integrating incoming visual information with motor responses during the prediction of upcoming actions, an impairment we interpret as evidence of cerebellar dysfunction.
Unlike other resident neural cells that are of neuroectodermal origin, microglia are resident neural cells of mesodermal origin. Traditionally recognized for their immune functions during disease, new roles are being attributed to these cells in the development and maintenance of the central nervous system (CNS) including specific communication with neurons. In this review, we highlight some of the recent findings on the bidirectional interaction between neurons and microglia. We discuss these interactions along two lines. First, we review data that suggest that microglial activity is modulated by neuronal signals, focusing on evidence that (i) neurons are capable of regulating microglial activation state and influence basal microglial activities; (ii) classic neurotransmitters affect microglial behavior; (iii) chemotactic signals attract microglia during acute neuronal injury. Next, we discuss some of the recent data on how microglia signal to neurons. Signaling mechanisms include (i) direct physical contact of microglial processes with neuronal elements; (ii) microglial regulation of neuronal synapse and circuit by fractalkine, complement, and DAP12 signaling. In addition, we discuss the use of microglial depletion strategies in studying the role of microglia in neuronal development and synaptic physiology. Deciphering the mechanisms of bidirectional microglial-neuronal communication provides novel insights in understanding microglial function in both the healthy and diseased brain.
Regulation of feeding behavior has been a crucial step in the interplay between leptin and the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARC). On one hand, the basic mechanisms regulating central and peripheral action of leptin are becoming increasingly clear. On the other hand, knowledge on how brain sensitivity to leptin can be modulated is only beginning to accumulate. This point is of paramount importance if one considers that pathologically obese subjects have high levels of plasmatic leptin. A possible strategy for exploring neural plasticity in the ARC is to act on environmental stimuli. This can be achieved with various protocols, namely, physical exercise, high-fat diet, caloric restriction, and environmental enrichment. Use of these protocols can, in turn, be exploited to isolate key molecules with translational potential. In the present review, we summarize present knowledge about the mechanisms of plasticity induced by the environment in the ARC. In addition, we also address the role of leptin in extrahypothalamic plasticity, in order to propose an integrated view of how a single diffusible factor can regulate diverse brain functions.
The nervous system is highly sensitive to experience during early postnatal life, but this phase of heightened plasticity decreases with age. Recent studies have demonstrated that developmental-like plasticity can be reactivated in the visual cortex of adult animals through environmental or pharmacological manipulations. These findings provide a unique opportunity to study the cellular and molecular mechanisms of adult plasticity. Here we used the monocular deprivation paradigm to investigate large-scale gene expression patterns underlying the reinstatement of plasticity produced by fluoxetine in the adult rat visual cortex. We found changes, confirmed with RT-PCRs, in gene expression in different biological themes, such as chromatin structure remodelling, transcription factors, molecules involved in synaptic plasticity, extracellular matrix, and excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. Our findings reveal a key role for several molecules such as the metalloproteases Mmp2 and Mmp9 or the glycoprotein Reelin and open up new insights into the mechanisms underlying the reopening of the critical periods in the adult brain.
Stroke is a common and disabling global health-care problem, which is the third most common cause of death and one of the main causes of acquired adult disability in many countries. Rehabilitation interventions are a major component of patient care. In the last few years, brain stimulation, mirror therapy, action observation, or mental practice with motor imagery has emerged as interesting options as add-on interventions to standard physical therapies. The neural bases for poststroke recovery rely on the concept of plasticity, namely, the ability of central nervous system cells to modify their structure and function in response to external stimuli. In this review, we will discuss recent noninvasive strategies employed to enhance functional recovery in stroke patients and we will provide an overview of neural plastic events associated with rehabilitation in preclinical models of stroke.
The aim of the present study is to detect a combination method to utilize gene therapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, a PD rat model is used for the in vivo gene therapy of a recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV2) containing a human glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (rAAV2-hGAD65) gene delivered to the subthalamic nucleus (STN). This is combined with the ex vivo gene delivery of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) by fibroblasts injected into the striatum. After the treatment, the rotation behavior was improved with the greatest efficacy in the combination group. The results of immunohistochemistry showed that hGAD65 gene delivery by AAV2 successfully led to phenotypic changes of neurons in STN. And the levels of glutamic acid and GABA in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) were obviously lower than the control groups. However, hGAD65 gene transfer did not effectively protect surviving dopaminergic neurons in the SNc and VTA. This study suggests that subthalamic hGAD65 gene therapy and combined with TH gene therapy can alleviate symptoms of the PD model rats, independent of the protection the DA neurons from death.
Depression is a devastating and prevalent disease, with profound effects on neural structure and function; however the etiology and neuropathology of depression remain poorly understood. Though antidepressant drugs exist, they are not ideal, as only a segment of patients are effectively treated, therapeutic onset is delayed, and the exact mechanism of these drugs remains to be elucidated. Several theories of depression do exist, including modulation of monoaminergic neurotransmission, alterations in neurotrophic factors, and the upregulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis, and are briefly mentioned in the review. However none of these theories sufficiently explains the pathology and treatment of depression unto itself. Recently, neural plasticity theories of depression have postulated that multiple aspects of brain plasticity, beyond neurogenesis, may bridge the prevailing theories. The term &quot;neural plasticity&quot; encompasses an array of mechanisms, from the birth, survival, migration, and integration of new neurons to neurite outgrowth, synaptogenesis, and the modulation of mature synapses. This review critically assesses the role of adult hippocampal neurogenesis and the cell adhesion molecule, PSA-NCAM (which is known to be involved in many facets of neural plasticity), in depression and antidepressant treatment.
A growing body of evidence suggests that psychological stress is a major risk factor for psychiatric disorders. The basic mechanisms are still under investigation but involve changes in neuroendocrine-immune interactions, ultimately affecting brain plasticity. In this study we characterized central and peripheral effects of different stressors, applied for different time lengths, in adult male C57BL/6J mice. We compared the effects of repeated (7 versus 21 days) restraint stress (RS) and chronic disruption of social hierarchy (SS) on neuroendocrine (corticosterone) and immune function (cytokines and splenic apoptosis) and on a marker of brain plasticity (brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF ). Neuroendocrine activation did not differ between SS and control subjects; by contrast, the RS group showed a strong neuroendocrine response characterized by a specific time-dependent profile. Immune function and hippocampal BDNF levels were inversely related to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation. These data show a fine modulation of the crosstalk between central and peripheral pathways of adaptation and plasticity and suggest that the length of stress exposure is crucial to determine its final outcome on health or disease.
The splenium of the corpus callosum connects the posterior cortices with fibers varying in size from thin late-myelinating axons in the anterior part, predominantly connecting parietal and temporal areas, to thick early-myelinating fibers in the posterior part, linking primary and secondary visual areas. In the adult human brain, the function of the splenium in a given area is defined by the specialization of the area and implemented via excitation and/or suppression of the contralateral homotopic and heterotopic areas at the same or different level of visual hierarchy. These mechanisms are facilitated by interhemispheric synchronization of oscillatory activity, also supported by the splenium. In postnatal ontogenesis, structural MRI reveals a protracted formation of the splenium during the first two decades of human life. In doing so, the slow myelination of the splenium correlates with the formation of interhemispheric excitatory influences in the extrastriate areas and the EEG synchronization, while the gradual increase of inhibitory effects in the striate cortex is linked to the local inhibitory circuitry. Reshaping interactions between interhemispherically distributed networks under various perceptual contexts allows sparsification of responses to superfluous information from the visual environment, leading to a reduction of metabolic and structural redundancy in a child's brain.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is most widely known for its role in intracellular protein degradation; however, in the decades since its discovery, ubiquitination has been associated with the regulation of a wide variety of cellular processes. The addition of ubiquitin tags, either as single moieties or as polyubiquitin chains, has been shown not only to mediate degradation by the proteasome and the lysosome, but also to modulate protein function, localization, and endocytosis. The UPS plays a particularly important role in neurons, where local synthesis and degradation work to balance synaptic protein levels at synapses distant from the cell body. In recent years, the UPS has come under increasing scrutiny in neurons, as elements of the UPS have been found to regulate such diverse neuronal functions as synaptic strength, homeostatic plasticity, axon guidance, and neurite outgrowth. Here we focus on recent advances detailing the roles of the UPS in regulating the morphogenesis of axons, dendrites, and dendritic spines, with an emphasis on E3 ubiquitin ligases and their identified regulatory targets.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) which has long been considered a cellular model for learning and memory is defined as a lasting enhancement in synaptic transmission efficacy. This cellular mechanism has been demonstrated reliably in the hippocampus and the amygdala-two limbic structures implicated in learning and memory. Earlier studies reported on the ability of cortical stimulation of the entorhinal cortex to induce LTP simultaneously in the two sites. However, to retain a stable baseline of comparison with the majority of the LTP literature, it is important to investigate the ability of fiber stimulation such as perforant path activation to induce LTP concurrently in both structures. Therefore, in this paper we report on concurrent LTP in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and the dentate gyrus (DG) subfield of the hippocampus induced by theta burst stimulation of perforant path fibers in freely behaving Sprague-Dawley rats. Our results indicate that while perforant path-evoked potentials in both sites exhibit similar triphasic waveforms, the latency and amplitude of BLA responses were significantly shorter and smaller than those of DG. In addition, we observed no significant differences in either the peak level or the duration of LTP between DG and BLA.

Significance has been attached to the pineal gland in numerous different cultures and beliefs. One religion that has advanced the role of the pineal gland is Spiritism. The objective of the present study was to compile information on the pineal gland drawing on the books of Francisco Cndido Xavier written through psychography and to carry out a critical analysis of their scientific bases by comparing against evidence in the current scientific literature. A systematic search using the terms &quot;pineal gland&quot; and &quot;epiphysis&quot; was conducted of 12 works allegedly dictated by the spirit &quot;Andr Luiz&quot;. All information on the pineal having potential correlation with the field of medicine and current studies was included. Specialists in the area were recruited to compile the information and draw parallels with the scientific literature. The themes related to the pineal gland were: mental health, reproductive function, endocrinology, relationship with physical activity, spiritual connection, criticism of the theory that the organ exerts no function, and description of a hormone secreted by the gland (reference alluding to melatonin, isolated 13 years later). The historical background for each theme was outlined, together with the theories present in the Spiritist books and in the relevant scientific literature. The present article provides an analysis of the knowledge the scientific community can acquire from the history of humanity and from science itself. The process of formulating hypotheses and scientific theories can benefit by drawing on the cultural aspects of civilization, taking into account so-called non-traditional reports and theories.
The article introduces an integrative psychoneurodevelopmental model of complex human brain and mind development based on the latest findings in prenatal and perinatal medicine in terms of integrative neuroscience. The human brain development is extraordinarily complex set of events and could be influenced by a lot of factors. It is supported by new insights into the early neuro-ontogenic processes with the help of structural 3D magnetic resonance imaging or diffusion tensor imaging of fetal human brain. Various factors and targets for neural development including birth weight variability, fetal and early-life programming, fetal neurobehavioral states and fetal behavioral responses to various stimuli and others are discussed. Molecular biology reveals increasing sets of genes families as well as transcription and neurotropic factors together with critical epigenetic mechanisms to be deeply employed in the crucial neurodevelopmental events. Another field of critical importance is psychoimmuno-neuroendocrinology. Various effects of glucocorticoids as well as other hormones, prenatal stress and fetal HPA axis modulation are thought to be of special importance for brain development. The early postnatal period is characterized by the next intense shaping of complex competences, induced mainly by the very unique mother - newborns interactions and bonding. All these mechanisms serve to shape individual human mind with complex abilities and neurobehavioral strategies. Continuous research elucidating these special competences of human fetus and newborn/child supports integrative neuroscientific approach to involve various scientific disciplines for the next progress in human brain and mind research, and opens new scientific challenges and philosophic attitudes. New findings and approaches in this field could establish new methods in science, in primary prevention and treatment strategies, and markedly contribute to the development of modern integrative and personalized medicine.
By operational criteria, burnout appears to be a multifaceted behavioral syndrome consisting of maladaptive individual responses subsequent to prolonged stressful situations. Given the intense physical and cognitive demands of providing high quality healthcare to a wide spectrum of patients, healthcare professionals are particularly susceptible to developing burnout syndrome, a notable phenomenon that has gleaned significant societal attention in recent years. Clearly, widespread manifestation of burnout by health care professionals represents a serious potential threat to the overall quality of patient care and to the realization of positive outcomes to multiple treatment strategies. It will most certainly engender a serious negative impact on the economic viability of the entire healthcare system. Presently, our brief review focuses on current research efforts to 1) provide precise behavioral and psychiatric diagnostic criteria for burnout syndrome in healthcare professionals, 2) identify potential etiological factors and ongoing stressors, and 3) outline an integrative approach for treatment and prevention.
The symptom spectrum of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME) was first detailed in 1959 and later operationalised into a diagnostic protocol (Melvin Ramsey). In 1988 the Holmes case definition coined the term chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Fukuda's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria are very heterogeneous and comprise patients with milder symptoms than the Holmes case definition. The CDC Empirical Criteria for CFS lack sensitivity and/or specificity. Other CFS definitions, e.g. the Oxford criteria, delineate people with idiopathic fatigue. Some authors make the clinical CFS diagnosis when slightly increased self-rated fatigue scores are present. In 2011, Carruthers' International Consensus Criteria attempted to restore the focus on selecting people who suffer from ME. Cognitive bias in criteria construction, patient selection, data collection and interpretation has led to the current state of epistemological chaos with ME, CFS, CFS/ME and ME/CFS, and CF being used interchangeably. Moreover, none of the above mentioned classifications meet statistically based criteria for validation. Diagnostic criteria should be based on statistical methods rather than consensus declarations. Ongoing discussions about which case definition to employ miss the point that the criteria did not pass appropriate external validation. In 2012, Maes et al. performed pattern recognition methods and concluded that CFS patients (according to Fukuda's criteria) should be divided into those with CFS or ME, on the basis that people with ME display a worsening of their illness following increases in physical or cognitive activity. Both ME and CFS are complex disorders that share neuro-immune disturbances, which are more severe in ME than in CFS. This paper expands on that strategy and details a range of objective tests, which confirm that a person with ME or CFS has a neuro-immune disease. By means of pattern recognition methods future research should refine the Maes' case definitions for ME and CFS by including well-scaled symptoms, staging characteristics and neuro-immune biomarkers, including immune-inflammatory assays, bioenergetic markers and brain imaging.
The family Myxinidae embraces all hagfish species, and occupies an evolutionary niche intermediate between ancestral vertebrates and the gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates). Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) modulates neuroendocrine activity in vertebrates and works in the context of the hypothalamic-pituitary (H-P) axis. The appearance of this neuroendocrine axis marks one of the most crucial developmental achievements in vertebrate evolution, because it enabled further diversification in general growth, metabolism, osmoregulation and reproduction as jawed vertebrates evolved. GnRH studies in hagfish draw attention because such work may be considered as providing proxy data for similar investigations conducted upon long extinct species. Indeed, the fossil record reveals little anatomical difference between those hagfish living 300 million years ago and their modern descendants. Accordingly, the hagfish can offer important evolutionary lessons as they have some highly unusual characteristics not seen in any other vertebrate; they retain many representative features of an ancestral state from which all vertebrates originated. Indeed, because central control of reproduction is perhaps the most basic function of the vertebrate H-P axis, and given the importance of GnRH in this network, research on GnRH in hagfish can help elucidate the early evolution of the H-P system itself. Like all vertebrates, hagfish have a functional hypothalamic area and a pituitary gland, constituting a basic H-P axis. But what role does GnRH play in the reproductive system of this &quot;living fossil&quot;? How can understanding GnRH in hagfish help advance the knowledge of vertebrate neuroendocrinology? Here, information on neuroendocrine function and the role of GnRH specifically in this very basal vertebrate is reviewed.


The purpose of the trial was to determine the survival and incidence of secondary tumors in children with medulloblastoma receiving radiotherapy plus chemotherapy. Three hundred seventy-nine eligible patients with nondisseminated medulloblastoma between the ages of 3 and 21 years were treated with 2340 cGy of craniospinal and 5580 cGy of posterior fossa irradiation. Patients were randomized between postradiation cisplatin and vincristine plus either CCNU or cyclophosphamide. Survival, pattern of relapse, and occurrence of secondary tumors were assessed. Five- and 10-year event-free survivals were 81  2% and 75.8  2.3%; overall survivals were 87  1.8% and 81.3  2.1%. Event-free survival was not impacted by chemotherapeutic regimen, sex, race, age at diagnosis, or gender. Seven patients had disease relapse beyond 5 years after diagnosis; relapse was local in 4 patients, local plus supratentorial in 2, and supratentorial alone in 1. Fifteen patients experienced secondary tumors as a first event at a median time of 5.8 years after diagnosis (11 &gt;5 y postdiagnosis). All non-CNS solid secondary tumors (4) occurred in regions that had received radiation. Of the 6 high-grade gliomas, 5 occurred &gt;5 years postdiagnosis. The estimated cumulative 10-year incidence rate of secondary malignancies was 4.2% (1.9%-6.5%). Few patients with medulloblastoma will relapse  5 years postdiagnosis; relapse will occur predominantly at the primary tumor site. Patients are at risk for development of secondary tumors, many of which are malignant gliomas. This may become an increasing issue as more children survive.
The common variant rs12608932, located within an intron of UNC13A gene on chromosome 19p13.3, has been suggested to influence susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), as well as survival, in patients of north European descent. To examine this possibility further, we evaluated the association of rs12608932 with susceptibility and survival in a population-based cohort of 500 Italian ALS patients and 1457 Italian control samples. Although rs12608932 was not associated with ALS susceptibility in our series (p = 0.124), it was significantly associated with survival under the recessive model (median survival for AA/AC genotypes = 3.5 years [interquartile range, 2.2-6.4]; CC = 2.5 years [interquartile range, 1.6-4.2]; p = 0.017). Furthermore, rs12608932 genotype remained an independent prognostic factor in Cox multivariable analysis adjusting for other factors known to influence survival (p = 0.023). Overall, minor allele carrier status of rs12608932 was strongly associated with an approximate 1-year reduction of survival in ALS patients, making it a significant determinant of phenotype variation. The identification of UNC13A as a modifier of prognosis among sporadic ALS patients potentially provides a new therapeutic target aimed at slowing disease progression.
Neuroimaging measures hold promise for enhancing the detection of disease-related genetic variants. In this study, we use advanced multivariate regression methods to assess the predictive value of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on several brain volumetric- and lesion-related neuroimaging measures in a well-characterized cohort of 326 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). SNP selection was constrained to key epigenetic regulatory genes to further explore the emerging role of epigenetics in MS. Regression models consistently identified rs2522129, rs2675231, and rs2389963 as having among the highest predictive values for explaining differences related to brain volume measures. These SNPs are all contained in genes from the same superfamily, histone deacetylases, which have biological functions that are relevant to MS, neurodegeneration, and aging. Our preliminary findings generate hypotheses for testing in future independent MS data sets as well as other neurodegenerative conditions.
An increasing number of people are living past the age of 100 years, but little is known about what differentiates centenarians from the rest of the population. In this study, brains from female subjects in 3 different age groups, 65-75 years (n = 8), 76-85 years (n = 8), and 94-105 years (n = 7), were examined to estimate the total number of neocortical neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia. There was no statistically significant difference in the mean number of neocortical neurons between the 3 groups: 17.9  10(9) (CV = SD/mean = 0.15) in the youngest group, 18.1  10(9) (CV = 0.22) in the second group, and 16.32  10(9) (CV = 0.24) in the oldest group. However, there was a significant difference in the total number of neocortical glial cells between the youngest (41.0  10(9)) and oldest (29.0  10(9)) age groups (p = 0.013). The significance was probably driven by a significant difference in the total number of neocortical oligodendrocytes that differed significantly between the youngest (27.5  10(9)) and oldest (18.1.  10(9), p = 0.006) age groups. In conclusion, very old individuals have brain neuron numbers comparable with younger individuals, which may be encouraging for those who live into the &quot;fourth age&quot; and may contribute to the longevity of this exceptional group of people.
The gap between symptoms and pathology in Alzheimer's disease has been explained by the hypothetical construct of &quot;cognitive reserve&quot;--a set of variables including education, intelligence, and mental stimulation which putatively allow the brain to adapt to-and hence mask--underlying pathologies by maintaining cognitive function despite underlying neural changes. This review proposes a hypothesis that a biological mechanism may mediate between these social/psychological processes on the one hand, and apparently reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease on the other, namely repeated activation of the noradrenergic system over a lifetime by the processes implicated in cognitive reserve. Noradrenaline's neuroprotective effects both in vivo and in vitro, and its key role in mediating the neuroprotective effects of environmental enrichment on the brain, make noradrenaline's key role in mediating cognitive reserve--by disease compensation, disease modification, or a combination of both--a viable hypothesis.
Epidemiological evidence implies a role for chronic stress and stress-related disorders in the etiopathogenesis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although chronic stress exposure during various stages of life has been shown to exacerbate AD-related cognitive deficits and neuropathology in AD mouse models, the role of stress exposure during the prenatal period on AD development and progression remained to be investigated. The present study therefore explored the effects of prenatal maternal stress (PMS) in both male and female APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse offspring in terms of cognition, affect, and AD-related neuropathology. As prenatal perturbations are likely to mediate their effects via alterations in epigenetic regulation, changes in hippocampal DNA methyltransferase 3a, 5-methylcytosine and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine levels were assessed as underlying mechanisms. Repetitive restraint stress during the first week of gestation exerted a sex-dependent effect, with male PMS mice showing spatial memory deficits and a blunted hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis response, while female PMS mice showed improved spatial memory performance, increased depressive-like behavior, as well as a decrease in hippocampal plaque load. In addition, sex differences were observed among APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, independent of PMS (i.e., female mice showed impaired spatial memory performance, higher hippocampal plaque load, altered amyloid precursor protein processing in the CA3 and lower DNA methyltransferase 3a immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus when compared with male mice of the same age). In conclusion, PMS exposure impacts on the behavioral phenotype and neuropathology of APPswe/PS1dE9 mice. Moreover, given the remarkable sex differences observed, one should not overlook the impact of sex-specific responses to environmental exposures when investigating gene-environment interactions in AD.
Age-related impairments of executive functions appear to be related to reductions of the number and plasticity of dendritic spine synapses in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Experimental evidence suggests that synaptic plasticity is mediated by the spine actin cytoskeleton, and a major pathway regulating actin-based plasticity is controlled by phosphorylated LIM kinase (pLIMK). We asked whether aging resulted in altered synaptic density, morphology, and pLIMK expression in the rat prelimbic region of the PFC. Using unbiased electron microscopy, we found an approximate 50% decrease in the density of small synapses with aging, while the density of large synapses remained unchanged. Postembedding immunogold revealed that pLIMK localized predominantly to the postsynaptic density where it was increased in aging synapses by approximately 50%. Furthermore, the age-related increase in pLIMK occurred selectively within the largest subset of prelimbic PFC synapses. Because pLIMK is known to inhibit actin filament plasticity, these data support the hypothesis that age-related increases in pLIMK may explain the stability of large synapses at the expense of their plasticity.
In the present cross-sectional study, we examined physical activity (PA) and its possible association with cognitive skills and brain structure in 331 cognitively healthy elderly. Based on the number of self-reported light and hard activities for at least 30 minutes per week, participants were assigned to 4 groups representing different levels of PA. The cognitive skills were assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination score, a verbal fluency task, and the Trail-making test as a measure of visuospatial orientation ability. Participants also underwent a magnetic resonance imaging of the brain. Multiple regression analysis revealed that greater PA was associated with a shorter time to complete the Trail-making test, and higher levels of verbal fluency. Further, the level of self-reported PA was positively correlated with brain volume, white matter, as well as a parietal lobe gray matter volume, situated bilaterally at the precuneus. These present cross-sectional results indicate that PA is a lifestyle factor that is linked to brain structure and function in late life.
Substantial resources and effort have been invested into the development of therapeutic agents for Alzheimer's disease (AD) with mixed and limited success. Research into the etiology of AD with animal models mimicking aspects of the disorder has substantially contributed to the advancement of potential therapies. Although these models have shown utility in testing novel therapeutic candidates, large variability still exists in terms of methodology and how the models are utilized. No model has yet predicted a successful disease-modifying therapy for AD. This report reviews several of the widely accepted transgenic and nontransgenic animal models of AD, highlighting the pathological and behavioral characteristics of each. Methodological considerations for conducting preclinical animal research are discussed, such as which behavioral tasks and histological markers may be associated with the greatest insight into therapeutic benefit. An overview of previous and current therapeutic interventions being investigated in AD models is presented, with an emphasis on factors that may have contributed to failure in past clinical trials. Finally, we propose a multitiered approach for investigating candidate therapies for AD that may reduce the likelihood of inappropriate conclusions from models and failed trials in humans.
Activity-dependent trafficking of AMPA receptors to synapses regulates synaptic strength. Activation of the NMDA receptor induces several second messenger pathways that contribute to receptor trafficking-dependent plasticity, including the NO pathway, which elevates cGMP. In turn, cGMP activates the cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II (cGKII), which phosphorylates the AMPA receptor subunit GluA1 at serine 845, a critical step facilitating synaptic delivery in the mechanism of activity-dependent synaptic potentiation. Since cGKII is expressed in the striatum, amygdala, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus, it has been proposed that mice lacking cGKII may present phenotypic differences compared to their wild-type littermates in emotion-dependent tasks, learning and memory, and drug reward salience. Previous studies have shown that cGKII KO mice ingest higher amounts of ethanol as well as exhibit elevated anxiety levels compared to wild-type (WT) littermates. Here, we show that cGKII KO mice are significantly deficient in spatial learning while exhibiting facilitated motor coordination, demonstrating a clear dependence of memory-based tasks on cGKII. We also show diminished GluA1 phosphorylation in the postsynaptic density (PSD) of cGKII KO prefrontal cortex while in hippocampal PSD fractions, phosphorylation was not significantly altered. These data suggest that the role of cGKII may be more robust in particular brain regions, thereby impacting complex behaviors dependent on these regions differently.
The clinical distinction between autism spectrum disorders (ASD), also called pervasive developmental disorders (PDD), and schizophrenia is often difficult to make. Here we describe a case of an adult patient presenting with a diagnosis of schizophrenia based on a history of functional deterioration and presumed persecutory delusions. A psychiatric and psychological assessment conducted from a developmental perspective, in association with direct observation and neuropsychological evaluation for intellectual disabilities and autism, led to a diagnosis of PDD not otherwise specified, with revision of the initial diagnosis of schizophrenia.
Environmental reduplicative paramnesia (ERP) is characterized by the involuntary attribution of a false identity to a place. ERP has rarely been examined experimentally; its mechanisms therefore remain speculative. Here, we describe a patient with extended traumatic right fronto-temporal damage and severe persistent ERP, in whom we were able to modulate ERP by exposing him to various typical landmarks of the town where he was hospitalized. When landmarks were ambiguous as regards location (e.g., unknown buildings), the patient erroneously localized himself in his hometown, which was more than two thousand kilometers away. In contrast, when he visited distinct landmarks of the place where he actually resided, his ERP was immediately corrected, and spatial orientation was restored. These findings indicate that ERP may be temporarily modifiable through perception of unequivocal topographic information.
It is a common finding in tests of false recognition that amnesic patients recognize fewer related lures than healthy controls, and this has led to assumptions that gist memory is damaged in these patients (Schacter, Verfaellie, &amp; Anes, 1997, Neuropsychology, 11; Schacter, Verfaellie, Anes, &amp; Racine, 1998, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10; Schacter, Verfaellie, &amp; Pradere, 1996, Journal of Memory and Language, 35). However, clinical observations find that amnesic patients typically hold meaningful conversations and make relevant remarks, and there is some experimental evidence highlighting preserved immediate recall of prose (Baddeley &amp; Wilson, 2002, Neuropsychologia, 40; Gooding, Isaac, &amp; Mayes, 2005, Neuropsychologia, 43; Rosenbaum, Gilboa, Levine, Winocur, &amp; Moscovitch, 2009, Neuropsychologia, 47), which suggests that amnesiacs can get the gist. The present experiment used false recognition paradigms to assess whether the reduced rate of false recognition found in amnesic patients may be a consequence of their impaired item-specific memory. It examined the effect of increasing the item-specific memory of amnesic patient DA by bringing her to criterion on relevant study-lists and compared her performance on a false recognition paradigm with a group of 32 healthy young adults. Results indicated that when DA's item-specific memory was increased she was more able to gist and her performance was no different to the healthy young adults. Previous assumptions that gist memory is necessarily damaged in amnesia might therefore be revisited, since the reduced rate of false recognition could be caused by impaired item-specific memory. The experiment also highlights a positive relationship between item-specific and gist memory which has not previously been accounted for in false-recognition experiments.
We describe the case of a patient with bilateral thalamic lesions due to brain infarcts in the paramedian thalamic artery territories. The patient demonstrated symptoms of apathy (e.g., loss of initiative and interest in others, poor motivation, flattened affect). Neuropsychological assessment 3 and 5 years post-infarct revealed severe deficits in verbal and non-verbal immediate and delayed memory, attention, and executive functioning, with minimal improvement over time. Also, he demonstrated difficulties in social cognition (i.e., perception of facial expressions of others and of sarcasm). These findings are discussed and interpreted in light of current theories regarding the neurobiological substrate of apathy.
A 57-year-old man suffered severe amnesia and disorientation, accompanied by content-specific confabulation, due to an alcoholic Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. For months, he was deeply concerned about a single obligation that he thought he had to respond to, but which he had already assumed 20 years previously. This monothematic, prospective confabulation was associated with failures of reality filtering as previously documented in behaviorally spontaneous confabulation and disorientation: the patient failed to suppress the interference of currently irrelevant memories and to abandon anticipations that were no longer valid (impaired extinction capacity). Magnetic resonance imaging showed damage to the mamillary bodies and the dorsomedial thalamic nucleus. Positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) showed extended orbitofrontal hypometabolism. We suggest that isolated prospective confabulation shares the core feature (acts and thoughts based on currently irrelevant memory), mechanism (failure of reality filtering), and anatomical basis (orbitofrontal dysfunction) with behaviorally spontaneous confabulations.
Mutations of the gene for glucocerebrosidase 1 (GBA) cause Gaucher disease (GD), an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder. Individuals with homozygous or heterozygous (carrier) mutations of GBA have a significantly increased risk for the development of Parkinson's disease (PD), with clinical and pathological features that mirror the sporadic disease. The mechanisms whereby GBA mutations induce dopaminergic cell death and Lewy body formation are unknown. There is evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in PD and so we have investigated the impact of glucocerebrosidase (GCase) inhibition on these parameters to determine if there may be a relationship of GBA loss-of-function mutations to the known pathogenetic pathways in PD. We have used exposure to a specific inhibitor (conduritol--epoxide, CE) of GCase activity in a human dopaminergic cell line to identify the biochemical abnormalities that follow GCase inhibition. We show that GCase inhibition leads to decreased ADP phosphorylation, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and increased free radical formation and damage, together with accumulation of alpha-synuclein. Taken together, inhibition of GCase by CE induces abnormalities in mitochondrial function and oxidative stress in our cell culture model. We suggest that GBA mutations and reduced GCase activity may increase the risk for PD by inducing these same abnormalities in PD brain.
Altered redox dynamics contribute to physiological aging and Parkinson's disease (PD). This is reflected in the substantia nigra (SN) of PD patients as lowered antioxidant levels and elevated oxidative damage. Contrary to this observation, we previously reported that non-SN regions such as caudate nucleus and frontal cortex (FC) exhibited elevated antioxidants and lowered mitochondrial and oxidative damage indicating constitutive protective mechanisms in PD brains. To investigate whether the sub-cellular distribution of antioxidants could contribute to these protective effects, we examined the distribution of antioxidant/oxidant markers in the neuropil fractions [synaptosomes, non-synaptic mitochondria and cytosol] of FC from PD (n = 9) and controls (n = 8). In the control FC, all the antioxidant activities [Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione (GSH), GSH peroxidase (GPx), GSH-S-transferase (GST)] except glutathione reductase (GR) were the highest in cytosol, but several fold lower in mitochondria and much lower in synaptosomes. However, FC synaptosomes from PD brains had significantly higher levels of GSH (p = 0.01) and related enzymes [GPx (p = 0.02), GR (p = 0.06), GST (p = 0.0001)] compared to controls. Conversely, mitochondria from the FC of PD cases displayed elevated SOD activity (p = 0.02) while the GSH and related enzymes were relatively unaltered. These changes in the neuropil fractions were associated with unchanged or lowered oxidative damage. Further, the mitochondrial content in the synaptosomes of both PD and control brains was five-fold lower compared to the non-synaptic mitochondrial fraction. Altered distribution of oxidant/antioxidant markers in the neuropil fractions of the human brain during aging and PD has implications for (1) degenerative and protective mechanisms (2) distinct antioxidant mechanisms in synaptic terminals compared to other compartments.
Synaptic plasticity represents the long lasting activity-related strengthening or weakening of synaptic transmission, whose well-characterized types are the long term potentiation and depression. Despite this classical definition, however, the molecular mechanisms by which synaptic plasticity may occur appear to be extremely complex and various. The post-synaptic density (PSD) of glutamatergic synapses is a major site for synaptic plasticity processes and alterations of PSD members have been recently implicated in neuropsychiatric diseases where an impairment of synaptic plasticity has also been reported. Among PSD members, scaffolding proteins have been demonstrated to bridge surface receptors with their intracellular effectors and to regulate receptors distribution and localization both at surface membranes and within the PSD. This review will focus on the molecular physiology and pathophysiology of synaptic plasticity processes, which are tuned by scaffolding PSD proteins and their close related partners, through the modulation of receptor localization and distribution at post-synaptic sites. We suggest that, by regulating both the compartmentalization of receptors along surface membrane and their degradation as well as by modulating receptor trafficking into the PSD, postsynaptic scaffolding proteins may contribute to form distinct signaling micro-domains, whose efficacy in transmitting synaptic signals depends on the dynamic stability of the scaffold, which in turn is provided by relative amounts and post-translational modifications of scaffolding members. The putative relevance for neuropsychiatric diseases and possible pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed in the last part of this work.



MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short (22 nucleotides) non-coding ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecules that negatively regulate the expression of protein-coding genes. Posttranscriptional silencing of target genes by miRNA is initiated by binding to the 3'-untranslated regions of target mRNAs, resulting in specific cleavage and subsequent degradation of the mRNA or by translational repression resulting in specific inhibition of protein synthesis. An increasing amount of evidence shows that miRNAs control a large number of biological processes and there exists a direct link between miRNAs and disease. miRNA molecules are abundantly expressed in tissue-specific and regional patterns and have been suggested as potential biomarkers, disease modulators and drug targets. The central nervous system is a prominent site of miRNA expression. Within the brain, several miRNAs are expressed and/or enriched in the region of the hypothalamus and miRNAs have recently been shown to be important regulators of hypothalamic control functions. The aim of this review is to summarize some of the current knowledge regarding the expression and role of miRNAs in the hypothalamus.








The operculo-insular cortex has been recently pointed out to be the main area of the pain matrix to be involved in the integration of pain intensity. This fMRI study specified the pattern of response to laser stimuli by focusing on this cortical area, by optimizing the temporal sampling and by investigating pain-related differences in the amplitudes and latencies of the BOLD responses. Canonical and temporal derivative hemodynamic response function (HRF) and finite impulse response (FIR) modeling provided consistent results. Amplitude of BOLD response discriminated painful from non-painful conditions in posterior and mid-insular cortices, bilaterally. Pain conditions were characterized by a shortened latency (as compared to non-painful conditions) in the anterior insula. In the functional organization of the insula, these results suggest a double dissociation that can be summarized as the 'where' and the 'when' of the BOLD response to pain. These results suggest that differences in the amplitude of the BOLD activity in the posterior and in the mid-insular cortices as well as shortened latency of the response in the anterior insula deal with discriminative processes related to painful conditions.
While there have been several studies investigating the neural correlates of action observation associated with hand grasping movements, comparatively little is known about the neural bases of observation of reaching movements. In two experiments, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we defined the cortical areas encoding reaching movements and assessed their sensitivity to biological motion and to movement velocity. In the first experiment, participants observed video-clips showing either a biological effector (an arm) or a non-biological object (rolling cylinder) reaching toward a target with a biological and a non-biological motion, respectively. In the second experiment, participants observed video-clips showing either a biological effector (an arm) or a non-biological object (an arrow) reaching toward a target with the same biological motion profiles. The results of the two experiments revealed activation of superior parietal and dorsal premotor sites during observation of the biological motion only, independent of whether it was performed by a biological effector (reaching arm) or a non-biological object (reaching arrow). These areas were not activated when participants observed the non-biological movement (rolling cylinder). To assess the responsiveness of parietal and frontal sites to movement velocity, the fMRI repetition-suppression (RS) technique was used, in which movement was shown with same or different velocities between consecutive videos, and observation of identical stimuli was contrasted with observation of different stimuli. Regions of interest were defined in the parietal and frontal cortices, and their response to stimulus repetition was analyzed (same vs. different velocities). The results showed an RS effect for velocity only during the observation of movements performed by the biological effector and not by the non-biological object. These data indicate that dorsal premotor and superior parietal areas represent a neural substrate involved in the encoding of reaching movements and that their responsiveness to movement velocity of a biological effector could be instrumental to the discrimination of movements performed by others.
Although we feel, see, and experience our hands as our own (body or hand ownership), recent research has shown that illusory hand ownership can be induced for fake or virtual hands and may be useful for neuroprosthetics and brain-computer interfaces. Despite the vast amount of behavioral data on illusory hand ownership, neuroimaging studies are rare, in particular electrophysiological studies. Thus, while the neural systems underlying hand ownership are relatively well described, the spectral signatures of body ownership as measured by electroencephalography (EEG) remain elusive. Here we induced illusory hand ownership in an automated, computer-controlled manner using virtual reality while recording 64-channel EEG and found that illusory hand ownership is reflected by a body-specific modulation in the mu-band over fronto-parietal cortex. In a second experiment in the same subjects, we then show that mu as well as beta-band activity in highly similar fronto-parietal regions was also modulated during a motor imagery task often used in paradigms employing non-invasive brain-computer interface technology. These data provide insights into the electrophysiological brain mechanisms of illusory hand ownership and their strongly overlapping mechanisms with motor imagery in fronto-parietal cortex. They also highlight the potential of combining high-resolution EEG with virtual reality setups and automatized stimulation protocols for systematic, reproducible stimulus presentation in cognitive neuroscience, and may inform the design of non-invasive brain-computer interfaces.
Recently there has been renewed interest in the habenula; a pair of small, highly evolutionarily conserved epithalamic nuclei adjacent to the medial dorsal (MD) nucleus of the thalamus. The habenula has been implicated in a range of behaviours including sleep, stress and pain, and studies in non-human primates have suggested a potentially important role in reinforcement processing, putatively via its effects on monoaminergic neurotransmission. Over the last decade, an increasing number of neuroimaging studies have reported functional responses in the human habenula using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, standard fMRI analysis approaches face several challenges in isolating signal from this structure because of its relatively small size, around 30 mm(3) in volume. In this paper we offer a set of guidelines for locating and manually tracing the habenula in humans using high-resolution T1-weighted structural images. We also offer recommendations for appropriate pre-processing and analysis of high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data such that signal from the habenula can be accurately resolved from that in surrounding structures.
Phase/amplitude coupling (PAC) is emerging as an important electrophysiological measure of local and long-distance neuronal communication. Current techniques for calculating PAC provide a numerical index that represents an average value across an arbitrarily long time period. This requires researchers to rely on block design experiments and temporal concatenation at the cost of the sub-second temporal resolution afforded by electrophysiological recordings. Here we present a method for calculating event-related phase/amplitude coupling (ERPAC) designed to capture the temporal evolution of task-related changes in PAC across events or between distant brain regions that is applicable to human or animal electromagnetic recording.
Successful performance of a cognitive task depends upon both the quality of the sensory information and the processing resources available to perform that task. Thus, task performance can either be data-limited or process-limited (D. A. Norman and D. G. Bobrow, 1975). Using fMRI, we show that these conceptual distinctions are neurally dissociable: A parieto-frontal network involved in conscious perception is modulated by target interference manipulations that strain attentional processing, but not by equally difficult manipulations that limit the quality of target information. These results suggest that limitations imposed by processing capacity have distinct neural effects from those arising from the quality of sensory input, and provide empirical support for an influential neurobiological theory of consciousness (S. Dehaene, J.-P. Changeux, L. Naccache, J. Sackur, and C. Sergent, 2006).
In this paper the cerebral blood flow (CBF) in resting state obtained from SPECT imaging is employed as a hemodynamics descriptor to study the concurrent changes between brain structures and to build binarized connectivity graphs. The statistical similarity in CBF between pairs of regions was measured by computing the Pearson correlation coefficient across 31 normal subjects. We demonstrated the CBF connectivity matrices follow 'small-world' attributes similar to previous studies using different modalities of neuroimaging data (MRI, fMRI, EEG, MEG). The highest concurrent fluctuations in CBF were detected between homologous cortical regions (homologous callosal connections). It was found that the existence of structural core regions or hubs positioned on a high proportion of shortest paths within the CBF network. These were anatomically distributed in frontal, limbic, occipital and parietal regions that suggest its important role in functional integration. Our findings point to a new possibility of using CBF variable to investigate the brain networks based on graph theory in normal and pathological states. Likewise, it opens a window to future studies to link covariation between morphometric descriptors, axonal connectivity and CBF processes with a potential diagnosis applications.
In paced random number generation (RNG) participants are asked to generate numbers between 1 and 9 in a random fashion, in synchrony with a pacing stimulus. Successful task performance can be achieved through control of the main biases known to exist in human RNG compared to a computer generated series: seriation, cycling through a set of available numbers, and repetition avoidance. A role in response inhibition and switching from automatic to controlled processing has previously been ascribed to the subthalamic nucleus (STN). We sought evidence of frequency-specific changes in STN oscillatory activity which could be directly related to use of such strategies during RNG. Local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded from depth electrodes implanted in the STN of 7 patients (14 sides) with Parkinson's disease (PD), when patients were on dopaminergic medication. Patients were instructed to (1) generate a series of 100 numbers between 1 and 9 in a random fashion, and (2) undertake a control serial counting task, both in synchrony with a 0.5 Hz pacing stimulus. Significant increases in LFP power (p  0.05) across a narrow gamma frequency band (45-60 Hz) during RNG, compared to the control counting task, were observed. Further, the number of 'repeated pairs' (a decline in which reflects repetition avoidance bias in human RNG) was positively correlated with these gamma increases. We therefore suggest that STN gamma activity is relevant for controlled processing, in particular the active selection and repetition of the same number on successive trials. These results are consistent with a frequency-specific role of the STN in executive processes such as suppression of habitual responses and 'switching-on' of more controlled processing strategies.
Oscillatory brain activity in the theta frequency range (4-8 Hz) before the onset of an event has been shown to affect the likelihood of successfully encoding the event into memory. Recent work has also indicated that frontal theta activity might be modulated by reward, but it is not clear how reward expectancy, anticipatory theta activity, and memory formation might be related. Here, we used scalp electroencephalography (EEG) to assess the relationship between these factors. EEG was recorded from healthy adults while they memorized a series of words. Each word was preceded by a cue that indicated whether a high or low monetary reward would be earned if the word was successfully remembered in a later recognition test. Frontal theta power between the presentation of the reward cue and the onset of a word was predictive of later memory for the word, but only in the high reward condition. No theta differences were observed before word onset following low reward cues. The magnitude of prestimulus encoding-related theta activity in the high reward condition was correlated with the number of high reward words that were later confidently recognized. These findings provide strong evidence for a link between reward expectancy, theta activity, and memory encoding. Theta activity before event onset seems to be especially important for the encoding of motivationally significant stimuli. One possibility is that dopaminergic activity during reward anticipation mediates frontal theta activity related to memory.
Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) is a common developmental neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by tics and frequent psychiatric comorbidities, often causing significant disability. Tic generation has been linked to disturbed networks of brain areas involved in planning, controlling and execution of actions, particularly structural and functional disorders in the striatum and cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loops. We therefore applied structural diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to characterize changes in intrahemispheric white matter connectivity in cortico-subcortical circuits engaged in motor control in 15 GTS patients without psychiatric comorbidities. White matter connectivity was analyzed by probabilistic fiber tractography between 12 predefined cortical and subcortical regions of interest. Connectivity values were combined with measures of clinical severity rated by the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS). GTS patients showed widespread structural connectivity deficits. Lower connectivity values were found specifically in tracts connecting the supplementary motor areas (SMA) with basal ganglia (pre-SMA-putamen, SMA-putamen) and in frontal cortico-cortical circuits. There was an overall trend towards negative correlations between structural connectivity in these tracts and YGTSS scores. Structural connectivity of frontal brain networks involved in planning, controlling and executing actions is reduced in adult GTS patients which is associated with tic severity. These findings are in line with the concept of GTS as a neurodevelopmental disorder of brain immaturity.
Children born very preterm (VPT) are at risk for visual impairments, the main risk factors being retinopathy of prematurity and cerebral white matter injury, however these only partially account for visual impairments in VPT children. This study aimed to compare optic radiation microstructure and volume between VPT and term-born children, and to investigate associations between 1) perinatal variables and optic radiations; 2) optic radiations and visual function in VPT children. We hypothesized that optic radiation microstructure would be altered in VPT children, predicted by neonatal cerebral white matter abnormality and retinopathy of prematurity, and associated with visual impairments. 142 VPT children and 32 controls underwent diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging at 7years of age. Optic radiations were delineated using constrained spherical deconvolution tractography. Tract volume and average diffusion tensor values for the whole optic radiations and three sub-regions were compared between the VPT and control groups, and correlated with perinatal variables and 7-year visual outcome data. Total tract volumes and average diffusion values were similar between VPT and control groups. On regional analysis of the optic radiation, mean and radial diffusivity were higher within the middle sub-regions in VPT compared with control children. Neonatal white matter abnormalities and retinopathy of prematurity were associated with optic radiation diffusion values. Lower fractional anisotropy in the anterior sub-regions was associated with poor visual acuity and increased likelihood of other visual defects. This study presents evidence for microstructural alterations in the optic radiations of VPT children, which are largely predicted by white matter abnormality or severe retinopathy of prematurity, and may partially explain the higher rate of visual impairments in VPT children.
Voice and speech in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients are classically affected by a hypophonia, dysprosody, and dysarthria. The underlying pathomechanisms of these disabling symptoms are not well understood. To identify functional anomalies related to pathophysiology and compensation we compared speech-related brain activity and effective connectivity in early PD patients who did not yet develop voice or speech symptoms and matched controls. During fMRI 20 PD patients ON and OFF levodopa and 20 control participants read 75 sentences covertly, overtly with neutral, or with happy intonation. A cue-target reading paradigm allowed for dissociating task preparation from execution. We found pathologically reduced striato-prefrontal preparatory effective connectivity in early PD patients associated with subcortical (OFF state) or cortical (ON state) compensatory networks. While speaking, PD patients showed signs of diminished monitoring of external auditory feedback. During generation of affective prosody, a reduced functional coupling between the ventral and dorsal striatum was observed. Our results suggest three pathomechanisms affecting speech in PD: While diminished energization on the basis of striato-prefrontal hypo-connectivity together with dysfunctional self-monitoring mechanisms could underlie hypophonia, dysarthria may result from fading speech motor representations given that they are not sufficiently well updated by external auditory feedback. A pathological interplay between the limbic and sensorimotor striatum could interfere with affective modulation of speech routines, which affects emotional prosody generation. However, early PD patients show compensatory mechanisms that could help improve future speech therapies.
Prolonged febrile seizures (PFS) are the commonest cause of childhood status epilepticus and are believed to carry a risk of neuronal damage, in particular to the mesial temporal lobe. This study was designed to determine: i) the effect of prolonged febrile seizures on white matter and ii) the temporal evolution of any changes seen. 33 children were recruited 1month following PFS and underwent diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) with repeat imaging at 6 and 12months after the original episode of PFS. 18 age-matched healthy control subjects underwent similar investigations at a single time point. Tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) was used to compare fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), axial diffusivity (AD) and radial diffusivity (RD) between patients and controls on a voxel-wise basis within the white matter skeleton. Widespread reductions in FA along multiple white matter tracts were found at 1 and 6months post-PFS, but these had resolved at 12months. At one month post-PFS the main changes seen were reductions in AD but at 6months these had predominantly changed to increases in RD. These widespread white matter changes have not previously been noted following PFS. There are many possible explanations, but one plausible hypothesis is that this represents a temporary halting of normal white matter development caused by the seizure, that then resumes and normalises in the majority of children.
The loss of cognitive control is a prominent feature of schizophrenia. Relevant for adaptive control, individuals with schizophrenia often show impairments in their ability to monitor their ongoing behavior, and to adjust their responses based on advance information or feedback. By conducting a systematic examination of the behavioral adjustments after error and conflict and of activity within and between brain regions sensitive to the need to increase control (i.e. error commission, conflict presentation) in individuals with schizophrenia (n=38) compared to healthy controls, we aimed to 1) shed light on the role of diverse brain regions previously associated with adaptive cognitive control, and 2) contribute to our understanding of the nature of the cognitive deficits present in individuals with schizophrenia. Our results show that error- and conflict-related behavioral adjustments are relatively intact during the performance of a change-signal task. Similarly, individuals with schizophrenia demonstrated intact error- and conflict-related effects in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, as well as in a number of other key regions including the bilateral anterior prefrontal cortex (PFC), bilateral insula, right inferior parietal lobule during error processing, and bilateral inferior parietal lobule and thalamus, right anterior PFC, left insula, and left lateral and inferior cerebellum during conflict processing. Given that a critical characteristic of our experimental design was the use of tasks that explicitly provide information about errors and conflict, we interpret our results as suggesting that the error- and conflict-detection systems are still somewhat functional in individuals with schizophrenia, but that a compromise in the ability to represent task relevant information that allow for the generation of an error representation may lead to the alterations in error- and conflict-processing documented in the schizophrenia literature.


Although brain plasticity in the form of gray matter increases and decreases has been observed in chronic pain, factors determining the patterns of directionality are largely unknown. Here we tested the hypothesis that fibromyalgia interacts with age to produce distinct patterns of gray matter differences, specifically increases in younger and decreases in older patients, when compared to age-matched healthy controls. The relative contribution of pain duration was also investigated. Regional gray matter was measured in younger (n=14, mean age 43, range 29-49) and older (n=14; mean age 55, range 51-60) female fibromyalgia patients and matched controls using voxel-based morphometry and cortical thickness analysis of T1-weighted magnetic resonance images. To examine their functional significance, gray matter differences were compared with experimental pain sensitivity. Diffusion-tensor imaging was used to assess whether white matter changed in parallel with gray matter, and resting-state fMRI was acquired to examine whether pain-related gray matter changes are associated with altered functional connectivity. Older patients showed exclusively decreased gray matter, accompanied by compromised white matter integrity. In contrast, younger patients showed exclusively gray matter increases, namely in the basal ganglia and insula, which were independent of pain duration. Associated white matter changes in younger patients were compatible with gray matter hypertrophy. In both age groups, structural brain alterations were associated with experimental pain sensitivity, which was increased in older patients but normal in younger patients. Whereas more pronounced gray matter decreases in the posterior cingulate cortex were related to increased experimental pain sensitivity in older patients, insular gray matter increases in younger patients correlated with lower pain sensitivity, possibly indicating the recruitment of endogenous pain modulatory mechanisms. This is supported by the finding that the insula in younger patients showed functional decoupling from an important pain-processing region, the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. These results suggest that brain structure and function shift from being adaptive in younger to being maladaptive in older patients, which might have important treatment implications.
Impairments in language and communication are core features of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), and a substantial percentage of children with ASD do not develop speech. ASD is often characterized as a disorder of brain connectivity, and a number of studies have identified white matter impairments in affected individuals. The current study investigated white matter integrity in the speech network of high-functioning adults with ASD. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) scans were collected from 18 participants with ASD and 18 neurotypical participants. Probabilistic tractography was used to estimate the connection strength between ventral premotor cortex (vPMC), a cortical region responsible for speech motor planning, and five other cortical regions in the network of areas involved in speech production. We found a weaker connection between the left vPMC and the supplementary motor area in the ASD group. This pathway has been hypothesized to underlie the initiation of speech motor programs. Our results indicate that a key pathway in the speech production network is impaired in ASD, and that this impairment can occur even in the presence of normal language abilities. Therapies that result in normalization of this pathway may hold particular promise for improving speech output in ASD.
Developmental dyscalculia - a congenital learning disability in understanding numerical concepts - is typically associated with parietal lobe abnormality. However, people with dyscalculia often retain some residual numerical abilities, reported in studies that otherwise focused on abnormalities in the dyscalculic brain. Here we took a different perspective by focusing on brain regions that support residual number processing in dyscalculia. All participants accurately performed semantic and categorical colour-decision tasks with numerical and non-numerical stimuli, with adults with dyscalculia performing slower than controls in the number semantic tasks only. Structural imaging showed less grey-matter volume in the right parietal cortex in people with dyscalculia relative to controls. Functional MRI showed that accurate number semantic judgements were maintained by parietal and inferior frontal activations that were common to adults with dyscalculia and controls, with higher activation for participants with dyscalculia than controls in the right superior frontal cortex and the left inferior frontal sulcus. Enhanced activation in these frontal areas was driven by people with dyscalculia who made faster rather than slower numerical decisions; however, activation could not be accounted for by response times per se, because it was greater for fast relative to slow dyscalculics but not greater for fast controls relative to slow dyscalculics. In conclusion, our results reveal two frontal brain regions that support efficient number processing in dyscalculia.
The early diagnostic value of glucose hypometabolism and atrophy as potential neuroimaging biomarkers of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been extensively explored using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The vast majority of previous imaging studies neglected the effects of single factors, such as age, symptom severity or time to conversion in MCI thus limiting generalisability of results across studies. Here, we investigated the impact of these factors on metabolic and structural differences. FDG-PET and MRI data from AD patients (n=80), MCI converters (n=65) and MCI non-converters (n=64) were compared to data of healthy subjects (n=79). All patient groups were split into subgroups by age, time to conversion (for MCI), or symptom severity and compared to the control group. AD patients showed a strongly age-dependent pattern, with younger patients showing significantly more extensive reductions in gray matter volume and glucose utilisation. In the MCI converter group, the amount of glucose utilisation reduction was linked to the time to conversion but not to atrophy. Our findings indicate that FDG-PET might be more closely linked to future cognitive decline whilst MRI being more closely related to the current cognitive state reflects potentially irreversible damage.
Slowed information processing speed is commonly reported in persons with multiple sclerosis (MS), and is typically investigated using clinical neuropsychological tests, which provide sensitive indices of mean-level information processing speed. However, recent studies have demonstrated that within-person variability or intra-individual variability (IIV) in information processing speed may be a more sensitive indicator of neurologic status than mean-level performance on clinical tests. We evaluated the neural basis of increased IIV in mildly affected relapsing-remitting MS patients by characterizing the relation between IIV (controlling for mean-level performance) and white matter integrity using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Twenty women with relapsing-remitting MS and 20 matched control participants completed the Computerized Test of Information Processing (CTIP), from which both mean response time and IIV were calculated. Other clinical measures of information processing speed were also collected. Relations between IIV on the CTIP and DTI metrics of white matter microstructure were evaluated using tract-based spatial statistics. We observed slower and more variable responses on the CTIP in MS patients relative to controls. Significant relations between white matter microstructure and IIV were observed for MS patients. Increased IIV was associated with reduced integrity in more white matter tracts than was slowed information processing speed as measured by either mean CTIP response time or other neuropsychological test scores. Thus, despite the common use of mean-level performance as an index of cognitive dysfunction in MS, IIV may be more sensitive to the overall burden of white matter disease at the microstructural level. Furthermore, our study highlights the potential value of considering within-person fluctuations, in addition to mean-level performance, for uncovering brain-behavior relationships in neurologic disorders with widespread white matter pathology.
The recently discovered hexanucleotide repeat expansion, C9ORF72, has been shown to be among the most common cause of familial behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) and to be present in a significant minority of apparently sporadic cases. While mounting evidence points to prominent episodic memory dysfunction in bvFTD cases, recent reports have also suggested an amnestic profile in C9ORF72 mutation carriers. No study to date, however, has formally characterised the extent to which episodic memory is impaired in C9ORF72 mutation versus sporadic cases, or the underlying neural substrates of such deficits. We conducted a comparison of C9ORF72 (n=8) and sporadic (n=15) bvFTD cases using a battery of verbal and visual episodic memory tasks, and contrasted their performance with that of Alzheimer's disease (AD, n=15) and healthy older control (n=15) participants. Behaviourally, the two bvFTD groups displayed comparable episodic memory profiles, irrespective of task administered, with prominent impairments evident relative to Controls. Whole-brain voxel-based morphometry analyses revealed distinct neural correlates of episodic memory dysfunction in each patient group. Widespread atrophy in medial prefrontal, medial and lateral temporal cortices correlated robustly with episodic memory dysfunction in sporadic bvFTD cases. In contrast, atrophy in a distributed set of regions in the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes including the posterior cingulate cortex, was implicated in episodic memory dysfunction in C9ORF72 cases. Our results demonstrate that while episodic memory is disrupted to the same extent irrespective of genetic predisposition in bvFTD, distinct neural changes specific to each patient group are evident. The involvement of medial and lateral parietal regions in episodic memory dysfunction in C9ORF72 cases is of particular significance and represents an avenue of considerable interest for future studies.
Pain is a multidimensional phenomenon. Patients with somatoform pain disorder suffer from long-lasting pain, with the pathology being closely associated with cognitive-emotional components. Differences between these patients and controls in cerebral responses to pain stimuli have been reported. However, to our knowledge, no studies of somatoform pain disorder have evaluated altered pain-related brain activation as modulated by emotional dysregulation. We examined the distinct neural mechanism that is engaged in response to two different pain intensities in a sad emotional condition, performing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) on a group of 11 somatoform pain patients and an age-matched control group. Our results showed that the ratio for low-pain intensity ratings between the sad and neutral conditions in patients was higher than in controls. They also showed significant increased activation in the anterior/posterior insula in the low pain sadness condition. Furthermore, there was specific functional connectivity between the anterior insula and the parahippocampus in patients during presentation of low-pain stimuli in the sad context. These findings suggest that a negative emotional context such as sadness contributes to dysfunctional pain processing in somatoform pain disorder. Greater sensitivity to low levels of pain in an emotional context of sadness might be an important aspect of the psychopathology of somatoform pain disorder.
Clinical and cognitive dysfunction in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is insufficiently explained by structural damage as identified by traditional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, indicating the need for reliable functional measures in MS. We investigated whether altered resting-state oscillatory power could be related to clinical and cognitive dysfunction in MS. MEG recordings were acquired using a 151-channel whole-head MEG system from 21 relapsing remitting MS patients and 17 healthy age-, gender-, and education-matched controls, using an eyes-closed no-task condition. Relative spectral power was estimated for 78 regions of interest, using an atlas-based beamforming approach, for classical frequency bands; delta, theta, alpha1, alpha2, beta and gamma. These cortical power estimates were compared between groups by means of permutation analysis and correlated with clinical disability (Expanded Disability Status Scale: EDSS), cognitive performance and MRI measures of atrophy and lesion load. Patients showed increased power in the alpha1 band and decreased power in the alpha2 band, compared to controls, mainly in occipital, parietal and temporal areas, confirmed by a lower alpha peak-frequency. Increased power in the alpha1 band was associated with worse overall cognition and especially with information processing speed. Our quantitative relative power analysis of MEG recordings showed abnormalities in oscillatory brain dynamics in MS patients in the alpha band. By applying source-space analyses, this study provides a detailed topographical view of abnormal brain activity in MS patients, especially localized to occipital areas. Interestingly, poor cognitive performance was related to high resting-state alpha1 power indicating that changes in oscillatory activity might be of value as an objective measure of disease burden in MS patients.
Down Syndrome is the most common genetic cause for intellectual disability, yet the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in Down Syndrome is unknown. We compared fMRI scans of 15 individuals with Down Syndrome to 14 typically developing control subjects while they viewed 50min of cartoon video clips. There was widespread increased synchrony between brain regions, with only a small subset of strong, distant connections showing underconnectivity in Down Syndrome. Brain regions showing negative correlations were less anticorrelated and were among the most strongly affected connections in the brain. Increased correlation was observed between all of the distributed brain networks studied, with the strongest internetwork correlation in subjects with the lowest performance IQ. A functional parcellation of the brain showed simplified network structure in Down Syndrome organized by local connectivity. Despite increased interregional synchrony, intersubject correlation to the cartoon stimuli was lower in Down Syndrome, indicating that increased synchrony had a temporal pattern that was not in response to environmental stimuli, but idiosyncratic to each Down Syndrome subject. Short-range, increased synchrony was not observed in a comparison sample of 447 autism vs. 517 control subjects from the Autism Brain Imaging Exchange (ABIDE) collection of resting state fMRI data, and increased internetwork synchrony was only observed between the default mode and attentional networks in autism. These findings suggest immature development of connectivity in Down Syndrome with impaired ability to integrate information from distant brain regions into coherent distributed networks.
The human brainstem is a densely packed, complex but highly organised structure. It not only serves as a conduit for long projecting axons conveying motor and sensory information, but also is the location of multiple primary nuclei that control or modulate a vast array of functions, including homeostasis, consciousness, locomotion, and reflexive and emotive behaviours. Despite its importance, both in understanding normal brain function as well as neurodegenerative processes, it remains a sparsely studied structure in the neuroimaging literature. In part, this is due to the difficulties in imaging the internal architecture of the brainstem in vivo in a reliable and repeatable fashion. A modified multivariate mixture of Gaussians (mmMoG) was applied to the problem of multichannel tissue segmentation. By using quantitative magnetisation transfer and proton density maps acquired at 3T with 0.8mm isotropic resolution, tissue probability maps for four distinct tissue classes within the human brainstem were created. These were compared against an ex vivo fixated human brain, imaged at 0.5mm, with excellent anatomical correspondence. These probability maps were used within SPM8 to create accurate individual subject segmentations, which were then used for further quantitative analysis. As an example, brainstem asymmetries were assessed across 34 right-handed individuals using voxel based morphometry (VBM) and tensor based morphometry (TBM), demonstrating highly significant differences within localised regions that corresponded to motor and vocalisation networks. This method may have important implications for future research into MRI biomarkers of pre-clinical neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
Neuroimaging biomarkers of depression have potential to aid diagnosis, identify individuals at risk and predict treatment response or course of illness. Nevertheless none have been identified so far, potentially because no single brain parameter captures the complexity of the pathophysiology of depression. Multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) may overcome this issue as it can identify patterns of voxels that are spatially distributed across the brain. Here we present the results of an MVPA to investigate the neuronal patterns underlying passive viewing of positive, negative and neutral pictures in depressed patients. A linear support vector machine (SVM) was trained to discriminate different valence conditions based on the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data of nine unipolar depressed patients. A similar dataset obtained in nine healthy individuals was included to conduct a group classification analysis via linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Accuracy scores of 86% or higher were obtained for each valence contrast via patterns that included limbic areas such as the amygdala and frontal areas such as the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. The LDA identified two areas (the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and caudate nucleus) that allowed group classification with 72.2% accuracy. Our preliminary findings suggest that MVPA can identify stable valence patterns, with more sensitivity than univariate analysis, in depressed participants and that it may be possible to discriminate between healthy and depressed individuals based on differences in the brain's response to emotional cues.
The assessment of resting-state functional connectivity has become an important tool in studying brain disease mechanisms. Here we use magnetoencephalography to longitudinally evaluate functional connectivity changes in relation to clinical measures of disease progression in Parkinson's disease (PD). Using a source-space based approach with detailed anatomical mapping, functional connectivity was assessed for temporal, prefrontal and high order sensory association areas known to show neuropathological changes in early clinical disease stages. At baseline, early stage, untreated PD patients (n=12) had lower parahippocampal and temporal delta band connectivity and higher temporal alpha1 band connectivity compared to controls. Longitudinal analyses over a 4-year period in a larger patient group (n=43) revealed decreases in alpha1 and alpha2 band connectivity for multiple seed regions that were associated with motor or cognitive deterioration. In the earliest clinical stages of PD, delta and alpha1 band resting-state functional connectivity is altered in temporal cortical regions. With disease progression, a reversal of the initial changes in alpha1 and additional decreases in alpha2 band connectivity evolving in a more widespread cortical pattern. These changes in functional connectivity appear to reflect clinically relevant phenomena and therefore hold promise as a marker of disease progression, with potential predictive value for clinical outcome.

Cognitive control deficits have been consistently documented in patients with schizophrenia. Recent work in cognitive neuroscience has hypothesized a distinction between two theoretically separable modes of cognitive control-reactive and proactive. However, it remains unclear the extent to which these processes are uniquely associated with dysfunctional neural recruitment in individuals with schizophrenia. This functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study utilized the color word Stroop task and AX Continuous Performance Task (AX-CPT) to tap reactive and proactive control processes, respectively, in a sample of 54 healthy controls and 43 patients with first episode schizophrenia. Healthy controls demonstrated robust dorsolateral prefrontal, anterior cingulate, and parietal cortex activity on both tasks. In contrast, patients with schizophrenia did not show any significant activation during proactive control, while showing activation similar to control subjects during reactive control. Critically, an interaction analysis showed that the degree to which prefrontal activity was reduced in patients versus controls depended on the type of control process engaged. Controls showed increased dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and parietal activity in the proactive compared to the reactive control task, whereas patients with schizophrenia did not demonstrate this increase. Additionally, patients' DLPFC activity and performance during proactive control was associated with disorganization symptoms, while no reactive control measures showed this association. Proactive control processes and concomitant dysfunctional recruitment of DLPFC represent robust features of schizophrenia that are also directly associated with symptoms of disorganization.
The structural integrity of the corticospinal tract (CST) after stroke is closely linked to the degree of motor impairment. Simple and reliable methods of assessing white matter integrity within the CST would facilitate the use of this measure in routine clinical practice. Commonly, diffusion tensor imaging is used to measure voxel-wise fractional anisotropy (FA) in a variety of regions of interest (ROIs) representing the CST. Several methods are currently in use with no consensus about which approach is best. ROIs are usually either the whole CST or the posterior limb of the internal capsule (PLIC). These are created manually on brain images or with reference to an individual's CST determined by tractography. Once the ROI has been defined, the FA can be reported as an absolute measure from the ipsilesional side or as a ratio in comparison to the contralesional side. Both corticospinal tracking and manual ROI definition in individual stroke patients are time consuming and subject to bias. Here, we investigated whether using a CST template derived from healthy volunteers was a feasible method for defining the appropriate ROI within which to measure changes in FA. We reconstructed the CST connecting the primary motor cortex to the ipsilateral pons in 23 age-matched control subjects and 21 stroke patients. An average healthy CST template was created from the 23 control subjects. For each patient, FA values were then calculated for both the template CST and for their own CST. We compared patients' FA metrics between the two tracts by considering four measures (FA in the ipsilesional side, FA in the contralesional side, FA ratio of the ipsilesional side to the contralesional side and FA asymmetry between the two sides) and in two tract-based ROIs (whole tract and tract section traversing the PLIC). There were no significant differences in FA metrics for either method, except for contralesional FA. Furthermore, we found that FA metrics relating to CST damage all correlated with motor ability post-stroke equally well. These results suggest that the healthy CST template could be a surrogate structure for defining tract-based ROIs with which to measure stroke patients' FA metrics, avoiding the necessity for CST tracking in individual patients. CST template-based automated quantification of structural integrity would greatly facilitate implementation of practical clinical applications of diffusion tensor imaging.
Aside from apolipoprotein E (APOE), genetic risk factors for  amyloid deposition in cognitively intact individuals remain to be identified. Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) modulates neural plasticity, which has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease. We examined in cognitively normal older adults whether the BDNF codon 66 polymorphism affects  amyloid burden and the relationship between  amyloid burden and cognitive scores, and how this relates to the effect of APOE. Amyloid load was measured by means of (18)F-flutemetamol PET in 64 community-recruited cognitively intact individuals (mean age 66, S.D. 5.1). Recruitment was stratified according to a factorial design with APOE (4 allele present vs absent) and BDNF (met allele at codon 66 present vs absent) as factors. Individuals in the four resulting cells were matched by the number of cases, age, and gender. Among the APOE 4 carriers, BDNF met positive subjects had a significantly higher amyloid load than BDNF met negative subjects, while BDNF met carrier status did not have an effect in APOE 4 noncarriers. This interaction effect was localized to precuneus, orbitofrontal cortex, gyrus rectus, and lateral prefrontal cortex. In the APOE 4/BDNF met carriers, a significant inverse relationship existed between episodic memory scores and amyloid burden but not in any of the other groups. This hypothesis-generating experiment highlights a potential role of BDNF polymorphisms in the preclinical phase of  amyloid deposition and also suggests that BDNF codon 66 polymorphisms may influence resilience against  amyloid-related effects on cognition.
Amyloid imaging is currently introduced to the market for clinical use. We will review the evidence demonstrating that the different amyloid PET ligands that are currently available are valid biomarkers for Alzheimer-related  amyloidosis. Based on recent findings from cross-sectional and longitudinal imaging studies using different modalities, we will incorporate amyloid imaging into a multidimensional model of Alzheimer's disease. Aside from the critical role in improving clinical trial design for amyloid-lowering drugs, we will also propose a tentative algorithm for when it may be useful in a memory clinic environment. Gaps in our evidence-based knowledge of the added value of amyloid imaging in a clinical context will be identified and will need to be addressed by dedicated studies of clinical utility.

Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) appear to show a general face discrimination deficit across a range of tasks including social-emotional judgments as well as identification and discrimination. However, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies probing the neural bases of these behavioral differences have produced conflicting results: while some studies have reported reduced or no activity to faces in ASD in the Fusiform Face Area (FFA), a key region in human face processing, others have suggested more typical activation levels, possibly reflecting limitations of conventional fMRI techniques to characterize neuron-level processing. Here, we test the hypotheses that face discrimination abilities are highly heterogeneous in ASD and are mediated by FFA neurons, with differences in face discrimination abilities being quantitatively linked to variations in the estimated selectivity of face neurons in the FFA. Behavioral results revealed a wide distribution of face discrimination performance in ASD, ranging from typical performance to chance level performance. Despite this heterogeneity in perceptual abilities, individual face discrimination performance was well predicted by neural selectivity to faces in the FFA, estimated via both a novel analysis of local voxel-wise correlations, and the more commonly used fMRI rapid adaptation technique. Thus, face processing in ASD appears to rely on the FFA as in typical individuals, differing quantitatively but not qualitatively. These results for the first time mechanistically link variations in the ASD phenotype to specific differences in the typical face processing circuit, identifying promising targets for interventions.
Neurodegenerative patients show often severe everyday decision making problems. Currently it is however not clear which brain atrophy regions are implicated in such decision making problems. We investigated the atrophy correlates of gambling decision making in a sample of 63 participants, including two neurodegenerative conditions (behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia - bvFTD; Alzheimer's disease - AD) as well as healthy age-matched controls. All participants were tested on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and the behavioural IGT results were covaried against the T1 MRI scans of all participants to identify brain atrophy regions implicated in gambling decision making deficits. Our results showed a large variability in IGT performance for all groups with both patient groups performing especially poor on the task. Importantly, bvFTD and AD groups did not differ significantly on the behavioural performance of the IGT. However, by contrast, the atrophy gambling decision making correlates differed between bvFTD and AD, with bvFTD showing more frontal atrophy and AD showing more parietal and temporal atrophy being implicated in decision making deficits, indicating that both patient groups fail the task on different levels. Frontal (frontopolar, anterior cingulate) and parietal (retrosplenial) cortex atrophy covaried with poor performance on the IGT. Taken together, the atrophy correlates of gambling decision making show that such deficits can occur due to a failure of different neural structures, which will inform future diagnostics and treatment options to alleviate these severe everyday problems in neurodegenerative patients.









The aim of the present study was to investigate the association of APOE, MTHFR and ACE polymorphisms with stroke in the Zambian population. We analyzed 41 stroke patients and 116 control subjects all of Zambian origin for associations between the genotype of the APOE, MTHFR and ACE polymorphisms and stroke. The APOE 24 genotype showed increased risk for hemorrhagic stroke (P&lt;0.05) and also a high risk for ischemic stroke (P=0.05). There was complete absence of the APOE 22 and the MTHFR TT genotypes in the Zambian population. The difference between cases and controls was not significant for the other genetic variants when analyzed for relationship between stroke, stroke subtype and genotype. We show that genetic variation at the APOE locus affects susceptibility to stroke. No detectable association were observed for the MTHFR and ACE genotypes and stroke in the Zambian population.
Three cases of symptomatic extradural arachnoid cyst were treated by surgery. Total excision of the cyst followed by tight closure of the fistula by suture was achieved in all 3 cases. Surgery improved the neurological deficits but urinary incontinence persisted in all three patients. Obliteration of the fistula is considered to be important at surgery from the etiological perspective of the cyst. There are many surgical options, but surgical removal of the cyst and obliteration of the communication usually leads to prompt improvement in neurological deficits. Instability, malalignment, and worsening scoliosis are well-recognized postoperative complications of excessive laminotomy, but the exposure should be wide enough to cover the cyst completely at the operation. Wide exposure of the entire cyst is preferable to avoid missing the fistula and to identify any adhesions or fistula between the cyst and the dura. Identification of the fistula location based on preoperative imaging studies is also important.
Background. Intracranial artery dissections are rare and many controversies exist about treatment options. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the endovascular approach in patients with an intracranial dissection presenting with different symptoms. Methods. We prospectively evaluated the clinical features and treatment outcomes of 30 patients who had angiographically confirmed nontraumatic intracranial dissections over 4 years. Patients were followed up for 17 months, and their final outcomes were assessed by the modified Rankin Score (mRS) and angiography. Results. Sixteen (53.3%) patients had a dissection of the anterior circulation, whereas 14 (46.7%) had a posterior circulation dissection. Overall, 83.3% of the patients suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Grade IV Hunt and Hess score was seen in 32% of the SAH presenting cases. Parent artery occlusion (PAO) with coil embolization was used in 70% of the cases. The prevalence of overall procedural complications was 23.3%, and all were completely resolved at the end of follow-up. No evidence of in-stent occlusion/stenosis or rebleeding was observed in our cases during follow-up. Angiography results improved more frequently in the PAO with coil embolization group (100%) than in the stent-only-treated group (88.9%) (P = 0.310) and the unruptured dissection group (5/5, 100%) in comparison with the group that presented with SAH (95.8%) (P = 0.833). Conclusion. Favorable outcomes were achieved following an endovascular approach for symptomatic ruptured or unruptured dissecting aneurysms. However, the long-term efficacy and durability of these procedures remain to be determined in a larger series.
Mitochondria are highly dynamic, complex organelles that continuously alter their shape, ranging between two opposite processes, fission and fusion, in response to several stimuli and the metabolic demands of the cell. Alterations in mitochondrial dynamics due to mutations in proteins involved in the fusion-fission machinery represent an important pathogenic mechanism of human diseases. The most relevant proteins involved in the mitochondrial fusion process are three GTPase dynamin-like proteins: mitofusin 1 (MFN1) and 2 (MFN2), located in the outer mitochondrial membrane, and optic atrophy protein 1 (OPA1), in the inner membrane. An expanding number of degenerative disorders are associated with mutations in the genes encoding MFN2 and OPA1, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A and autosomal dominant optic atrophy. While these disorders can still be considered rare, defective mitochondrial dynamics seem to play a significant role in the molecular and cellular pathogenesis of more common neurodegenerative diseases, for example, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. This review provides an overview of the basic molecular mechanisms involved in mitochondrial fusion and focuses on the alteration in mitochondrial DNA amount resulting from impairment of mitochondrial dynamics. We also review the literature describing the main disorders associated with the disruption of mitochondrial fusion.
Mitochondrial disorders are caused by impairment of the respiratory chain. Psychiatric features often represent part of their clinical spectrum. However, the real incidence of psychiatric disorders in these diseases is unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate psychiatric involvement in a group of patients with mitochondrial disorders and without already diagnosed mental illness. Twenty-four patients with mitochondrial disorder and without already diagnosed mental diseases have been studied by means of the mini-international neuropsychiatric interview (MINI) and the newcastle mitochondrial diseases adult scale (NMDAS). In patients with mitochondrial disease, psychiatric conditions were far more common than in general Italian population (about 60 vs. 20-25%), and included major depression, agoraphobia and/or panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, psychotic syndromes. Psychiatric involvement did not seem to depend on disease progression. Large, multicenter studies are strongly needed to better characterize the natural history of mitochondrial disorders and of their psychiatric involvement. Moreover, the possibility of mitochondrial diseases should be considered in patients with psychiatric diseases. Finally, we encourage psychiatric evaluation as a routinary approach to mitochondrial patients.




A 24-year-old woman complained of a 4-year history of muscle cramps, stiffness of the right lower limb and walking difficulties. After clinical and laboratory investigations, a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis was made. However, her family history revealed that her father and an older sister had lifelong symptoms of impaired muscle relaxation following contraction, improving with physical exercise. Molecular genetic studies in both sisters confirmed the diagnosis of myotonia congenita, due to a c.568GG&gt;TC (Gly190Ser) pathogenic mutation in CLCN1 gene. Occurrence of two different neurological conditions in the same patient, both manifesting with stiffness, is quite unusual and suggests the opportunity of an accurate differential diagnosis.

New neurons are produced each day in the hippocampus through the process of neurogenesis. Both mental and physical training can modify this process by increasing the number of new cells that mature into functional neurons in the adult brain. However, the mechanisms whereby these increases occur are not necessarily the same. Physical activity, especially aerobic exercise greatly increases the number of new neurons that are produced in the hippocampal formation. In contrast, mental training via skill learning increases the numbers that survive, particularly when the training goals are challenging. Both manipulations can increase cognitive performance in the future, some of which are reportedly mediated by the presence of new neurons in the adult hippocampus. Based on these data, we suggest that a combination of mental and physical training, referred to here as MAP training, is more beneficial for neuronal recruitment and overall mental health than either activity alone. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu) receptors are known to functionally interact with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors at both neuronal and behavioural levels, in a manner that may be of relevance to the treatment of schizophrenia. We have previously described a novel mGlu positive allosteric modulator (PAM), LSN2463359 and provided evidence of its ability to attenuate aspects of the behavioural response to administration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, SDZ 220,581. In addition, LSN2463359 was found to selectively attenuate reversal learning deficits observed in the neurodevelopmental MAM E17 model but not in the acute phencyclidine (PCP) model. In the present study, the interactions between this mGlu PAM and the NMDA receptor were explored further by assessing the effects of LSN2463359 against some of the motor, instrumental and cognitive effects induced by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists PCP and MK-801, the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist SDZ 220,581 and the GluN2B selective NMDA receptor antagonist, Ro 63-1908. LSN2463359 had either no or minor impact on locomotor hyperactivity induced by either PCP or SDZ 220,581. However, in rats lever pressing for food rewards under a variable interval 30s schedule of instrumental responding, the drug clearly attenuated not only the suppression of response rate induced by SDZ 220,581 but also the stimulation of response rate induced by Ro 63-1908. In contrast, LSN2463359 failed to alter both of the instrumental effects induced by the open channel blockers PCP and MK-801. In addition, although PCP and SDZ 220,581 induced similar deficits in a discrimination and reversal learning task, LSN2463359 was again only able to reverse the deficit induced by SDZ 220,581. The results indicate that the interactions between mGlu and NMDA receptors are dependent on both the mechanism of the blockade of the receptor and the behavioural domain under investigation. Our work has implications for the preclinical use of NMDA receptor antagonists in the prediction of potential therapeutic efficacy in the search for novel treatments for schizophrenia. Positive allosteric modulators of the mGlu receptor certainly question the predictive validity of such approaches. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Atomoxetine (ATM) is a potent norepinephrine (NE) uptake inhibitor and increases both NE and dopamine synaptic levels in prefrontal cortex, where it is thought to exert its beneficial effects on attention and impulsivity. At the behavioral level, ATM has been shown to cause improvements on the measures of executive functions, such as response inhibition, working memory and attentional set shifting across different species. However, the exact mechanism of action for ATM's effects on cognition is still not clear. One possible target for the cognitive enhancing effects of ATM is the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC), the only source of NE to key forebrain areas such as cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Although it is known that ATM increases NE availability overall by blocking reuptake of NE, the effects of this agent on impulse activity of LC neurons have not been reported. Here, the effect of ATM (0.1-1 mg/kg, ip) on NE-LC neurons was investigated by recording extracellular activity of LC neurons in isoflurane-anesthetized rats. ATM caused a significant decrease of the tonic activity of LC single-units, although leaving intact the sensory-evoked excitatory component of LC phasic response. Moreover, the magnitude of the inhibitory component of LC response to paw stimulation was increased after 1 mg/kg of ATM and its duration was prolonged at 0.3 mg/kg. Together, these effects of ATM produced an increase in the phasic-to-tonic ratio of LC phasic response to sensory stimulation. ATM also modulated the average sensory-evoked local field potential (LFP) and spike-field coherence in LC depending on the dose tested. The lower dose (0.1 mg/kg) significantly decreased early positive and negative components of the sensory-evoked LFP response. Higher doses (0.3-1 mg/kg) initially increased and then decreased the amplitude of components of the evoked fields, whereas the spike-field coherence was enhanced by 1 mg/kg ATM across frequency bands. Finally, coherence between LC fields and EEG signals was generally increased by 1 mg/kg ATM, whereas 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg respectively decreased and increased coherence values in specific frequency bands. Taken together these results suggest that ATM effects on LC neuronal activity are dose-dependent, with different doses affecting different aspects of LC firing. This modulation of activity of LC-NE neurons may play a role in the cognitive effects of ATM. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
The synapse is a crowded area. In the last years, the concept that proteins can be organized in different membrane domains according to their structure has emerged. Cholesterol-rich membrane domains, or lipid rafts, form an organized portion of the membrane that is thought to concentrate signaling molecules. Accumulating evidence has shown that both the pre-synaptic and post-synaptic sites are highly enriched in lipid rafts, which are likely to organize and maintain synaptic proteins in their precise localization. Here we review recent studies highlighting the importance of lipid rafts for synaptic function and plasticity, as well as their relevance for age or disease-related cognitive impairment. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder in which the first diagnostic symptom is unusual reciprocal social interactions. Approximately half of the children diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder also have intellectual impairments. General cognitive abilities may be fundamental to many aspects of social cognition. Cognitive enhancers could conceivably be of significant benefit to children and adults with autism. AMPAKINE compounds are a novel class of pharmacological agents that act as positive modulators of AMPA receptors to enhance excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission. This class of compounds was reported to improve learning and memory in several rodent and non-human primate tasks, and to normalize respiratory abnormalities in a mouse model of Rett syndrome. Here we evaluate the actions of AMPA compounds in adult male and female BTBR mice, a well characterized mouse model of autism. Acute treatment with CX1837 and CX1739 reversed the deficit in sociability in BTBR mice on the most sensitive parameter, time spent sniffing a novel mouse as compared to time spent sniffing a novel object. The less sensitive parameter, time in the chamber containing the novel mouse versus time in the chamber containing the novel object, was not rescued by CX1837 or CX1739 treatment. Preliminary data with CX546, in which -cyclodextrin was the vehicle, revealed behavioral effects of the acute intraperitoneal and oral administration of vehicle alone. To circumvent the artifacts introduced by the vehicle administration, we employed a novel treatment regimen using pellets of peanut butter for drug delivery. Absence of vehicle treatment effects when CX1837 and CX1739 were given in the peanut butter pellets, to multiple cohorts of BTBR and B6 control mice, confirmed that the pharmacologically-induced improvements in sociability in BTBR were not confounded by the administration procedures. The highest dose of CX1837 improved the cognitive deficit in novel object recognition in BTBR. No drug effects were detected on the high levels of repetitive self-grooming in BTBR. In open field tests, CX1837 and CX1739 did not induce hyperactivity or sedation in either strain. It is interesting to speculate that the ability of CX1837 and CX1739 to restore aspects of sociability in BTBR mice could utilize synaptic mechanisms regulating social cognition, suggesting a potential pharmacological target for interventions to treat symptoms of autism. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Previous studies have demonstrated that cognitive function can be restored in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) following administration of sildenafil, a specific PDE5 inhibitor (Puzzo et al., 2009; Cuadrado-Tejedor et al.). Another very potent PDE5 inhibitor with a longer half-life and safe in chronic treatments, tadalafil, may represent a better alternative candidate for AD therapy. However, tadalafil was proven unable to achieve similar benefits than those of sildenafil in AD animal models (Puzzo et al., 2009). The lack of efficacy was attributed to inability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In this paper we first measured the blood and brain levels of tadalafil to prove that the compound crosses BBB and that chronic treatment leads to accumulation in the brain of the J20 transgenic mouse model of AD. We demonstrated the presence of PDE5 mRNA in the brain of the mice and also in the human brain. After a 10 week treatment with either of these PDE5 inhibitors, the performance of the J20 mice in the Morris water maze test improved when compared with the transgenic mice that received vehicle. Biochemical analysis revealed that neither sildenafil nor tadalafil altered the amyloid burden, although both compounds reduced Tau phosphorylation in the mouse hippocampus. This study provides evidence of the potential benefits of a chronic tadalafil treatment in AD therapy. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Social context affects brain function but our understanding of its neurobiology is at an early stage. The mere presence of one individual can alter the cognitive capacities of another and social learning has been demonstrated in many species, including the mouse. We asked several questions: 1. How can active engagement of two familiar mice in the same learning activity (co-learning) alter their memory? 2. Under which environmental conditions (aversive vs non-aversive) can we expect the memory to be enhanced, impaired, or not affected? 3. Can a genetic factor modify the co-learning effect on memory? More specifically, can co-learning correct memory deficits in autistic-like BTBR inbred mice with deficient sociability? We demonstrated that pairs of familiar inbred mice of the same or different genotypes (C57BL/6J and BTBR) that were habituated to new objects and their spatial location, had enhanced episodic memory in the spatial object recognition test, whereas individually-trained animals failed to solve this task. Notably, the co-learning effect was genotype-dependent. BTBR mice paired with BTBR cage-mates in the habituation session modestly ameliorated their performance in the object recognition test but co-learning with a familiar C57BL/6J mouse completely normalized episodic memory deficit. Next, we explored the co-learning effect on fear memory in these inbred strains. Interestingly, mice of both genotypes displayed significantly enhanced contextual fear memory once they had been conditioned together with BTBR animals. The same influence of BTBR presence was observed on cued fear memory in C57BL/6J mice, whereas a modest co-learning effect was found on cued fear conditioning in the BTBR strain. Taken together, we demonstrated for the first time the co-learning effect on cognitive capacities in mice, which can be modified by genetic background and environmental conditions. The possible implications of this methodological approach in social neuroscience are discussed. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
A large number of studies in both humans and experimental animals have demonstrated nicotine-induced improvements in various aspects of cognitive function, including attention and memory. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is thought to be critically involved in the modulation of executive function and these attentional processes are enhanced by nicotine acting at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The involvement of nicotinic processes on cognitive flexibility in particular has not been specifically investigated. The effects of nicotine on attentional flexibility were therefore evaluated using the rodent attentional set shifting task in rats. Nicotine injected both acutely and following repeated pre-exposure significantly improved both intradimensional and extradimensional set shifting performance in the task. Further investigation of the acute effects of nicotine demonstrated this improvement in attentional flexibility to be dose-dependent. These results implicate the nicotinic receptor system in the mediation of processes underlying cognitive flexibility and suggest that nicotine improves attentional flexibility in rats, both within and between perceptual dimensions of a compound stimulus. Nicotine-induced alterations in prefrontal circuitry may underlie these effects on cognitive flexibility. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive cognitive deficits and synaptic dysfunction. Over the last decade phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDEIs) have received increasing attention as putative cognition enhancers and have been suggested as a novel treatment strategy for AD. Given their ability to prevent hydrolysis of cAMP and/or cGMP, they can stimulate the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA)/cAMP element-binding protein (CREB) and cGMP/PKG/CREB pathway to enhance synaptic transmission by increasing CREB phosphorylation (pCREB) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) transcription. Based on previous research, we hypothesized that chronic PDE2I treatment would improve AD-related cognitive deficits, by decreasing amyloid- (A) plaque load, enhancing pCREB and BDNF levels and increasing synaptic density in the hippocampus of 8-month-old APPswe/PS1dE9 mice. Results indicated that chronic PDE2I treatment could indeed improve memory performance in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, without affecting anxiety, depressive-like behavior or hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation. However, no treatment effects were observed on A plaque load, pCREB or BDNF concentrations, or presynaptic density in the hippocampus, suggesting that other signaling pathways and/or effector molecules might be responsible for its cognition-enhancing effects. Presynaptic density in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 subregion was significantly higher in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice compared to WT controls, possibly reflecting a compensatory mechanism. In conclusion, PDEs in general, and PDE2 specifically, could be considered as promising therapeutic targets for cognition enhancement in AD, although the underlying mechanism of action remains to be elucidated. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
This review will provide an overview of the non-drug based approaches that have been demonstrated to enhance cognitive function of the compromised brain, primarily focussed on the two most widely adopted paradigms of environmental enrichment and enhanced physical exercise. Environmental enrichment involves the generation of novelty and complexity in animal housing conditions which facilitates enhanced sensory and cognitive stimulation as well as physical activity. In a wide variety of animal models of brain disorders, environmental enrichment and exercise have been found to have beneficial effects, including cognitive enhancement, delayed disease onset, enhanced cellular plasticity and associated molecular processes. Potential cellular and molecular mechanisms will also be discussed, which have relevance for the future development of 'enviromimetics', drugs which could mimic or enhance the beneficial effects of environmental stimulation. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
The antidepressant action of quetiapine has been demonstrated in clinical and preclinical studies. Nevertheless, little is known about its effectiveness in the treatment of frontal-like cognitive disturbances that may be associated with stress-related disorder. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate whether quetiapine would prevent and/or reverse stress-induced cognitive impairments in a rat model of prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent attentional set-shifting task (ASST). Because quetiapine augmentation to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) has recently been proven to be beneficial in neuropsychiatric disorders, a separate experiment was designed to assess the impact of combined administration of inactive doses of quetiapine and escitalopram on ASST performance in rats. According to our previous studies, 1 h daily exposure to restraint stress for 7 days significantly and specifically impaired extra-dimensional (ED) set-shifting ability of rats. Quetiapine (2.5 mg/kg, PO) given to rats prior to the restraint sessions completely prevented this stress-induced cognitive inflexibility. Similar effect was demonstrated after pretreatment with the 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin (1 mg/kg, IP). Moreover, acute administration of quetiapine before the test reversed set-shifting deficits in stressed rats (0.63, 1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, PO) and improved ED performance of cognitively unimpaired control animals (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, PO). Finally, the combined administration of inactive doses of quetiapine (0.63 and 0.3 mg/kg in control and stressed rats, respectively) and escitalopram (0.3 mg/kg, IP) facilitated set-shifting performance in either control or stressed rats. In conclusion, quetiapine administration either prevented or reversed stress-induced cognitive inflexibility in rats. In addition to promoting of set-shifting by itself, quetiapine also enhanced the procognitive efficacy of escitalopram. The potential contribution of the antagonism at 1-adrenoceptors to the mechanisms underlying the protective action of quetiapine requires further evaluation. These findings may have therapeutic implications for the treatment of frontal-like disturbances, particularly cognitive inflexibility, in stress-related psychiatric disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) is a novel target for the treatment of schizophrenia that may address multiple symptomatic domains associated with this disorder. PDE10A is highly expressed in the brain and functions to metabolically inactivate the important second messengers cAMP and cGMP. Here we describe effects of a potent and orally bioavailable PDE10A inhibitor [2-(6-chloropyridin-3-yl)-4-(2-methoxyethoxy)-7,8-dihydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl](imidazo[1,5-a]pyridin-1-yl)methanone] (THPP-1) on striatal signaling pathways, in behavioral tests that predict antipsychotic potential, and assays that measure episodic-like memory in rat and executive function in rhesus monkey. THPP-1 exhibits nanomolar potency on the PDE10A enzyme, demonstrates excellent pharmacokinetic properties in multiple preclinical animal species, and is selective for PDE10A over other PDE families of enzymes. THPP-1 significantly increased phosphorylation of proteins in the striatum involved in synaptic plasticity, including the a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid receptor (AMPA) GluR1 subunit, extracellular receptor kinase (ERK), and cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB). THPP-1 produced dose-dependent effects in preclinical assays predictive of antipsychotic activity including attenuation of MK-801-induced psychomotor activation and condition avoidance responding in rats. At similar plasma exposures, THPP-1 significantly increased object recognition memory in rat and attenuated a ketamine-induced deficit in the object retrieval detour task in rhesus monkey. These findings suggest that PDE10A inhibitors have the potential to impact multiple symptomatic domains of schizophrenia including positive symptoms and cognitive impairment. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
This article reviews current data on the use of cognition enhancers as study aids in the student population. It identifies gaps and uncertainties in the knowledge required to make a balanced assessment of the need for some form of regulation. The review highlights the weak evidence on the prevalence of use of such drugs, especially outside the US, and the ambiguous evidence for their efficacy in a healthy population. Risks are well documented for the commonly used drugs, but poorly appreciated by users. These include not only the side-effects of the drugs themselves, but risks associated with on-line purchase, which offers no guarantees of authenticity and which for some drugs is illegal. The case for urgent action to regulate use is often linked to the belief that new and more effective drugs are likely to appear in the near future. The evidence for this is weak. However, drugs are not the only possible route to neuroenhancement and action is needed to collect more data on the impact of existing drugs, as well as new technologies, in order to guide society in making a proportionate response to the issue. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Caffeine is commonly consumed in an effort to enhance cognitive performance. However, little is known about the usefulness of caffeine with regard to memory enhancement, with previous studies showing inconsistent effects on memory performance. We aimed to determine the effect of caffeine on working memory (WM) load-related activation during encoding, maintenance and retrieval phases of a WM maintenance task using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). 20 healthy, male, habitual caffeine consumers aged 40-61 years were administered 100 mg of caffeine in a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design. Participants were scanned in a non-withdrawn state following a workday during which caffeinated products were consumed according to individual normal use (range = 145-595 mg). Acute caffeine administration was associated with increased load-related activation compared to placebo in the left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during WM encoding, but decreased load-related activation in the left thalamus during WM maintenance. These findings are indicative of an effect of caffeine on the fronto-parietal network involved in the top-down cognitive control of WM processes during encoding and an effect on the prefrontal cortico-thalamic loop involved in the interaction between arousal and the top-down control of attention during maintenance. Therefore, the effects of caffeine on WM may be attributed to both a direct effect of caffeine on WM processes, as well as an indirect effect on WM via arousal modulation. Behavioural and fMRI results were more consistent with a detrimental effect of caffeine on WM at higher levels of WM load, than caffeine-related WM enhancement. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive neurostimulation tool with increasing therapeutic applications in neurology, psychiatry and in the treatment of chronic tinnitus, and with a growing interest in cognitive neuroscience. One of its side effects is the loud click sound generated simultaneously to the magnetic pulse, which depends both on the equipment and rTMS intensity. This impulse sound could transiently modify peripheral hearing mechanisms, and hence hearing thresholds, both in patients and in rTMS practitioners. Furthermore, if no precautions are taken, especially in subjects with several risks factors for hearing loss, it is possible that the repetition of exposure could lead to more definitive changes in hearing thresholds. These issues are often neglected, although they could have specific relevance in rTMS treatment for tinnitus or in auditory cognitive neuroscience. This review specifically deals with noise exposure during rTMS and its potential consequences on the auditory system. It provides several practical solutions to help minimize exposure.
The relapse rate for many psychiatric disorders is staggeringly high, indicating that treatment methods combining psychotherapy with neuropharmacological interventions are not entirely effective. Therefore, in psychiatry, there is a current push to develop alternatives to psychotherapy and medication-based approaches. Cognitive deficits have gained considerable importance in the field as critical features of mental illness, and it is now believed that they might represent valid therapeutic targets. Indeed, an increase in cognitive skills has been shown to have a long-lasting, positive impact on the patients' quality of life and their clinical symptoms. We hereby present four principal arguments supporting the use of event-related potentials (ERP) that are derived from electroencephalography, which allow the identification of specific neurocognitive deficiencies in patients. These arguments could assist psychiatrists in the development of individualized, targeted therapy, as well as a follow-up and rehabilitation plan specific to each patient's deficit. Furthermore, they can be used as a tool to assess the possible benefits of combination therapy, consisting of medication, psychotherapy, and &quot;ERP-oriented cognitive rehabilitation&quot;. Using this strategy, specific cognitive interventions could be planned based on each patient's needs, for an &quot;individualized&quot; or &quot;personalized&quot; therapy, which may have the potential to reduce relapse rates for many psychiatric disorders. The implementation of such a combined approach would require intense collaboration between psychiatry departments, clinical neurophysiology laboratories, and neuropsychological rehabilitation centers.

Mood disorders are common and debilitating, resulting in a significant public health burden. Current treatments are only partly effective and patients who have failed to respond to trials of existing antidepressant agents (eg, those who suffer from treatment-resistant depression [TRD]) require innovative therapeutics with novel mechanisms of action. Although neuroscience research has elucidated important aspects of the basic mechanisms of antidepressant action, most antidepressant drugs target monoaminergic mechanisms identified decades ago. Glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, and glutamatergic dysfunction has been implicated in mood disorders. These data provide a rationale for the pursuit of glutamatergic agents as novel therapeutic agents. Here, we review preclinical and clinical investigations of glutamatergic agents in mood disorders with a focus on depression. We begin with discussion of evidence for the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine, followed by studies of the antidepressant efficacy of the currently marketed drugs riluzole and lamotrigine. Promising novel agents currently in development, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor modulators, 2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid (AMPA) receptor modulators, and drugs with activity at the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are then reviewed. Taken together, both preclinical and clinical evidence exists to support the pursuit of small molecule modulators of the glutamate system as novel therapeutic agents in mood disorders. It is hoped that by targeting neural systems outside of the monoamine system, more effective and perhaps faster acting therapeutics can be developed for patients suffering from these disabling disorders.
Tobacco smoking is common in schizophrenia patients. It has been reported that schizophrenia patients who are tobacco smokers have better cognitive performances compared to those who are nonsmokers. However, little is known on the effects of tobacco smoking in treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) patients. The aim of this study was to compare cognitive performances, psychotic symptoms, and social adjustment in tobacco smoker TRS patients compared to nonsmoker TRS patients. Smoker and nonsmoker TRS patients did not differ in demographics and in mean daily antipsychotic dose. Smoker TRS patients had significantly higher scores than nonsmoker patients on the positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS) and on the negative symptoms subscale. These patients also performed worse than nonsmoker patients on problem-solving cognitive domain. Social adjustment was not significantly different between the two groups. In both groups of patients, worse cognitive performances were mostly predicted by higher severity of negative symptoms. Worse performances on the verbal memory and problem-solving cognitive domains were correlated with social-functioning impairment in tobacco smoker TRS patients but not in nonsmoker ones. The results showed that tobacco smoking was not significantly associated with better cognitive performances in TRS patients, while it was significantly associated with higher negative symptoms. Even if a direct causative mechanism cannot be inferred and despite the fact that these patients may use tobacco to self-medicate, it could be speculated that these associations may, at least partially, be related to a tobacco-smoking-induced worsening of abnormal dopamine dysfunction, which has been suggested to occur in TRS patients.
Depression is a potentially life-threatening mental disorder affecting approximately 300 million people worldwide. Despite much effort, the molecular underpinnings of clinical depression remain poorly defined, and current treatments carry limited therapeutic efficacy and potentially burdensome side effects. Recently, small noncoding RNA molecules known as microRNA (miRNA) have gained prominence as a target for therapeutic intervention, given their capacity to regulate neuronal physiology. Further, mounting evidence suggests a prominent role for miRNA in depressive molecular signaling. Recent studies have demonstrated that dysregulation of miRNA expression occurs in animal models of depression, and in the post-mortem tissue of clinically depressed patients. Investigations into depression-associated miRNA disruption reveals dramatic effects on downstream targets, many of which are thought to contribute to depressive symptoms. Furthermore, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, as well as other antidepressant drugs, have the capacity to reverse aberrant depressive miRNA expression and their downstream targets. Given the powerful effects that miRNA have on the central nervous system transcriptome, and the aforementioned studies, there is a compelling rationale to begin to assess the potential contribution of miRNA to depressive etiology. Here, we review the molecular biology of miRNA, our current understanding of miRNA in relation to clinical depression, and the utility of targeting miRNA for antidepressant treatment.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic demyelinating disease of the central nervous system and mainly affects young adults. Its natural history has changed in recent years with the advent of disease-modifying drugs, which have been available since the early 1990s. The increasing number of first-line and second-line treatment options, together with the variable course of the disease and patient lifestyles and expectations, makes the therapeutic decision a real challenge. The aim of this review is to give a comprehensive overview of the main present and some future drugs for relapsing-remitting MS, including risk-benefit considerations, to enable readers to draw their own conclusions regarding the risk-benefit assessment of personalized treatment strategies, taking into account not only treatment-related but also disease-related risks. We performed a Medline literature search to identify studies on the treatment of MS with risk stratification and risk-benefit considerations. We focused our attention on studies of disease-modifying, immunomodulating, and immunosuppressive drugs, including monoclonal antibodies. Here we offer personal considerations, stemming from long-term experience in the treatment of MS and thorough discussions with other neurologists closely involved in the care of patients with the disease. MS specialists need to know not only the specific risks and benefits of single drugs, but also about drug interactions, either in simultaneous or serial combination therapy, and patient comorbidities, preferences, and fears. This has to be put into perspective, considering also the risks of untreated disease in patients with different clinical and radiological characteristics. There is no single best treatment strategy, but therapy has to be tailored to the patient. This is a time-consuming task, rich in complexity, and influenced by the attitude towards risk on the parts of both the patient and the clinical team. The broader the MS drug market becomes, the harder it will be for the clinician to help the patient decide which therapeutic strategy to opt for.
Perampanel (PER) is a novel antiepileptic compound that decreases neuronal excitability by modulating glutamatergic transmission through selective noncompetitive blockade of AMPA receptors. PER has been evaluated in three pivotal placebo-controlled randomized trials as adjunctive therapy in adult drug-resistant partial epilepsy. In comparison to placebo, adjunctive PER effectively reduces seizure frequency. The relative risk of the responder rate (95% confidence interval [CI]) was thus 1.60 (1.08-2.36), 1.79 (1.42-2.25) and 1.66 (1.24-2.23) for once-daily PER 4 mg/day, 8 mg/day and 12 mg/day, respectively. The most common adverse events associated with PER were nonspecific central nervous system side effects. Some concerns have been raised about risk of clinically significant weight gain and of psychiatric adverse events. Long-term open-label extensions of the three pivotal trials are underway. PER has recently been approved both in Europe and in the USA for the adjunctive treatment of partial onset seizures in patients aged 12 years and above. However, in the absence of a direct comparison between PER and other licensed antiepileptic drugs' efficacy and tolerability, the clinical advantages of PER over the other drugs in intractable partial epilepsy remains to be determined.
It is well known that abdominal obesity, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance are highly prevalent in patients receiving maintenance treatment with antipsychotics, but there is limited knowledge about the association between cardiovascular risk factors and treatment with antipsychotic drugs. In this naturalistic study we investigated a sample of 809 antipsychotic-treated patients from Swedish psychosis outpatient teams. Cardiovascular risk factors (eg, metabolic syndrome, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, and low-density lipoprotein values) were measured, and their associations to current antipsychotic pharmacotherapy were studied. Ten antipsychotic drugs were compared in a stepwise logistic regression model. For the patients, the presence of the components of metabolic syndrome ranged from 35% for hyperglycemia to 64% for elevated waist circumference. Hypertriglyceridemia was associated with clozapine (odds ratio [OR] = 1.81, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.08-3.04), reduced high-density lipoprotein with both clozapine and olanzapine (OR = 1.73, 95% CI 1.01-2.97; and OR = 2.03, 95% CI 1.32-3.13), hypertension with perphenazine (OR = 2.00, 95% CI 1.21-3.59), and hyperglycemia inversely with ziprasidone (OR = 0.21, 95% CI 0.05-0.89) and positively with haloperidol (OR = 2.02, 95% CI 1.18-3.48). There were no significant relationships between any of the antipsychotic drugs and increased waist circumference, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, or low-density lipoprotein levels. In conclusion, treatment with antipsychotic drugs is differentially associated with cardiovascular risk factors, even after adjusting for waist circumference, sex, age, and smoking.
The migration process is a cause of physical and social stressors that may lead to mental health problems, particularly in children. In Italy, there are few studies about migrant children's mental health; thus, the aim of this study is to compare the prevalence and types of emotional and behavioral problems in migrant schoolchildren to those of native Italian children. The research involved migrant (first- and second-generation) and native schoolchildren attending kindergarten, primary, and secondary school. A questionnaire was administered to parents to collect information about the sociodemographic characteristics of the children. All teachers filled in the Teacher's Report Form for migrant and native children. The findings show that teachers detect academic and adaptive problems more easily in migrant schoolchildren, but they are probably less aware of the children's psychological problems. The observations made in this study provide a starting point in understanding the psychological status and main problems noted among migrant children.
A bidirectional relationship exists between diabetes mellitus (DM) and major depressive disorder (MDD), with depression commonly reported in both type 1 DM (T1DM) and type 2 DM (T2DM), and depressive symptoms associated with a higher incidence of diabetes. However, how the two conditions are pathologically connected is not completely understood. Similar neurophysiological abnormalities have been reported in both DM and MDD, including elevated electroencephalographic (EEG) activity in low-frequency slow waves and increased latency and/or reduced amplitude of event-related potentials. It is possible that this association reflects some common underlying pathology, and it has been proposed that diabetes may place patients at risk for depression through a biological mechanism linking the metabolic changes of DM to changes in the central nervous system. In this review we will discuss EEG abnormalities in DM, as well as the biological mechanisms underlying various EEG parameters, in order to evaluate whether or not a common EEG biosignature exists between DM and MDD. Identifying such commonalities could significantly inform the current understanding of the mechanisms that subserve the development of the two conditions. Moreover, this new insight may provide the basis for informing new drug discovery capable of mitigating and possibly even preventing both conditions.



The neuroscience of exercise is a growing research area that is dedicated to furthering our understanding of the effects that exercise has on mental health and athletic performance. The present study examined three specific topics: (1) the relationship between exercise and mental disorders (e.g. major depressive disorder, dementia and Parkinson's disease), (2) the effects of exercise on the mood and mental health of athletes, and (3) the possible neurobiological mechanisms that mediate the effects of exercise. Positive responses to regular physical exercise, such as enhanced functional capacity, increased autonomy and improved self-esteem, are frequently described in the recent literature, and these responses are all good reasons for recommending regular exercise. In addition, physical exercise may improve both mood and adherence to an exercise program in healthy individuals and might modulate both the performance and mental health of athletes. Exercise is associated with the increased synthesis and release of both neurotransmitters and neurotrophic factors, and these increases may be associated with neurogenesis, angiogenesis and neuroplasticity. This review is a call-to-action that urges researchers to consider the importance of understanding the neuroscience of physical exercise and its contributions to sports science.

This study presents Danish data for the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT), Color Trails Test (CTT), and a modified Stroop test from 100 subjects aged 60-87 years. Among the included demographic variables, age had the highest impact on test performances. Thus, the study presents separate data for different age groups. For SDMT and CTT1, Danish Adult Reading Test (DART) score also had a significant impact on test performances. The incongruent version of the modified Stroop test was significantly correlated to education. Moderate and significant correlations were found between the three tests. Even though the three tests are commonly used, few normative data for elderly exists. SDMT and CTT performances from this study were in the same range as previously published international norms, but the validity of the result from the modified Stroop test could not be investigated.
Verbal fluency tests are widely used as measures of language and executive functions. This study presents data for five tests; semantic fluency (animals, supermarket items and alternating between cities and professions), lexical fluency (s-words), and action fluency (verbs) based on a sample of 100 cognitively intact elderly Danish subjects aged 60-87 years. We found mean scores similar to what has been reported from other countries. There was little influence of background variables: in four out of fives tests less than 20% of the variance could be explained by age, education, and estimated intelligence. Age had a greater impact than education on category based performance, while the opposite was the case for lexical- and action-based fluency. Overall, intelligence was of little importance. There was a positive and significant correlation between all tests, but with only low to moderate strength of association, indicating that various fluency tasks draw on different cognitive abilities and are not interchangeable.
Concrete behaviour, the inability to disengage from immediate experience in order to manipulate ideas and thoughts, has long been understood to be a common problem after frontal lobe lesions. However, there has been little consideration of the impact that concreteness may have on emotional functioning, specifically in the use of thinking to manipulate emotional responses. One widely studied emotion regulation strategy is reappraisal, which depends on several frontal lobe related cognitive control processes. While there have been numerous neuroimaging findings on reappraisal, no study has used brain injured patients to investigate this issue. The present case study is the first to describe the capacity to generate reappraisals in a patient (Mrs M), whose behaviour became concrete after a left prefrontal stroke. Using a picture-based reappraisal paradigm, her performance was compared to non-concrete brain-lesioned patients, and neurologically healthy controls. Although Mrs M showed relatively preserved overall cognitive function, she was completely unable to spontaneously generate reappraisals. In striking contrast, once external support was offered, in the form of prompts, her capacity to reappraise dramatically improved. The results are analysed in terms of three neuropsychological capacities - all compromised in Mrs M - previously proposed as reappraisal components: response inhibition, abstraction, and verbal fluency. A number of implications for rehabilitation are discussed, including how the use of prompting may facilitate reappraisal capacity.
Social disability is one of the critical areas known to be a predictor of daily functioning in schizophrenia. Recent studies showed that impairments in Theory of Mind (ToM) contribute to real-world social functioning and are more strongly associated with community outcomes than other neuropsychological domains of cognition. Several experiments revealed an improving potential of social cognition targeted training, particularly through introduction of verbalisation and explicit manipulation of information about others' mental states. Based on these data, we evaluated longitudinally, with a controlled trial, the feasibility and efficacy of ToM training and the possible influences of daily functioning and IQ on the enhancement of ToM abilities. Thirty outpatients with schizophrenia were recruited and randomly allocated to two groups: ToM Intervention (ToMI), based on verbalisation of selected comic strips representing ToM scenarios, or active control group (ACG). Results showed a significant improvement of ToM abilities among subjects allocated to ToMI compared to ACG, confirming the hypothesis of the enhancing potential of training methods targeting ToM functions. Moreover, we observed no influences of neuropsychological and functional variables on ToM improvement. Development of future studies should take into account possible effects of ToM training on functional outcome, according to the strong associations between ToM abilities and real-world social functioning.
This study assesses the feasibility of a cognitive-behavioural group programme for treating anger and aggressiveness after a traumatic brain injury (TBI). Five feasibility criteria were considered: demand, implementation, practicality, acceptability and initial efficacy. A self-report questionnaire of aggressiveness (AQ-12) was administered before the intervention (T1), one week following the intervention (T2) and at a four months follow-up (T3). Ten patients with moderate to severe chronic TBI completed the programme through eight once-a-week sessions. The analysis of the feasibility outcomes suggests that: (1) The recruitment, the process of grouping participants and the characterisation of anger and aggressiveness at baseline need to be re-evaluated and improved for future designs. (2) The use of specific strategies for bypassing cognitive and other behavioural dysfunctions related to TBI is crucial for the success of this intervention and merits special attention. (3) The high retention rate, the convenient meeting schedule, cost advantages and the good acceptability by participants are positive arguments for the implementation of a larger trial. (4) The significant reduction of AQ-12 scores at T3 and the high effect size constitute a change in the expected direction and support the initial efficacy of the programme.
The objective of the study was to examine the effectiveness of a customised personal digital assistant (PDA) as a cognitive aid for people with acquired brain injury, using a randomised parallel-group study. The participants were 34 patients with acquired brain injury in a cognitive rehabilitation setting. The experimental group used a customised PDA, while the control group received care-as-usual (paper-and-pencil aids). Measurements were conducted at baseline (T0), after 8 hours of training (T1), after 16 hours of training (T2), and at 5-month follow-up (T3). The main outcome was the attainment of individualised goals. Both groups showed a significant increase in goal attainment (GAS) (p&lt;.001). There were no significant differences between the groups at T1 or T2 on any of the other outcome measures. It was concluded that the customised PDA was as effective as paper-and-pencil aids, and may therefore serve as a useful alternative when choosing the optimal rehabilitation strategy for a patient.
The multifocal nature of lesions in multiple sclerosis hints at the occurrence of autobiographical memory (AbM) impairment. However, the dearth of studies on AbM in multiple sclerosis is noticeable, notwithstanding the importance of AbM in everyday life. In the first section of this study, 25 multiple sclerosis patients and 35 controls underwent a detailed episodic AbM assessment. Results obtained by means of ANOVA suggested an AbM retrieval deficit in every patient. That pattern of performance paved the way for the second section of the study, in which we followed up 10 out of the 25 patients. Our objective was to assess the effectiveness of a cognitive facilitation programme designed to alleviate AbM retrieval deficits, based on the key role of mental visual imagery on AbM. Statistical group analyses by means of ANOVA and individual analyses using the (2) test showed significant differences in AbM test results, in post-facilitation relative to pre-facilitation training, in all 10 patients. Moreover, the patients' comments showed that the positive effects were transferred in their daily life functioning. We would like to suggest that the facilitation programme efficiently enhanced the process of self-centred mental visual imagery, which might have compensated for poor retrieval of personal memories by providing better access to visual details and detailed visual scenes of personal recollections.
Twelve subjects performed two temporal tasks, one explicit (Experiment 1) and one implicit (Experiment 2) after one night of sleep deprivation and after one night of normal rest. Experiment 1 involved a 1100-ms duration production task, and in Experiment 2 subjects performed a word identification task requiring implicit estimation of vowel duration (around 150 ms). One night of sleep deprivation had the same pattern of effect on explicit timing in the suprasecond range and implicit timing in the millisecond range. Specifically, sleep deprivation induced productions of shorter intervals in the duration production task and estimation of segmental durations as being longer in the word identification task. Both results are consistent with an acceleration of pacemaker rate.Moreover, in both experiments, we found a correlation between the alertness level of participants and the size of the effect. Therefore, sleep deprivation, which physiologically manipulates cortical arousal level, produced similar performance modulation in suprasecond explicit and subsecond implicit tasks suggesting a common mechanism.
Research in schizophrenia has tended to emphasize deficits in higher cognitive abilities, such as attention, memory, and executive function. Here we provide evidence for dysfunction at a more fundamental level of perceptual processing, temporal integration. On a measure of flicker fusion, patients with schizophrenia exhibited significantly lower thresholds than age and education matched healthy controls. We reasoned that this finding could result from a longer window of temporal integration or could reflect diminished repetition suppression: if every frame of the repeating stimulus were represented as novel, its perceived duration would be accordingly longer. To tease apart these non-exclusive hypotheses, we asked patients to report the number of stimuli perceived on the screen at once (numerosity) as they watched rapidly flashing stimuli that were either repeated or novel. Patients reported significantly higher numerosity than controls in all conditions, again indicating a longer window of temporal integration in schizophrenia. Further, patients showed the largest difference from controls in the repeated condition, suggesting a possible effect of weaker repetition suppression. Finally, we establish that our findings generalize to several different classes of stimuli (letters, pictures, faces, words, and pseudo-words), demonstrating a non-specific effect of a lengthened window of integration. We conclude that the visual system in schizophrenics integrates input over longer periods of time, and that repetition suppression may also be deficient. We suggest that these abnormalities in the processing of temporal information may underlie higher-level deficits in schizophrenia and account for the disturbed sense of continuity and fragmentation of events in time reported by patients.
We propose a battery of simple clinical tests to assess the development of elementary visuo-spatial perception. We postulate that most of the tasks we selected rely on the visual dorsal stream, although the dual-stream theory (Milner &amp; Goodale, 1995) discards the role of the dorsal stream for visual perception. In order to test the contribution of this anatomical substrate in visuo-spatial perception, we evaluated the performance of two adult patients with acquired bilateral occipito-parietal (dorsal stream) damage. Additionally, the developmental evolution was assessed by testing 96 children from 4 to 12 years old (4 two-year age groups of 24 children). In order to determine the point at which children achieved adult performance, and to provide a control group for the two patients, we also tested a group of 14 healthy adults. The results highlighted the necessity for age-dependent normative values: adult performance was achieved only at the age of 8 for length and size comparisons and at 12 for dot localisation. In contrast, the ability to judge angles and midlines did not reach adult performance even in the oldest group of children, suggesting further acquisition through adolescence. Occipito-parietal lesions strongly and differentially affected elementary visuo-spatial tasks. In overall scores, the two adult patients were approximately at the level of 6-year olds, below the outlier limit of the adult group. They were on average within the adult interquartile range for processing length and size but clearly outside for the 4 other subtests (Angle, Midline, Position perception and Position selection). As a whole, these data both shed light on the neuroanatomical bases of visuo-spatial perception and allow for age-specific comparisons in children with developmental disorders potentially linked to visuo-spatial and/or attentional defects.
Contemporary neuroscience theories assume that concepts are formed through experience in multiple sensory-motor modalities. Quantifying the contribution of each modality to different object categories is critical to understanding the structure of the conceptual system and to explaining category-specific knowledge deficits. Verbal feature listing is typically used to elicit this information but has a number of drawbacks: sensory knowledge often cannot easily be translated into verbal features and many features are experienced in multiple modalities. Here, we employed a more direct approach in which subjects rated their knowledge of objects in each sensory-motor modality separately. Compared with these ratings, feature listing over-estimated the importance of visual form and functional knowledge and under-estimated the contributions of other sensory channels. An item's sensory rating proved to be a better predictor of lexical-semantic processing speed than the number of features it possessed, suggesting that ratings better capture the overall quantity of sensory information associated with a concept. Finally, the richer, multi-modal rating data not only replicated the sensory-functional distinction between animals and non-living things but also revealed novel distinctions between different types of artefact. Hierarchical cluster analyses indicated that mechanical devices (e.g., vehicles) were distinct from other non-living objects because they had strong sound and motion characteristics, making them more similar to animals in this respect. Taken together, the ratings align with neuroscience evidence in suggesting that a number of distinct sensory processing channels make important contributions to object knowledge. Multi-modal ratings for 160 objects are provided as supplementary materials.
Working memory (WM) processes help keep information in an active state so it can be used to guide future behavior. Although numerous studies have investigated brain activity associated with spatial WM in humans and monkeys, little research has focused on the neural mechanisms of WM for temporal order information, and how processing of temporal and spatial information might differ. Available evidence indicates that similar frontoparietal regions are recruited during temporal and spatial WM, although there are data suggesting that they are distinct processes. The mechanisms that allow for differential maintenance of these two types of information are unclear. One possibility is that neural oscillations may differentially contribute to temporal and spatial WM. In the present study, we used scalp electroencephalography (EEG) to compare patterns of oscillatory activity during maintenance of spatial and temporal information in WM. Time-frequency analysis of EEG data revealed enhanced left frontal theta (5-8 Hz), enhanced posterior alpha (9-12 Hz), and enhanced left posterior beta (14-28 Hz) power during the delay period of correct temporal order trials compared to correct spatial trials. In contrast, gamma (30-50 Hz) power at right lateral frontal sites was increased during the delay period of spatial WM trials, as compared to temporal WM trials. The present results are consistent with the idea that neural oscillatory patterns provide distinct mechanisms for the maintenance of temporal and spatial information in WM. Specifically, theta oscillations are most critical for the maintenance of temporal information in WM. Possible roles of higher frequency oscillations in temporal and spatial memory are also discussed.
Anticipatory eye movements are often evoked by the temporal expectation of an upcoming event. Temporal expectation is based on implicit timing about when a future event could occur. Implicit timing emerges from observed temporal regularities in a changing stimulus without any voluntary estimate of elapsed time, unlike explicit timing. The neural bases of explicit and implicit timing are likely different. It has been shown that the basal ganglia (BG) play a central role in explicit timing. In order to determine the influence of BG in implicit timing, we investigated the influence of early Parkinson's disease (PD) and aging on the latency of anticipatory eye movements. We hypothesized that a deficit of implicit timing should yield inadequate temporal expectations, and consequently abnormally timed anticipatory eye movements compared with age-matched controls. To test this hypothesis, we used an oculomotor paradigm where anticipation of a salient target event plays a central role. Participants pursued a visual target that moved along a circular path at a constant velocity. After a randomly short (1200 ms) or long (2400 ms) forward path, the target reversed direction, returned to its starting position and stopped. Target motion reversal caused an abrupt 'slip' of the pursued target image on the retina and was a particularly salient event evoking anticipatory eye movements. Anticipatory eye movements were less frequent in PD patients. However, the timing of anticipation of target motion reversal was statistically similar in PD patients and control subjects. Other eye movements showed statistically significant differences between PD and controls, but these differences could be attributed to other factors. We conclude that all anticipatory eye movements are not similarly impaired in PD and that implicit timing of salient events seems largely unaffected by this disease. The results support the hypothesis that implicit and explicit timing are differently affected by BG dysfunction.
Relatively recently, neurocognitive and neuroimaging studies have indicated that individuals with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) may have deficits in a range of timing functions and their underlying neural networks. Despite this evidence, timing deficits in ADHD are still somewhat neglected in the literature and mostly omitted from reviews on ADHD. There is therefore a lack of integrative reviews on the up-to-date evidence on neurocognitive and neurofunctional deficits of timing in ADHD and their significance with respect to other behavioural and cognitive deficits. The present review provides a synthetic overview of the evidence for neurocognitive and neurofunctional deficits in ADHD in timing functions, and integrates this evidence with the cognitive neuroscience literature of the neural substrates of timing. The review demonstrates that ADHD patients are consistently impaired in three major timing domains, in motor timing, perceptual timing and temporal foresight, comprising several timeframes spanning milliseconds, seconds, minutes and longer intervals up to years. The most consistent impairments in ADHD are found in sensorimotor synchronisation, duration discrimination, reproduction and delay discounting. These neurocognitive findings of timing deficits in ADHD are furthermore supported by functional neuroimaging studies that show dysfunctions in the key inferior fronto-striato-cerebellar and fronto-parietal networks that mediate the timing functions. Although there is evidence that these timing functions are inter-correlated with other executive functions that are well established to be impaired in the disorder, in particular working memory, attention, and to a lesser degree inhibitory control, the key timing deficits appear to survive when these functions are controlled for, suggesting independent cognitive deficits in the temporal domain. There is furthermore strong evidence for an association between timing deficits and behavioural measures of impulsiveness and inattention, suggesting that timing problems are key to the clinical behavioural profile of ADHD. Emerging evidence shows that the most common treatment of ADHD with the dopamine agonist and psychostimulant Methylphenidate attenuates most timing deficits in ADHD and normalises the abnormally blunted recruitment of the underlying fronto-striato-cerebellar networks. Timing function deficits in ADHD, therefore, next to executive function deficits, form an independent impairment domain, and should receive more attention in neuropsychological, neuroimaging, and pharmacological basic research as well as in translational research aimed to develop pharmacological or non-pharmacological treatment of abnormal timing behaviour and cognition in ADHD.
It is argued that the cognitive neuroscience of time perception does not make sufficient use of a range of experimental techniques and theoretical approaches which might be useful in &quot;dissecting&quot; the human timing system, and thus helping to uncover its neural basis. These techniques are mostly inspired by scalar expectancy theory, but do not depend on acceptance of that model. Most of the methods result in the same physical stimuli giving rise to systematically different time judgements, thus they avoid problems of control which have haunted some areas of the cognitive neuroscience of timing. Among the possibilities are (a) changing the basic duration judgement of stimuli and events, (b) manipulating working memory and reference memories for duration, and (c) changing temporal decision processes.
Healthy volunteers were tested on 7-s and 17-s peak-interval timing procedures following d-amphetamine (20mg-oral), haloperidol (2mg-oral), and placebo treatments in order to assess the dopaminergic regulation of temporal processing. Individual differences were observed in the drug effects such that two different patterns of timing behavior emerged. In the first pattern, d-amphetamine produced proportional leftward shifts of the timing functions while haloperidol produced proportional rightward shifts. This symmetrical pattern of results suggests that clock speed is regulated by the effective level of dopamine, i.e., d-amphetamine increases clock speed and haloperidol decreases clock speed. The second pattern was the opposite of the first pattern and was revealed by d-amphetamine producing proportional rightward shifts of the timing functions while haloperidol produced no reliable effect. This asymmetrical pattern of results is consistent with an explanation in which attention toward the stimulant-induced euphoria produced by d-amphetamine diminishes the attentional resources available for temporal processing, thereby diluting any drug-induced changes in clock speed. The result of increased competition and time-sharing between these two dimensions (e.g., attention towards feelings of euphoria versus attention towards the passage of time) leads to the underestimation/overproduction of temporal intervals. Interestingly, participants that displayed the 'clock-speed' pattern liked d-amphetamine significantly less than participants that displayed the 'attention' pattern and were more variable in a simple reaction time task than other participants. These results suggest that individuals with a higher degree of sensitivity to time are also more sensitive to their feelings of stimulant-induced euphoria and drug liking-suggesting that internal clock and reward pathways share common dopaminergic pathways.
Timing is required both for estimating the duration of a currently unfolding event, or predicting when a future event is likely to occur. Yet previous studies have shown these processes to be neuroanatomically distinct with duration estimation generally activating a distributed, predominantly right-sided, fronto-striatal network and temporal prediction activating left-lateralised inferior parietal cortex. So far, these processes have been examined independently and using widely differing paradigms. We used fMRI to identify and compare the neural correlates of duration estimation, indexed by temporal reproduction, to those of temporal prediction, indexed by temporal orienting, within the same experimental paradigm. Behavioural data confirmed that accurate representations of the cued interval were evident for both temporal reproduction and temporal orienting tasks. Direct comparison of temporal tasks revealed activation of a right-lateralised fronto-striatal network when timing was measured explicitly by a temporal reproduction task but left inferior parietal cortex, left premotor cortex and cerebellum when timing was measured implicitly by a temporal orienting task. Therefore, although both production and prediction of temporal intervals required the same representation of time for their successful execution, their distinct neural signatures likely reflect the different ways in which this temporal representation was ultimately used: either to produce an overt estimate of an internally generated time interval (temporal reproduction) or to enable efficient responding by predicting the offset of an externally specified time interval (temporal orienting). This cortical lateralization may reflect right-hemispheric specificity for overtly timing a currently elapsing duration and left-hemispheric specificity for predicting future stimulus onset in order to optimize information processing.





The ventral subiculum (vSub) has been implicated in a wide range of neurocognitive functions, including responses to fear, stress, and anxiety. The vSub receives dense noradrenergic (NE) inputs from the locus coeruleus (LC), and the LC-NE system is heavily implicated in attention and is known to be activated by stressors. However, the way in which the neurons in the vSub respond to activation of the LC-NE is not well understood. In this study, the direct LC innervation of the vSub was investigated. The effect of norepinephrine (NE) on single vSub neurons was examined using microiontophoresis combined with electrophysiological recordings in anesthetized rats, and this response compared with the effect of electrical stimulation of the LC. Iontophoretic NE inhibited all vSub neurons tested, whereas LC stimulation inhibited 16% and activated 38% of neurons. Inhibition was mediated primarily by alpha-2 receptors, whereas activation was mediated by beta-adrenergic receptors. Furthermore, this effect was not mediated via the LC-basolateral amygdala (BLA) pathway, because BLA inactivation did not block LC stimulation-evoked activation of the vSub. These results indicate that the LC-NE system is a potent modulator of vSub activity. Based on these findings, stress-induced activation of the LC-NE system is expected to evoke inhibition and activation in the vSub, both of which may contribute to stress adaptation, whereas an imbalance of this system may lead to pathological stress responses in mental disorders.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder of considerable prevalence in individuals who have experienced a traumatic event. Studies of the neural substrate of this disorder have focused on the role of areas such as the hippocampus, the amygdala and the medial prefrontal cortex. We show that the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which directly modulates these areas, is part of this circuitry. Using a rat model of PTSD, we show that a brief but intense foot shock followed by three brief reminders can cause long-term behavioral changes as shown by anxiety-like, nociception, and touch-sensitivity tests. We show that an intraperitoneal injection of a dopamine (DA) antagonist or a bilateral inactivation of the VTA administered immediately before the traumatic event decrease the occurrence or intensity of these behavioral changes. Furthermore, we show that there is a significant decrease of baseline VTA dopaminergic but not GABAergic cell firing rates 2 weeks after trauma. Our data suggest that VTA DA neurons undergo long-term physiological changes after trauma and that this brain area is a crucial part of the circuits involved in PTSD symptomatology.
Lithium is the mainstay for the treatment of bipolar disorder (BD) and inhibits glycogen synthase kinase 3- (GSK3-). The less active GSK3- promoter gene variants have been associated with less detrimental clinical features of BD. GSK3- gene variants and lithium can influence brain gray matter structure in psychiatric conditions. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) measures of white matter (WM) integrity showed widespred disruption of WM structure in BD. In a sample of 70 patients affected by a major depressive episode in course of BD, we investigated the effect of ongoing long-term lithium treatment and GSK3- promoter rs334558 polymorphism on WM microstructure, using DTI and tract-based spatial statistics with threshold-free cluster enhancement. We report that the less active GSK3- rs334558*C gene-promoter variants, and the long-term administration of the GSK3- inhibitor lithium, were associated with increases of DTI measures of axial diffusivity (AD) in several WM fiber tracts, including corpus callosum, forceps major, anterior and posterior cingulum bundle (bilaterally including its hippocampal part), left superior and inferior longitudinal fasciculus, left inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, left posterior thalamic radiation, bilateral superior and posterior corona radiata, and bilateral corticospinal tract. AD reflects the integrity of axons and myelin sheaths. We suggest that GSK3- inhibition and lithium could counteract the detrimental influences of BD on WM structure, with specific benefits resulting from effects on specific WM tracts contributing to the functional integrity of the brain and involving interhemispheric, limbic, and large frontal, parietal, and fronto-occipital connections.
The rewarding properties of cocaine play a key role in establishing and maintaining the drug-taking habit. However, as exposure to cocaine increases, drug use can transition from controlled to compulsive. Importantly, very little is known about the neurobiological mechanisms that control this switch in drug use that defines addiction. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-protein coding RNA transcripts that can regulate the expression of messenger RNAs that code for proteins. Because of their highly pleiotropic nature, each miRNA has the potential to regulate hundreds or even thousands of protein-coding RNA transcripts. This property of miRNAs has generated considerable interest in their potential involvement in complex psychiatric disorders such as addiction, as each miRNA could potentially influence the many different molecular and cellular adaptations that arise in response to drug use that are hypothesized to drive the emergence of addiction. Here, we review recent evidence supporting a key role for miRNAs in the ventral striatum in regulating the rewarding and reinforcing properties of cocaine in animals with limited exposure to the drug. Moreover, we discuss evidence suggesting that miRNAs in the dorsal striatum control the escalation of drug intake in rats with extended cocaine access. These findings highlight the central role for miRNAs in drug-induced neuroplasticity in brain reward systems that drive the emergence of compulsive-like drug use in animals, and suggest that a better understanding of how miRNAs control drug intake will provide new insights into the neurobiology of drug addiction.
Epigenetic remodeling and modifications of chromatin structure by DNA methylation and histone modifications represent central mechanisms for the regulation of neuronal gene expression during brain development, higher-order processing, and memory formation. Emerging evidence implicates epigenetic modifications not only in normal brain function, but also in neuropsychiatric disorders. This review focuses on recent findings that disruption of chromatin modifications have a major role in the neurodegeneration associated with ischemic stroke and epilepsy. Although these disorders differ in their underlying causes and pathophysiology, they share a common feature, in that each disorder activates the gene silencing transcription factor REST (repressor element 1 silencing transcription factor), which orchestrates epigenetic remodeling of a subset of 'transcriptionally responsive targets' implicated in neuronal death. Although ischemic insults activate REST in selectively vulnerable neurons in the hippocampal CA1, seizures activate REST in CA3 neurons destined to die. Profiling the array of genes that are epigenetically dysregulated in response to neuronal insults is likely to advance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of these disorders and may lead to the identification of novel therapeutic strategies for the amelioration of these serious human conditions.
In the mammalian genome, DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism involving the transfer of a methyl group onto the C5 position of the cytosine to form 5-methylcytosine. DNA methylation regulates gene expression by recruiting proteins involved in gene repression or by inhibiting the binding of transcription factor(s) to DNA. During development, the pattern of DNA methylation in the genome changes as a result of a dynamic process involving both de novo DNA methylation and demethylation. As a consequence, differentiated cells develop a stable and unique DNA methylation pattern that regulates tissue-specific gene transcription. In this chapter, we will review the process of DNA methylation and demethylation in the nervous system. We will describe the DNA (de)methylation machinery and its association with other epigenetic mechanisms such as histone modifications and noncoding RNAs. Intriguingly, postmitotic neurons still express DNA methyltransferases and components involved in DNA demethylation. Moreover, neuronal activity can modulate their pattern of DNA methylation in response to physiological and environmental stimuli. The precise regulation of DNA methylation is essential for normal cognitive function. Indeed, when DNA methylation is altered as a result of developmental mutations or environmental risk factors, such as drug exposure and neural injury, mental impairment is a common side effect. The investigation into DNA methylation continues to show a rich and complex picture about epigenetic gene regulation in the central nervous system and provides possible therapeutic targets for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Monoallelic expression poses an intriguing problem in epigenetics because it requires the unequal treatment of two segments of DNA that are present in the same nucleus and which can have absolutely identical sequences. This review will consider different known types of monoallelic expression. For all monoallelically expressed genes, their respective allele-specific patterns of expression have the potential to affect brain function and dysfunction.
Major depressive disorder is a chronic, remitting syndrome involving widely distributed circuits in the brain. Stable alterations in gene expression that contribute to structural and functional changes in multiple brain regions are implicated in the heterogeneity and pathogenesis of the illness. Epigenetic events that alter chromatin structure to regulate programs of gene expression have been associated with depression-related behavior, antidepressant action, and resistance to depression or 'resilience' in animal models, with increasing evidence for similar mechanisms occurring in postmortem brains of depressed humans. In this review, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of epigenetic contributions to depression, in particular the role of histone acetylation and methylation, which are revealing novel mechanistic insight into the syndrome that may aid in the development of novel targets for depression treatment.




Vocal expressions of emotions consistently activate regions in the superior temporal cortex (STC), including regions in the primary and secondary auditory cortex (AC). Studies usually report broadly extended functional activations in response to vocal expressions, with considerable variation in peak locations across several auditory subregions. This might suggest different and distributed functional roles across these subregions instead of a uniform role for the decoding of vocal emotions. We reviewed recent studies and conducted an activation likelihood estimation meta-analysis summarizing recent fMRI and PET studies dealing with the processing of vocal expressions in the STC and AC. We included two stimulus-specific factors (paraverbal/nonverbal expression, stimulus valence) and one task-specific factor (attentional focus) in the analysis. These factors considerably influenced whether functional activity was located in the AC or STC (influence of valence and attentional focus), the laterality of activations (influence of paraverbal/nonverbal expressions), and the anterior-posterior location of STC activity (influence of valence). These data suggest distributed functional roles and a differentiated network of auditory subregions in response to vocal expressions.
Recent advances in our understanding of brain function have come from using light to either control or image neuronal activity. Here we describe an approach that combines both techniques: a micromirror array is used to photostimulate populations of presynaptic neurons expressing channelrhodopsin-2, while a red-shifted voltage-sensitive dye allows optical detection of resulting postsynaptic activity. Such technology allowed us to control the activity of cerebellar interneurons while simultaneously recording inhibitory responses in multiple Purkinje neurons, their postsynaptic targets. This approach should substantially accelerate our understanding of information processing by populations of neurons within brain circuits.
Channelrhodopsin (ChR)-wide receiver (ChRWR), one of the chimeric molecule of ChR1 and ChR2, has several advantages over ChR2 such as improved expression in the plasma membrane and enhanced photocurrent with small desensitization. Here we generated transgenic zebrafish (Danio rerio) expressing ChRWR as a conjugate of EGFP under the regulation of UAS promoter (UAS:ChRWR-EGFP). When crossed with a Gal4 line, SAGFF36B, ChRWR-EGFP was selectively expressed in primary mechanosensory Rohon-Beard (RB) neurons. The direct photoactivation of RB neurons was sufficient to trigger the escape behavior. The UAS:ChRWR-EGFP line could facilitate a variety of investigations of neural networks and behaviors of zebrafish in vivo.
Recently, channelrhodopsins (ChRs) have begun to be used to manipulate the neuronal activity, since they can be targeted to specific neurons or neural circuits using genetic methods. To advance the potential applications in the investigation and treatment of neurological disorders, the following types of basic research should receive extensive financial support. The spectral and kinetic properties of ChRs should be optimized according to the application by generating variants of ChRs or exploring new rhodopsins from other species. These ChRs should be targeted to the specific types of neurons involved in the neurological disorders through a gene expression system using cell- or tissue-specific promoters/enhancers as well as gene delivery systems with modified virus vectors. The methods have to be developed to apply the genes of interest with safety and long-term effectiveness. Sophisticated opto-electrical devices should be developed. Appropriate primate animal model systems should be established to minimize the structural differences between small animals such as rodents and human beings. In this paper, we will review the current progress in the basic research concerned with the potential clinical application of ChRs and discuss the future directions of research on ChRs so that they could be applied for human welfare.
The light absorption of a channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) is followed by conformational changes to the molecule, which allows the channel structure to become permeable to cations. Previously, a single point mutation in ChR2, which replaces glutamate residue 97 with a nonpolar alanine (E97A), was found to attenuate the photocurrent, suggesting that the E97 residue is involved in ion flux regulation. Here, the significance of E97 and its counterpart ChR1 (E136) were extensively studied by mutagenesis, whereby we replaced these glutamates with aspartate (D), glutamine (Q) or arginine (R). We found that the charge at this position strongly influences ion permeation and that the photocurrents were attenuated in the order of ChR2&gt;E97DE97Q&gt;E97R. We observed similar results with our chimeric/synthetic/artificial construct, ChR-wide receiver (ChRWR), which contains the first to fifth transmembrane helices of ChR1. The E-to-Q or E-to-R mutations, but not the E-to-D mutation, strongly retarded the sensitivity to the Gd(3+)-dependent blocking of the ChR1 or ChR2 channels. Our results suggest that the glutamate residue at this position lies in the outer pore, where it interacts with a cation to facilitate dehydration, and that this residue is the primary binding target of Gd(3+).
Optical manipulation technologies greatly advanced the understanding of the neuronal network and its dysfunctions. To achieve patterned and parallel optical switching, we developed a microscopic illumination system using a commercial DMD-based projector and a software program. The spatiotemporal patterning of the system was evaluated using acute slices of the hippocampus. The neural activity was optically manipulated, positively by the combination of channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and blue light, and negatively by the combination of archaerhodopsin-T (ArchT) and green light. It is suggested that our projector-managing optical system (PMOS) would effectively facilitate the optogenetic analyses of neurons and their circuits.





Susac syndrome is a microangiopathy of unknown origin, probably autoimmune, affecting capillaries and precapillary arterioles of the brain, retina, and inner ear. It is often misdiagnosed as acute disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiple sclerosis. We report the case of a 25-year-old male with Susac syndrome who developed the clinical triad of encephalopathy, visual and hearing problems over the course of a year. The characteristic MRI findings including central corpus callosal involvement and brain infarctions were supported by branch retinal arterial/arteriolar occlusions on fluorescein retinal angiography. Most patients with Susac syndrome will not have the complete clinical triad initially. A very high index of suspicion is required by the clinician and radiologist in patients with any component of the clinical triad so as not to misdiagnose the MRI findings for demyelination. Even if initial ophthalmologic examinations are normal, these patients should be followed up for later development of branch retinal artery occlusions.
Sarcoidosis is a multisystem inflammatory disease of unknown etiology. Isolated neurosarcoidosis without signs of systemic involvement has rarely been reported in the literature. We report a case of isolated neurosarcoidosis that presented with psychiatric symptoms and headache. Cranial MRI revealed bilateral diffuse high intensity lesions in the deep white matter, with a linear contrast enhancement of perivascular areas. Histological examination of a stereotactic brain biopsy specimen demonstrated noncaseating granulomas. Further research did not reveal any evidence of systemic disease. The patient was treated with corticosteroids and responded well to medical therapy. The diagnosis of isolated neurosarcoidosis is a challenge and may require histological examination.







The efficacy of induced hypothermia to treat hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) in term infants has been evaluated in 6 multicenter randomized controlled trials. Meta-analysis of these trials shows that hypothermia in the first 6 hours after moderately severe HIE reduced the risk rate of death or neurological impairment at 18 months of age; risk ratio (RR): 0.81 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.71 to 0.93, p=0.002); risk difference -0.11 (95% CI: -0.18 to -0.04), with a number needed to treat of 9 (95% CI: 5-25). It also showed that treatment with hypothermia was associated with an increased rate of intact survival; RR: 1.53 (95% CI: 1.22-1.93, p&lt;0.001); risk difference: 0.12 (95% CI: 0.06-0.18), with a number need to treat of 8 (95% CI: 5-17). We developed a national protocol using a simplified method of cooling. This protocol will hopefully lead to a widespread implementation of induced hypothermia in different settings within Saudi Arabia.
Dravet syndrome (DS) is one of the most severe genetic epilepsies of childhood. Charlotte Dravet described severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy in 1978. Shortly after the initial report, many cases were published. Most of the cases have the SCN1A mutation. A variant of DS called borderline severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy has similar clinical and electrographic features without myoclonus. The prevalence of DS is 3-6% of epilepsy cases in infancy, and the incidence is less than one per 40,000 infants. Also, there is a rare mutation in the GABARG2 and SCN1B genes. Usually, affected patients have normal developmental milestones during infancy. Then after 1-4 years of age, they start to develop refractory mixed seizure types (tonic seizures are exceptional) and psychomotor retardation, ataxia, and hyperkinesias. The EEG reveals focal or multifocal epileptic discharges and it commonly shows photosensitivity. The treatment of the seizures is challenging. The combination of stiripentol, valproic acid, clobazam, and topiramate is promising.
Multimodal MRI has an important contribution to cancer research. This technique is completely non-invasive and non-ionizing, it provides major information for diagnosis, and answers the questions of therapists before, during, and after treatment. Hence, in this paper we review the interest of these MRI modalities and their impact on the diagnosis, during and after therapeutic care of brain tumors. The MRI modalities allow specifying the localization of the expanding pathological tumoral process, the differential diagnosis between brain tumors and confined lesions of different categories, the diagnosis of the tumoral type of the lesion, assessing the histological grade in cases of glial tumor, and its local extension as well as the therapeutic follow-up. The multimodal MRI approach has a major contribution to the advanced care of brain tumors.

Usually, the main axon is assumed to faithfully conduct action potentials (APs). Recent data have indicated that neural processing can occur along the axonal path. However, the patterns and mechanisms of temporal coding are not clear. In the present study, single fiber recording was used to analyze activity-dependent modulation of AP trains in the main axons of C fibers in the rabbit saphenous nerve. Trains of 5 superthreshold electrical pulses at interstimulus intervals of 20 or 50 ms were applied to the nerve trunk for 200 s. The interspike intervals (ISIs) for these trains were compared to the input interstimulus intervals. Three basic types of C fibers were observed in response to repeated stimuli: first, the ISI between the first and second AP (ISI1-2) of type 1 was longer than the interstimulus interval; second, the ISI1-2 of type 2 showed wavelike fluctuations around the interstimulus interval, and third, the ISI1-2 of type 3 exhibited shorter intervals for a long period. Furthermore, both 4-aminopyridine-sensitive potassium and hyperpolarization-activated cation currents were involved in the modulation of ISI1-2 of train pulses. These data provide new evidence that multiple modes of neural conduction can occur along the main axons of C fibers.
A decline in cognitive ability is a typical feature of the normal aging process, and of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. Although their etiologies differ, all of these disorders involve local activation of innate immune pathways and associated inflammatory cytokines. However, clinical trials of anti-inflammatory agents in neurodegenerative disorders have been disappointing, and it is therefore necessary to better understand the complex roles of the inflammatory process in neurological dysfunction. The dietary phytochemical curcumin can exert anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and neuroprotective actions. Here we provide evidence that curcumin ameliorates cognitive deficits associated with activation of the innate immune response by mechanisms requiring functional tumor necrosis factor  receptor 2 (TNFR2) signaling. In vivo, the ability of curcumin to counteract hippocampus-dependent spatial memory deficits, to stimulate neuroprotective mechanisms such as upregulation of BDNF, to decrease glutaminase levels, and to modulate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor levels was absent in mice lacking functional TNFRs. Curcumin treatment protected cultured neurons against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity by a mechanism requiring TNFR2 activation. Our results suggest the possibility that therapeutic approaches against cognitive decline designed to selectively enhance TNFR2 signaling are likely to be more beneficial than the use of anti-inflammatory drugs per se.
In the prefrontal cortex, dopamine D1-like and M1 muscarinic receptors are both involved in the regulation of attentional, cognitive and emotional processes but so far no information has been provided on their functional interaction. In the present study we show that in mouse medial prefrontal cortex, concomitant activation of M1 muscarinic receptors potentiated D1-like receptor-induced cyclic AMP formation through a mechanism involving activation of Gq/11 and the release of G protein  subunits. Immunohistochemical studies indicated that the adenylyl cyclase isoforms AC2 and AC4 are expressed in mouse prefrontal cortex and that they colocalize with D1-like receptors with a greater association for AC4. In primary cultures of frontal cortex neurons, D1-like receptor-induced Ser133 phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) was potentiated by concurrent stimulation of M1 receptors. Suppression of AC4 expression with small interfering RNA transfection reduced D1 stimulation of cyclic AMP formation and CREB phosphorylation and abolished the M1 potentiation, whereas knockdown of AC2 had no significant effects. These data indicate that in mouse prefrontal cortex Gq/11-coupled M1 receptor and Gs-coupled D1-like receptor inputs converge on AC4 with a consequent enhancement of cyclic AMP formation and signaling to the nucleus.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an important inflammatory mediator involved in the initial boost in the proliferation of neural stem cells following brain injury. However, the mechanisms underlying the proliferative effect of NO are still unclear. The aim of this work was to investigate whether cyclic GMP (cGMP) and the cGMP-dependent kinase (PKG) are involved in the proliferative effect triggered by NO in neural stem cells. For this purpose, cultures of neural stem cells isolated from the mouse subventricular zone (SVZ) were used. We observed that long-term exposure to the NO donor (24 h), NOC-18, increased the proliferation of SVZ cells in a cGMP-dependent manner, since the guanylate cyclase inhibitor, ODQ, prevented cell proliferation. Similarly to NOC-18, the cGMP analogue, 8-Br-cGMP, also increased cell proliferation. Interestingly, shorter exposures to NO (6 h) increased cell proliferation in a cGMP-independent manner via the ERK/MAP kinase pathway. The selective inhibitor of PKG, KT5823, prevented the proliferative effect induced by NO at 24 h but not at 6 h. In conclusion, the proliferative effect of NO is initially mediated by the ERK/MAPK pathway, and at later stages by the GC/cGMP/PKG pathway. Thus, our work shows that NO induces neural stem cell proliferation by targeting these two pathways in a biphasic manner.
The purpose of this study is to describe our series of nine unclippable and uncoilable ruptured aneurysms in eight patients treated by microsurgical wrapping with autologous muscle. Records were retrospectively reviewed for rebleeding rate, morbidity and mortality, changes in size or the aneurysm's configurations, and inflammatory reaction. We conducted a Medline search in the post-microsurgical era, excluding patients in whom wrapping was part of the aneurysm treatment in combination with clipping or coiling. The surgically related morbidity was 12.5%. Global mortality rate was 25% due to vasospasm (one case) and rebleeding (one case). Six patients are still alive. Rebleeding rate was 14.3% within 6 months; then, it was zero. Glasgow outcome scale (GOS) score at discharge was 1 and 4 in one patient, respectively, and 5 in the remaining six. Mean clinical follow-up was 126 months. GOS at last follow-up was 4 and 5 in 50% of patients, respectively. Mean mRS score was 0.8 at 2 months, and 2.4 at 12 months. Follow-up MR demonstrated persistence of the aneurysm's sac, without changes in size and configuration. Patients did not describe or exhibit symptoms attributable to complications inherent to the use of muscle. Microsurgical muscle-wrapping of ruptured intracranial aneurysm is safe, is associated with a low rate of acute and delayed postoperative complications and rebleeding, and could be a valid alternative for unclippable and non-amenable to endovascular procedure ruptured aneurysms.
Intraoperative imaging disrupts the rhythm of surgery despite providing an excellent opportunity for surgical monitoring and assessment. To allow surgery within real-time images, neuroArm, a teleoperated surgical robotic system, was conceptualized. The objective was to design and manufacture a magnetic resonance-compatible robot with a human-machine interface that could reproduce some of the sight, sound, and touch of surgery at a remote workstation. University of Calgary researchers worked with MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates engineers to produce a requirements document, preliminary design review, and critical design review, followed by the manufacture, preclinical testing, and clinical integration of neuroArm. During the preliminary design review, the scope of the neuroArm project changed to performing microsurgery outside the magnet and stereotaxy inside the bore. neuroArm was successfully manufactured and installed in an intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging operating room. neuroArm was clinically integrated into 35 cases in a graded fashion. As a result of this experience, neuroArm II is in development, and advances in technology will allow microsurgery within the bore of the magnet. neuroArm represents a successful interdisciplinary collaboration. It has positive implications for the future of robotic technology in neurosurgery in that the precision and accuracy of robots will continue to augment human capability.

Every year, the number of published research articles increases significantly. However, many potentially useful ideas are lost in this flood of data. Translational research provides a framework through which investigators or laboratories can maximize the likelihood that the product of their research will be adopted in medical practice. There are 2 recognizable models of translation appropriate for the majority of research: investigator driven and industry enabled. Investigator-driven research has more range because it does not have to consider the profit margin of research, but it is a slow process. The industry-enabled model accelerates the translational research process through the power of industry funding but is interested primarily in products with potential for profit. Two cases are examined to illustrate different methods of partnering with industry. IMRIS is a company founded by investigators to distribute intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging technology based on a movable high-field magnet. It took 7 years for IMRIS to make its first sale, but it is now a successful company. With neuroArm, a surgical robot, investigators decided to sell the intellectual property to an established company to ensure successful global commercialization. Translational research advances medicine by creating and distributing effective solutions to contemporary problems.

Endovascular neurosurgery is a discipline strongly dependent on imaging. Therefore, technology that improves how much useful information we can garner from a single image has the potential to dramatically assist decision making during endovascular procedures. Furthermore, education in an image-enhanced environment, especially with the incorporation of simulation, can improve the safety of the procedures and give interventionalists and trainees the opportunity to study or perform simulated procedures before the intervention, much like what is practiced in the field of aviation. Here, we examine the use of simulators in the training of fighter pilots and discuss how similar benefits can compensate for current deficiencies in endovascular training. We describe the types of simulation used for endovascular procedures, including virtual reality, and discuss the relevant data on its utility in training. Finally, the benefit of augmented reality during endovascular procedures is discussed, along with future computerized image enhancement techniques.

Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that is administered daily for 5days, and then no further therapy is required for 12months. It causes rapid and prolonged lymphocyte depletion; the consequent homeostatic reconstitution leads to a radically reformed lymphocyte pool with a relative increase in regulatory T cells and expansion of autoreactive T cells. Although previously licensed for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, it is now been considered for licensing in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). From a disappointing experience with alemtuzumab in progressive MS, Alastair Compston and I argued that immunotherapies should be given early in the course of the disease. In a unique program of drug development in MS, alemtuzumab has been compared in 1 phase 2 trial and 2 phase 3 trials with the active comparator interferon beta-1a. In all trials, alemtuzumab was more effective in suppressing relapses than interferon beta-1a. In one phase 2 and one phase 3 trial, alemtuzumab also reduced the risk of accumulating disability compared with interferon beta-1a. Indeed, alemtuzumab treatment led to an improvement in disability and a reduction in cerebral atrophy. The safety issues are infusion-associated reactions largely controlled by methylprednisolone, antihistamines, and antipyretics; mild-to-moderate infections (with 3 opportunistic infections from the open-label experience: 1 case each of spirochaetal gingivitis, pyogenic granuloma, and Listeria meningitis); and autoimmunity. Usually autoimmunity is directed against the thyroid gland, but causes (1%) immune thrombocytopenia, and in a few cases antiglomerular basement membrane syndrome. Alemtuzumab is an effective therapy for early relapsing-remitting MS, offering disability improvement at least to 5years after treatment. Its use requires careful monitoring so that potentially serious side effects can be treated early and effectively.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic demyelinating disease of the central nervous system characterized by infiltration of immune cells and progressive damage to myelin and axons. All therapeutics used to treat MS have been developed to target an overactive immune response, with aims to reduce disease activity. Chronic demyelinated axons are further prone to irreversible damage and death, and it is imperative that new therapies address this critical issue. Remyelination, the generation of new myelin in the adult nervous system, is an endogenous repair mechanism that restores function of denuded axons and delays their deterioration. Although remyelination can be extensive in some patients, the majority of cases limit repair only to the acute phase of disease. A significant current drive in new MS therapeutics is to identify targets that can promote remyelination by boosting endogenous oligodendrocyte precursor cells to form new myelin. Also, a number of inhibitory pathways have been identified in chronic MS lesions that prevent oligodendrocyte precursor cells from being properly recruited to demyelinated lesions or interfere with their differentiation to myelin-forming oligodendrocytes. In this review, we introduce the phenomenon of remyelination from the view of experimental models and studies in MS patients, describe a potential role in remyelination for currently available MS mediations, and discuss many avenues that are being actively studied to promote remyelination. The next frontier in MS therapeutics will supplement immunomodulation with agents that directly foster myelin repair, with aims to delay disease progression and recover lost neurological functions.
In spite of definite roles for -amyloid (A) in familial Alzheimer's disease (AD), the cause of sporadic AD remains unknown. Amyloid senile plaques and Lewy body pathology frequently coexist in neocortical and hippocampal regions of AD and Parkinson's diseases. However, the relationship between A and -synuclein (-Syn), the principle components in the pathological structures, in neuronal toxicity and the mechanisms of their interaction are not well studied. As A and -Syn accumulate in aging patients, the biological functions and toxicity of these polypeptides in the aging brain may be different from those in young brain. We examined the neurotoxicity influences of A1-42 or -Syn on mature neurons and the effects of A1-42 or -Syn on the production of endogenous -Syn or A1-40 reciprocally using a model of culture enriched with primary neurons from the hippocampus of adult rats. Treatment of neurons with high concentrations of A1-42 or -Syn caused significant apoptosis of neurons. Following A1-42 treatment at sub apoptotic concentrations, both intra- and extra-cellular -Syn levels were significantly increased. Reciprocally, the non-toxic levels of -Syn treatment also increased intra- and extra-cellular A1-40 levels. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002, suppressed -Syn-induced A1-40 elevation, as well as A1-42-induced -Syn elevation. Thus, high concentrations of A1-42 and -Syn exert toxic effects on mature neurons; however, non-toxic concentration treatment of these polypeptides induced the production of each other reciprocally with possible involvement of PI3K pathway.
Manganese-containing fungicides like Mancozeb have been associated with neurodegenerative conditions like Parkinson's disease. We examined the behavioral damage and differential neuronal vulnerability resulting from Mancozeb exposure using Caenorhabditis elegans, an important mid-trophic level soil organism that is also a powerful model for studying mechanisms of environmental pollutant-induced neurodegenerative disease. The dopamine-mediated swim to crawl locomotory transition behavior is exquisitely vulnerable to Mancozeb, with functional impairment preceding markers of neuronal structural damage. The damage is partially rescued in mutants lacking the divalent metal transporter, SMF-1, demonstrating that some, but not all, of the damage is mediated by manganese. Increasing concentrations of Mancozeb recruit additional behavioral dysfunction, notably serotonin-mediated egg-laying behavior, but without evident serotonergic neuronal structural damage. Thus, measurements of behavioral dysfunction are a sensitive early marker of fungicide toxicity that could be exploited to examine further mechanisms of neuron damage and possible therapeutic interventions. These results also provide important insight into the consequences of fungicide use on the ecological behavior of nematodes.

Our objective was to apply ideas from complexity theory to derive expanded neurodynamic models of Submarine Piloting and Navigation showing how teams cognitively organize around task changes. The cognitive metric highlighted was an electroencephalography-derived measure of engagement (termed neurophysiologic synchronies of engagement) that was modeled into collective team variables showing the engagement of each of six team members as well as that of the team as a whole. We modeled the cognitive organization of teams using the information content of the neurophysiologic data streams derived from calculations of their Shannon entropy. We show that the periods of team cognitive reorganization (a) occurred as a natural product of teamwork particularly around periods of stress, (b) appeared structured around episodes of communication, (c) occurred following deliberate external perturbation to team function, and (d) were less frequent in experienced navigation teams. These periods of reorganization were lengthy, lasting up to 10 minutes. As the overall entropy levels of the neurophysiologic data stream are significantly higher for expert teams, this measure may be a useful candidate for modeling teamwork and its development over prolonged periods of training.

Increasing application of information technology including web-based lectures and live-lecture recording appears to have many advantages for undergraduate nursing education. These include greater flexibility, opportunity for students to review content on demand and the improved academic management of increasing class sizes without significant increase in physical infrastructure. This study performed a quasi-experimental comparison between two groups of nursing students undertaking their first anatomy and physiology course, where one group was also provided access to streaming of recorded copies of the live lectures and the other did not. For the course in which recorded lectures were available student feedback indicated overwhelming support for such provision with 96% of students having accessed recorded lectures. There was only a weak relationship between access of recorded lectures and overall performance in the course. Interestingly, the nursing students who had access to the recorded lectures demonstrated significantly poorer overall academic performance (P &lt; 0.001). Although this study did not specifically control for student demographics or other academic input, the data suggests that provision of recorded lectures requires improved and applied time management practices by students and caution on the part of the academic staff involved.



This paper describes the orthodontic treatment, and the biomechanics of cantilevers for the impaction of permanent teeth in youngs, adolescents, and adults. In these case series, multibracket straightwire fixed appliances, together with cantilever mechanics, were used to treat the impaired occlusion.

To date, the preventive strategy against dementia is still essential due to the rapid growth of its prevalence and the limited therapeutic efficacy. Based on the crucial role of oxidative stress in age-related dementia and the antioxidant and nootropic activities of Moringa oleifera, the enhancement of spatial memory and neuroprotection of M. oleifera leaves extract in animal model of age-related dementia was determined. The possible underlying mechanism was also investigated. Male Wistar rats, weighing 180-220 g, were orally given M. oleifera leaves extract at doses of 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg at a period of 7 days before and 7 days after the intracerebroventricular administration of AF64A bilaterally. Then, they were assessed memory, neuron density, MDA level, and the activities of SOD, CAT, GSH-Px, and AChE in hippocampus. The results showed that the extract improved spatial memory and neurodegeneration in CA1, CA2, CA3, and dentate gyrus of hippocampus together with the decreased MDA level and AChE activity but increased SOD and CAT activities. Therefore, our data suggest that M. oleifera leaves extract is the potential cognitive enhancer and neuroprotectant. The possible mechanism might occur partly via the decreased oxidative stress and the enhanced cholinergic function. However, further explorations concerning active ingredient(s) are still required.
The protection against ischemic stroke is still required due to the limitation of therapeutic efficacy. Based on the role of oxidative stress in stroke pathophysiology, we determined whether Moringa oleifera, a plant possessing potent antioxidant activity, protected against brain damage and oxidative stress in animal model of focal stroke. M. oleifera leaves extract at doses of 100, 200 and 400 mgkg(-1) was orally given to male Wistar rats (300-350 g) once daily at a period of 2 weeks before the occlusion of right middle cerebral artery (Rt.MCAO) and 3 weeks after Rt.MCAO. The determinations of neurological score and temperature sensation were performed every 7 days throughout the study period, while the determinations of brain infarction volume, MDA level, and the activities of SOD, CAT, and GSH-Px were performed 24 hr after Rt.MCAO. The results showed that all doses of extract decreased infarction volume in both cortex and subcortex. The protective effect of medium and low doses of extract in all areas occurred mainly via the decreased oxidative stress. The protective effect of the high dose extract in striatum and hippocampus occurred via the same mechanism, whereas other mechanisms might play a crucial role in cortex. The detailed mechanism required further exploration.
Oxidative stress and angiogenic factors have been placed as the prime focus of scientific investigations after an establishment of link between vascular endothelial growth factor promoter (VEGF), hypoxia, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) pathogenesis. Deletion of the hypoxia-response element in the vascular endothelial growth factor promoter and mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) which are characterised by atrophy and muscle weakness resulted in phenotype resembling human ALS in mice. This results in lower motor neurodegeneration thus establishing an important link between motor neuron degeneration, vasculature, and angiogenic molecules. In this review, we have presented human, animal, and in vitro studies which suggest that molecules like VEGF have a therapeutic, diagnostic, and prognostic potential in ALS. Involvement of vascular growth factors and hypoxia response elements also highlights the converging role of oxidative stress and neurovascular network for understanding and treatment of various neurodegenerative disorders like ALS.
Nitro-oxidative stress (NOS) plays a fundamental role in aging, as well as in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, and major depression (MD). The latter is a very frequent psychiatric illness characterized by accelerated aging, neurodegeneration, high comorbidity with age-related disorders, and premature mortality; all of these conditions find an explanation in an altered redox homeostasis. If aging, neurodegeneration, and major depression share a common biological base in their pathophysiology, common therapeutic tools could be investigated for the prevention and treatment of these disorders. As an example, antidepressants have been demonstrated to present neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties and to stimulate neurogenesis. In parallel, antioxidants that stimulate the antioxidant defense systems and interact with the monoaminergic system show an antidepressant-like activity. Further research on this topic could lead, in the near future, to the expansion of the therapeutic possibilities for the treatment of NOS-related disorders.
We investigated the gender differences in heme-oxygenase (HO) enzyme, which produces endogenous vascular protective carbon monoxide (CO). We studied (1) the activity and expression of HO enzymes in the left ventricle (LV) and aorta, (2) basal increase in basal blood pressure provoked by arginine vasopressine (AVP) in vivo, (3) the heart perfusion induced by AVP, (4) the ST segment depression provoked by adrenaline and 30 seconds later phentolamine, and (5) the aorta ring contraction induced by AVP in female and male Wistar rats. We found that HO activity and the expression of HO-1 and HO-2 were increased in female rat aorta and LV. We demonstrated that the basal blood pressure and administration of AVP provoked blood pressure response are increased in the males; the female myocardium was less sensitive towards angina. Both differences could be aggravated by the inhibition of HO. The aorta rings were more susceptible towards vasoconstriction by AVP in males; isolated heart perfusion decrease was higher in males. The HO inhibition aggravated the heart perfusion in both sexes. In conclusion, the increased HO activity and expression in females might play a role in the sexual dimorphism of cardiovascular ischemia susceptibility during the reproductive age.

Environmental context has an important impact on health and well being. We aimed to test the effects of a visual distraction induced by classical hospital waiting room (RH) versus an ideal room with a sea view (IH), both represented in virtual reality (VR), on subjective sensation and cortical responses induced by painful laser stimuli (LEPs) in healthy volunteers and patients with chronic migraine (CM). Sixteen CM and 16 controls underwent 62 channels LEPs from the right hand, during a fully immersive VR experience, where two types of waiting rooms were simulated. The RH simulated a classical hospital waiting room while the IH represented a room with sea viewing. CM patients showed a reduction of laser pain rating and vertex LEPs during the IH vision. The sLORETA analysis confirmed that in CM patients the two VR simulations induced a different modulation of bilateral parietal cortical areas (precuneus and superior parietal lobe), and superior frontal and cingulate girus, in respect to controls. The architectural context may interfere with pain perception, depending upon the status of subject. Many variables may change patients' outcome and support the use of VR technology to test the best conditions for their management.
Objectives: Intravenous thrombolytic therapy has established acceptable results in treating ischemic stroke. However, there is little information on treatment outcome especially in different subtypes. The aim of current study was to evaluate early and intermediate prognosis in intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute ischemic stroke subtypes. Methodology: Forty eligible patients (57.5% male with mean age of 63.1813.49 years) with definite ischemic stroke who were admitted to emergency department of Imam Reza University Hospital, in the first 180 minutes after occurrence received recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. All investigation findings were recorded and stroke subtypes were determined according to the Causative Classification of Stroke System. Stroke severity forms including modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores were recorded for all patients in first, seven and 90 days after stroke and disease outcome was evaluated. Results: The etiology of stroke was large artery atherosclerosis in 20%, cardio-aortic embolism in 45%, small artery occlusion in 17.5% and undetermined causes in 17.5%. NIHSS and mRS scores were significantly improved during time (P &lt; 0.001 in both cases). Three months mortality rate was 25%. Among the etiologies, patients with small artery occlusion and then cardio-aortic embolism had lower NIHSS score at arrival (P = 0.04). Caplan-meier analysis showed that age, sex and symptom to needle time could predict disease outcome. Conclusion: Intravenous thrombolytic therapy is accompanied by good early and intermediate outcome in most patients with ischemic stroke. Small artery occlusion subtype had less disease severity and higher improvement.
Objective: C-reactive protein, a well known marker of inflammation is being investigated as a probable marker of predicting acute cardiovascular events and its severity. The aim of the present study was to assess the possible role of highly-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in predicting short-term functional outcome of ischemic stroke. Methodology: A prospective study was conducted on subjects admitted with first attack of confirmed ischemic stroke. It included 50 male and 52 female. Serum hs-CRP was measured in the 2(nd) (CRP-D2) and 5(th) days (CRP-D5) post-stroke. Modified Rankin scale (MRS) was measured in all subjects in the 2(nd) (MRS-D2), 5(th) days (MRS-D5) and also 3 month (MRS-M3) after stroke to assess the short-term functional outcome and mortality of subjects. Results: The mean age of the patients was 71.7511.44 years. The mortality rate was 47.1% in the third months after stroke. There was no significant correlation between CRP-D2 and MRS-M3 and also between CRP-D5 and MRS-M3 (P&gt;0.05). However there was a significant association between high CRP-D2 (CRP&gt;3) and MRS-M3 and also between high CRP-D5 and MRS-M3 (P&lt;0.005). Conclusion: This study showed that the value of CRP by itself could not predict the severity of short-term functional disability and it might not be useful as a clinical tool for predicting outcome.



Treatment options in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) include subcutaneous apomorphine, pallidal or subthalamic nucleus Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS), or levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG/Duodopa). In this study, we describe the outcome of 12 PD patients with PD related complications started on LCIG, with respect to their quality of life measured by a disease specific validated scale-the PDQ39, together with diaries recording time spent &quot;On,&quot; &quot;Off,&quot; &quot;Dyskinetic,&quot; or &quot;Asleep.&quot; At the time of latest follow up, improvements were observed in both the PDQ39 Summary index as well as diary reports of PD symptom control following introduction of LCIG, supporting its use in well selected patients. The use of a trial period of LCIG via naso-jejunal administration allows objective evaluation of improvement in PD symptom control in advance of the placement of the more invasive percutaneous jejunostomy procedure. The decision to embark on LCIG, apomorphine or DBS should be supported by input from centres with experience of all 3 approaches. Since LCIG is an expensive option, development of the most appropriate future commissioning of this therapy in the absence of Class 1 evidence requires careful scrutiny of the outcomes of its use in a broad range of published series.


Cartilaginous metaplasia in ependymomas is extremely rare and only few cases have been reported in the literature. We describe a case of a 5-year-old patient with a 5th recurrence of 4th ventricle ependymoma. He was previously treated with 4 resections, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Histopathology revealed well-differentiated chondroid tissue occupying almost the entire lesion. Near total resection was achieved for the 5th time, but the patient died 3 months later achieving a total survival of 48 months, the 3rd longest reported in literature. Multiple resections of tumour recurrence provided a new insight in this very rare tumour, as it gave us the opportunity to observe the progression of tumour aggressiveness from grade II to grade III and finally to chondroid metaplasia. Cartilaginous metaplasia in posterior fossa ependymomas is a very atypical and challenging tumour with poor overall prognosis.
Evaluating the familiarity of faces is critical for social animals as it is the basis of individual recognition. In the present study, we examined how face familiarity is reflected in neural activities in our closest living relative, the chimpanzee. Skin-surface event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were measured while a fully awake chimpanzee observed photographs of familiar and unfamiliar chimpanzee faces (Experiment 1) and human faces (Experiment 2). The ERPs evoked by chimpanzee faces differentiated unfamiliar individuals from familiar ones around midline areas centered on vertex sites at approximately 200 ms after the stimulus onset. In addition, the ERP response to the image of the subject's own face did not significantly diverge from those evoked by familiar chimpanzees, suggesting that the subject's brain at a minimum remembered the image of her own face. The ERPs evoked by human faces were not influenced by the familiarity of target individuals. These results indicate that chimpanzee neural representations are more sensitive to the familiarity of conspecific than allospecific faces.
Background. In recent years, there has been an explosion in the number of technical and medical diagnostic platforms being developed. This has greatly improved our ability to more accurately, and more comprehensively, explore and characterize human biological systems on the individual level. Large quantities of biomedical data are now being generated and archived in many separate research and clinical activities, but there exists a paucity of studies that integrate the areas of clinical neuropsychiatry, personal genomics and brain-machine interfaces. Methods. A single person with severe mental illness was implanted with the Medtronic Reclaim() Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Therapy device for Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), targeting his nucleus accumbens/anterior limb of the internal capsule. Programming of the device and psychiatric assessments occurred in an outpatient setting for over two years. His genome was sequenced and variants were detected in the Illumina Whole Genome Sequencing Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-certified laboratory. Results. We report here the detailed phenotypic characterization, clinical-grade whole genome sequencing (WGS), and two-year outcome of a man with severe OCD treated with DBS. Since implantation, this man has reported steady improvement, highlighted by a steady decline in his Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) score from 38 to a score of 25. A rechargeable Activa RC neurostimulator battery has been of major benefit in terms of facilitating a degree of stability and control over the stimulation. His psychiatric symptoms reliably worsen within hours of the battery becoming depleted, thus providing confirmatory evidence for the efficacy of DBS for OCD in this person. WGS revealed that he is a heterozygote for the p.Val66Met variant in BDNF, encoding a member of the nerve growth factor family, and which has been found to predispose carriers to various psychiatric illnesses. He carries the p.Glu429Ala allele in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and the p.Asp7Asn allele in ChAT, encoding choline O-acetyltransferase, with both alleles having been shown to confer an elevated susceptibility to psychoses. We have found thousands of other variants in his genome, including pharmacogenetic and copy number variants. This information has been archived and offered to this person alongside the clinical sequencing data, so that he and others can re-analyze his genome for years to come. Conclusions. To our knowledge, this is the first study in the clinical neurosciences that integrates detailed neuropsychiatric phenotyping, deep brain stimulation for OCD and clinical-grade WGS with management of genetic results in the medical treatment of one person with severe mental illness. We offer this as an example of precision medicine in neuropsychiatry including brain-implantable devices and genomics-guided preventive health care.
In the automatic imitation task (AIT) participants make a cued response during simultaneous exposure to a congruent or incongruent action made by another agent. Participants are slower to make the cued response on incongruent trials, which is thought to reflect conflict between the motor representation activated by the cue and the motor representation activated by the observed action. On incongruent trials, good performance requires the capacity to suppress the imitative action, in favor of producing the cued response. Here, we introduce a new experimental paradigm that complements the AIT, and is therefore a useful task for studying the control of self and other activated representations. In what we term the &quot;Controlled Imitation Task (CIT)&quot;, participants are cued to make an action, but on 50% of trials, within 100 ms of this cue, an on-screen hand makes a congruent or incongruent action. If the onscreen hand moves, the participant must suppress the cued response, and instead imitate the observed action as quickly and accurately as possible. In direct contrast to the AIT, the CIT requires suppression of a self-activated motor representation, and prioritization of an imitative response. In experiment 1, we report a robust pattern of interference effects in the CIT, such that participants are slower to make the imitative response on incongruent compared to congruent trials. In experiment 2, we replicate this effect while including a non-imitative spatial-cue control condition to show that the effect is particularly robust for imitative response tendencies per se. Owing to the essentially opposite control requirements of the CIT versus the AIT (i.e., suppression of self-activated motor representations instead of suppression of other-activated motor representations), we propose that this new task is a potentially informative complementary paradigm to the AIT that can be used in studies of self-other control processes.
Scientific reproducibility has been at the forefront of many news stories and there exist numerous initiatives to help address this problem. We posit that a contributor is simply a lack of specificity that is required to enable adequate research reproducibility. In particular, the inability to uniquely identify research resources, such as antibodies and model organisms, makes it difficult or impossible to reproduce experiments even where the science is otherwise sound. In order to better understand the magnitude of this problem, we designed an experiment to ascertain the &quot;identifiability&quot; of research resources in the biomedical literature. We evaluated recent journal articles in the fields of Neuroscience, Developmental Biology, Immunology, Cell and Molecular Biology and General Biology, selected randomly based on a diversity of impact factors for the journals, publishers, and experimental method reporting guidelines. We attempted to uniquely identify model organisms (mouse, rat, zebrafish, worm, fly and yeast), antibodies, knockdown reagents (morpholinos or RNAi), constructs, and cell lines. Specific criteria were developed to determine if a resource was uniquely identifiable, and included examining relevant repositories (such as model organism databases, and the Antibody Registry), as well as vendor sites. The results of this experiment show that 54% of resources are not uniquely identifiable in publications, regardless of domain, journal impact factor, or reporting requirements. For example, in many cases the organism strain in which the experiment was performed or antibody that was used could not be identified. Our results show that identifiability is a serious problem for reproducibility. Based on these results, we provide recommendations to authors, reviewers, journal editors, vendors, and publishers. Scientific efficiency and reproducibility depend upon a research-wide improvement of this substantial problem in science today.
Objectives. Aging is the major risk factor for Alzheimer Disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). The aim of this study was to identify novel modifications of brain functional connectivity in MCI patients. MCI individuals were compared to healthy elderly subjects. Methods. We enrolled 37 subjects (age range 60-80 y.o.). Of these, 13 subjects were affected by MCI and 24 were age-matched healthy elderly control (HC). Subjects were evaluated with Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB), and prose memory (Babcock story) tests. In addition, with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), we investigated resting state network (RSN) activities. Resting state (Rs) fMRI data were analyzed by means of Independent Component Analysis (ICA). Subjects were followed-up with neuropsychological evaluations for three years. Results. Rs-fMRI of MCI subjects showed increased intrinsic connectivity in the Default Mode Network (DMN) and in the Somatomotor Network (SMN). Analysis of the DMN showed statistically significant increased activation in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) and left inferior parietal lobule (lIPL). During the three years follow-up, 4 MCI subjects converted to AD. The subset of MCI AD-converted patients showed increased connectivity in the right Inferior Parietal Lobule (rIPL). As for SMN activity, MCI and MCI-AD converted groups showed increased level of connectivity in correspondence of the right Supramarginal Gyrus (rSG). Conclusions. Our findings indicate alterations of DMN and SMN activity in MCI subjects, thereby providing potential imaging-based markers that can be helpful for the early diagnosis and monitoring of these patients.
The neuropeptide Y system is known to have expanded in early vertebrate evolution. Three neuropeptide Y receptors have been proposed to have existed before the two basal vertebrate tetraploidizations, namely a Y1-like, a Y2-like, and a Y5-like receptor, with their genes in the same chromosomal region. Previously we have described a Y1-subfamily and a Y2-subfamily receptor in the river lamprey, Lampetra fluviatilis. Here we report the identification of a Y5 receptor in the genome of the sea lamprey, Petromyzon marinus. In phylogenetic analyses, the Y5 receptor clusters together with gnathostome Y5 receptors with high bootstrap value and shares the long intracellular loop 3. This lamprey receptor has an even longer loop 3 than the gnathostome Y5 receptors described so far, with the expansion of amino acid repeats. Functional expression in a human cell line, co-transfected with a modified human G-protein, resulted in inositol phosphate turnover in response to the three lamprey NPY-family peptides NPY, PYY and PMY at nanomolar concentrations. Our results confirm that the Y1-Y2-Y5 receptor gene triplet arose before the cyclostome-gnathostome divergence. However, it is not clear from the NPY receptors whether cyclostomes diverged from the gnathostome lineage after the first or the second tetraploidization. Duplicates resulting from the tetraploidizations exist for both Y1 and Y2 in gnathostomes, but only a single copy of Y5 has survived in all vertebrates characterized to date, making the physiological roles of Y5 interesting to explore.
Compelling evidence that faces are perceived holistically or configurally comes from the composite face illusion: identical top halves of a face are perceived as being different if they are aligned with different bottom halves. The visual illusion disappears when the top and bottom face halves are spatially misaligned. Whether this is because the two halves no longer form a whole face (ie they form two segmented parts), or because of an increase in interfeatures distance in the misaligned condition (eg eyes-mouth distance) remains unclear. Here, thirty-four participants performed a delayed matching composite task in which the amount of spatial misalignment between face halves varied parametrically (from 8.33% of face width to 100%). The difference in performance between aligned and misaligned faces (ie the composite face effect) was already of full magnitude at the smallest level of misalignment. These results imply that a small spatial misalignment is sufficient to measure the composite face effect. From a theoretical standpoint, they indicate that it is the breaking of a whole configuration rather than the increase in relative distance between the face parts that explains the presence or absence of the composite face effect, clarifying an outstanding issue concerning the nature of holistic face perception.
Musicians have enhanced skills that result from intensive training. Whilst musicians show enhanced auditory capabilities (Kraus and Chandrasekaran, 2010 Nature Reviews Neuroscience 11 599-605), non-musicians demonstrate an ability to perform musical tasks (eg listening, dancing, and singing). Non-musicians can also undertake tasks that would normally be reserved for musicians. For example, non-musicians can perceive optimal tempi (ie an appropriate speed) for music (Quinn and Watt, 2006 Perception 35 267-280; Quinn and Watt, 2012 Perception 41 236-238; Quinn et al, 2012 Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 131 3595-3598). This suggests that formalised musical training is not a prerequisite for developing a sense of the tempo that sounds right for a melody. The current studies examine this issue and compare the tempo that musicians choose to perform unfamiliar melodies with the tempo that non-musicians perceive to be optimal for the same melodies. The results demonstrate that the perceived optimal tempo is similar to the performed tempo.
Motion parallax provides a dynamic, unambiguous, monocular visual depth cue. However, the lateral image motion in computer-generated motion parallax displays is depth-sign ambiguous. While mounting evidence indicates that the visual system uses an extra-retinal signal from the pursuit system to disambiguate depth, vertical perspective is a potential confound because it co-varies with the stimulus translation that produces the pursuit signal. Here the role of an extra-retinal pursuit signal and the role of vertical perspective in disambiguating depth from motion parallax were investigated. Through the careful isolation of each cue, the results indicate that observers have excellent depth discrimination with an extra-retinal pursuit cue alone, but have poor discrimination with vertical perspective alone. The conclusion is that vertical perspective does not play a role in the disambiguation of depth in small computer-generated motion parallax displays.
A 78-year-old patient with a right hemispheric sensorimotor ischemic stroke suffered from problems in ownership of her left arm (somatoparaphrenia). After recovering from motor weakness, however, body ownership problems remained present. To assess whether disturbed feelings of ownership coincided with an enhanced or diminished susceptibility for gaining ownership over a foreign hand, we applied the 'Rubber Hand Illusion' (RHI) to the ipsi- and contralesional hand. The RHI was significantly stronger for the contralesional left arm than for the right arm. In addition, solely visual exposure to the left rubber hand was sufficient to elicit strong feelings of ownership over the rubber hand. These findings suggest that disturbances in the feeling of body ownership allow a foreign hand to be incorporated more easily.
In experiment 1, we examined developmental changes in the influence of symmetry on judgments of attractiveness by showing adults and children pairs of individual faces in which one face was transformed 75% toward perfect symmetry, while the other face was transformed by exaggerating its asymmetries by 75%. Adults and 9-year-olds, but not 5-year-olds, rated the more symmetric faces as more attractive than the less symmetric faces, although the effect was stronger in adults than 9-year-olds. The preference for symmetry was stronger for male than female faces, and stronger for adults' than children's faces. In experiment 2, comparisons of the symmetry of the original male and female faces revealed no measured differences but lower ratings by adults of symmetry in the male faces. Overall, the results suggest that the influence of symmetry on attractiveness judgments emerges after the age of 5 years, and matures after the age of 9 years. The stronger effects for adult viewers may reflect an increase in sensitivity to symmetry as experience with faces increases and/or as the visual system matures. As well, attractiveness may become more salient after puberty, so that honest signals of mate quality, such as symmetry, have a stronger effect for adult viewers, especially when judging adult faces.
Evidence regarding the categorical perception of surprise facial expressions has been equivocal. Surprise is inherently ambiguous with respect to valence: it could be positive or negative. If this ambiguity interferes with categorical perception, disambiguating the valence might facilitate categorical perception. Participants identified and discriminated images that were selected from expression continua: happy-fear, surprise-fear, happy-surprise. Half were presented with a context for the surprise expressions indicating positive or negative valence. Both groups had a typical identification curve, but discrimination performance was better predicted by identification in the context condition for happy-fear and surprise-fear continua, suggesting that categorical perception was facilitated by the disambiguating context.
Certain visual stimuli evoke perceptions of discomfort in non-clinical populations. We investigated the impact of stimuli previously judged as uncomfortable by non-clinical populations on a visual search task. One stimulus that has been shown to affect discomfort judgments is noise that has been filtered to have particular statistical properties (Juricevic et al, 2010 Perception 39 884-899). A second type of stimulus associated with visual discomfort is striped patterns (Wilkins et al, 1984 Brain 107 989-1017). These stimuli were used as backgrounds in a visual search task, to determine their influence on search performance. Results showed that, while striped backgrounds did have an impact on visual search performance, this depended on the similarity between the target and background in orientation and spatial frequency. We found no evidence for a more generalised effect of discomfort on performance.


A central question in the study of the mind is how cognitive functions are shaped by a complex interplay of genetic and experiential processes. Recent evidence from cultural neuroscience indicates that cultural values, practices, and beliefs influence brain function across a variety of cognitive processes from vision to social cognition. This evidence extends to low-level perceptual systems comprised of domain-specific mechanisms, suggesting the importance of ecological and cultural variation in the evolutionary and developmental processes that give rise to the human mind and brain. In this article, we argue that investigating the architecture of the human mind will require understanding how the human mind and brain shape and are shaped by culture-gene coevolutionary processes.

The mGlu5, a class C G-protein-coupled receptor and member of the group I mGlu receptor family, has been demonstrated to play a role in a number of therapeutic areas within the CNS, including schizophrenia, dementia, epilepsy, cognition, drug abuse, and fragile X syndrome. Small-molecule modulation of mGlu5 via positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) is being pursued as a promising approach for the treatment of schizophrenia and has been validated preclinically in a number of animal models. This article provides a brief historical overview of mGlu5 PAMs in the primary literature followed by a comprehensive overview of the patent literature since 2004. Schizophrenia is a complex disorder and although no mGlu5 PAMs have progressed into clinical trials in patients, the target continues to show promise as an attractive non-dopaminergic therapy. The successful development of mGlu5 PAMs for clinical testing must address several issues, including challenges associated with 'molecular switches', allosteric-agonist activity and stimulus bias.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases. To date, there is no effective treatment that halts its progression. Increasing evidence indicates that mitochondria play an important role in the development of PD. Hence mitochondria-targeted approaches or agents may have therapeutic promise for treatment of the disease. Neuropeptide CART (cocaine-amphetamine-regulated transcript), a hypothalamus and midbrain enriched neurotransmitter with an antioxidant property, can be found in mitochondria, which is the main source of reactive oxygen species. Systemic administration of CART has been found to ameliorate dopaminergic neuronal loss and improve motor functions in a mouse model of PD. In this article, we summarize recent progress in studies investigating the relationship between CART, dopamine, and the pathophysiology of PD, with a focus on mitochondria-related topics.

Beneficial effects of nicotine on cognition and behavioral control are hypothesized to relate to the high rates of cigarette smoking in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Given that ADHD is associated with both impulsivity and elevated risk taking, we hypothesized that nicotine modulates risk taking, as it does impulsivity. 26 non-smoking young adults (15 controls with normal impulsivity and 11 ADHD with high impulsivity) received 7 mg transdermal nicotine, 20mg oral mecamylamine, and placebo on separate days, followed by the Balloon Analog Risk Task (BART). Statistical analyses found no group differences in baseline risk taking. Reexamination of the data using a median split on baseline risk taking, to create high (HRT) and low (LRT) risk taking groups, revealed significant effects of nicotinic drugs that differed by group. Nicotine reduced risk taking in HRT and mecamylamine increased risk taking in LRT. This finding supports the hypothesis that nicotinic receptor function modulates risk taking broadly, beyond those with ADHD, and is consistent with rate dependent cholinergic modulation of other cognitive functions. Further, the results demonstrate that high impulsivity is separable from high risk taking in young adults with ADHD, supporting the utility of these differential behavioral phenotypes for neurobiological studies.
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that heavy drinking and alcohol abuse and dependence peak during the transition between late adolescence and early adulthood. The objective of the present study was to determine whether a model of early onset adolescent ethanol drinking exposure that is followed by an ethanol vapor regimen during late adolescence and young adulthood leads to an increase in drinking in adulthood. In this model, initiation of voluntary ethanol drinking in adolescence, using a sweetened solution, was followed by an 8-wk intermittent ethanol vapor regimen in Wistar rats. A limited-access two-bottle choice paradigm was then used to measure intake of a 10% (w/v) ethanol solution. No differences in water intake (g/kg), total fluid intake (ml/kg) and body weight (g) were observed between air-exposed and ethanol-vapor exposed groups during the pre-vapor and post-vapor phases. The 8 weeks of ethanol vapor exposure was found to produce only a modest, but statistically significant, elevation of ethanol intake during the protracted withdrawal period, compared to air-exposed rats. A significant increase in ethanol preference ratio was also observed in ethanol-vapor exposed rats during the sucrose-fading phase, but not during the protracted withdrawal period. The findings from the present study suggest that in addition to alcohol exposure, environmental variables that impact appetitive as well as consumptive behaviors may be important in developing robust drinking effects that model, in animals, the increased risk for alcohol dependence seen in some human adolescents who begin drinking at an early age.
The acute effects of cannabinoid compounds have been investigated in animal models of anxiety-like behavior and palatability processing. However, the chronic effects of cannabinoids in such models are poorly understood. Experiment 1 compared the effects of both acute and chronic (14 days) exposure to the CB(1) receptor inverse agonist/antagonist, rimonabant, and the cannabis-derived CB(1) receptor neutral antagonist, tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV), on: 1) time spent in the open, lit box in the Light-Dark (LD) immersion model of anxiety-like behavior and 2) saccharin hedonic reactions in the taste reactivity (TR) test of palatability processing. Experiment 2 compared the effects of chronic administration of cannabis-derived (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol ((9)-THC), cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabigerol (CBG) in these models. Tests were administered on Days 1, 7 and 14 of drug administration. In Experiment 1, rimonabant, but not THCV, produced an anxiogenic-like reaction in the LD immersion test and reduced saccharin palatability in the TR test; both of these effects occurred acutely and were not enhanced by chronic exposure. In Experiment 2, (9)-THC also produced an acute anxiogenic-like reaction in the LD immersion test, without enhancement by chronic exposure. However, (9)-THC enhanced saccharin palatability in the TR test on Day 1 of drug exposure only. CBD and CBG did not modify anxiety-like responding, but CBG produced a weak enhancement of saccharin palatability on Day 1 only. The results suggest that the anxiogenic-like reactions and the suppression of hedonic responding produced by rimonabant, are mediated by inverse agonism of the CB(1) receptor and these effects are not enhanced with chronic exposure.
Cranial irradiation with (56)Fe, a form of space radiation, causes hippocampus-dependent cognitive changes. (56)Fe irradiation also increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, which may contribute to these changes. Therefore, we investigated the effects of the antioxidant alpha lipoic acid (ALA) on cognition following sham-irradiation and irradiation. Male mice were irradiated (brain only) with (56)Fe (3 Gy) or sham-irradiated at 6-9 months of age. Half of the mice remained fed a regular chow and the other half of the mice were fed a caloric-matched diet containing ALA starting two-weeks prior to irradiation and throughout cognitive testing. Following cognitive testing, levels of 3-nitrotyrosine (3NT), a marker of oxidative protein stress, and levels of microtubule-associated protein (MAP-2), a dendritic protein important for cognition, were assessed using immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy. ALA prevented radiation-induced impairments in spatial memory retention in the hippocampal and cortical dependent water maze probe trials following reversal learning. However, in sham-irradiated mice, ALA treatment impaired cortical-dependent novel object recognition and amygdala-dependent cued fear conditioning. There was a trend towards lower 3NT levels in irradiated mice receiving a diet containing ALA than irradiated mice receiving a regular diet. In the hippocampal dentate gyrus of mice on regular diet, irradiated mice had higher levels of MAP-2 immunoreactivity than sham-irradiated mice. Thus, ALA might have differential effects on the brain under normal physiological conditions and those involving environmental challenges such as cranial irradiation.
Studies have shown alterations in mitochondrial complexes of bipolar disorder (BD) patients. However, changes in the Krebs cycle enzymes have been little studied. The animal model of mania induced by amphetamine has been widely used for the study of bipolar mania. The aim of this study is to assess behavioral and energy metabolism changes in an animal model of mania induced by methamphetamine (m-AMPH). Wistar rats were first given m-AMPH or saline for 14 days, and then, between days 8 and 14, rats were treated with lithium (Li), valproate (VPA), or saline (Sal). Locomotor behavior was assessed using the open-field task and activities of Krebs cycle enzymes (citrate synthase and succinate dehydrogenase), mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes (I, II, III, and IV), and creatine kinase measured in the brain structures (prefrontal, amygdala, hippocampus, and striatum). Li and VPA reversed m-AMPH-induced hyperactivity. The administration of m-AMPH inhibited the activities of Krebs cycle enzymes and complexes of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in all analyzed structures. Li and VPA reversed m-AMPH-induced energetic metabolism dysfunction; however, the effects of Li and VPA were dependent on the brain region analyzed. From the results obtained in this study, we suggested that the decreased Krebs cycle enzymes activity induced by m-AMPH may be inhibiting mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes. Therefore, changes in the Krebs cycle enzymes may also be involved in BD.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) represent the largest family of membrane proteins in the human genome and are the target of approximately half of all therapeutic drugs. For many years, GPCRs were thought to exist and function as monomeric units. However, during the past two decades, substantial biochemical, structural and functional evidence have indicated that GPCRs can associate and form heteromers that exhibit functional properties distinct from the corresponding monomers. The understanding of the unique pharmacological and functional properties of such heteromers is a major challenge for neuroscience, particularly given the abundant evidence suggesting that GPCR heteromers may play a crucial role in neuropsychiatric disorders. Herein, we present current data on the role of GPCR heterodimerization in neuropsychiatric disorders, with a focus on its potential implications in depression. The presented examples of pairs of receptors, with their specific pharmacological and functional properties, are likely to lead to novel effective strategies in antidepressant drug development. The currently available techniques for studying GPCR heterodimerization, both in vitro as well as in situ in native tissue, are also described.
It is widely accepted that chronic stress, which is considered a risk factor for several neuropsychiatric disorders, may have detrimental effects on prefrontal functions. In animal models, chronic stress produces morphological, physiological and functional alternations in the rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Specifically, repeated restraint stress results in mPFC dendritic atrophy that is associated with deficits in the prefrontal cortex-dependent attentional set-shifting task (ASST). Thus, restraint-induced cognitive inflexibility may serve as a model for the study of the mechanisms, prevention and treatment of stress-related disorders. The current article provides a summary of the literature on stress-related effects on cortical functions, as assessed in the rodent ASST. The neurochemical substrates underling stress-evoked frontal-like disturbances, as well as pharmacological targets for potential treatment, are briefly discussed.


Substantial progress in the identification of genes encoding for a large number of proteins responsible for various aspects of neurotransmitter release, postsynaptic detection and downstream signaling, has advanced our understanding of the mechanisms by which neurons communicate and interact. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors represent a large and well-characterized family of ligand-gated ion channels that is expressed broadly throughout the central and peripheral nervous system, and in non-neuronal cells. With 16 mammalian genes identified that encode for nicotinic receptors and the ability of the subunits to form heteromeric or homomeric receptors, the repertoire of conceivable receptor subtype combinations is enormous and offers unique possibilities for the design and development of new therapeutics that target nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The aim of this review is to provide the reader with recent insights in nicotinic acetylcholine receptors from genes, structure and function to diseases, and with the latest findings on the pharmacology of these receptors. Although so far only a few nicotinic drugs have been marketed or are in late stage development, much progress has been made in the design of novel chemical entities that are being explored for the treatment of various diseases, including addiction, depression, ADHD, cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease, pain and inflammation. A pharmacological analysis of these compounds, including those that were discontinued, can improve our understanding of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic requirements for nicotinic 'drug-like' molecules and will reveal if hypotheses on therapies based on targeting specific nicotinic receptor subtypes have been adequately tested in the clinic.
SV 293 [1-([5-methoxy-1H-indol-3-yl]methyl)-4-(4-[methylthio]phenyl)piperidin-4-ol] binds with 100-fold higher affinity to human D2 receptors compared to the human D3 and D4 dopamine receptor subtypes. We investigated the intrinsic efficacy of this compound at the D2 dopamine receptor subtype using both: (1) a forskolin-dependent adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay and (2) an electrophysiological assay for evaluating coupling to G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channels. In both assays SV 293 was found to be a neutral antagonist capable of blocking the effects of the full D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole. Based upon these results we propose that SV 293 is a useful pharmacological tool that can be used for both in vitro and in vivo studies to investigate the role of D2-like dopamine receptor subtypes in neurological, neuropsychiatric and movement disorders where dopaminergic pathways have been implicated.
The study of the kinematic and dynamic features of human arm movements provides insights into the computational strategies underlying human motor control. In this paper a differential geometric approach to movement control is taken by endowing arm configuration space with different non-Euclidean metric structures to study the predictions of the generalized minimum-jerk (MJ) model in the resulting Riemannian manifold for different types of human arm movements. For each metric space the solution of the generalized MJ model is given by reparametrized geodesic paths. This geodesic model is applied to a variety of motor tasks ranging from three-dimensional unconstrained movements of a four degree of freedom arm between pointlike targets to constrained movements where the hand location is confined to a surface (e.g., a sphere) or a curve (e.g., an ellipse). For the latter speed-curvature relations are derived depending on the boundary conditions imposed (periodic or nonperiodic) and the compatibility with the empirical one-third power law is shown. Based on these theoretical studies and recent experimental findings, I argue that geodesics may be an emergent property of the motor system and that the sensorimotor system may shape arm configuration space by learning metric structures through sensorimotor feedback.

Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multisystem genetic disease that manifests with mental retardation, tumor formation, autism, and epilepsy. Heightened signaling through the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway is involved in TSC pathology, however it remains unclear how other signaling pathways are perturbed and contribute to disease symptoms. Reduced long-term depression (LTD) was recently reported in TSC mutant mice. We find that although reduced LTD is a feature of the juvenile mutant hippocampus, heightened expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 and constitutively activated Erk signaling in the adult hippocampus drives wild-type levels of LTD. Increased mGluR5 and Erk results in a novel mTOR-independent LTD in CA1 hippocampus of adult mice, and contributes to the development of epileptiform bursting activity in the TSC2(+/-) CA3 region of the hippocampus. Inhibition of mGluR5 or Erk signaling restores appropriate mTOR-dependence to LTD, and significantly reduces epileptiform bursting in TSC2(+/-) hippocampal slices. We also report that adult TSC2(+/-) mice exhibit a subtle perseverative behavioral phenotype that is eliminated by mGluR5 antagonism. These findings highlight the potential of modulating the mGluR5-Erk pathway in a developmental stage-specific manner to treat TSC.
The myelination of axons is a crucial step during vertebrate central nervous system (CNS) development, allowing for rapid and energy efficient saltatory conduction of nerve impulses. Accordingly, the differentiation of oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the CNS, and their expression of myelin genes are under tight transcriptional control. We previously identified a putative transcription factor, Myelin Regulatory Factor (Myrf), as being vital for CNS myelination. Myrf is required for the generation of CNS myelination during development and also for its maintenance in the adult. It has been controversial, however, whether Myrf directly regulates transcription, with reports of a transmembrane domain and lack of nuclear localization. Here we show that Myrf is a membrane-associated transcription factor that undergoes an activating proteolytic cleavage to separate its transmembrane domain-containing C-terminal region from a nuclear-targeted N-terminal region. Unexpectedly, this cleavage event occurs via a protein domain related to the autoproteolytic intramolecular chaperone domain of the bacteriophage tail spike proteins, the first time this domain has been found to play a role in eukaryotic proteins. Using ChIP-Seq we show that the N-terminal cleavage product directly binds the enhancer regions of oligodendrocyte-specific and myelin genes. This binding occurs via a defined DNA-binding consensus sequence and strongly promotes the expression of target genes. These findings identify Myrf as a novel example of a membrane-associated transcription factor and provide a direct molecular mechanism for its regulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation and CNS myelination.
Significant progress has occurred in the field of brain-machine interfaces (BMI) since the first demonstrations with rodents, monkeys, and humans controlling different prosthetic devices directly with neural activity. This technology holds great potential to aid large numbers of people with neurological disorders. However, despite this initial enthusiasm and the plethora of available robotic technologies, existing neural interfaces cannot as yet master the control of prosthetic, paralyzed, or otherwise disabled limbs. Here I briefly discuss recent advances from our laboratory into the neural basis of BMIs that should lead to better prosthetic control and clinically viable solutions, as well as new insights into the neurobiology of action.
Diabetes is a metabolic disorder characterized by hyperglycemia. Insulin, which is secreted by pancreatic beta cells, is recognized as the critical regulator of blood glucose, but the molecular machinery responsible for insulin trafficking remains poorly defined. In particular, the roles of cytosolic factors that govern the formation and maturation of insulin granules are unclear. Here we report that PICK1 and ICA69, two cytosolic lipid-binding proteins, formed heteromeric BAR-domain complexes that associated with insulin granules at different stages of their maturation. PICK1-ICA69 heteromeric complexes associated with immature secretory granules near the trans-Golgi network (TGN). A brief treatment of Brefeldin A, which blocks vesicle budding from the Golgi, increased the amount of PICK1 and ICA69 at TGN. On the other hand, mature secretory granules were associated with PICK1 only, not ICA69. PICK1 deficiency in mice caused the complete loss of ICA69 and led to increased food and water intake but lower body weight. Glucose tolerance tests demonstrated that these mutant mice had high blood glucose, a consequence of insufficient insulin. Importantly, while the total insulin level was reduced in PICK1-deficient beta cells, proinsulin was increased. Lastly, ICA69 knockout mice also displayed similar phenotype as the mice deficient in PICK1. Together, our results indicate that PICK1 and ICA69 are key regulators of the formation and maturation of insulin granules.
Neuroscience is increasingly being called upon to address issues within the humanities. We discuss challenges that arise, relating to art and beauty, and provide ideas for a way forward.
Neuronal assemblies often exhibit stimulus-induced rhythmic activity in the gamma range (30-80 Hz), whose magnitude depends on the attentional load. This has led to the suggestion that gamma rhythms form dynamic communication channels across cortical areas processing the features of behaviorally relevant stimuli. Recently, attention has been linked to a normalization mechanism, in which the response of a neuron is suppressed (normalized) by the overall activity of a large pool of neighboring neurons. In this model, attention increases the excitatory drive received by the neuron, which in turn also increases the strength of normalization, thereby changing the balance of excitation and inhibition. Recent studies have shown that gamma power also depends on such excitatory-inhibitory interactions. Could modulation in gamma power during an attention task be a reflection of the changes in the underlying excitation-inhibition interactions? By manipulating the normalization strength independent of attentional load in macaque monkeys, we show that gamma power increases with increasing normalization, even when the attentional load is fixed. Further, manipulations of attention that increase normalization increase gamma power, even when they decrease the firing rate. Thus, gamma rhythms could be a reflection of changes in the relative strengths of excitation and normalization rather than playing a functional role in communication or control.
The cerebral cortex performs complex cognitive functions at the expense of tremendous energy consumption. Blood vessels in the brain are known to form stereotypic patterns that facilitate efficient oxygen and nutrient delivery. Yet little is known about how vessel development in the brain is normally regulated. Radial glial neural progenitors are well known for their central role in orchestrating brain neurogenesis. Here we show that, in the late embryonic cortex, radial glial neural progenitors also play a key role in brain angiogenesis, by interacting with nascent blood vessels and regulating vessel stabilization via modulation of canonical Wnt signaling. We find that ablation of radial glia results in vessel regression, concomitant with ectopic activation of Wnt signaling in endothelial cells. Direct activation of Wnt signaling also results in similar vessel regression, while attenuation of Wnt signaling substantially suppresses regression. Radial glial ablation and ectopic Wnt pathway activation leads to elevated endothelial expression of matrix metalloproteinases, while inhibition of metalloproteinase activity significantly suppresses vessel regression. These results thus reveal a previously unrecognized role of radial glial progenitors in stabilizing nascent brain vascular network and provide novel insights into the molecular cascades through which target neural tissues regulate vessel stabilization and patterning during development and throughout life.
This paper shows that the various computations underlying spatial cognition can be implemented using statistical inference in a single probabilistic model. Inference is implemented using a common set of 'lower-level' computations involving forward and backward inference over time. For example, to estimate where you are in a known environment, forward inference is used to optimally combine location estimates from path integration with those from sensory input. To decide which way to turn to reach a goal, forward inference is used to compute the likelihood of reaching that goal under each option. To work out which environment you are in, forward inference is used to compute the likelihood of sensory observations under the different hypotheses. For reaching sensory goals that require a chaining together of decisions, forward inference can be used to compute a state trajectory that will lead to that goal, and backward inference to refine the route and estimate control signals that produce the required trajectory. We propose that these computations are reflected in recent findings of pattern replay in the mammalian brain. Specifically, that theta sequences reflect decision making, theta flickering reflects model selection, and remote replay reflects route and motor planning. We also propose a mapping of the above computational processes onto lateral and medial entorhinal cortex and hippocampus.
The mismatch negativity (MMN) is an event related potential evoked by violations of regularity. Here, we present a model of the underlying neuronal dynamics based upon the idea that auditory cortex continuously updates a generative model to predict its sensory inputs. The MMN is then modelled as the superposition of the electric fields evoked by neuronal activity reporting prediction errors. The process by which auditory cortex generates predictions and resolves prediction errors was simulated using generalised (Bayesian) filtering--a biologically plausible scheme for probabilistic inference on the hidden states of hierarchical dynamical models. The resulting scheme generates realistic MMN waveforms, explains the qualitative effects of deviant probability and magnitude on the MMN - in terms of latency and amplitude--and makes quantitative predictions about the interactions between deviant probability and magnitude. This work advances a formal understanding of the MMN and--more generally--illustrates the potential for developing computationally informed dynamic causal models of empirical electromagnetic responses.
Lasting alterations in sensory input trigger massive structural and functional adaptations in cortical networks. The principles governing these experience-dependent changes are, however, poorly understood. Here, we examine whether a simple rule based on the neurons' need for homeostasis in electrical activity may serve as driving force for cortical reorganization. According to this rule, a neuron creates new spines and boutons when its level of electrical activity is below a homeostatic set-point and decreases the number of spines and boutons when its activity exceeds this set-point. In addition, neurons need a minimum level of activity to form spines and boutons. Spine and bouton formation depends solely on the neuron's own activity level, and synapses are formed by merging spines and boutons independently of activity. Using a novel computational model, we show that this simple growth rule produces neuron and network changes as observed in the visual cortex after focal retinal lesions. In the model, as in the cortex, the turnover of dendritic spines was increased strongest in the center of the lesion projection zone, while axonal boutons displayed a marked overshoot followed by pruning. Moreover, the decrease in external input was compensated for by the formation of new horizontal connections, which caused a retinotopic remapping. Homeostatic regulation may provide a unifying framework for understanding cortical reorganization, including network repair in degenerative diseases or following focal stroke.
A balance between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents is thought to be important for several aspects of information processing in cortical neurons in vivo, including gain control, bandwidth and receptive field structure. These factors will affect the firing rate of cortical neurons and their reliability, with consequences for their information coding and energy consumption. Yet how balanced synaptic currents contribute to the coding efficiency and energy efficiency of cortical neurons remains unclear. We used single compartment computational models with stochastic voltage-gated ion channels to determine whether synaptic regimes that produce balanced excitatory and inhibitory currents have specific advantages over other input regimes. Specifically, we compared models with only excitatory synaptic inputs to those with equal excitatory and inhibitory conductances, and stronger inhibitory than excitatory conductances (i.e. approximately balanced synaptic currents). Using these models, we show that balanced synaptic currents evoke fewer spikes per second than excitatory inputs alone or equal excitatory and inhibitory conductances. However, spikes evoked by balanced synaptic inputs are more informative (bits/spike), so that spike trains evoked by all three regimes have similar information rates (bits/s). Consequently, because spikes dominate the energy consumption of our computational models, approximately balanced synaptic currents are also more energy efficient than other synaptic regimes. Thus, by producing fewer, more informative spikes approximately balanced synaptic currents in cortical neurons can promote both coding efficiency and energy efficiency.
Most neurons in peripheral sensory pathways initially respond vigorously when a preferred stimulus is presented, but adapt as stimulation continues. It is unclear how this phenomenon affects stimulus coding in the later stages of sensory processing. Here, we show that a temporally sparse and reliable stimulus representation develops naturally in sequential stages of a sensory network with adapting neurons. As a modeling framework we employ a mean-field approach together with an adaptive population density treatment, accompanied by numerical simulations of spiking neural networks. We find that cellular adaptation plays a critical role in the dynamic reduction of the trial-by-trial variability of cortical spike responses by transiently suppressing self-generated fast fluctuations in the cortical balanced network. This provides an explanation for a widespread cortical phenomenon by a simple mechanism. We further show that in the insect olfactory system cellular adaptation is sufficient to explain the emergence of the temporally sparse and reliable stimulus representation in the mushroom body. Our results reveal a generic, biophysically plausible mechanism that can explain the emergence of a temporally sparse and reliable stimulus representation within a sequential processing architecture.
A central question in cognitive neuroscience regards the means by which options are compared and decisions are resolved during value-guided choice. It is clear that several component processes are needed; these include identifying options, a value-based comparison, and implementation of actions to execute the decision. What is less clear is the temporal precedence and functional organisation of these component processes in the brain. Competing models of decision making have proposed that value comparison may occur in the space of alternative actions, or in the space of abstract goods. We hypothesized that the signals observed might in fact depend upon the framing of the decision. We recorded magnetoencephalographic data from humans performing value-guided choices in which two closely related trial types were interleaved. In the first trial type, each option was revealed separately, potentially causing subjects to estimate each action's value as it was revealed and perform comparison in action-space. In the second trial type, both options were presented simultaneously, potentially leading to comparison in abstract goods-space prior to commitment to a specific action. Distinct activity patterns (in distinct brain regions) on the two trial types demonstrated that the observed frame of reference used for decision making indeed differed, despite the information presented being formally identical, between the two trial types. This provides a potential reconciliation of conflicting accounts of value-guided choice.
Channelrhodospin-2 (ChR2), a light-sensitive ion channel, and its variants have emerged as new excitatory optogenetic tools not only in neuroscience, but also in other areas, including cardiac electrophysiology. An accurate quantitative model of ChR2 is necessary for in silico prediction of the response to optical stimulation in realistic tissue/organ settings. Such a model can guide the rational design of new ion channel functionality tailored to different cell types/tissues. Focusing on one of the most widely used ChR2 mutants (H134R) with enhanced current, we collected a comprehensive experimental data set of the response of this ion channel to different irradiances and voltages, and used these data to develop a model of ChR2 with empirically-derived voltage- and irradiance- dependence, where parameters were fine-tuned via simulated annealing optimization. This ChR2 model offers: 1) accurate inward rectification in the current-voltage response across irradiances; 2) empirically-derived voltage- and light-dependent kinetics (activation, deactivation and recovery from inactivation); and 3) accurate amplitude and morphology of the response across voltage and irradiance settings. Temperature-scaling factors (Q10) were derived and model kinetics was adjusted to physiological temperatures. Using optical action potential clamp, we experimentally validated model-predicted ChR2 behavior in guinea pig ventricular myocytes. The model was then incorporated in a variety of cardiac myocytes, including human ventricular, atrial and Purkinje cell models. We demonstrate the ability of ChR2 to trigger action potentials in human cardiomyocytes at relatively low light levels, as well as the differential response of these cells to light, with the Purkinje cells being most easily excitable and ventricular cells requiring the highest irradiance at all pulse durations. This new experimentally-validated ChR2 model will facilitate virtual experimentation in neural and cardiac optogenetics at the cell and organ level and provide guidance for the development of in vivo tools.
Many biological systems perform computations on inputs that have very large dimensionality. Determining the relevant input combinations for a particular computation is often key to understanding its function. A common way to find the relevant input dimensions is to examine the difference in variance between the input distribution and the distribution of inputs associated with certain outputs. In systems neuroscience, the corresponding method is known as spike-triggered covariance (STC). This method has been highly successful in characterizing relevant input dimensions for neurons in a variety of sensory systems. So far, most studies used the STC method with weakly correlated Gaussian inputs. However, it is also important to use this method with inputs that have long range correlations typical of the natural sensory environment. In such cases, the stimulus covariance matrix has one (or more) outstanding eigenvalues that cannot be easily equalized because of sampling variability. Such outstanding modes interfere with analyses of statistical significance of candidate input dimensions that modulate neuronal outputs. In many cases, these modes obscure the significant dimensions. We show that the sensitivity of the STC method in the regime of strongly correlated inputs can be improved by an order of magnitude or more. This can be done by evaluating the significance of dimensions in the subspace orthogonal to the outstanding mode(s). Analyzing the responses of retinal ganglion cells probed with [Formula: see text] Gaussian noise, we find that taking into account outstanding modes is crucial for recovering relevant input dimensions for these neurons.
Nicotine exerts its reinforcing action by stimulating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and boosting dopamine (DA) output from the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Recent data have led to a debate about the principal pathway of nicotine action: direct stimulation of the DAergic cells through nAChR activation, or disinhibition mediated through desensitization of nAChRs on GABAergic interneurons. We use a computational model of the VTA circuitry and nAChR function to shed light on this issue. Our model illustrates that the 42-containing nAChRs either on DA or GABA cells can mediate the acute effects of nicotine. We account for in vitro as well as in vivo data, and predict the conditions necessary for either direct stimulation or disinhibition to be at the origin of DA activity increases. We propose key experiments to disentangle the contribution of both mechanisms. We show that the rate of endogenous acetylcholine input crucially determines the evoked DA response for both mechanisms. Together our results delineate the mechanisms by which the VTA mediates the acute rewarding properties of nicotine and suggest an acetylcholine dependence hypothesis for nicotine reinforcement.
In every motor task, our brain must handle external forces acting on the body. For example, riding a bike on cobblestones or skating on irregular surface requires us to appropriately respond to external perturbations. In these situations, motor predictions cannot help anticipate the motion of the body induced by external factors, and direct use of delayed sensory feedback will tend to generate instability. Here, we show that to solve this problem the motor system uses a rapid sensory prediction to correct the estimated state of the limb. We used a postural task with mechanical perturbations to address whether sensory predictions were engaged in upper-limb corrective movements. Subjects altered their initial motor response in 60 ms, depending on the expected perturbation profile, suggesting the use of an internal model, or prior, in this corrective process. Further, we found trial-to-trial changes in corrective responses indicating a rapid update of these perturbation priors. We used a computational model based on Kalman filtering to show that the response modulation was compatible with a rapid correction of the estimated state engaged in the feedback response. Such a process may allow us to handle external disturbances encountered in virtually every physical activity, which is likely an important feature of skilled motor behaviour.
Error-driven learning rules have received considerable attention because of their close relationships to both optimal theory and neurobiological mechanisms. However, basic forms of these rules are effective under only a restricted set of conditions in which the environment is stable. Recent studies have defined optimal solutions to learning problems in more general, potentially unstable, environments, but the relevance of these complex mathematical solutions to how the brain solves these problems remains unclear. Here, we show that one such Bayesian solution can be approximated by a computationally straightforward mixture of simple error-driven 'Delta' rules. This simpler model can make effective inferences in a dynamic environment and matches human performance on a predictive-inference task using a mixture of a small number of Delta rules. This model represents an important conceptual advance in our understanding of how the brain can use relatively simple computations to make nearly optimal inferences in a dynamic world.
Long-term memories are likely stored in the synaptic weights of neuronal networks in the brain. The storage capacity of such networks depends on the degree of plasticity of their synapses. Highly plastic synapses allow for strong memories, but these are quickly overwritten. On the other hand, less labile synapses result in long-lasting but weak memories. Here we show that the trade-off between memory strength and memory lifetime can be overcome by partitioning the memory system into multiple regions characterized by different levels of synaptic plasticity and transferring memory information from the more to less plastic region. The improvement in memory lifetime is proportional to the number of memory regions, and the initial memory strength can be orders of magnitude larger than in a non-partitioned memory system. This model provides a fundamental computational reason for memory consolidation processes at the systems level.
A molecular device that records time-varying signals would enable new approaches in neuroscience. We have recently proposed such a device, termed a &quot;molecular ticker tape&quot;, in which an engineered DNA polymerase (DNAP) writes time-varying signals into DNA in the form of nucleotide misincorporation patterns. Here, we define a theoretical framework quantifying the expected capabilities of molecular ticker tapes as a function of experimental parameters. We present a decoding algorithm for estimating time-dependent input signals, and DNAP kinetic parameters, directly from misincorporation rates as determined by sequencing. We explore the requirements for accurate signal decoding, particularly the constraints on (1) the polymerase biochemical parameters, and (2) the amplitude, temporal resolution, and duration of the time-varying input signals. Our results suggest that molecular recording devices with kinetic properties similar to natural polymerases could be used to perform experiments in which neural activity is compared across several experimental conditions, and that devices engineered by combining favorable biochemical properties from multiple known polymerases could potentially measure faster phenomena such as slow synchronization of neuronal oscillations. Sophisticated engineering of DNAPs is likely required to achieve molecular recording of neuronal activity with single-spike temporal resolution over experimentally relevant timescales.
The computation represented by a sensory neuron's response to stimuli is constructed from an array of physiological processes both belonging to that neuron and inherited from its inputs. Although many of these physiological processes are known to be nonlinear, linear approximations are commonly used to describe the stimulus selectivity of sensory neurons (i.e., linear receptive fields). Here we present an approach for modeling sensory processing, termed the Nonlinear Input Model (NIM), which is based on the hypothesis that the dominant nonlinearities imposed by physiological mechanisms arise from rectification of a neuron's inputs. Incorporating such 'upstream nonlinearities' within the standard linear-nonlinear (LN) cascade modeling structure implicitly allows for the identification of multiple stimulus features driving a neuron's response, which become directly interpretable as either excitatory or inhibitory. Because its form is analogous to an integrate-and-fire neuron receiving excitatory and inhibitory inputs, model fitting can be guided by prior knowledge about the inputs to a given neuron, and elements of the resulting model can often result in specific physiological predictions. Furthermore, by providing an explicit probabilistic model with a relatively simple nonlinear structure, its parameters can be efficiently optimized and appropriately regularized. Parameter estimation is robust and efficient even with large numbers of model components and in the context of high-dimensional stimuli with complex statistical structure (e.g. natural stimuli). We describe detailed methods for estimating the model parameters, and illustrate the advantages of the NIM using a range of example sensory neurons in the visual and auditory systems. We thus present a modeling framework that can capture a broad range of nonlinear response functions while providing physiologically interpretable descriptions of neural computation.
Several theories propose that the cortex implements an internal model to explain, predict, and learn about sensory data, but the nature of this model is unclear. One condition that could be highly informative here is Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS), where loss of vision leads to complex, vivid visual hallucinations of objects, people, and whole scenes. CBS could be taken as indication that there is a generative model in the brain, specifically one that can synthesise rich, consistent visual representations even in the absence of actual visual input. The processes that lead to CBS are poorly understood. Here, we argue that a model recently introduced in machine learning, the deep Boltzmann machine (DBM), could capture the relevant aspects of (hypothetical) generative processing in the cortex. The DBM carries both the semantics of a probabilistic generative model and of a neural network. The latter allows us to model a concrete neural mechanism that could underlie CBS, namely, homeostatic regulation of neuronal activity. We show that homeostatic plasticity could serve to make the learnt internal model robust against e.g. degradation of sensory input, but overcompensate in the case of CBS, leading to hallucinations. We demonstrate how a wide range of features of CBS can be explained in the model and suggest a potential role for the neuromodulator acetylcholine. This work constitutes the first concrete computational model of CBS and the first application of the DBM as a model in computational neuroscience. Our results lend further credence to the hypothesis of a generative model in the brain.
Behavioural and neurophysiological studies in primates have increasingly shown the involvement of urgency signals during the temporal integration of sensory evidence in perceptual decision-making. Neuronal correlates of such signals have been found in the parietal cortex, and in separate studies, demonstrated attention-induced gain modulation of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons. Although previous computational models of decision-making have incorporated gain modulation, their abstract forms do not permit an understanding of the contribution of inhibitory gain modulation. Thus, the effects of co-modulating both excitatory and inhibitory neuronal gains on decision-making dynamics and behavioural performance remain unclear. In this work, we incorporate time-dependent co-modulation of the gains of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons into our previous biologically based decision circuit model. We base our computational study in the context of two classic motion-discrimination tasks performed in animals. Our model shows that by simultaneously increasing the gains of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons, a variety of the observed dynamic neuronal firing activities can be replicated. In particular, the model can exhibit winner-take-all decision-making behaviour with higher firing rates and within a significantly more robust model parameter range. It also exhibits short-tailed reaction time distributions even when operating near a dynamical bifurcation point. The model further shows that neuronal gain modulation can compensate for weaker recurrent excitation in a decision neural circuit, and support decision formation and storage. Higher neuronal gain is also suggested in the more cognitively demanding reaction time than in the fixed delay version of the task. Using the exact temporal delays from the animal experiments, fast recruitment of gain co-modulation is shown to maximize reward rate, with a timescale that is surprisingly near the experimentally fitted value. Our work provides insights into the simultaneous and rapid modulation of excitatory and inhibitory neuronal gains, which enables flexible, robust, and optimal decision-making.
Retinal ganglion cells receive inputs from multiple bipolar cells which must be integrated before a decision to fire is made. Theoretical studies have provided clues about how this integration is accomplished but have not directly determined the rules regulating summation of closely timed inputs along single or multiple dendrites. Here we have examined dendritic summation of multiple inputs along On ganglion cell dendrites in whole mount rat retina. We activated inputs at targeted locations by uncaging glutamate sequentially to generate apparent motion along On ganglion cell dendrites in whole mount retina. Summation was directional and dependent13 on input sequence. Input moving away from the soma (centrifugal) resulted in supralinear summation, while activation sequences moving toward the soma (centripetal) were linear. Enhanced summation for centrifugal activation was robust as it was also observed in cultured retinal ganglion cells. This directional summation was dependent on hyperpolarization activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels as blockade with ZD7288 eliminated directionality. A computational model confirms that activation of HCN channels can override a preference for centripetal summation expected from cell anatomy. This type of direction selectivity could play a role in coding movement similar to the axial selectivity seen in locust ganglion cells which detect looming stimuli. More generally, these results suggest that non-directional retinal ganglion cells can discriminate between input sequences independent of the retina network.
Change detection is a classic paradigm that has been used for decades to argue that working memory can hold no more than a fixed number of items (&quot;item-limit models&quot;). Recent findings force us to consider the alternative view that working memory is limited by the precision in stimulus encoding, with mean precision decreasing with increasing set size (&quot;continuous-resource models&quot;). Most previous studies that used the change detection paradigm have ignored effects of limited encoding precision by using highly discriminable stimuli and only large changes. We conducted two change detection experiments (orientation and color) in which change magnitudes were drawn from a wide range, including small changes. In a rigorous comparison of five models, we found no evidence of an item limit. Instead, human change detection performance was best explained by a continuous-resource model in which encoding precision is variable across items and trials even at a given set size. This model accounts for comparison errors in a principled, probabilistic manner. Our findings sharply challenge the theoretical basis for most neural studies of working memory capacity.
Contemporary computational accounts of instrumental conditioning have emphasized a role for a model-based system in which values are computed with reference to a rich model of the structure of the world, and a model-free system in which values are updated without encoding such structure. Much less studied is the possibility of a similar distinction operating at the level of Pavlovian conditioning. In the present study, we scanned human participants while they participated in a Pavlovian conditioning task with a simple structure while measuring activity in the human amygdala using a high-resolution fMRI protocol. After fitting a model-based algorithm and a variety of model-free algorithms to the fMRI data, we found evidence for the superiority of a model-based algorithm in accounting for activity in the amygdala compared to the model-free counterparts. These findings support an important role for model-based algorithms in describing the processes underpinning Pavlovian conditioning, as well as providing evidence of a role for the human amygdala in model-based inference.
Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) modifies synaptic strengths based on timing information available locally at each synapse. Despite this, it induces global structures within a recurrently connected network. We study such structures both through simulations and by analyzing the effects of STDP on pair-wise interactions of neurons. We show how conventional STDP acts as a loop-eliminating mechanism and organizes neurons into in- and out-hubs. Loop-elimination increases when depression dominates and turns into loop-generation when potentiation dominates. STDP with a shifted temporal window such that coincident spikes cause depression enhances recurrent connections and functions as a strict buffering mechanism that maintains a roughly constant average firing rate. STDP with the opposite temporal shift functions as a loop eliminator at low rates and as a potent loop generator at higher rates. In general, studying pairwise interactions of neurons provides important insights about the structures that STDP can produce in large networks.
A key hypothesis in sensory system neuroscience is that sensory representations are adapted to the statistical regularities in sensory signals and thereby incorporate knowledge about the outside world. Supporting this hypothesis, several probabilistic models of local natural image regularities have been proposed that reproduce neural response properties. Although many such physiological links have been made, these models have not been linked directly to visual sensitivity. Previous psychophysical studies of sensitivity to natural image regularities focus on global perception of large images, but much less is known about sensitivity to local natural image regularities. We present a new paradigm for controlled psychophysical studies of local natural image regularities and compare how well such models capture perceptually relevant image content. To produce stimuli with precise statistics, we start with a set of patches cut from natural images and alter their content to generate a matched set whose joint statistics are equally likely under a probabilistic natural image model. The task is forced choice to discriminate natural patches from model patches. The results show that human observers can learn to discriminate the higher-order regularities in natural images from those of model samples after very few exposures and that no current model is perfect for patches as small as 5 by 5 pixels or larger. Discrimination performance was accurately predicted by model likelihood, an information theoretic measure of model efficacy, indicating that the visual system possesses a surprisingly detailed knowledge of natural image higher-order correlations, much more so than current image models. We also perform three cue identification experiments to interpret how model features correspond to perceptually relevant image features.
Long-term memories are thought to depend upon the coordinated activation of a broad network of cortical and subcortical brain regions. However, the distributed nature of this representation has made it challenging to define the neural elements of the memory trace, and lesion and electrophysiological approaches provide only a narrow window into what is appreciated a much more global network. Here we used a global mapping approach to identify networks of brain regions activated following recall of long-term fear memories in mice. Analysis of Fos expression across 84 brain regions allowed us to identify regions that were co-active following memory recall. These analyses revealed that the functional organization of long-term fear memories depends on memory age and is altered in mutant mice that exhibit premature forgetting. Most importantly, these analyses indicate that long-term memory recall engages a network that has a distinct thalamic-hippocampal-cortical signature. This network is concurrently integrated and segregated and therefore has small-world properties, and contains hub-like regions in the prefrontal cortex and thalamus that may play privileged roles in memory expression.
The Drosophila spermatogenesis cell differentiation pathway involves the activation of a large set of genes in primary spermatocytes. Most of these genes are activated by testis-specific TATA-binding protein associated factors (tTAFs). In the current model for the activation mechanism, Polycomb plays a key role silencing these genes in the germline precursors, and tTAF-dependent activation in primary spermatocytes involves the displacement of Polycomb from gene promoters. We investigated the genome-wide binding of Polycomb in wild type and tTAF mutant testes. According to the model we expected to see a clear enhancement in Polycomb binding at tTAF-dependent spermatogenesis genes in tTAF mutant testes. However, we find little evidence for such an enhancement in tTAF mutant testes compared to wild type. To avoid problems arising from cellular heterogeneity in whole testis analysis, we further tested the model by analysing Polycomb binding in purified germline precursors, representing cells before tTAF-dependent gene activation. Although we find Polycomb associated with its canonical targets, we find little or no evidence of Polycomb at spermatogenesis genes. The lack of Polycomb at tTAF-dependent spermatogenesis genes in precursor cells argues against a model where Polycomb displacement is the mechanism of spermatogenesis gene activation.
Post-mortem brains from Down syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients show an upregulation of the Down syndrome critical region 1 protein (DSCR1), but its contribution to AD is not known. To gain insights into the role of DSCR1 in AD, we explored the functional interaction between DSCR1 and the amyloid precursor protein (APP), which is known to cause AD when duplicated or upregulated in DS. We find that the Drosophila homolog of DSCR1, Nebula, delays neurodegeneration and ameliorates axonal transport defects caused by APP overexpression. Live-imaging reveals that Nebula facilitates the transport of synaptic proteins and mitochondria affected by APP upregulation. Furthermore, we show that Nebula upregulation protects against axonal transport defects by restoring calcineurin and GSK-3 signaling altered by APP overexpression, thereby preserving cargo-motor interactions. As impaired transport of essential organelles caused by APP perturbation is thought to be an underlying cause of synaptic failure and neurodegeneration in AD, our findings imply that correcting calcineurin and GSK-3 signaling can prevent APP-induced pathologies. Our data further suggest that upregulation of Nebula/DSCR1 is neuroprotective in the presence of APP upregulation and provides evidence for calcineurin inhibition as a novel target for therapeutic intervention in preventing axonal transport impairments associated with AD.
Circadian rhythms in Drosophila rely on cyclic regulation of the period (per) and timeless (tim) clock genes. The molecular cycle requires rhythmic phosphorylation of PER and TIM proteins, which is mediated by several kinases and phosphatases such as Protein Phosphatase-2A (PP2A) and Protein Phosphatase-1 (PP1). Here, we used mass spectrometry to identify 35 &quot;phospho-occupied&quot; serine/threonine residues within PER, 24 of which are specifically regulated by PP1/PP2A. We found that cell culture assays were not good predictors of protein function in flies and so we generated per transgenes carrying phosphorylation site mutations and tested for rescue of the per(01) arrhythmic phenotype. Surprisingly, most transgenes restore wild type rhythms despite carrying mutations in several phosphorylation sites. One particular transgene, in which T610 and S613 are mutated to alanine, restores daily rhythmicity, but dramatically lengthens the period to ~ 30 hrs. Interestingly, the single S613A mutation extends the period by 2-3 hours, while the single T610A mutation has a minimal effect, suggesting these phospho-residues cooperate to control period length. Conservation of S613 from flies to humans suggests that it possesses a critical clock function, and mutational analysis of residues surrounding T610/S613 implicates the entire region in determining circadian period. Biochemical and immunohistochemical data indicate defects in overall phosphorylation and altered timely degradation of PER carrying the double or single S613A mutation(s). The PER-T610A/S613A mutant also alters CLK phosphorylation and CLK-mediated output. Lastly, we show that a mutation at a previously identified site, S596, is largely epistatic to S613A, suggesting that S613 negatively regulates phosphorylation at S596. Together these data establish functional significance for a new domain of PER, demonstrate that cooperativity between phosphorylation sites maintains PER function, and support a model in which specific phosphorylated regions regulate others to control circadian period.

There are no effective therapeutics that antagonize or reverse the protein-misfolding events underpinning polyglutamine (PolyQ) disorders, including Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type-3 (SCA3). Here, we augment the proteostasis network of Drosophila SCA3 models with Hsp104, a powerful protein disaggregase from yeast, which is bafflingly absent from metazoa. Hsp104 suppressed eye degeneration caused by a C-terminal ataxin-3 (MJD) fragment containing the pathogenic expanded PolyQ tract, but unexpectedly enhanced aggregation and toxicity of full-length pathogenic MJD. Hsp104 suppressed toxicity of MJD variants lacking a portion of the N-terminal deubiquitylase domain and full-length MJD variants unable to engage polyubiquitin, indicating that MJD-ubiquitin interactions hinder protective Hsp104 modalities. Importantly, in staging experiments, Hsp104 suppressed toxicity of a C-terminal MJD fragment when expressed after the onset of PolyQ-induced degeneration, whereas Hsp70 was ineffective. Thus, we establish the first disaggregase or chaperone treatment administered after the onset of pathogenic protein-induced degeneration that mitigates disease progression.
The functions of several SOS regulated genes in Escherichia coli are still unknown, including dinQ. In this work we characterize dinQ and two small RNAs, agrA and agrB, with antisense complementarity to dinQ. Northern analysis revealed five dinQ transcripts, but only one transcript (+44) is actively translated. The +44 dinQ transcript translates into a toxic single transmembrane peptide localized in the inner membrane. AgrB regulates dinQ RNA by RNA interference to counteract DinQ toxicity. Thus the dinQ-agr locus shows the classical features of a type I TA system and has many similarities to the tisB-istR locus. DinQ overexpression depolarizes the cell membrane and decreases the intracellular ATP concentration, demonstrating that DinQ can modulate membrane-dependent processes. Augmented DinQ strongly inhibits marker transfer by Hfr conjugation, indicating a role in recombination. Furthermore, DinQ affects transformation of nucleoid morphology in response to UV damage. We hypothesize that DinQ is a transmembrane peptide that modulates membrane-dependent activities such as nucleoid compaction and recombination.
A critical step in the assembly of the neural circuits that control tetrapod locomotion is the specification of the lateral motor column (LMC), a diverse motor neuron population targeting limb musculature. Hox6 paralog group genes have been implicated as key determinants of LMC fate at forelimb levels of the spinal cord, through their ability to promote expression of the LMC-restricted genes Foxp1 and Raldh2 and to suppress thoracic fates through exclusion of Hoxc9. The specific roles and mechanisms of Hox6 gene function in LMC neurons, however, are not known. We show that Hox6 genes are critical for diverse facets of LMC identity and define motifs required for their in vivo specificities. Although Hox6 genes are necessary for generating the appropriate number of LMC neurons, they are not absolutely required for the induction of forelimb LMC molecular determinants. In the absence of Hox6 activity, LMC identity appears to be preserved through a diverse array of Hox5-Hox8 paralogs, which are sufficient to reprogram thoracic motor neurons to an LMC fate. In contrast to the apparently permissive Hox inputs to early LMC gene programs, individual Hox genes, such as Hoxc6, have specific roles in promoting motor neuron pool diversity within the LMC. Dissection of motifs required for Hox in vivo specificities reveals that either cross-repressive interactions or cooperativity with Pbx cofactors are sufficient to induce LMC identity, with the N-terminus capable of promoting columnar, but not pool, identity when transferred to a heterologous homeodomain. These results indicate that Hox proteins orchestrate diverse aspects of cell fate specification through both the convergent regulation of gene programs regulated by many paralogs and also more restricted actions encoded through specificity determinants in the N-terminus.
Dynamic activity of signaling pathways, such as Notch, is vital to achieve correct development and homeostasis. However, most studies assess output many hours or days after initiation of signaling, once the outcome has been consolidated. Here we analyze genome-wide changes in transcript levels, binding of the Notch pathway transcription factor, CSL [Suppressor of Hairless, Su(H), in Drosophila], and RNA Polymerase II (Pol II) immediately following a short pulse of Notch stimulation. A total of 154 genes showed significant differential expression (DE) over time, and their expression profiles stratified into 14 clusters based on the timing, magnitude, and direction of DE. E(spl) genes were the most rapidly upregulated, with Su(H), Pol II, and transcript levels increasing within 5-10 minutes. Other genes had a more delayed response, the timing of which was largely unaffected by more prolonged Notch activation. Neither Su(H) binding nor poised Pol II could fully explain the differences between profiles. Instead, our data indicate that regulatory interactions, driven by the early-responding E(spl)bHLH genes, are required. Proposed cross-regulatory relationships were validated in vivo and in cell culture, supporting the view that feed-forward repression by E(spl)bHLH/Hes shapes the response of late-responding genes. Based on these data, we propose a model in which Hes genes are responsible for co-ordinating the Notch response of a wide spectrum of other targets, explaining the critical functions these key regulators play in many developmental and disease contexts.

Tactile acuity is known to decline with age in adults, possibly as the result of receptor loss, but less is understood about how tactile acuity changes during childhood. Previous research from our laboratory has shown that fingertip size influences tactile spatial acuity in young adults: those with larger fingers tend to have poorer acuity, possibly because mechanoreceptors are more sparsely distributed in larger fingers. We hypothesized that a similar relationship would hold among children. If so, children's tactile spatial acuity might be expected to worsen as their fingertips grow. However, concomitant CNS maturation might result in more efficient perceptual processing, counteracting the effect of fingertip growth on tactile acuity. To investigate, we conducted a cross-sectional study, testing 116 participants ranging in age from 6 to 16 years on a precision-controlled tactile grating orientation task. We measured each participant's grating orientation threshold on the dominant index finger, along with physical properties of the fingertip: surface area, volume, sweat pore spacing, and temperature. We found that, as in adults, children with larger fingertips (at a given age) had significantly poorer acuity, yet paradoxically acuity did not worsen significantly with age. We propose that finger growth during development results in a gradual decline in innervation density as receptive fields reposition to cover an expanding skin surface. At the same time, central maturation presumably enhances perceptual processing.
Guiding a limb often involves situations in which the spatial location of the target for gaze and limb movement are not congruent (i.e. have been decoupled). Such decoupled situations involve both the implementation of a cognitive rule (i.e. strategic control) and the online monitoring of the limb position relative to gaze and target (i.e. sensorimotor recalibration). To further understand the neural mechanisms underlying these different types of visuomotor control, we tested patient IG who has bilateral caudal superior parietal lobule (SPL) damage resulting in optic ataxia (OA), and compared her performance with six age-matched controls on a series of center-out reaching tasks. The tasks comprised 1) directing a cursor that had been rotated (180 or 90) within the same spatial plane as the visual display, or 2) moving the hand along a different spatial plane than the visual display (horizontal or para-sagittal). Importantly, all conditions were performed towards visual targets located along either the horizontal axis (left and right; which can be guided from strategic control) or the diagonal axes (top-left and top-right; which require on-line trajectory elaboration and updating by sensorimotor recalibration). The bilateral OA patient performed much better in decoupled visuomotor control towards the horizontal targets, a canonical situation in which well-categorized allocentric cues could be utilized (i.e. guiding cursor direction perpendicular to computer monitor border). Relative to neurologically intact adults, IG's performance suffered towards diagonal targets, a non-canonical situation in which only less-categorized allocentric cues were available (i.e. guiding cursor direction at an off-axis angle to computer monitor border), and she was therefore required to rely on sensorimotor recalibration of her decoupled limb. We propose that an intact caudal SPL is crucial for any decoupled visuomotor control, particularly when relying on the realignment between vision and proprioception without reliable allocentric cues towards non-canonical orientations in space.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease. A key pathological feature of PD is Lewy bodies, of which the major protein component is -synuclein (-syn). Human genetic studies have shown that mutations (A53T, A30P, E46K) and multiplication of the -syn gene are linked to familial PD. Mice overexpressing the human A53T mutant -syn gene develop severe movement disorders. However, the molecular mechanisms of -syn toxicity are not well understood. Recently, mitochondrial dysfunction has been linked with multiple neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease. Here we investigated whether mitochondrial motility, dynamics and respiratory function are affected in primary neurons from a mouse model expressing the human A53T mutation. We found that mitochondrial motility was selectively inhibited in A53T neurons while transport of other organelles was not affected. In addition, A53T expressing neurons showed impairment in mitochondrial membrane potential and mitochondrial respiratory function. Furthermore, we found that rapamycin, an autophagy inducer, rescued the decreased mitochondrial mobility. Taken together, these data demonstrate that A53T -syn impairs mitochondrial function and dynamics and the deficit of mitochondrial transport is reversible, providing further understanding of the disease pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic strategy for PD.
In this study, we used high-dimensional pattern regression methods based on structural (gray and white matter; GM and WM) and functional (positron emission tomography of regional cerebral blood flow; PET) brain data to identify cross-sectional imaging biomarkers of cognitive performance in cognitively normal older adults from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA). We focused on specific components of executive and memory domains known to decline with aging, including manipulation, semantic retrieval, long-term memory (LTM), and short-term memory (STM). For each imaging modality, brain regions associated with each cognitive domain were generated by adaptive regional clustering. A relevance vector machine was adopted to model the nonlinear continuous relationship between brain regions and cognitive performance, with cross-validation to select the most informative brain regions (using recursive feature elimination) as imaging biomarkers and optimize model parameters. Predicted cognitive scores using our regression algorithm based on the resulting brain regions correlated well with actual performance. Also, regression models obtained using combined GM, WM, and PET imaging modalities outperformed models based on single modalities. Imaging biomarkers related to memory performance included the orbito-frontal and medial temporal cortical regions with LTM showing stronger correlation with the temporal lobe than STM. Brain regions predicting executive performance included orbito-frontal, and occipito-temporal areas. The PET modality had higher contribution to most cognitive domains except manipulation, which had higher WM contribution from the superior longitudinal fasciculus and the genu of the corpus callosum. These findings based on machine-learning methods demonstrate the importance of combining structural and functional imaging data in understanding complex cognitive mechanisms and also their potential usage as biomarkers that predict cognitive status.

Development of improved fluorescent voltage indicators is a key challenge in neuroscience, but progress has been hampered by the low throughput of patch-clamp characterization. We introduce a line of non-fluorescent HEK cells that stably express NaV 1.3 and KIR 2.1 and generate spontaneous electrical action potentials. These cells enable rapid, electrode-free screening of speed and sensitivity of voltage sensitive dyes or fluorescent proteins on a standard fluorescence microscope. We screened a small library of mutants of archaerhodopsin 3 (Arch) in spiking HEK cells and identified two mutants with greater voltage-sensitivity than found in previously published Arch voltage indicators.
There is significant clinical and prognostic heterogeneity in the neurodegenerative disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), despite a common immunohistological signature. Consistent extra-motor as well as motor cerebral, spinal anterior horn and distal neuromuscular junction pathology supports the notion of ALS a system failure. Establishing a disease biomarker is a priority but a simplistic, coordinate-based approach to brain dysfunction using MRI is not tenable. Resting-state functional MRI reflects the organization of brain networks at the systems-level, and so changes in of motor functional connectivity were explored to determine their potential as the substrate for a biomarker signature. Intra- as well as inter-motor functional networks in the 0.03-0.06 Hz frequency band were derived from 40 patients and 30 healthy controls of similar age, and used as features for pattern detection, employing multiple kernel learning. This approach enabled an accurate classification of a group of patients that included a range of clinical sub-types. An average of 13 regions-of-interest were needed to reach peak discrimination. Subsequent analysis revealed that the alterations in motor functional connectivity were widespread, including regions not obviously clinically affected such as the cerebellum and basal ganglia. Complex network analysis showed that functional networks in ALS differ markedly in their topology, reflecting the underlying altered functional connectivity pattern seen in patients: 1) reduced connectivity of both the cortical and sub-cortical motor areas with non motor areas 2)reduced subcortical-cortical motor connectivity and 3) increased connectivity observed within sub-cortical motor networks. This type of analysis has potential to non-invasively define a biomarker signature at the systems-level. As the understanding of neurodegenerative disorders moves towards studying pre-symptomatic changes, there is potential for this type of approach to generate biomarkers for the testing of neuroprotective strategies.
Neural stem and progenitor cells (NSCs/NPCs) are distinct groups of cells found in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). Previously we determined that members of the High Mobility Group (HMG) B family of chromatin structural proteins modulate NSC proliferation and self-renewal. Among them HMGB2 was found to be dynamically expressed in proliferating and differentiating NSCs, suggesting that it may regulate NSC maintenance. We report now that Hmgb2(-/-) mice exhibit SVZ hyperproliferation, increased numbers of SVZ NSCs, and a trend towards aberrant increases in newly born neurons in the olfactory bulb (OB) granule cell layer. Increases in the levels of the transcription factor p21 and the Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), along with down-regulation of the transcription/pluripotency factor Oct4 in the Hmgb2-/- SVZ point to a possible pathway for this increased proliferation/differentiation. Our findings suggest that HMGB2 functions as a modulator of neurogenesis in young adult mice through regulation of NSC proliferation, and identify a potential target via which CNS repair could be amplified following trauma or disease-based neuronal degeneration.
Moving in a co-ordinated fashion with another individual changes our behaviour towards them; we tend to like them more, find them more attractive, and are more willing to co-operate with them. It is generally assumed that this effect on behaviour results from alterations in representations of self and others. Specifically, through neurophysiological perception-action matching mechanisms, interpersonal motor co-ordination (IMC) is believed to forge a neural coupling between actor and observer, which serves to blur boundaries in conceptual self-other representations and causes positive views of the self to be projected onto others. An investigation into this potential neural mechanism is lacking, however. Moreover, the specific components of IMC that might influence this mechanism have not yet been specified. In the present study we exploited a robust behavioural phenomenon--automatic imitation--to assess the degree to which IMC influences neural action observation-execution matching mechanisms. This revealed that automatic imitation is reduced when the actions of another individual are perceived to be synchronised in time, but are spatially incongruent, with our own. We interpret our findings as evidence that IMC does indeed exert an effect on neural perception-action matching mechanisms, but this serves to promote better self-other distinction. Our findings demonstrate that further investigation is required to understand the complex relationship between neural perception-action coupling, conceptual self-other representations, and social behaviour.
The effect of multi-modal vs uni-modal prior stimuli on the subsequent processing of a simple flash stimulus was studied in the context of the audio-visual 'flash-beep' illusion, in which the number of flashes a person sees is influenced by accompanying beep stimuli. EEG recordings were made while combinations of simple visual and audio-visual stimuli were presented. The experiments found that the electric field strength related to a flash stimulus was stronger when it was preceded by a multi-modal flash/beep stimulus, compared to when it was preceded by another uni-modal flash stimulus. This difference was found to be significant in two distinct timeframes--an early timeframe, from 130-160 ms, and a late timeframe, from 300-320 ms. Source localisation analysis found that the increased activity in the early interval was localised to an area centred on the inferior and superior parietal lobes, whereas the later increase was associated with stronger activity in an area centred on primary and secondary visual cortex, in the occipital lobe. The results suggest that processing of a visual stimulus can be affected by the presence of an immediately prior multisensory event. Relatively long-lasting interactions generated by the initial auditory and visual stimuli altered the processing of a subsequent visual stimulus.
Binocular vision is a visual property that allows fine discrimination of in-depth distance (stereopsis), as well as enhanced light and contrast sensitivity. In mammals enhanced binocular vision is structurally associated with a large degree of frontal binocular overlap, the presence of a corresponding retinal specialization containing a fovea or an area centralis, and well-developed ipsilateral retinal projections to the lateral thalamus (GLd). We compared these visual traits in two visually active species of the genus Octodon that exhibit contrasting visual habits: the diurnal Octodon degus, and the nocturnal Octodon lunatus. The O. lunatus visual field has a prominent 100 frontal binocular overlap, much larger than the 50 of overlap found in O. degus. Cells in the retinal ganglion cell layer were 40% fewer in O. lunatus (180,000) than in O. degus (300,000). O. lunatus has a poorly developed visual streak, but a well developed area centralis, located centrally near the optic disk (peak density of 4,352 cells/mm(2)). O. degus has a highly developed visual streak, and an area centralis located more temporally (peak density of 6,384 cells/mm(2)). The volumes of the contralateral GLd and superior colliculus (SC) are 15% larger in O. degus compared to O. lunatus. However, the ipsilateral projections to GLd and SC are 500% larger in O. lunatus than in O. degus. Other retinorecipient structures related to ocular movements and circadian activity showed no statistical differences between species. Our findings strongly suggest that nocturnal visual behavior leads to an enhancement of the structures associated with binocular vision, at least in the case of these rodents. Expansion of the binocular visual field in nocturnal species may have a beneficial effect in light and contrast sensitivity, but not necessarily in stereopsis. We discuss whether these conclusions can be extended to other mammalian and non-mammalian amniotes.
Cell polarity plays a critical role in neuronal differentiation during development of the central nervous system (CNS). Recent studies have established the significance of atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) and its interacting partners, which include PAR-3, PAR-6 and Lgl, in regulating cell polarization during neuronal differentiation. However, their roles in neuronal maintenance after CNS development remain unclear. Here we performed conditional deletion of aPKC, a major aPKC isoform in the brain, in differentiated neurons of mice by camk2a-cre or synapsinI-cre mediated gene targeting. We found significant reduction of aPKC and total aPKCs in the adult mouse brains. The aPKC deletion also reduced PAR-6, possibly by its destabilization, whereas expression of other related proteins such as PAR-3 and Lgl-1 was unaffected. Biochemical analyses suggested that a significant fraction of aPKC formed a protein complex with PAR-6 and Lgl-1 in the brain lysates, which was disrupted by the aPKC deletion. Notably, the aPKC deletion mice did not show apparent cell loss/degeneration in the brain. In addition, neuronal orientation/distribution seemed to be unaffected. Thus, despite the polarity complex disruption, neuronal deletion of aPKC does not induce obvious cell loss or disorientation in mouse brains after cell differentiation.

Melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells (mRGCs) in the eye play an important role in many light-activated non-image-forming functions including neonatal photoaversion and the adult pupillary light reflex (PLR). MRGCs rely on glutamate and possibly PACAP (pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide) to relay visual signals to the brain. However, the role of these neurotransmitters for individual non-image-forming responses remains poorly understood. To clarify the role of glutamatergic signaling from mRGCs in neonatal aversion to light and in adult PLR, we conditionally deleted vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT2) selectively from mRGCs in mice. We found that deletion of VGLUT2 in mRGCs abolished negative phototaxis and light-induced distress vocalizations in neonatal mice, underscoring a necessary role for glutamatergic signaling. In adult mice, loss of VGLUT2 in mRGCs resulted in a slow and an incomplete PLR. We conclude that glutamatergic neurotransmission from mRGCs is required for neonatal photoaversion but is complemented by another non-glutamatergic signaling mechanism for the pupillary light reflex in adult mice. We speculate that this complementary signaling might be due to PACAP neurotransmission from mRGCs.
Disrupting the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in the developing brain has been causally linked with intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Excitatory synapse strength is regulated in the central nervous system by controlling the number of postsynaptic -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs). De novo genetic mutations of the synaptic GTPase-activating protein (SynGAP) are associated with ID and ASD. SynGAP is enriched at excitatory synapses and genetic suppression of SynGAP increases excitatory synaptic strength. However, exactly how SynGAP acts to maintain synaptic AMPAR content is unclear. We show here that SynGAP limits excitatory synaptic strength, in part, by suppressing protein synthesis in cortical neurons. The data presented here from in vitro, rat and mouse cortical networks, demonstrate that regulation of translation by SynGAP involves ERK, mTOR, and the small GTP-binding protein Rheb. Furthermore, these data show that GluN2B-containing NMDARs and the cognitive kinase CaMKII act upstream of SynGAP and that this signaling cascade is required for proper translation-dependent homeostatic synaptic plasticity of excitatory synapses in developing cortical networks.
Skilled tool use and object manipulation critically relies on the ability to scale anticipatorily the grip force (GF) in relation to object dynamics. This predictive behaviour entails that the nervous system is able to store, and then select, the appropriate internal representation of common object dynamics, allowing GF to be applied in parallel with the arm motor commands. Although psychophysical studies have provided strong evidence supporting the existence of internal representations of object dynamics, known as &quot;internal models&quot;, their neural correlates are still debated. Because functional neuroimaging studies have repeatedly designated the supplementary motor area (SMA) as a possible candidate involved in internal model implementation, we used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to interfere with the normal functioning of left or right SMA in healthy participants performing a grip-lift task with either hand. TMS applied over the left, but not right, SMA yielded an increase in both GF and GF rate, irrespective of the hand used to perform the task, and only when TMS was delivered 130-180 ms before the fingers contacted the object. We also found that both left and right SMA rTMS led to a decrease in preload phase durations for contralateral hand movements. The present study suggests that left SMA is a crucial node in the network processing the internal representation of object dynamics although further experiments are required to rule out that TMS does not affect the GF gain. The present finding also further substantiates the left hemisphere dominance in scaling GF.
Increasing evidence suggests that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) plays an important role in tumorigenesis. The interaction between Angiotensin II (AngII) and angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) may have a pivotal role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and therefore, AT1R blocker and angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of hepatic cancer. Although the involvement of AT1R has been well explored, the role of the angiotensin II Type 2 receptor (AT2R) in HCC progression remains poorly understood. Thus, the aim of this study was to explore the effects of AT2R overexpression on HCC cells in vitro and in mouse models of human HCC. An AT2R recombinant adenoviral vector (Ad-G-AT2R-EGFP) was transduced into HCC cell lines and orthotopic tumor grafts. The results indicate that the high dose of Ad-G-AT2R-EGFP-induced overexpression of AT2R in transduced HCC cell lines produced apoptosis. AT2R overexpression in SMMC7721 cells inhibited cell proliferation with a significant reduction of S-phase cells and an enrichment of G1-phase cells through changing expression of CDK4 and cyclinD1. The data also indicate that overexpression of AT2R led to apoptosis via cell death signaling pathway that is dependent on activation of p38 MAPK, pJNK, caspase-8 and caspase-3 and inactivation of pp42/44 MAPK (Erk1/2). Finally, we demonstrated that moderately increasing AT2R expression could increase the growth of HCC tumors and the proliferation of HCC cells in vivo. Our findings suggest that AT2R overexpression regulates proliferation of hepatocellular carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo, and the precise mechanisms of this phenomenon are yet to be fully determined.
The retinoblastoma protein (pRb) is required for cell-cycle exit of embryonic mammalian hair cells but is not required for hair cell fate determination and early differentiation, and this provides a strategy for hair cell regeneration by manipulating the pRb pathway. To reveal the mechanism of pRb functional modification in the inner ear, we compared the effects of attenuated pRb phosphorylation by an inhibitor of the Mitogen-Activated Protein (MAP) kinase pathway and an inhibitor of the Rb-Raf-1 interaction on cultured chicken otocysts. We demonstrated that the activity of pRb is correlated with its phosphorylation state, which is regulated by a newly established cell cycle-independent pathway mediated by the physical interaction between Raf-1 and pRb. The phosphorylation of pRb plays an important role during the early stage of inner ear development, and attenuated phosphorylation in progenitor cells leads to cell cycle arrest and increased apoptosis along with a global down-regulation of the genes involved in cell cycle progression. Our study provides novel routes to modulate pRb function for hair cell regeneration.

Filament bundles (rods) of cofilin and actin (1:1) form in neurites of stressed neurons where they inhibit synaptic function. Live-cell imaging of rod formation is hampered by the fact that overexpression of a chimera of wild type cofilin with a fluorescent protein causes formation of spontaneous and persistent rods, which is exacerbated by the photostress of imaging. The study of rod induction in living cells calls for a rod reporter that does not cause spontaneous rods. From a study in which single cofilin surface residues were mutated, we identified a mutant, cofilinR21Q, which when fused with monomeric Red Fluorescent Protein (mRFP) and expressed several fold above endogenous cofilin, does not induce spontaneous rods even during the photostress of imaging. CofilinR21Q-mRFP only incorporates into rods when they form from endogenous proteins in stressed cells. In neurons, cofilinR21Q-mRFP reports on rods formed from endogenous cofilin and induced by all modes tested thus far. Rods have a half-life of 30-60 min upon removal of the inducer. Vesicle transport in neurites is arrested upon treatments that form rods and recovers as rods disappear. CofilinR21Q-mRFP is a genetically encoded rod reporter that is useful in live cell imaging studies of induced rod formation, including rod dynamics, and kinetics of rod elimination.

Although the genome wide supported psychosis susceptibility neurogranin (NRGN) gene is expressed in human brains, it is unclear how it impacts brain morphology in schizophrenia. We investigated the influence of NRGN rs12807809 on cortical thickness, subcortical volumes and shapes in patients with schizophrenia. One hundred and fifty six subjects (91 patients with schizophrenia and 65 healthy controls) underwent structural MRI scans and their blood samples were genotyped. A brain mapping algorithm, large deformation diffeomorphic metric mapping, was used to perform group analysis of subcortical shapes and cortical thickness. Patients with risk TT genotype were associated with widespread cortical thinning involving frontal, parietal and temporal cortices compared with controls with TT genotype. No volumetric difference in subcortical structures (hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, basal ganglia) was observed between risk TT genotype in patients and controls. However, patients with risk TT genotype were associated with thalamic shape abnormalities involving regions related to pulvinar and medial dorsal nuclei. Our results revealed the influence of the NRGN gene on thalamocortical morphology in schizophrenia involving widespread cortical thinning and thalamic shape abnormalities. These findings help to clarify underlying NRGN mediated pathophysiological mechanisms involving cortical-subcortical brain networks in schizophrenia.
Random or stochastic monoallelic expressed genes (StMA genes) represent a unique form of monoallelic expression where allelic choice is made at random early in development. The consequential clonal diversity provides opportunity for functional heterozygosity in tissues such as the brain, and can impact on both development and disease. We investigate the relationship of StMA expressed genes previously identified in clonal neural stem cells with the neurodevelopmental disorders autism and schizophrenia. We found that StMA genes show an overrepresentation of schizophrenia risk candidates identified by genome wide association studies from the genetic association database. Similar suggestive enrichment was also found for genes from the NHGRI genome-wide association study catalog and a psychiatric genetics consortium schizophrenia dataset although these latter more robust gene lists did not achieve statistical significance. We also examined multiple sources of copy number variation (CNV) datasets from autism and schizophrenia cohorts. After taking into account total gene numbers and CNV size, both autism and schizophrenia associated CNVs appeared to show an enrichment of StMA genes relative to the control CNV datasets. Since the StMA genes were originally identified in neural stem cells, bias due to the neural transcriptome is possible. To address this, we randomly sampled neural stem cell expressed genes and repeated the tests. After a significant number of iterations, neural stem cell expressed genes did not show an overrepresentation in autism or schizophrenia CNV datasets. Therefore, irrespective of the neural derived transcriptome, StMA genes originally identified in neural stem cells show an overrepresentation in CNVs associated with autism and schizophrenia. If this association is functional, then the regulation (or dysregulation) of this form of allelic expression status within tissues such as the brain may be a contributory risk factor for neurodevelopmental disorders and may also influence disease discordance sometimes observed in monozygotic twins.
Regulated RNA translation is critical to provide proteins needed to maintain persistent modification of synaptic strength, which underlies the molecular basis of long-term memory (LTM). Cytoplasmic polyadenylation element-binding proteins (CPEBs) are sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins and regulate translation in various tissues. All four CPEBs in vertebrates are expressed in the brain, including the hippocampal neurons, suggesting their potential roles in translation-dependent plasticity and memory. Although CPEB1 and CPEB3 have been shown to control specific kinds of hippocampus-related LTM, the role of CPEB2 and CPEB4 in learning and memory remains elusive. Thus, we generated CPEB4 knockout (KO) mice and analyzed them using several behavioral tests. No difference was found in the anxiety level, motor coordination, hippocampus-dependent learning and memory between the KO mice and their wild-type (WT) littermates. Electrophysiological recordings of multiple forms of synaptic plasticity in the Schaffer collateral pathway-CA1 neurons also showed normal responses in the KO hippocampal slices. Morphological analyses revealed that the CPEB4-lacking pyramidal neurons possessed slightly elongated dendritic spines. Unlike its related family members, CPEB1 and CPEB3, CPEB4 seems to be dispensable for hippocampus-dependent plasticity, learning and memory.
NG2/CSPG4 is a complex surface-associated proteoglycan (PG) recognized to be a widely expressed membrane component of glioblastoma (WHO grade IV) cells and angiogenic pericytes. To determine the precise expression pattern of NG2/CSPG4 on glioblastoma cells and pericytes, we generated a panel of &gt;60 mouse monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) directed against the ectodomain of human NG2/CSPG4, partially characterized the mAbs, and performed a high-resolution distributional mapping of the PG in human foetal, adult and glioblastoma-affected brains. The reactivity pattern initially observed on reference tumour cell lines indicated that the mAbs recognized 48 immunologically distinct NG2/CSPG4 isoforms, and a total of 14 mAbs was found to identify NG2/CSPG4 isoforms in foetal and neoplastic cerebral sections. These were consistently absent in the adult brain, but exhibited a complementary expression pattern in angiogenic vessels of both tumour and foetal tissues. Considering the extreme pleomorphism of tumour areas, and with the aim of subsequently analysing the distributional pattern of the NG2/CSPG4 isoforms on similar histological vessel typologies, a preliminary study was carried out with endothelial cell and pericyte markers, and with selected vascular basement membrane (VBM) components. On both tumour areas characterized by 'glomeruloid' and 'garland vessels', which showed a remarkably similar cellular and molecular organization, and on developing brain vessels, spatially separated, phenotypically diversified pericyte subsets with a polarized expression of key surface components, including NG2/CSPG4, were disclosed. Interestingly, the majority of the immunolocalized NG2/CSPG4 isoforms present in glioblastoma tissue were present in foetal brain, except for one isoform that seemed to be exclusive of tumour cells, being absent in foetal brain. The results highlight an unprecedented, complex pattern of NG2/CSPG4 isoform expression in foetal and neoplastic CNS, discriminating between phenotype-specific and neoplastic versus non-neoplastic variants of the PG, thus opening up vistas for more selective immunotherapeutic targeting of brain tumours.
How aging affects the communication between neurons is poorly understood. To address this question, we have studied the electrophysiological properties of identified neuron R15 of the marine mollusk Aplysia californica. R15 is a bursting neuron in the abdominal ganglia of the central nervous system and is implicated in reproduction, water balance, and heart function. Exposure to acetylcholine (ACh) causes an increase in R15 burst firing. Whole-cell recordings of R15 in the intact ganglia dissected from mature and old Aplysia showed specific changes in burst firing and properties of action potentials induced by ACh. We found that while there were no significant changes in resting membrane potential and latency in response to ACh, the burst number and burst duration is altered during aging. The action potential waveform analysis showed that unlike mature neurons, the duration of depolarization and the repolarization amplitude and duration did not change in old neurons in response to ACh. Furthermore, single neuron quantitative analysis of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) suggested alteration of expression of specific AChRs in R15 neurons during aging. These results suggest a defect in cholinergic transmission during aging of the R15 neuron.
Disease is a major concern for the conservation of great apes, and one that is likely to become increasingly relevant as deforestation and the rise of ecotourism bring humans and apes into ever closer proximity. Consequently, it is imperative that preventative measures are explored to ensure that future epidemics do not wipe out the remaining populations of these animals. In this paper, social network analysis was used to investigate vulnerability to disease in a population of wild orang-utans and a community of wild chimpanzees. Potential 'superspreaders' of disease--individuals with disproportionately central positions in the community or population--were identified, and the efficacy of vaccinating these individuals assessed using simulations. Three resident female orang-utans were identified as potential superspreaders, and females and unflanged males were predicted to be more influential in disease spread than flanged males. By contrast, no superspreaders were identified in the chimpanzee network, although males were significantly more central than females. In both species, simulating the vaccination of the most central individuals in the network caused a greater reduction in potential disease pathways than removing random individuals, but this effect was considerably more pronounced for orang-utans. This suggests that targeted vaccinations would have a greater impact on reducing disease spread among orang-utans than chimpanzees. Overall, these results have important implications for orang-utan and chimpanzee conservation and highlight the role that certain individuals may play in the spread of disease and its prevention by vaccination.
Severe retinal ischemia causes persistent visual impairments in eye diseases. Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells are located near the choroidal capillaries, and are easily affected by ischemic or hypoxia. Ginsenoside Rg-1 has shown significant neuroprotective effects. This study was performed to test the cytoprotective effect of ginsenoside Rg-1 in RPE cells against hypoxia and cobalt chloride (CoCl2) assaults, and to understand the underlying mechanisms. We found that Rg-1 pre-administration significantly inhibited CoCl2- and hypoxia-induced RPE cell death and apoptosis. Reactive oxygen specisis (ROS)-dependent p38 and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinases (JNK) MAPK activation was required for CoCl2-induced RPE cell death, and Rg-1 pre-treatment significantly inhibited ROS production and following p38/JNK activation. Further, CoCl2 suppressed pro-survival mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) activation in RPE cells through activating of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), while Rg-1 restored mTORC1 activity through inhibiting AMPK activation. CoCl2-induced AMPK activation was also dependent on ROS production, and anti-oxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) prevented AMPK activation and RPE cell death by CoCl2. Our results indicated that Rg-1 could be further investigated as a novel cell-protective agent for retinal ischemia.
The pedunculopontine area (PPNa) including the pedunculopontine and cuneiform nuclei, belongs to the mesencephalic locomotor region. Little is known about the oscillatory mechanisms underlying the function of this region in postural and gait control. We examined the modulations of the oscillatory activity of the PPNa and cortex during stepping, a surrogate of gait, and stance in seven Parkinson's disease patients who received bilateral PPNa implantation for disabling freezing of gait (FOG). In the days following the surgery, we recorded behavioural data together with the local field potentials of the PPNa during sitting, standing and stepping-in-place, under two dopaminergic medication conditions (OFF and ON levodopa). Our results showed that OFF levodopa, all subjects had FOG during step-in-place trials, while ON levodopa, stepping was effective (mean duration of FOG decreasing from 61.736.1% to 7.310.1% of trial duration). ON levodopa, there was an increase in PPNa alpha (5-12 Hz) oscillatory activity and a decrease in beta (13-35 Hz) and gamma (65-90 Hz) bands activity. PPNa activity was not modulated during quiet standing and sitting. Our results confirm the role of the PPNa in the regulation of gait and suggest that, in Parkinson disease, gait difficulties could be related to an imbalance between low and higher frequencies.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder associated with genetic and age related causes. Although autosomal recessive early onset PD linked to parkin mutations does not exhibit -Synuclein accumulation, while autosomal dominant and sporadic PD manifest with -Synuclein inclusions, loss of dopaminergic substantia nigra neurons is a common denominator in PD. Here we show that decreased parkin ubiquitination and loss of parkin stability impair interaction with Beclin-1 and alter -Synuclein degradation, leading to death of dopaminergic neurons. Tyrosine kinase inhibition increases parkin ubiquitination and interaction with Beclin-1, promoting autophagic -Synuclein clearance and nigral neuron survival. However, loss of parkin via deletion increases -Synuclein in the blood compared to the brain, suggesting that functional parkin prevents -Synuclein release into the blood. These studies demonstrate that parkin ubiquitination affects its protein stability and E3 ligase activity, possibly leading to -Synuclein sequestration and subsequent clearance.
Recalling information from visual short-term memory (VSTM) involves the same neural mechanisms as attending to an actually perceived scene. In particular, retrieval from VSTM has been associated with orienting of visual attention towards a location within a spatially-organized memory representation. However, an open question concerns whether spatial attention is also recruited during VSTM retrieval even when performing the task does not require access to spatial coordinates of items in the memorized scene. The present study combined a visual search task with a modified, delayed central probe protocol, together with EEG analysis, to answer this question. We found a temporal contralateral negativity (TCN) elicited by a centrally presented go-signal which was spatially uninformative and featurally unrelated to the search target and informed participants only about a response key that they had to press to indicate a prepared target-present vs. -absent decision. This lateralization during VSTM retrieval (TCN) provides strong evidence of a shift of attention towards the target location in the memory representation, which occurred despite the fact that the present task required no spatial (or featural) information from the search to be encoded, maintained, and retrieved to produce the correct response and that the go-signal did not itself specify any information relating to the location and defining feature of the target.

Mortalin is an essential component of the molecular machinery that imports nuclear-encoded proteins into mitochondria, assists in their folding, and protects against damage upon accumulation of dysfunctional, unfolded proteins in aging mitochondria. Mortalin dysfunction associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) increases the vulnerability of cultured cells to proteolytic stress and leads to changes in mitochondrial function and morphology. To date, Drosophila melanogaster has been successfully used to investigate pathogenesis following the loss of several other PD-associated genes. We generated the first loss-of-Hsc70-5/mortalin-function Drosophila model. The reduction of Mortalin expression recapitulates some of the defects observed in the existing Drosophila PD-models, which include reduced ATP levels, abnormal wing posture, shortened life span, and reduced spontaneous locomotor and climbing ability. Dopaminergic neurons seem to be more sensitive to the loss of mortalin than other neuronal sub-types and non-neuronal tissues. The loss of synaptic mitochondria is an early pathological change that might cause later degenerative events. It precedes both behavioral abnormalities and structural changes at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of mortalin-knockdown larvae that exhibit increased mitochondrial fragmentation. Autophagy is concomitantly up-regulated, suggesting that mitochondria are degraded via mitophagy. Ex vivo data from human fibroblasts identifies increased mitophagy as an early pathological change that precedes apoptosis. Given the specificity of the observed defects, we are confident that the loss-of-mortalin model presented in this study will be useful for further dissection of the complex network of pathways that underlie the development of mitochondrial parkinsonism.
Early-life adversity is associated with poorer health and survival in adulthood in humans and other animals. One pathway by which early-life environmental stressors could affect the adult phenotype is via effects on telomere dynamics. Several studies have shown that early-life adversity is associated with relatively short telomeres, but these are often cross-sectional and usually correlational in design. Here, we present a novel experimental system for studying the relationship between early-life adversity and telomere dynamics using a wild bird, the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris). We used cross-fostering to experimentally assign sibling chicks to either small or large broods for twelve days of the growth period. We measured telomere length in red blood cells using quantitative PCR near the beginning of the experimental manipulation (4 days old), at the end of the experimental manipulation (15 days old), and once the birds were independent (55 days old). Being in a larger brood slowed growth and retarded wing development and the timing of fledging. We found no evidence that overall brood size affected telomere dynamics. However, the greater the number of competitors above the focal bird in the within-brood size hierarchy, the greater was the telomere loss during the period of the experimental manipulation. The number of competitors below the focal in the hierarchy had no effect. The effect of heavier competitors was still evident when we controlled for the weight of the focal bird at the end of the manipulation, suggesting it was not due to retarded growth per se. Moreover, the impact of early competition on telomeres was still evident at independence, suggesting persistence beyond early life. Our study provides experimental support for the hypothesis that social stress, in this case induced by the presence of a greater number of dominant competitors, accelerates the rate of telomere loss.

The positional-specificity effect refers to enhanced performance in visual short-term memory (VSTM) when the recognition probe is presented at the same location as had been the sample, even though location is irrelevant to the match/nonmatch decision. We investigated the mechanisms underlying this effect with behavioral and fMRI studies of object change-detection performance. To test whether the positional-specificity effect is a direct consequence of active storage in VSTM, we varied memory load, reasoning that it should be observed for all objects presented in a sub-span array of items. The results, however, indicated that although robust with a memory load of 1, the positional-specificity effect was restricted to the second of two sequentially presented sample stimuli in a load-of-2 experiment. An additional behavioral experiment showed that this disruption wasn't due to the increased load per se, because actively processing a second object--in the absence of a storage requirement--also eliminated the effect. These behavioral findings suggest that, during tests of object memory, position-related information is not actively stored in VSTM, but may be retained in a passive tag that marks the most recent site of selection. The fMRI data were consistent with this interpretation, failing to find location-specific bias in sustained delay-period activity, but revealing an enhanced response to recognition probes that matched the location of that trial's sample stimulus.
We measured activity in the dorsal system of the human cortex with magnetoencephalography (MEG) during a matching-to-sample plus cueing paradigm, where participants judged the occurrence of changes in either categorical or coordinate spatial relations (e.g., exchanges of left versus right positions or changes in the relative distances) between images of pairs of animals. The attention window was primed in each trial to be either small or large by using cues that immediately preceded the matching image. In this manner, we could assess the modulatory effects of the scope of attention on the activity of the dorsal system of the human cortex during spatial relations processing. The MEG measurements revealed that large spatial cues yielded greater activations and longer peak latencies in the right inferior parietal lobe for coordinate trials, whereas small cues yielded greater activations and longer peak latencies in the left inferior parietal lobe for categorical trials. The activity in the superior parietal lobe, middle frontal gyrus, and visual cortex, was also modulated by the size of the spatial cues and by the type of spatial relation change. The present results support the theory that the lateralization of each kind of spatial processing hinges on differences in the sizes of regions of space attended to by the two hemispheres. In addition, the present findings are inconsistent with the idea of a right-hemispheric dominance for all kinds of challenging spatial tasks, since response times and accuracy rates showed that the categorical spatial relation task was more difficult than the coordinate task and the cortical activations were overall greater in the left hemisphere than in the right hemisphere.
Many aspects of retinal photoreceptor function and physiology are regulated by the circadian clocks in these cells. It is well established that light is the primary stimulus that entrains these clocks; yet, the biochemical cascade(s) mediating light's effects on these clocks remains unknown. This deficiency represents a significant gap in our fundamental understanding of photoreceptor signaling cascades and their functions. In this study, we utilized re-aggregated spheroid cultures prepared from embryonic chick retina to determine if activation of phospholipase C in photoreceptors in the absence of light can phase shift the melatonin secretion rhythms of these cells in a manner similar to that induced by light. We show that spheroid cultures rhythmically secrete melatonin and that these melatonin rhythms can be dynamically phase shifted by exposing the cultures to an appropriately timed light pulse. Importantly, we show that activation of phospholipase C using m-3M3FBS in the absence of light induces a phase delay in photoreceptor melatonin rhythms that mirrors that induced by light. The implication of this finding is that the light signaling cascade that entrains photoreceptor melatonin rhythms involves activation of phospholipase C.
It has been demonstrated in the rodent hippocampus that rhythmic slow activity (theta) predominantly occurs during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, while sharp waves and associated ripples occur mainly during non-REM sleep. However, evidence is lacking for correlates of sleep stages with electroencephalogram (EEG) in the hippocampus of monkeys. In the present study, we recorded hippocampal EEG from the dentate gyrus in monkeys overnight under conditions of polysomnographical monitoring. As result, the hippocampal EEG changed in a manner similar to that of the surface EEG: during wakefulness, the hippocampal EEG showed fast, desynchronized waves, which were partly replaced with slower waves of intermediate amplitudes during the shallow stages of non-REM sleep. During the deep stages of non-REM sleep, continuous, slower oscillations (0.5-8 Hz) with high amplitudes were predominant. During REM sleep, the hippocampal EEG again showed fast, desynchronized waves similar to those found during wakefulness. These results indicate that in the monkey, hippocampal rhythmic slow activity rarely occurs during REM sleep, which is in clear contrast to that of rodents. In addition, the increase in the slower oscillations of hippocampal EEG during non-REM sleep, which resembled that of the surface EEG, may at least partly reflect cortical inputs to the dentate gyrus during this behavioral state.
Biological systems fundamentally exist out of equilibrium in order to preserve organized structures and processes. Many changing cellular conditions can be represented as transitions between nonequilibrium steady states, and organisms have an interest in optimizing such transitions. Using the Hatano-Sasa Y-value, we extend a recently developed geometrical framework for determining optimal protocols so that it can be applied to systems driven from nonequilibrium steady states. We calculate and numerically verify optimal protocols for a colloidal particle dragged through solution by a translating optical trap with two controllable parameters. We offer experimental predictions, specifically that optimal protocols are significantly less costly than naive ones. Optimal protocols similar to these may ultimately point to design principles for biological energy transduction systems and guide the design of artificial molecular machines.
Palmitoyl acyl transferases (PATs) play a critical role in protein trafficking and function. Huntingtin interacting protein 14 (HIP14) is a PAT that acts on proteins associated with neuronal transmission, suggesting that deficient protein palmitoylation by HIP14, which occurs in the YAC128 model of Huntington's disease (HD), might have deleterious effects on neurobehavioral processing. HIP14 knockout mice show biochemical and neuropathological changes in the striatum, a forebrain region affected by HD that guides behavioral choice and motor flexibility. Thus, we evaluated the performance of these mice in two tests of motor ability: nest-building and plus maze turning behavior. Relative to wild-type controls, HIP14 knockout mice show impaired nest building and decreased turning in the plus maze. When we recorded the activity of striatal neurons during plus-maze performance, we found faster firing rates and dysregulated spike bursting in HIP14 knockouts compared to wild-type. There was also less correlated firing between simultaneously recorded neuronal pairs in the HIP14 knockouts. Overall, our results indicate that HIP14 is critically involved in behavioral modulation of striatal processing. In the absence of HIP14, striatal neurons become dysfunctional, leading to impaired motor behavior.
