Cognitive functioning is dependent on synapse density in the brain. Factors modulating synapse density might include the balance between synaptic pruning and sprouting. Loss of synapses during aging might explain cognitive decline and while previous reports have suggested a 10-15% synapse loss occurs during the normal aging process, more recent studies have found that decline in synaptic density only occurs after 65 years of age. In this context, the main objective of this manuscript is to discuss the findings of our 1993 study in light of more recent studies in aging, synapses and Alzheimer's disease.
In the last decades, Kandel's innovative experiments have demonstrated that brain structures and synaptic connections are dynamic. Synapses can be modified by a wide variety of environmental factors, including learning and memory processes. The hypothesis that dynamic psychotherapy process involves memory and learning processes has opened the possibility of a dialogue between neuroscience and psychoanalysis and related psychotherapy techniques. The primary aim of the present article is to critically review the more recent data on neurobiological effects of dynamic psychotherapy in psychiatric disorders. Relevant literature has been selected using the databases currently available online (i.e., PubMed). The literature search has been limited to the past 10 years and to genetic, molecular biology, and neuroimaging studies that have addressed the issue of changes induced by psychotherapy. Most of the genetic studies on mental disorders have demonstrated that psychiatric conditions result from a complex interaction of genetic susceptibility and environmental effects. For none of the many psychiatric conditions investigated has a purely genetic background been found. Molecular biology studies have indicated that gene expression is influenced by several environmental factors, including early experiences, traumas, learning, and memory processes. Neuroimaging studies (using fMRI and PET) have found that not only cognitive but also dynamic psychotherapy has measurable effects on the brain. In addition, psychotherapy may modify brain function and metabolism in specific brain areas. Most of these studies have considered patients with major depressive disorders and compared the effects of psychotherapy with the effect of standard pharmacotherapy. In conclusion, recent results from neuroscience studies have suggested that dynamic psychotherapy has a significant impact on brain function and metabolism in specific brain areas. The possible applications and developments of this new area of research toward the conceptualization of an integrative approach to treatment of psychiatric disorders are discussed.


In recent attempts to bring psychoanalysis into greater contact with other sciences, a number of works have explicated neural science concepts and phenomena--affect, memory, consciousness--for the psychoanalyst. These efforts have helped analysts build a more scientific foundation for their theory and practice. A related task remains--namely, to take psychoanalytic concepts and see how they relate to other sciences. The concept of identification has a long history in psychoanalytic theory. It is seen in parent-child interactions, in teaching and mentoring relationships, and in psychoanalysis and psychotherapy. Neuropsychology and evolutionary biology have explored the phylogenetic precursors of identification, while genetics and infant observation provide insights into individual processes of identification. Finally, neuroscience, particularly recent studies of mirror neurons, offers information about the biological mechanisms of imitation and the relationship of imitation to identification. Findings from these sciences are presented in an effort to further the psychoanalytic understanding of identification, especially its biological underpinnings.
The effects of intensive cognitive-behavioral group treatment (CBGT) for social phobia (DSM-IV) were studied in 26 patients randomly assigned either to a treatment group (TG) or to a 6-month waiting list control group (WG). Treatment involved 2 weeks of daily treatment sessions separated by 1 week of homework assignments. TG was superior to WG at all assessment points, i.e., at 3 weeks and at 3 and 6 months of post-treatment. After 6 months, significant treatment effects were found in the majority of social phobia measures indicating decreased levels of social anxiety and avoidance, safety-behaviors and symptoms influence on daily life. The WG received treatment following the waiting list period and was combined with the TG in order to evaluate the outcome in a larger sample. Treatment gains at 3 weeks were maintained or improved at 1-year follow-up. Average effect sizes of social phobia measures ranged from 0.56 at post-treatment, 0.68 at 3 months and 0.81 at 6 months and 1 year, respectively.
The brain is critically dependent on a continuous supply of blood to function. Therefore, the cerebral vasculature is endowed with neurovascular control mechanisms that assure that the blood supply of the brain is commensurate to the energy needs of its cellular constituents. The regulation of cerebral blood flow (CBF) during brain activity involves the coordinated interaction of neurons, glia, and vascular cells. Thus, whereas neurons and glia generate the signals initiating the vasodilation, endothelial cells, pericytes, and smooth muscle cells act in concert to transduce these signals into carefully orchestrated vascular changes that lead to CBF increases focused to the activated area and temporally linked to the period of activation. Neurovascular coupling is disrupted in pathological conditions, such as hypertension, Alzheimer disease, and ischemic stroke. Consequently, CBF is no longer matched to the metabolic requirements of the tissue. This cerebrovascular dysregulation is mediated in large part by the deleterious action of reactive oxygen species on cerebral blood vessels. A major source of cerebral vascular radicals in models of hypertension and Alzheimer disease is the enzyme NADPH oxidase. These findings, collectively, highlight the importance of neurovascular coupling to the health of the normal brain and suggest a therapeutic target for improving brain function in pathologies associated with cerebrovascular dysfunction.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a 5-wk unilateral, isometric strength-training program on plasticity in the spinal Hoffmann (H-) reflex in both the trained and untrained legs. Sixteen participants, 22-42 yr old, were assigned to either a control (n = 6) or an exercise group (n = 10). Both groups were tested for plantar flexion maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) and soleus H-reflex amplitude in both limbs, at the beginning and at the end of a 5-wk interval. Participants in the exercise group showed significantly increased MVIC in both legs after training (P &lt; 0.05), whereas strength was unchanged in the control group for either leg. Subjects in the exercise group displayed increased (P &lt; 0.05) H-reflex amplitudes on the ascending limb of the recruitment curve (at an equivalent M wave of 5% of the maximal M wave, H(A)) only in the trained leg. Maximal H-reflex and M-wave remained unchanged with training. Increased amplitude of H(A) in the trained limb concurrent with increased strength suggests that spinal mechanisms may underlie the changes in strength, possibly because of increased alpha-motoneuronal excitability or reduced presynaptic inhibition. Despite a similar increase in strength in the contralateral limb of the exercise group, H(A) amplitude was unchanged. We conclude that the cross-education effect of strength training may be due to supraspinal to a greater extent than spinal mechanisms.
Stroke is a global epidemic and an important cause of morbidity and mortality. It ranks next to cardiovascular disease and cancer as a cause of death. &quot;India is likely to suffer huge social and economic burden in the rehabilitation of stroke patients owing to increased life expectancy&quot; and urbanization. Though, there are national programs in malaria eradication and tuberculosis control, there is hardly any governmental support in stroke management and rehabilitation. We propose to formulate stroke-prevention strategies specific to our national needs and covering all the age groups. Allocation of resources towards the stroke management and research is needed. Emphasis on stroke awareness in community should be stressed and should be inclusive of means of primordial and primary prevention apart from management of stroke and its recurrence. Recent international experience in stroke management has suggested the need of specialized stroke units (comprehensive stroke care under one roof). We wish to establish the need of creating awareness regarding the urgency of specialized care in acute stroke. We also wish to motivate our national health institutions to offer affordable, evidence based management of stroke and offer opportunities in stroke training and research.
Within the last 10 years, there has been an upsurge of interest in face processing abilities in autism which has generated a proliferation of new empirical demonstrations employing a variety of measuring techniques. Observably atypical social behaviors early in the development of children with autism have led to the contention that autism is a condition where the processing of social information, particularly faces, is impaired. While several empirical sources of evidence lend support to this hypothesis, others suggest that there are conditions under which autistic individuals do not differ from typically developing persons. The present paper reviews this bulk of empirical evidence, and concludes that the versatility and abilities of face processing in persons with autism have been underestimated.
Research studies on sensory issues in autism, including those based on questionnaires, autobiographical accounts, retrospective video observations and early experimental approaches are reviewed in terms of their strengths and limitations. We present a cognitive neuroscience theoretical perspective on multisensory integration and propose that this may be a useful way of conceptualizing and studying sensory integration and the perceptual experience of persons with autism. Our goal is to operationalize the concept of sensory integration, a notion that is frequently alluded to in the field of autism yet rarely defined in empirical terms. We conclude with a discussion of how this re-conceptualization and study of sensory integration may generate testable hypotheses and lead to refinements in current perceptual theories of autism.
Many studies of eye tracking or event-related brain potentials (ERPs) in subjects with Pervasive Developmental Disorder (PDD) have yielded inconsistent results on attentional processing. However, recent studies have indicated that there are specific abnormalities in early processing that are probably related to perception. ERP amplitudes in response to visual stimuli, measured above the occipital (modality-specific) cortex, are reported to be abnormally small in patients with PDD, and the abnormal visual processing is possibly associated with the spatial visual frequency content of stimuli. It is suggested that subjects with PDD show abnormal activation of visual pathways dedicated to the processing of high and low spatial frequencies.
Simultaneous suppression of glial scarring and a general enhancement of axonal outgrowth has now been accomplished in an adult rat model of spinal cord transection. Transplantation of a novel astrocyte cell type derived from glial-restricted precursors in vitro raise the eventual possibility of cellular therapy for spinal cord injury.
Finite element (FE) modeling is an important tool for studying the cervical spine in normal, injured and diseased conditions. To understand the role of mechanical changes on the spine as it goes from a normal to a diseased or injured state, experimental studies are needed to establish the external response of young, normal cervical spinal segments compared to injured or degenerated cervical spinal segments under physiologic loading. It is important to differentiate injured or degenerated specimens from young, normal specimens to provide accurate experimental results necessary for the validation of FE models. This study used seven young, normal fresh adult cadaver cervical spine segments C2-T1 ranging in age from 20 to 51 years. Prior to testing, the spines were graded in three ways: specimen quality, facet degeneration and disc degeneration. Spine segments were tested in flexion/extension, and the range of loads applied to the specimens was 0.33, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 Nm. These loads resulted in rotations in the direction of loading as the primary response to loading. In general, results for young, normal specimens showed greater flexibility in flexion and less flexibility in extension than results previously reported in the literature. The flexion/extension curves are asymmetric with a greater magnitude in flexion than in extension. These experimental results will be used to validate FE models of young, normal cervical spines.
Deformation of brain tissue in response to mechanical loading of the head is the root-cause of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Even below ultimate failure limits, deformation activates pathophysiological cascades resulting in delayed cell death. Injury response of soft tissues, such as the chest and spinal cord, is dependent on the product of deformation and velocity, a parameter termed the viscous criterion. We set out to test if hippocampal cell death could be predicted by a similar combination of strain and strain rate and if the viscous criterion was valid for hippocampus. Quantitative prediction of the brain's biological response to mechanical stimuli is difficult to achieve in animal models of TBI, so we utilized an in vitro model of TBI based on hippocampal slice cultures. We quantified the temporal development of cell death after precisely controlled deformations for 30 combinations of strain (0.05-0.50) and strain rate (0.1-50s(-1)) relevant to TBI. Loading conditions for a subset of cultures were verified by analysis of high-speed video. Cell death was found to be significantly dependent on time-post injury, on strain magnitude, and to a lesser extent, on anatomical region by a repeated-measures, three-way ANOVA. The responses of the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus were not statistically different in contrast to some in vivo TBI studies. Surprisingly, cell death was not dependent on strain rate leading us to conclude that the viscous criterion is not a valid predictor for hippocampal tissue injury. Given the large data set and extensive combinations of biomechanical parameters, predictive mathematical functions relating independent variables (strain, region, and time post-injury) to the resultant cell death were defined. These functions can be used as tolerance criteria to equip finite element models of TBI with the added capability to predict biological consequences.
We present an overview of selected computational methods for microRNA prediction. It is especially aimed at viral miRNA detection. As the number of microRNAs increases and the range of genomes encoding miRNAs expands, it seems that these small regulators have a more important role than has been previously thought. Most microRNAs have been detected by cloning and Northern blotting, but experimental methods are biased towards abundant microRNAs as well as being time-consuming. Computational detection methods must therefore be refined to serve as a faster, better, and more affordable method for microRNA detection. We also present data from a small study investigating the problems of computational miRNA prediction. Our findings suggest that the prediction of microRNA precursor candidates is fairly easy, while excluding false positives as well as exact prediction of the mature microRNA is hard. Finally, we discuss possible improvements to computational microRNA detection.
Alzheimer's disease is the principal cause of dementia throughout the world and the fourth cause of death in developed economies.This brain disorder is characterized by the formation of brain protein aggregates, namely, the paired helical filaments and senile plaques. Oxidative stress during life, neuroinflamamtion, and alterations in neuron-glia interaction patterns have been also involved in the etiopathogenesis of this disease. In recent years, cumulative evidence has been gained on the involvement of alteration in neuronal lipoproteins activity, as well as on the role of cholesterol and other lipids in the pathogenesis of this neurodegenerative disorder. In this review, we analyze the links between changes in cholesterol homeostasis, and the changes of lipids of major importance for neuronal activity and Alheimer's disease. The investigation on the fine molecular mechanisms underlying the lipids influence in the etiopathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease may shed light into its treatment and medical management.
Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is a component of the ubiquitin system, which has a fundamental role in regulating various biological activities. However, the functional role of the ubiquitin system in neurogenesis is not known. Here we show that UCH-L1 regulates the morphology of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and mediates neurogenesis. UCH-L1 was expressed in cultured NPCs as well as in embryonic brain. Its expression pattern in the ventricular zone (VZ) changed between embryonic day (E) 14 and E16, which corresponds to the transition from neurogenesis to gliogenesis. At E14, UCH-L1 was highly expressed in the ventricular zone, where neurogenesis actively occurs; whereas its expression was prominent in the cortical plate at E16. UCH-L1 was very weakly detected in the VZ at E16, which corresponds to the start of gliogenesis. In cultured proliferating NPCs, UCH-L1 was co-expressed with nestin, a marker of undifferentiated cells. In differentiating cells, UCH-L1 was highly co-expressed with the early neuronal marker TuJ1. Furthermore, when UCH-L1 was induced in nestin-positive progenitor cells, the number and length of cellular processes of the progenitors decreased, suggesting that the progenitor cells were differentiating. In addition, NPCs derived from gad (UCH-L1-deficient) mice had longer processes compared with controls. The ability of UCH-L1 to regulate the morphology of nestin-positive progenitors was dependent on its binding affinity for ubiquitin but not on hydrolase activity; this result was also confirmed using gad-mouse-derived NPCs. These results suggest that UCH-L1 spatially mediates and enhances neurogenesis in the embryonic brain by regulating progenitor cell morphology.
Information regarding the organization of the CNS in terms of neurotransmitter systems and spinal connections in the mouse is sparse, especially at the level of the brainstem. An overview is presented of monoaminergic and cholinergic systems in the brainstem and spinal cord that were visualized immunohistochemically in inbred C57BL/6 and outbred CD-1 mice. This information is complemented with data on spinal cord-projecting systems that were characterized using retrograde tracing, spinal hemisections, and double labeling techniques. Attention is given to differences in these systems related to spinal levels. The data are discussed with reference to studies in the rat, and to standardized information as provided in the atlas of the mouse brain. Although the overall organization of these systems in the mouse is largely similar to those in the rat, species differences are present in relative location, size and/or connectivity of cell groups. For example, catecholaminergic neurons in the (ventro)lateral pons (A5 and A7 cell groups) in the mouse project to the spinal cord mainly via contralateral, and not ipsilateral, pathways. The data further supplement information as provided in standardized brainstem sections of the C57BL/6 mouse [Paxinos, G., Franklin, K.B.J., 2001. The mouse brain in stereotaxic coordinates. Academic Press, San Diego], especially with respect to the size and/or location of the catecholaminergic retrorubral field (A8 group), A5, A1, and C1 cell groups, and the serotonergic B4 group, reticulotegmental nucleus (B9 group), lateral paragigantocellular nucleus and raphe magnus nucleus (B3 group). Altogether this study provides a comprehensive overview of the spatial relationships of neurochemically and anatomically defined neuronal systems in the mouse brainstem and spinal cord.
The ability to situate autobiographical memories accurately in the &quot;time-line&quot; of one's own life is a particular aspect of retrograde memory that has received little attention in well-controlled, systematic studies. Here, we addressed this issue by testing the hypothesis that patients with basal forebrain damage would be impaired in their ability to place various autobiographical memories accurately on a 'time-line' of their life. Seven such subjects were contrasted with 11 medial temporal lobe subjects, 8 brain-damaged comparison subjects, and 18 normal comparison subjects, using a procedure in which subjects placed autobiographical events on a time-line of their life. The basal forebrain group was very impaired in this task, relative to the other groups, and on average, misplaced events by more than five years. Although the basal forebrain group was also impaired in retrieving the contents of autobiographical memory, they did not differ statistically from the medial temporal lobe group in this regard (and the medial temporal lobe group did not have impaired time placement of memories). The results indicate an intriguing dissociation between &quot;knowing what&quot; and &quot;knowing when,&quot; and suggest that the basal forebrain contains structures that are especially important for &quot;knowing when.&quot; Our findings are compatible with the view that the basal forebrain participates critically in retrieval strategies important for memory chronology, which contrasts with the medial temporal lobe's critical role in relational memory per se.
Accumulation and aggregation of amyloid beta peptide 1-42 (Abeta42) in the brain has been hypothesized as triggering a pathological cascade that causes Alzheimer disease (AD). To determine whether selective targeting of Abeta42 versus Abeta40 or total Abeta is an effective way to prevent or treat AD, we compared the effects of passive immunization with an anti-Abeta42 mAb, an anti-Abeta40 mAb, and multiple Abeta(1-16) mAbs. We established in vivo binding selectivity of the anti-Abeta42 and anti-Abeta40 mAbs using novel TgBRI-Abeta mice. We then conducted a prevention study in which the anti-Abeta mAbs were administered to young Tg2576 mice, which have no significant Abeta deposition, and therapeutic studies in which mAbs were administered to Tg2576 or CRND8 mice with modest levels of preexisting Abeta deposits. Anti-Abeta42, anti-Abeta40, and anti-Abeta(1-16) mAbs attenuated plaque deposition in the prevention study. In contrast, anti-Abeta42 and anti-Abeta40 mAbs were less effective in attenuating Abeta deposition in the therapeutic studies and were not effective in clearing diffuse plaques following direct injection into the cortex. These data suggest that selective targeting of Abeta42 or Abeta40 may be an effective strategy to prevent amyloid deposition, but may have limited benefit in a therapeutic setting.
Case delineation in clinical medicine is the technique of creating a narrative that allows the appropriate scientific knowledge to be brought to bear. Neurologists get to be good at this type of story reading and telling from dealing with clinical stories which are relatively long and complicated. These skills are evident whenever working neurologists gather to discuss case material, or when studying their written clinical communications. The purpose of the article is to analyze this aspect of everyday neurological practice by looking at some of the general principles of story telling and appreciation.
Stroke is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity. The stroke process triggers an inflammatory reaction that may last up to several months. Suppression of inflammation using a variety of drugs reduces infarct volume and improves clinical outcomes in animal models of stroke. This benefit occurs even with the initiation of therapy after 3 hours of onset of stroke, beyond the therapeutic window for thrombolysis with tPA. The use of neuroprotectants to suppress inflammation may widen the therapeutic time window for tPA while lessening its side-effects. Suppression of inflammation may also improve outcomes in animal models of haemorrhagic stroke. To date, clinical trials with anti-inflammatory agents in acute ischaemic stroke have failed to improve clinical outcomes. However, because of the potential for broader applicability across all aspects of stroke, a better understanding of anti-inflammatory mechanisms is important.
Unlike for other chronic illnesses, the development of new medications for the treatment of schizophrenia has been relatively dormant since the 1950s. Recently, the Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) program was established by the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) in order to facilitate the development of treatments for cognitive impairment and functional outcome in schizophrenia. Although effective medications for managing the positive symptoms of schizophrenia have permitted many patients to live in the community, these medications often fail to improve social and vocational function. As a result, some experts believe that research into new treatments should focus instead on the functional outcomes of patients by improving cognitive abilities and social competence. The MATRICS program brought together scientists from academia, government, and industry to discuss ways of promoting the development of new treatments for schizophrenia and gain consensus on treatment targets. The initiatives that have come out of the MATRICS program include focusing on adjunct medications, addressing regulatory issues with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, determining the best way to measure functional outcomes, classifying symptoms, developing a battery of cognitive tests for assessing outcomes in clinical trials, and ranking promising targets for new treatment development.
The cholinergic division of the avian nucleus isthmi, the homolog of the mammalian nucleus parabigeminalis, is composed of the pars parvocellularis (Ipc) and pars semilunaris (SLu). Ipc and SLu were studied with in vivo and in vitro tracing and intracellular filling methods. 1) Both nuclei have reciprocal homotopic connections with the ipsilateral optic tectum. The SLu connection is more diffuse than that of Ipc. 2) Tectal inputs to Ipc and SLu are Brn3a-immunoreactive neurons in the inner sublayer of layer 10. Tectal neurons projecting on Ipc possess &quot;shepherd's crook&quot; axons and radial dendritic fields in layers 2-13. 3) Neurons in the mid-portion of Ipc possess a columnar spiny dendritic field. SLu neurons have a large, nonoriented spiny dendritic field. 4) Ipc terminals form a cylindrical brush-like arborization (35-50 microm wide) in layers 2-10, with extremely dense boutons in layers 3-6, and a diffuse arborization in layers 11-13. SLu neurons terminate in a wider column (120-180 microm wide) lacking the dust-like boutonal features of Ipc and extend in layers 4c-13 with dense arborizations in layers 4c, 6, and 9-13. 5) Ipc and SLu contain specialized fast potassium ion channels. We propose that dense arborizations of Ipc axons may be directed to the distal dendritic bottlebrushes of motion detecting tectal ganglion cells (TGCs). They may provide synchronous activation of a group of adjacent bottlebrushes of different TGCs of the same type via their intralaminar processes, and cross channel activation of different types of TGCs within the same column of visual space.
A fundamental issue in neuroscience pertains to how different cortical systems interact to generate behavior. One of the most direct ways to address this issue is to investigate how sensory information is encoded and used to produce a motor response. Antiphonal calling is a natural vocal behavior that involves individuals producing their species-specific long distance vocalization in response to hearing the same call and engages both the auditory and motor systems, as well as the cognitive neural systems involved in decision making and categorization. Here we present results from a series of behavioral experiments investigating the auditory-vocal interactions during antiphonal calling in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We manipulated sensory input by placing subjects in different social contexts and found that the auditory input had a significant effect on call timing and propensity to call. Playback experiments tested the significance of the timing of vocal production in antiphonal calling and showed that a short latency between antiphonal calls was necessary to maintain reciprocal vocal interactions. Overall, this study shows that sensory-motor interactions can be experimentally induced and manipulated in a natural primate vocal behavior. Antiphonal calling represents a promising model system to examine these issues in non-human primates at both the behavioral and neural levels.
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) has recently emerged as an important neuromodulatory system in the brain. Several neuronal functions are under the control of the cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1 receptor) and of its endogenous lipid ligands (endocannabinoids). CB1 receptors are widely expressed in the brain and their expression pattern reflects the complexity and the variety of functions of the ECS in neuronal activity. In particular, CB1 receptors are present at different levels in several brain regions and in distinct neuronal subpopulations. Endocannabinoids were described to act as retrograde transmitters at synaptic level in many brain regions. Interestingly, the mechanisms governing endocannabinoid-controlled synaptic modulation can vary depending on the region and the neuronal circuit. At physiological and pathophysiological level, the ECS has recently been shown to play important regulatory roles in several brain processes, including the modulation of memory processing and the control of excessive neuronal activity. The discovery of the ECS represents a hallmark in neuroscience research, and the exploitation of its numerous physiological and pathophysiological functions is a promising avenue for therapeutic applications.
Sea hares protect themselves from predatory attacks with several modes of chemical defenses. One of these is inking, which is an active release of a protective fluid upon predatory attack. In many sea hares including Aplysia californica and A. dactylomela, this fluid is a mixture of two secretions from two separate glands, usually co-released: ink, a purple fluid from the ink gland; and opaline, a white viscous secretion from the opaline gland. These two secretions are mixed in the mantle cavity and directed toward the attacking predator. Some of the chemicals in these secretions and their mechanism of action have been identified. In our study, we used western blots, immunocytochemistry, amino acid analysis, and bioassays to examine the distribution of these components: (1) an L-amino acid oxidase called escapin for A. californica and dactylomelin-P for A. dactylomela, which has antimicrobial activity but we believe its main function is in defending sea hares against predators that evoke its release; and (2) escapin's major amino acid substrates--L-lysine and L-arginine. Escapin is exclusively produced in the ink gland and is not present in any other tissues or secretions. Furthermore, escapin is only sequestered in the amber vesicles of the ink glandand not in the red-purple vesicles, which contain algal-derived chromophores that give ink its distinctive purple color. The concentration of escapin and dactylomelin-P in ink, both in the gland and after its release, is as high as 2 mg ml(-1), or 30 micromol ml(-1), which is well above its antimicrobial threshold. Lysine and arginine (and other amino acids) are packaged into vesicles in the ink and opaline glands, but arginine is present in ink and opaline at &lt;1 mmol l(-1) and lysine is present in ink at &lt;1 mmol l(-1) but in opaline at 65 mmol l(-1). Our previous results showed that both lysine and arginine mediate escapin's bacteriostatic effects, but only lysine mediates its bactericidal effects. Given that escapin's antimicrobial effects require concentrations of lysine and/or arginine &gt;1 mmol l(-1), our data lead us to conclude that lysine in opaline is the primary natural substrate for escapin in ink. Furthermore, packaging of the enzyme escapin and its substrate lysine into two separate glands and their co-release and mixing at the time of predatory attack allows for the generation of bioactive defensive compounds from innocuous precursors at the precise time they are needed. Whether lysine and/or arginine are substrates for escapin's antipredatory functions remains to be determined.
A number of strategies have successfully extended plant proteomics into the bilayer domain. Important benefits can be afforded by including a well-resolved intact protein mass spectrum alongside peptide identification experiments; recent studies of thylakoid membranes have yielded new information on the primary structure and covalent post-translational modification of many of the integral proteins. Intact mass proteomics is advancing through the development of core technologies in separations and mass spectrometry, with the goal of providing comprehensive primary structure coverage that includes transmembrane domains with reliable measurements of protein abundance and turnover. To address the limitations associated with separation technologies such as 2D-gel electrophoresis, alternative systems are being investigated and 2D-liquid chromatography of thylakoid membrane proteins, using both denaturing and non-denaturing first dimensions, has been successful, extending separation space and providing intact protein solutions for electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry and top-down proteomics. High-resolution conventional, and Fourier-transform, mass spectrometry is bringing increasing resolution to tandem mass spectrometry allowing for 'top-down' mass spectrometry of intact proteins. Thus the core chromatographic technologies already developed for intact mass proteomics of integral membrane proteins also allow their 'top-down' analysis. Thylakoid membrane proteins with one and two transmembrane helices have been analysed demonstrating the ability of collision-activated dissociation (CAD) to sequence through transmembrane domains. When analysed by top-down proteomics, the small subunits of the cytochrome b6f complex from Arabidopsis thylakoids reveal novel post-transcriptional/translational modifications including the presence of glutamic acid at position 2 of PetL instead of the proline residue predicted from the gene sequence.


L-theanine (N-ethyl-L-glutamine) or theanine is a major amino acid uniquely found in green tea. L-theanine has been historically reported as a relaxing agent, prompting scientific research on its pharmacology. Animal neurochemistry studies suggest that L-theanine increases brain serotonin, dopamine, GABA levels and has micromolar affinities for AMPA, Kainate and NMDA receptors. In addition has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects in animal models possibly through its antagonistic effects on group 1 metabotrophic glutamate receptors. Behavioural studies in animals suggest improvement in learning and memory. Overall, L-theanine displays a neuropharmacology suggestive of a possible neuroprotective and cognitive enhancing agent and warrants further investigation in animals and humans.
Previous research has indicated that performance on verbal fluency tests (VFTs) is influenced by language and/or culture. Consequently, normative VFT data for English-speaking people cannot be used for people for whom English is not their first language. The aim of the present study was to provide normative data for the Animal Naming, Profession Naming, and Letter M Naming (four-letter words beginning with the letter M) VFTs for Dutch-speaking populations, based on a large sample (N = 1856) of healthy men and women aged 24-81 years of different educational levels. The results showed that age affected the performance of all VFTs profoundly, but the age effect was not uniform: in the Profession and Letter M Naming VFTs, performance was stable in young adulthood but declined strongly after age 50. In contrast, in the Animal Naming VFT, performance appeared to decline linearly, starting early in life. Furthermore, males had higher scores than females on the Profession Naming VFT, and higher educated participants outperformed their lower educated counterparts on all three VFTs. Regression-based normative data were prepared for the 3 VFTs, and the advantages of using a regression-based normative approach instead of a traditional normative approach are discussed.
Soy isoflavones, the most abundant phytoestrogens, are known as endocrine modulators and appear to be an effective treatment in some women during perimenopause when symptoms such as hot flashes may be reduced. This study examined the effects of dietary soy isoflavones on regulatory behaviors such as body weight, food and water intake, and skin tail temperature by feeding male Long-Evans rats one of the three standard chows (Phyto-free, Phyto-200, and Phyto-600) containing approximately 10-15 ppm, 200 ppm, and 600 ppm of isoflavones, respectively. In an apparent dose-dependent manner, body weight was decreased as a function of increasing isoflavone levels in the diets. The average skin tail temperature of Phyto-600-fed rats (25.5 degrees C) was significantly lower than Phyto-free (27.5 degrees C) values by approximately 2 degrees C. The rats on the Phyto-200 diet (26.6 degrees C) displayed a temperature in between the Phyto-free and Phyto-600 values. Similar to the body weight results, skin tail temperature was decreased in an apparent dose-dependent manner as a function of increasing isoflavone concentrations in the diets. These results suggest that consumption of soy isoflavones alters regulatory behaviors (such as body weight and food and water intake) and skin temperature regulation that may help explain, in part, the beneficial effects of soy isoflavones on obesity and hot flashes in humans.
The plant lectin, IB4, binds to primary afferent neurons of dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia, where it is selective for nociceptive neurons. In the enteric nervous system of the guinea-pig IB4 labels intrinsic primary afferent neurons, which are believed to have roles as nociceptors. Here we investigate whether IB4 binding is also a marker of intrinsic primary afferent neurons in the mouse. Neurons that bound IB4 were common in the enteric plexuses of the small intestine and colon. Labeled neurons were rare in the stomach, and absent from the esophagus and gallbladder. Binding was to the cell surface, initial parts of axons and to clumps in the cytoplasm. Similar binding occurred on small and medium sized neurons of dorsal root, nodose and trigeminal ganglia. In the enteric nervous system, IB4 revealed large round or oval (type II) neurons, type I neurons with prominent laminar dendrites and small neurons of myenteric ganglia. The type II neurons were immunoreactive for calretinin, and some type I neurons were immunoreactive for nitric oxide synthase. Most neurons in the submucosal ganglia bound IB4, and some of these were vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactive. Thus IB4 binds to specific subgroups of enteric neurons in the mouse. These include intrinsic primary afferent neurons, but other neurons, including secretomotor neurons, are labeled. The results suggest that IB4 is not a specific label for enteric nociceptive neurons.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the cholesterol content of neuronal membranes influences amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing; however, its role in transcriptional regulation of the cofactors for gamma-secretase, the key enzyme for the production of the Abeta peptide, is poorly understood. This study investigates whether the changes in cellular cholesterol metabolism modulate the expression of genes involved in the gamma-secretase complex function. The abundance of mRNA transcripts for presenilin 1 and 2 (PS1 and PS2), APP, and nicastrin were evaluated in neuroblastoma cells exposed either to serum-depleted medium or to low-density lipoproteins (LDL). Cholesterol esterification was markedly inhibited by mevinolin and U18666A, but was not significantly affected by any other of the tested treatments. gamma-Secretase genes and cofactors were not co-regulated and were not influenced by statin inhibition of cholesterol synthesis. Nicastrin and the APP isoforms showed constitutive expression. In the absence of exogenous lipids, cell PS1 and PS2 expression was induced by LDL and by lysosomal sequestration of cholesterol. However, a different pattern of induction of presenilin gene expression was observed in the latter condition, suggesting that lysosomal cholesterol levels are strong inducers of PS2 transcription. Taken together, these results indicate that lipid metabolism has a complex influence on gamma-secretase transcriptional pathways and, in particular, exogenous cholesterol and compartmentalization in neuroblastoma cells play a relevant role in regulating the transcription of presenilins, while modulation of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway seems to exert a minor influence on the expression of gamma-secretase genes and cofactors.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Neuronal death in the substantia nigra of PD patients is partly caused by exacerbated oxidative damage. Our previous studies demonstrated that oxidative stress can alter the structure and stability of neurofilament (NF) proteins and that 17-alpha- and 17-beta-estradiol are potent neuroprotective agents. The aim of this study was to investigate the cytoskeletal target of neuroprotection by estrogens in neuronal PC12 cells. We induced oxidative stress by MPP+ administration for 24 h, and 17-alpha- and 17-beta-estradiol were used as neuroprotective drugs. We measured gene expression and protein expression of each NF subunit, NFL, NFM, and NFH, by semiquantitative RT-PCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence. Our results demonstrate that NFL mRNA and protein levels are not modulated by MPP+ or estradiol isomers, whereas NFM gene expression, as well as protein expression, are strongly influenced by MPP+, 17-alpha-, and 17-beta-estradiol after a 24-h treatment. Finally, mRNA levels of the most phosphorylated subunits, NFH, are not changed by MPP+ or treatment with both estradiol isomers, whereas NFH protein expression is decreased by the same treatments. These results suggest that oxidative stress affects neuronal cytoskeleton, maybe though proteolysis and/or abnormal structural changes in NFs. Then, 17-alpha- and 17-beta-estradiol might help the neuronal cell in recovering after oxidative stress by inducing protein expression of NFM and NFH subunits.
Rapid neurotransmission is like lightning: a spark of calcium in the nerve terminal, a spark of transmitter in the cleft, and the signal is over. But &quot;time is gained at the expense of sensitivity&quot; (Katz, 1988); transmission relies on low-affinity, high-speed reactions. These fast processes are modulated by regulating reactions that do not need to be so rapid.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs [constituted by pentameric association of alpha2-10 and beta2-4 subunits]) and P2X receptors (P2XRs [activated by ATP and constituted by multimeric association of P2X1-7 subunits]) are both ionotropic receptors permeable to cations, which have in common the disparity between the wealth of data showing their presence in the brain and little evidence of their participation in mediating synaptic transmission. This has led to the proposal that both nAChRs and P2XRs might primarily modulate rather than directly mediate synaptic transmission, which is in accordance with the predominant presynaptic localization of both receptor subtypes (Role and Berg, 1996; Cunha and Ribeiro, 2000). Interestingly, both functional neurochemical (Allgaier et al., 1995; Salgado et al., 2000; Diz-Hernndez et al., 2002) and electrophysiological studies (Barajas-Lopez et al., 1998; Searl et al., 1998; Zhou and Calligan, 1998; Khakh et al., 2000) indicated a close interaction between nAChRs and P2XRs, which is paralleled by a co-release of ATPand ACh from central terminals (e.g., Richardson and Brown, 1987). Because glutamate release in the hippocampus is controlled by both nAChRs (e.g., McGehee et al., 1995) and P2XRs (Khakh et al., 2003; Rodrigues et al., 2005), we investigated if there was a functional interaction between these two presynaptic ionotropic receptors in the control of glutamate release in the rat hippocampus.
Previous studies in other laboratories have shown that alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) exhibits a biphasic concentration-response relationship for ACh with low and high EC50 components, and that the low EC50 component can be augmented by decreasing the alpha4:beta2 message ratio or incubating overnight in nicotine or at low temperature (Zwart and Vijverberg, 1998; Covernton and Connolly, 2000; Buisson and Bertrand, 2001; Nelson et al., 2003; Zhou et al., 2003). In the process of cloning ferret nAChR subunits, we found alpha4 and beta2 messages with long untranslated regions (UTRs), as well as those with no UTRs. Combinations of these messages revealed that the presence of UTRs influenced the ability to exclusively express high-sensitivity subforms of alpha4beta2 and alpha3beta2 nAChRs. Injection of oocytes with alpha4 and beta2 RNAs lacking UTRs (1:1 ratio) led to expression of a biphasic concentration-response relationship for ACh with EC50 values of 0.5 (high sensitivity) and 114 microM(low sensitivity). Decreasing the alpha4:beta2 message ratio to as much as 1:120 increased the high-sensitivity component slightly, but the ACh concentration response remained biphasic. In contrast, injection of messages with UTRs (1:1 ratio) led to expression of a monophasic concentration response to ACh and a high-sensitivity EC50 value of 2.3 microM, as shown in Fig. 1.
The cornerstone of cell signaling is largely based on the phosphorylation state that is defined by the equilibrium of the activity of protein kinases and protein phosphatases. The role of protein tyrosine kinases in brain development, brain tumors, and neurodegenerative diseases was studied extensively, yet, the importance of protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) in the development of glial cells was somewhat neglected. In this review, we have summarized recent findings of PTP expression during development of the central nervous system and the different cell types of the brain, from stem cells to mature glial cells, and highlighted the potential role of these enzymes in neuronal stem cell development, glioblastomas, and myelination.
The mammalian CoREST ([co]repressor for element-1-silencing transcription factor) complex was first identified associated with the repressor for element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST)/neuronal restrictive silencing factor. The CoREST complex is a chromatin-modifying corepressor complex that acts with REST to regulate neuronal gene expression and neuronal stem cell fate. Components of a CoREST-like complex have been identified recently in Xenopus laevis, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Drosophila melanogaster. Like the mammalian complex, the Drosophila complex is required to regulate neuronal gene expression, whereas the C. elegans homologs regulate the expression of the hop-1 presenilin gene, suggesting an ancient conserved function of CoREST complexes in regulating neuronal gene expression.
Parkinson's disease (PD), one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, is a multifactorial disease caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Although most patients suffering from PD have a sporadic disease, several genetic causes have been identified in recent years, including alpha-synuclein, parkin, PINK1, dardarin (LRRK2), and DJ-1. DJ-1 deletions and point mutations have been found worldwide, and loss of functional protein was shown to cause autosomal recessive PD. Moreover, DJ-1 immunoreactive inclusions are found in other alpha-synucleopathies and tauopathies, indicating that different neurodegenerative diseases might share a common mechanism in which DJ-1 might play a key role. The function of DJ-1 is still unknown; however, it is associated with various cellular processes, including response to oxidative stress, cellular transformation, RNAbinding, androgen-receptor signaling, spermatogenesis, and fertilization. This article reviews the current knowledge on DJ-1, focusing on its importance in the pathogenesis of PD.
Inflammation is an important factor in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease or multiple sclerosis, and during microbial infections of the nervous system. Glial cells were thought to be the main contributor for cytokine and chemokine production and Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression in the brain. Here, we report that human neurons express TLR-3, a major receptor in virus-mediated innate immune response. We established that these cells can mount a strong inflammatory response characterized by the expression of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6), chemokines (CCL-5 and CXCL-10), and antiviral molecules (2'5'OAS and IFN-beta) after treatment with dsRNA - a by-product of viral infection and ligand of TLR-3. This work firmly establishes that human neurons, in absence of glia, have the intrinsic machinery to trigger robust inflammatory, chemoattractive, and antiviral responses.
The pharmacology and brain mRNA distribution of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) rat Y5 (rY5) receptor has led to the hypothesis that this receptor might mediate the hypothalamic feeding response to NPY in addition to many other physiologic functions. However, through the use of autoradiographic techniques, only very low levels of Y5-like immunoreactive (Y5-ir) binding are detected in the rat brain. To localize the Y5 protein in the rat brain, polyclonal antibodies were raised to the carboxyl terminus of the rY5 receptor. The resulting antisera were affinity purified and characterized by specific binding to HEK293 cells that had been stably transfected with the rY5 receptor. Utilizing immunohistochemical techniques, we found a discrete pattern of Y5-ir in the rat brain. In initial studies, very low levels of Y5-ir were detected, and TSA amplification was required to visualize the staining. Areas with the highest levels of expression include the piriform cortex, supraoptic nucleus, and hippocampus. Areas with moderate levels of expression include the lateral septum, amygdala, arcuate nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, locus coeruleus, and cerebellum. With several exceptions, this pattern of distribution is consistent with earlier reports of rY5 mRNA and receptor protein expression.
APH-1 is one of the four essential components of presenilin (PS)-gamma-secretase complexes. There are three major isoforms of APH-1 in humans: APH-1aS, APH-1aL, and APH-1b. To gain insight into the functional role of APH-1 in gamma-secretase complexes, we analyzed the relationship between the three APH-1 forms and characterized APH-1 mutants with a disrupted transmembrane GxxxG motif. We found that overexpression of APH-1aS or APH-1b in human cells significantly reduced the levels of endogenous APH-1aL protein. However, this displacement was not observed in PS-deficient cells, suggesting that it is dependent on PS. In transiently transfected cells, the levels of APH-1aL with G122D or L123D mutations were much lower than wild-type APH-1aL. Also, cycloheximide treatment of stable transfectants revealed that the mutant proteins are much less stable than the wild type. Furthermore, coimmunoprecipitation analysis showed that wild-type but not the mutant APH-1aL is incorporated into PS1 complexes, displacing endogenous APH-1aS. These results collectively indicate that the three forms of APH-1 can replace each other in PS complexes and that the transmembrane GxxxG region is essential for the stability of the APH-1 protein as well as the assembly of PS complexes.
The molecular basis for developing epilepsy remains under debate. It is hypothesized that increased excitatory synaptic activity might activate the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/Ca(2+) transduction pathway, which induces long-lasting plasticity changes leading to recurrent epileptiform discharges. To determine if these effects are caused by disruption of F-actin in the dendritic spines, we have perfused the hippocampus of conscious rats with the F-actin-depolymerizing agent latrunculin Aand the actin filament stabilizer jasplakinolide. Single perfusions of latrunculin Aand jasplakinolide decrease and increase picrotoxin seizure threshold, respectively. Repeated perfusions of both latrunculin Aand jasplakinolide induce epileptic seizures and a long-term increase in neuronal excitability. These results suggest that actin disruption might not be just a consequence but also a possible cause of epileptic seizures. We propose a new experimental model in rats to study the biochemical changes that might lead to chronic seizures and a method for testing new antiepileptic drugs.
Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) are a group of noncoding RNAs that function mainly as guides for modification of ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) and small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs). A subgroup of snoRNAs was found to be predominantly expressed in the brain; and interestingly, these brain-specific snoRNAs (b-snoRNAs) appear not to be involved in modification of rRNAs and snRNAs, raising the question of what their function and targets might be. Expression studies of b-snoRNAs in mice have shown potential involvement of two b-snoRNAs, MBII-48 and MBII-52, in learning and memory. HBII-52, the human homolog of MBII-52, appears to be involved with regulation of 5-HT(2C) receptor subunit mRNA. Furthermore, several reports link the disruption of expression of a specific b-snoRNA, HBII-85, with a neurobehavioral disorder, Prader-Willi syndrome. This paper reviews the current knowledge of the properties, expression, and functions of b-snoRNAs.
Steroids exert long-term modulatory effects on numerous physiological functions by acting at intracellular/nuclear receptors influencing gene transcription. Steroids and neurosteroids can also rapidly modulate membrane excitability and synaptic transmission by interacting with ion channels, that is, ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors or voltage-dependent Ca2+ or K+ channels. More recently, the cloning of a plasma membrane-located G protein-coupled receptor for progestins in various species has suggested that steroids/neurosteroids could also influence second-messenger pathways by directly interacting with specific membrane receptors. Here we review the experimental evidence implicating steroids/neurosteroids in the modulation of synaptic transmission and the evidence for a role of endogenously produced neurosteroids in such modulatory effects. We present some of our recent results concerning inhibitory synaptic transmission in lamina II of the spinal cord and show that endogenous 5alpha-reduced neurosteroids are produced locally in lamina II and modulate synaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid A(GABAA) receptor function during development, as well as during inflammatory pain. The production of 5alpha-reduced neurosteroids is controlled by the endogenous activation of the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), which initiates the first step of neurosteroidogenesis by stimulating the translocation of cholesterol across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Tonic neurosteroidogenesis observed in immature animals was decreased during postnatal development, resulting in an acceleration of GABAA receptor-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current (mIPSC) kinetics observed in the adult. Stimulation of the PBR resulted in a prolongation of GABAergic mIPSCs at all ages and was observed during inflammatory pain. Neurosteroidogenesis might play an important role in the control of nociception at least at the spinal cord level.
The spinal cord (SC) is a biosynthetic center for neurosteroids, including pregnenolone (PREG), progesterone (PROG), and 3alpha/5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone (3alpha/5alpha-THP). In particular, an active form of cytochrome P450 sidechain cleavage (P450scc) has been localized in sensory networks of the rat SC dorsal horn (DH). P450scc is the key enzyme catalyzing the conversion of cholesterol (CHOL) into PREG, the rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of all classes of steroids. To determine whether neurosteroidogenesis might be involved in the pivotal role played by the DH in nociception, effects of neurogenic pain provoked by sciatic nerve ligature were investigated on P450scc expression, cellular distribution, and activity in the SC. P450scc mRNA concentration was threefold higher in the DH of neuropathic rats than in controls. The nerve ligature also increased the density of P450sccpositive neuronal perykarya and fibers in the ipsilateral DH. Incubation of spinal tissue homogenates with [3H]CHOL revealed that the amount of newly synthesized [3H]PREG from [3H]CHOLwas 80% higher in the DH of neuropathic rats. Radioimmunoassays showed an increase of PREG and 3alpha/5alpha-THP concentrations in neuropathic rat DH. The upregulation of PREG and 3alpha/5alpha-THP biosynthesis might be involved in endogenous mechanisms triggered by neuropathic rats to cope with the chronic pain state. 3alpha/5alpha-THP formation from PREG can also generate PROG, which decreases sensitivity to pain and protects nerve cells against degeneration. Because apoptotic cell death has been demonstrated in the DH during neuropathic pain, activation of neurosteroidogenesis in spinal tissues might also be correlated to the neuroprotective role of steroids in the SC.
It is 20 years since the discovery of the genetic defect causing Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). This X-linked progressive and fatal myopathy is due to the absence of a functional version of a critical sub-sarcolemmal protein called dystrophin that appears to act both as a structural and as a signalling molecule in the muscle fibre. A number of molecular approaches have been developed to restore the expression of dystrophin in DMD patients. Pre-clinical experiments have demonstrated the potential of delivery of recombinant versions of the DMD gene using viral or non-viral vectors and importantly several of these systems are compatible with vascular delivery, an essential feature as all muscles are affected in this condition. Other studies have shown that antisense oligonucleotides can modify the splicing of the primary transcript to provide an internally truncated but still functional protein. Alternatively, in approximately 10-20% of cases it is possible to chemically persuade the translational machinery to read-through a pre-mature stop codon. The pre-clinical results of the last 4 years have encouraged the development of clinical trials for all of the above.
There is a limited understanding of how different anti-parkinsonian treatments act at the neuronal systems level. Using positron emission tomography we examined the effects of levodopa and deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus on patterns of regional cerebral blood flow in patients with Parkinson's disease during a homogenous cognitive-behavioural state rather than during an unspecified resting state. We found that when medicated precuneus, frontal, parietal, cerebellar and midbrain areas were relatively more activated than when stimulated, whereas when stimulated the precentral gyrus, caudate and thalamus were relatively more activated than when medicated. Areas that were activated by both treatments included the temporal gyri, anterior thalamus, and midbrain. Regions of prefrontal cortex showed relatively greater activation in the &quot;off treatment&quot; conditions of both the medicated and stimulated groups. Our findings suggest that the two treatment methods may lead to symptomatic relief via both common and different sites of action.
Several techniques are used to assess central serotonergic neurotransmission in man, e.g. challenge tests (hormonal and physiological responses to serotonin active drugs), platelet MAO-B activity as well as brain imaging techniques. Little is known about how these tests relate to each other. The aim of the present study was therefore to investigate if platelet MAO-B activity could be related to hormonal and temperature responses to the serotonin active drug DL-fenfluramine in healthy men. Twelve male subjects without any history of psychiatric disorders or drug abuse/dependencies were recruited. Prior to the challenge with 60 mg DL-fenfluramine, which was given orally, blood for determination of platelet MAO-B activity was drawn. Blood samples for determination of serum prolactin and serum cortisol were drawn at baseline and thereafter every hour for the following six hours. In addition, body temperature was measured at the same time-points. Delta-values were calculated as the difference between the baseline values and the highest (prolactin and cortisol) or lowest value (temperature) thereafter. There was a strong positive correlation (r = 0.75, p &lt; 0.02) between platelet MAO-B activity and Delta-prolactin. No correlations were found to Delta-cortisol, Delta-temperature or any of the baseline values. The results support the notion that the peripheral marker platelet MAO-B activity is related to the function of the central serotonergic neurotransmitter system as assessed by the prolactin response to 60 mg DL-fenfluramin.
Propargylamine derivatives, rasagiline and (-)deprenyl, are anti-Parkinson agents and protect neurons from cell death as shown by in vivo and in vitro experiments. The studies on the chemical structure-activity relationship proved that the propargyl moiety is essentially required for the neuroprotective function. In this paper, neuroprotective activity of free N-propargylamine was studied using SH-SY5Y cells expressing only type A monoamine oxidase (MAO) against apoptosis induced by an endogenous dopaminergic neurotoxin, N-methyl(R)salsolinol. N-Propargylamine prevented apoptosis, whereas N-methylpropargylamine and propiolaldehyde did not. N-Propargylamine stabilized mitochondrial membrane potential and induced anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 at 1 microM-10 nM. N-Propargylamine inhibited MAO-A in competition to substrate with the apparent K(i) value of 28 microM, which was significantly higher than the concentration required for neuroprotection. It indicates that MAO inhibition is not prerequisite for the protective function of N-propargylamine. The anti-apoptotic function of N-propargylamine is discussed in terms of neuroprotection by propargylamines in neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease.
Rasagiline is a novel, potent, irreversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidative B developed for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease. The drug has shown efficacy in improving motor features in both early and advanced Parkinson's disease patients. The drug appears to be well tolerated and its once daily fixed dose formulation should make for excellent compliance. Rasagiline has also demonstrated important neuroprotective properties in both in vitro and in vivo laboratory studies. A provisional study of neuroprotection in a delayed start clinical trial of early PD patients has also suggested that this benefit may be translated to the clinic. Additional clinical trials are underway to confirm this.
An important goal in Parkinson's Disease research is to identify neuroprotective therapy, and the interaction between basic science and clinical research is needed to discover drugs that can slow or halt the disorder progression. At present there is not a perfect animal model of PD to test neuroprotective strategies, however the models that portray the basic characteristics needed are toxin-induced and gene-based models. The first group comprehends 6-OHDA e MPTP and recently rotenone, paraquat and epoxomicin treated animals that shows some of human disease characteristics. Gene-based models are various and, even if with limits, they seem suitable models to test neuroprotection in PD since they present replicable lesions, a predictable pattern of neurodegeneration and a well-characterized behavior, biochemistry and morphology to assist in the understanding of induced changes. In clinical trials researchers have first used as marker of disease progression clinical scores and motor tasks which are limited by the potential symptomatic effect of tested drugs and are not useful in the pre-clinical phases of PD. Recently has emerged the important role of neuroimaging (Dopamine Transporter SPECT, 18FDopa-PET) as surrogate biomarker of PD progression. Even if there are still concerns about the influence of regulatory effects of tested drugs, neuroimaging features could represent a good outcome measure to evaluate PD progression and putative neuroprotective effect of pharmacological and non-pharmacological manipulations.
Although still a disorder of unknown etiology, Parkinson's disease (PD) has provided a number of clues that have led to clinical trials of neuroprotection. For example, defects in mitochondrial metabolism and evidence for oxidative stress in PD have fostered therapeutic interventions aimed at slowing disease progression. More than a dozen compounds already have been tested in PD for disease modification, and others are in planning stages for clinical trials. The challenge is to find a highly effective therapy halting disease progression (beyond the relatively modest clinical effect exemplified by recent findings with coenzyme Q-10 treatment administered at 1200mg/day). Clinical exam-based ratings and disability assessments still serve at providing the primary evidence of efficacy. However, with surrogate biomarkers such as radiotracer neuroimaging of the dopaminergic system, the pace of clinical investigation can be increased. Recent years have seen the utilization of more sensitive study methods in PD neuroprotection research, such as staggered wash-in, 2 x 2 factorial, and &quot;futility&quot; trial designs. The results of several ongoing PD neuroprotection trials are planned for release in the near future.
In neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, apoptosis is a common type of cell death, and mitochondria emerge as the major organelle to initiate death cascade. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) in the mitochondrial outer membrane produces hydrogen peroxide by oxidation of monoamine substrates, and induces oxidative stress resulting in neuronal degeneration. On the other hand, a series of inhibitors of type B MAO (MAO-B) protect neurons from cell death. These results suggest that MAO may be involved in the cell death process initiated in mitochondria. However, the direct involvement of MAO in the apoptotic signaling has been scarcely reported. In this paper, we present our recent results on the role of MAO in activating and regulating cell death processing in mitochondria. Type A MAO (MAO-A) was found to bind an endogenous dopaminergic neurotoxin, N-methyl(R)salsolinol, and induce apoptosis in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells containing only MAO-A. To examine the intervention of MAO-B in apoptotic process, human MAO-B cDNA was transfected to SH-SY5Y cells, but the sensitivity to N-methyl(R)salsolinol was not affected, even though the activity and protein of MAO-B were expressed markedly. MAO-B oxidized dopamine with production of hydrogen peroxide, whereas in control cells expressing only MAO-A, dopamine autoxidation produced superoxide and dopamine-quinone, and induced mitochondrial permeability transition and apoptosis. Rasagiline and other MAO-B inhibitors prevent the activation of apoptotic cascade and induce prosurvival genes, such as bcl-2 and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, in MAO-A-containing cells. These results demonstrate a novel function of MAO-A in the induction and regulation of apoptosis. Future studies will clarify more detailed mechanism behind regulation of mitochondrial death signaling by MAO-A, and bring out new strategies to cure or ameliorate the decline of neurons in neurodegenerative disorders.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, neurodegenerative disease with degeneration of the central dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, leading to a depletion of dopamine (DA) in the striatum. This depletion causes the clinical hallmarks of this disease: bradykinesia, hypokinesia, rigidity, tremor and postural instability. Besides these well known motor symptoms, non-motor symptoms may develop, such as hyposmia, sleep disorders, autonomic disturbances, depression, cognitive impairment and psychosis. Pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these symptoms not only comprise Lewy body pathology in the central dopaminergic system, but also in the noradrenergic, serotinergic and cholinergic transmittersystems. Indeed, in Parkinson's disease, about 30-40% of the patients suffers fluctuating psychotic symptoms, mainly paranoid delusions and/or visual or acoustic hallucinations, symptoms considered to represent major contributors to patient and caregiver distress and nursing home placement. Endogenous (related to the disease process itself) as well as exogenous (related to therapeutical interventions) psychotogenic factors may contribute to the development of psychotic symptoms in PD. Therapeutical strategies, therefore, are aimed to reduce both endogenous and exogenous factors. To reduce endogenous psychotogenic factors, cholinesterase inhibitors, suggested to reduce cognitive deterioration, now seem to be the drugs of choice. In exogenously induced psychotic symptoms, atypical antipsychotics are considered the most effective. However, as psychotic symptoms in PD are often influenced by both endogenous and exogenous factors, a combination of both strategies may be preferred.
Despite the overall excellent outcome of neurosurgery in patients with Parkinson's disease, there is often a contrast between the improvement in motor disability and the difficulties of patients to reintegrate a normal life. In this study, the personal, familial and professional difficulties experienced by patients two years after bilateral high frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus were carefully analyzed. To avoid such socio-familial maladjustment, we strongly suggest taking into consideration the patients' psychological and social context before the operation and during the post-operative follow-up.
This brief review deals with pathological aspects of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease (PDD). PDD has been variably linked with cortical Lewy body topography and density. alpha-Synuclein and Alzheimer-type pathology frequently co-exist, suggesting that a combination of pathology related to protein dysmetabolism, possibly with synergistic protein-protein interaction, underpins the cognitive impairment in PDD. Dementia may therefore ensue when a &quot;toxic threshold&quot; is reached, irrespective of the combination of pathologies involved in reaching that threshold. The nature of this putative protein-protein interaction needs to be further elucidated, and also whether there are specific clinical correlates of the pathological substrate. Serum and cerebrospinal fluid proteins or imaging techniques may be useful in future as biomarkers to identify the relative contribution of Lewy-related and Alzheimer-type pathology in a given case of PDD and to inform the rational use of drugs that can reduce alpha-synuclein aggregation and beta-amyloid production.
We here summarize the results of genetic investigations on a series of 82 parkinsonian patients from 60 families in Taiwan. We found 13 parkin patients in 7 families (12%), 2 PINK1 sibs from 1 family, and 1 LRRK2 patient from 1 family with I2012T mutation. We also identified SCA2 in 8 patients from 5 families (8%) and SCA3 in 3 patients from 1 family, all presenting with parkinsonian phenotype. In the available patients with parkin, PINK1, SCA2 and SCA3, the dopamine transporter (DAT) scan revealed that the reduction of uptake was primarily observed in the bilateral putamen, basically sharing a similar pattern with that in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. We concluded that the genetic causes contributed to about 25% of our series of familial parkinsonism. The parkin mutations and SCA2 were the most frequent genetic causes in our series with Chinese ethnicity. The results of DAT scan indicated that bilateral putamen was essentially involved in various genetically-caused familial parkinsonism.
Elucidation of the biochemical steps leading to the 1-Methyl-4-Phenyl-1,2,3,6-Tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced degeneration of the nigro-striatal dopamine (DA) pathway has provided new clues to the pathophysiology of Parkinson's Disease (PD). In line with the enhancement of MPTP toxicity by diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC), here we demonstrate how other CYP450 (2E1) inhibitors, such as diallyl sulfide (DAS) or phenylethylisothiocyanate (PIC), also potentiate the selective DA neuron degeneration in C57/bl mice. In order to provide direct evidence for this isozyme involvement, CYP 2E1 knockout mice were challenged with MPTP or the combined treatment. Here we show that these transgenic mice have a low sensitivity to MPTP alone, similarly to the wild type SVI, suggesting that it is likely that transgenic mice compensate for the missing enzyme. However, in these CYP 2E1 knockout mice, DDC pretreatment completely fails to enhance MPTP toxicity; this enhancement is instead regularly present in the SVI control animals. This study indicates that the occurrence of CYP 2E1 in C57/bl mouse brain is relevant for MPTP toxicity, and suggests that this isozyme may have a detoxificant role related to the efflux transporter of the toxin.
Cytochromes P450 is a family of heme proteins that metabolize xenobiotics including drugs. Unique human brain cytochrome P450 enzymes metabolize xenobiotics including drugs to active/inactive metabolites through biotransformation pathways that are different from the well-characterized ones in liver. We have identified an alternate spliced functional transcript of CYP2D7 containing partial inclusion of intron 6 in human brain but not in liver or kidney from the same individual. Genotyping revealed the presence of the frame-shift mutation 138delT only in those subjects who expressed the brain variant CYP2D7, which metabolizes codeine exclusively to morphine unlike hepatic CYP2D6 that metabolizes codeine to nor codeine and morphine. CYP1A1 bioactivates polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to reactive DNA binding metabolites and initiates carcinogenesis. We have identified a unique splice variant of CYP1A1 having deletion of 87 bp of exon 6 which is present in human brain but not in liver of the same individual. We present evidence for the existence of biotransformation pathways in human brain that are dissimilar from known pathways in liver. Identification and characterization of novel CNS-specific P450 enzymes generated by alternate splicing of known genes or as yet unidentified genes may help predict consequences of exposure to xenobiotics including pesticides in the brain.
The Ubiquitin Proteasome System is a multi-enzymatic pathway which degrades polyubiquinated soluble cytoplasmic proteins. This biochemical machinery is impaired both in sporadic and inherited forms of Parkinsonism. In the present paper we focus on the role of the pre-synaptic protein alpha-synuclein in altering the proteasom based on the results emerging from experimental models showing a mechanistic chain of events between altered alpha-synuclein, proteasome impairment and formation of neuronal inclusions and catecholamine cell death.
The discovery of the nigrostriatal DA system in the rat was made possible by the highly specific and sensitive histochemical fluorescence method of Falck and Hillarp in combinations with electrolytic lesions in the substantia nigra and removal of major parts of the neostriatum. Recent work on DA neuron evolution shows that in the Bottlenose Dolphin the normal DA cell groups of the substantia nigra are very cell sparse, while there is a substantial expansion of the A9 medial and A10 lateral subdivisions forming an impressive &quot;ventral wing&quot; in the posterior substantia nigra. The nigrostriatal DA pathway mainly operates via Volume Transmission. Thus, DA diffuses along concentration gradients in the ECF to reach target cells with high affinity DA receptors. A novel feature of the DA receptor subtypes is their physical interaction in the plasma membrane of striatal neurons forming receptor mosaics (RM) with the existence of two types of RM. The &quot;functional decoding unit&quot; for DA is not the single receptor, but rather the RM that may affect not only the integration of signals in the DA neurons but also their trophic conditions. In 1991 A2A receptor antagonists were indicated to represent novel antiparkinsonian drugs based on the existence of A2A/D2 receptor-receptor interactions and here P2X receptor antagonists are postulated to be neuroprotective drugs in treatment of Parkinson's Disease.
Dopamine belongs to the most intensively studied neurotransmitters of the brain, because of its implications in psychiatric and neurological disorders. Although, clinical relevance of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons is well recognized and dopaminergic dysfunction may have a genetic component, the genetic cascades underlying developmental processes are still largely unknown. With the advances in molecular biology, mDA neurons and their involvement in psychiatric and neurological disorders are now subject of studies that aim to delineate the fundamental neurobiology of these neurons. These studies are concerned with developmental processes, cell-specific gene expression and regulation, molecular pharmacology, and genetic association of dopamine-related genes and mDA-associated disorders. Several transcription factors implicated in the post-mitotic mDA development, including Nurr1, Lmx1b, Pitx3, and En1/En2 have contributed to the understanding of how mDA neurons are generated in vivo. Furthermore, these studies provide insights into new strategies for future therapies of Parkinson's Disease (PD) using stem cells for engineering DA neurons in vitro. Here, we will discuss the role of Pitx3 in molecular mechanisms involved in the regional specification, neuronal specification and differentiation of mDA neurons.
The engrailed genes belong to a large family of homeobox transcription factors. They are found throughout the animal kingdom, are highly conserved in the DNA binding domain and have been investigated for more than half a century. In the murine genome, two engrailed genes exist, called Engrailed-1 and Engrailed-2. Here, we summarize the properties of the engrailed genes and their functions, such as conserved structures, cellular localisation, secretion and internalisation, transcription factor activity, potential target genes and review their role in the development of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. During early development, they take part in the regionalization event, which specifies the neuroepithelium that provides the precursor cells of the mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons with the necessary signals for their induction. Later in the post-mitotic neurons, the two transcription factors participate in their specification and are cell-autonomously required for their survival.
Recordings in humans as a result of functional neurosurgery have revealed a tendency for basal ganglia neurons to oscillate and synchronise their activity, giving rise to a rhythmic population activity, manifest as oscillatory local field potentials. The most important activity is synchronised oscillation in the beta band (13-30 Hz), which has been picked up at various sites within the basal ganglia-cortical loop in PD. Dopaminergic medication and movement suppress this activity, with the timing and degree of suppression closely correlating with behavioural performance. Accordingly synchronisation in the beta band has been hypothesised to be essentially antikinetic in nature and pathophysiologically relevant to bradykinesia.
Pregnancy and mothering result in a number of hormonal, neurological, and behavioral changes that are necessary to ensure reproductive success. With subsequent reproductive experience (multiparity and mothering), further neurological and behavioral changes may result. Recent research has shown that previous motherhood enhances both hippocampus-dependent learning and memory and long-term potentiation (LTP); together with decreases in hippocampus volumes during pregnancy it is suggested that the hippocampus is affected by pregnancy and/or mothering. The present experiment aimed to investigate the effect of reproductive experience (nulli, primi-, and multiparity and mothering) on dendritic morphology in the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. Brains were stained with a modified version of the single-section Golgi impregnation technique, and dendritic length, number of branch points, and spine density was analyzed for apical and basal regions of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons. Primiparity and/or mothering resulted in dendritic remodeling in both the CA1 and CA3 hippocampal regions, and multiparity resulted in enhanced spine density in the basal CA1 region, which was positively correlated with number of male pups in a litter. These findings point to the effect of reproductive experience and offspring on plasticity in the hippocampus, an area not traditionally associated with motherhood.
The developing cerebellum is highly sensitive to ethanol during discrete neonatal periods. This sensitivity has been linked to ethanol-induced alterations in molecules of the Bcl-2 survival-regulatory gene family. Ethanol exposure during peak periods of cerebellar sensitivity, for example, results in increased expression of proapoptotic proteins of this family, while overexpression of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein in the nervous system protects against ethanol neurotoxicity. For the present study, neonatal mice with a targeted deletion of the proapoptotic bax gene were used to determine whether elimination of this protein would mitigate ethanol toxicity. bax knock-out and wild-type mice pups were exposed to ethanol via vapor inhalation during the maximal period of neonatal cerebellar ethanol sensitivity and cerebellar tissue was subsequently assessed for Purkinje and granule cell number and ethanol-mediated generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The results revealed that: (1) ethanol exposure during the peak period of cerebellar vulnerability resulted in substantial loss of Purkinje cells in wild-type animals, but not in bax knock-outs; (2) granule cells in the bax gene-deleted animals were not similarly protected from ethanol effects; and (3) levels of ROS following acute ethanol exposure were appreciably enhanced in the wild-type animals but not in the bax knock-outs. These results imply that Bax is important to ethanol-induced Purkinje cell death during critical neonatal periods, but that ethanol effects on granule cells may function at least partially independent of this apoptosis agonist. Amelioration of ethanol-mediated increases in ROS production in the knock-outs may contribute to the observed effects.
The neural circuit that controls the electric organ discharge (EOD) of the brown ghost knifefish (Apteronotus leptorhynchus) contains two spontaneous oscillators. Both pacemaker neurons in the medulla and electromotor neurons (EMNs) in the spinal cord fire spontaneously at frequencies of 500-1,000 Hz to control the EOD. These neurons continue to fire in vitro at frequencies that are highly correlated with in vivo EOD frequency. Previous studies used channel blocking drugs to pharmacologically characterize ionic currents that control high-frequency firing in pacemaker neurons. The goal of the present study was to use similar techniques to investigate ionic currents in EMNs, the other type of spontaneously active neuron in the electromotor circuit. As in pacemaker neurons, high-frequency firing of EMNs was regulated primarily by tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents and by potassium currents that were sensitive to 4-aminopyridine and kappaA-conotoxin SIVA, but resistant to tetraethylammonium. EMNs, however, differed from pacemaker neurons in their sensitivity to some channel blocking drugs. Alpha-dendrotoxin, which blocks a subset of Kv1 potassium channels, increased firing rates in EMNs, but not pacemaker neurons; and the sodium channel blocker muO-conotoxin MrVIA, which reduced firing rates of pacemaker neurons, had no effect on EMNs. These results suggest that similar, but not identical, ionic currents regulate high-frequency firing in EMNs and pacemaker neurons. The differences in the ionic currents expressed in pacemaker neurons and EMNs might be related to differences in the morphology, connectivity, or function of these two cell types.
In the striatum, stimulation of dopamine D2 receptors results in attenuation of glutamate responses. This effect is exerted in large part via negative regulation of AMPA glutamate receptors. Phosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit of the AMPA receptor has been proposed to play a critical role in the modulation of glutamate transmission, in striatal medium spiny neurons. Here, we have examined the effects of blockade of dopamine D2-like receptors on the phosphorylation of GluR1 at the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) site, Ser845, and at the protein kinase C and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II site, Ser831. Administration of haloperidol, an antipsychotic drug with dopamine D2 receptor antagonistic properties, increases the phosphorylation of GluR1 at Ser845, without affecting phosphorylation at Ser831. The same effect is observed using eticlopride, a selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist. In contrast, administration of the dopamine D2-like agonist, quinpirole, decreases GluR1 phosphorylation at Ser845. The increase in Ser845 phosphorylation produced by haloperidol is abolished in dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) knockout mice, or in mice in which the PKA phosphorylation site on DARPP-32 (i.e. Thr34) has been mutated (Thr34--&gt;Ala mutant mice), and requires tonic activation of adenosine A2A receptors. These results demonstrate that dopamine D2 antagonists increase GluR1 phosphorylation at Ser845 by removing the inhibitory tone exerted by dopamine D2 receptors on the PKA/DARPP-32 cascade.
Mitochondrial monoamine oxidase (MAO) has been considered to be involved in neuronal degeneration either by increased oxidative stress or protection with the inhibitors of type B MAO (MAO-B). In this paper, the role of type A MAO (MAO-A) in apoptosis was studied using human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, where only MAO-A is expressed. An endogenous dopaminergic neurotoxin, N-methyl(R)salsolinol, an MAO-A inhibitor, reduced membrane potential, DeltaPsim, in isolated mitochondria, and induced apoptosis in the cells, which 5-hydroxytryptamine, an MAO-A substrate, prevented. In contrast, beta-phenylethylamine, an MAO-B substrate, did not suppress the DeltaPsim decline by N-methyl(R)salsolinol. The binding of N-methyl(R)salsolinol to mitochondria was inhibited by clorgyline, a MOA-A inhibitor, but not by (-)deprenyl, an MAO-B inhibitor. RNA interference targeting MAO-A significantly reduced the binding of N-methyl(R)salsolinol with simultaneous reduction in the MAO activity. To examine the intervention of MAO-B in the apoptotic process, human MAO-B was transfected to SH-SY5Y cells, but the sensitivity to N-methyl(R)salsolinol was not affected, even although the activity and protein of MAO increased markedly. These results demonstrate a novel function of MAO-A in the binding of neurotoxins and the induction of apoptosis, which may account for neuronal cell death in neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease.
Rapid signal transduction pathways play a prominent role in mediating neuroprotective actions of estrogen in the CNS. We have previously shown that estrogen-induced neuroprotection of primary cerebrocortical neurons from beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) toxicity depends on activation of protein kinase C (PKC). PKC activation with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) also provides neuroprotection in this paradigm. Because the PKC family includes several isoforms that have opposing roles in regulating cell survival, we sought to identify which PKC isoforms contribute to neuroprotection induced by PMA and estrogen. We detected protein expression of multiple PKC isoforms in primary neuron cultures, including conventional (alpha, betaI, betaII), novel (delta, epsilon, theta) and atypical (zeta, iota/lambda) PKC. Using a panel of isoform-specific peptide inhibitors and activators, we find that novel and atypical PKC isoforms do not participate in the mechanism of either PMA or estrogen neuroprotection. In contrast, a selective peptide activator of conventional PKC isoforms provides dose-dependent neuroprotection against Abeta toxicity. In addition, peptide inhibitors of conventional, betaI, or betaII PKC isoforms significantly reduce protection afforded by PMA or 17beta-estradiol. Taken together, these data provide evidence that conventional PKC isoforms mediate phorbol ester and estrogen neuroprotection of cultured neurons challenged by Abeta toxicity.
Mechanical transection of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway at the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) results in the delayed degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). We have previously demonstrated that c-Jun activation is an obligate component of neuronal death in this model. Here we identified the small GTPase, cdc42, and mixed lineage kinases (MLKs) as upstream factors regulating neuronal loss and activation of c-Jun following MFB axotomy. Adenovirus-mediated expression of a dominant-negative form of cdc42 in nigral neurons blocked MFB axotomy-induced activation (phosphorylation) of MAP kinase kinase 4 (MKK4) and c-Jun, resulting in attenuation of SNpc neuronal death. Pharmacological inhibition of MLKs, MKK4-activating kinases, significantly reduced the phosphorylation of c-Jun and abrogated dopaminergic neuronal degeneration following MFB axotomy. Taken together, these findings suggest that death of nigral dopaminergic neurons following axotomy can be attenuated by targeting cell signaling events upstream of c-Jun N-terminal mitogen-activated protein kinase/c-Jun.
In order to identify biological processes relevant for cell death and survival in the brain following stroke, the postischemic brain transcriptome was studied by a large-scale cDNA array analysis of three peri-infarct brain regions at eight time points during the first 24 h of reperfusion following middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. K-means cluster analysis revealed two distinct biphasic gene expression patterns that contained 44 genes (including 18 immediate early genes), involved in cell signaling and plasticity (i.e. MAP2K7, Sprouty2, Irs-2, Homer1, GPRC5B, Grasp). The first gene induction phase occurred at 0-3 h of reperfusion, and the second at 9-15 h, and was validated by in situ hybridization. Four gene clusters displayed a progressive increase in expression over time and included 50 genes linked to cell motility, lipid synthesis and trafficking (i.e. ApoD, NPC1, G3P-dehydrogenase1, and Choline kinase) or cell death-regulating genes such as mitochondrial CLIC. We conclude that a biphasic transcriptional up-regulation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR)-mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling pathways occurs in surviving tissue, concomitant with a progressive and persistent activation of cell proliferation signifying tissue regeneration, which provide the means for cell survival and postischemic brain plasticity.
Sjgren's syndrome, an inflammatory disease affecting the lacrimal and salivary glands, is the leading cause of aqueous tear-deficient type of dry eye. We previously showed that interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) protein is up regulated in the lacrimal gland of a murine model of Sjgren's syndrome and that exogenous addition of this cytokine inhibits neurotransmitter release and lacrimal gland protein secretion. In the present study we investigated the role of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) in IL-1beta-mediated inhibition of lacrimal gland secretion and tear production. In vitro, IL-1beta induced a time-dependent activation of JNK with a maximum 7.5-fold at 30 min. SP600125, a JNK inhibitor, inhibited, in a concentration-dependent manner, IL-1beta-induced activation of JNK with a maximum of 87% at 10(-4) m. In vivo, IL-1beta stimulated JNK and the expression of the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). IL-1beta inhibited high KCl and adrenergic agonist induced protein secretion by 85% and 66%, respectively. SP600125 alleviated the inhibitory effect of IL-1beta on KCl- and agonist-induced protein secretion by 79% and 47%, respectively, and completely blocked the expression of iNOS. Treatment for 7 days with SP600125 increased tear production in a murine model of Sjgren's syndrome dry eye. We conclude that JNK plays a pivotal role in IL-1beta-mediated inhibition of lacrimal gland secretion and subsequent dry eye.

Tic disorders are stereotypic behaviours,more frequent than once believed, and therefore likely to be encountered by primary care physicians. Tics usually begin in childhood and are the clinical hallmark of Tourette Syndrome (TS), the most common cause of tics. TS is a relatively common neurobehavioural disorder with a spectrum of manifestations that wax and wane during its natural course. The pathophysiology of tics, at molecular and cellular level, is still unknown,whereas structural and functional neuroimaging studies have shown the involvement of the basal ganglia and related cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuits, and the dopaminergic neuronal system. Moreover, TS has a strong genetic background. The management of TS is often complicated by the presence of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and other behaviour disorders. The correct diagnosis is a fundamental step for a proper management of these disorders, and a multimodal treatment is usually indicated. This approach includes educational and supportive interventions, as well as pharmacological treatments when tics are at their worst.
From 1991-2002, we treated 58 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) using the humanised monoclonal antibody, Campath-1H, which causes prolonged T lymphocyte depletion. Clinical and surrogate markers of inflammation were suppressed. In both the relapsing-remitting (RR) and secondary progressive (SP) stages of the illness, Campath-1H reduced the annual relapse rate (from 2.2 to 0.19 and from 0.7 to 0.001 respectively; both p &lt; 0.001). Remarkably, MRI scans of patients with SP disease, treated with Campath-1H 7 years previously, showed no new lesion formation. However, despite these effects on inflammation, disability was differently affected depending on the phase of the disease. Patients with SPMS showed sustained accumulation of disability due to uncontrolled progression marked by unrelenting cerebral atrophy, attributable to ongoing axonal loss. The rate of cerebral atrophy was greatest in patients with established cerebral atrophy and highest inflammatory lesion burden before treatment (2.3 versus 0.7 ml/year; p = 0.04). In contrast, patients with RR disease showed an impressive reduction in disability at 6 months after Campath-1H (by a mean of 1.2 EDSS points) perhaps owing to a suppression of on-going inflammation in these patients with unusually active disease. In addition, there was a further significant, albeit smaller, mean improvement in disability up to 36 months after treatment. We speculate that this represents the beneficial effects of early rescue of neurons and axons from a toxic inflammatory environment, and that prevention of demyelination will prevent long-term axonal degeneration. These concepts are currently being tested in a controlled trial comparing Campath-1H and IFN-beta in the treatment of drug-nave patients with early, active RR MS.



The immediate-early gene Arc is rapidly expressed in response to neuronal activity and is thought to be involved in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity. The function of Arc in these processes remains unknown. The present study demonstrates that during an in vitro neural correlate of eyeblink classical conditioning, there is a rapid and transient increase in levels of Arc protein that require activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. In the early phase of conditioning during conditioned response (CR) acquisition, there is significantly greater colocalization of Arc protein and GluR4-containing AMPA receptors at synaptic sites, however, colocalization of Arc and GluR4 was not observed after later stages of conditioning during CR expression. There was also significantly enhanced coimmunoprecipitation of Arc with GluR4 subunits and actin early in conditioning but not of Arc with NR1 subunits, and these associations declined to control levels in later stages of conditioning. These data suggest a role for Arc protein in the synaptic delivery of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors by interactions with cytoskeletal protein complexes during the acquisition phase of in vitro classical conditioning.
The interception of moving targets is a complex activity that involves a dynamic interplay of several perceptual and motor processes and therefore involves a rich interaction among several brain areas. Although the behavioral aspects of interception have been studied for the past three decades, it is only during the past decade that neural studies have been focused on this problem. In addition to the interception itself, several neural studies have explored, within that context, the underlying mechanisms concerning perceptual aspects of moving stimuli, such as optic flow and apparent motion. In this review, we discuss the wealth of knowledge that has accumulated on this topic with an emphasis on the results of neural studies in behaving monkeys.
The present study examined muscular activity in the primate proximal forelimb during a posture task. By applying loads selectively to the shoulder, elbow, or both joints, we observed that monoarticular shoulder and elbow muscles varied their activity with loads at the unspanned joint. Shoulder monoarticulars changed activity with elbow torque and elbow monoarticulars changed activity with shoulder torque. Due to this additional modulation, the maximal activation of monoarticular muscles was deviated from their anatomical action toward either shoulder-extension/elbow-flexion or shoulder-flexion/elbow-extension. Biarticular muscles also expressed deviations in their preferred torque direction toward either shoulder-extension/elbow-flexion or shoulder-flexion/elbow-extension. The biased distribution of preferred torque directions in proximal forelimb muscles could be modeled by the minimization of a global measure of muscle activity. Moreover, arm-related neurons of primary motor cortex exhibit a similar bias in preferred torque directions consistent with the intimate relationship between the primary motor cortex and the motor periphery.
The successful study of dendritic signaling and computation requires the ability to simultaneously monitor neuronal activity at multiple cellular sites. While the difficulties of accessing dendritic submicron structures with conventional micropipette approaches are generally overcome by optical recording techniques, their spatio-temporal resolution has limited such studies to few sites or slow signals. Here we present a novel approach to functional imaging, termed random-access multiphoton (RAMP) microscopy, which combines multiphoton excitation with an inertia-free scanning mechanism. RAMP microscopy employs two-dimensional acousto-optic deflection to rapidly position a focused near-infrared ultrafast laser beam between dwell periods at multiple user-selected sites. Because neuronal structures are generally sparse, activity located throughout various compartments, including thin dendritic branches and spines, can be mapped at high frame rates while maintaining the signal-to-noise ratio of conventional scanning microscopy. Moreover, RAMP microscopy maintains the excellent structural imaging capability of multiphoton excitation, i.e., intrinsic optical sectioning and high lateral resolution from within highly light-scattering brain tissue. RAMP microscopy thus comprises a versatile tool for investigating correlations of dendritic structure and function with significantly enhanced experimental throughput.
We have examined the localization and activity of the neural circuitry that generates swimming behavior in developing zebrafish that were spinalized to isolate the spinal cord from descending brain inputs. We found that addition of the excitatory amino acid agonist N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) to spinalized zebrafish at 3 days in development induced repeating episodes of rhythmic tail beating activity reminiscent of slow swimming behavior. The neural correlate of this activity, monitored by extracellular recording comprised repeating episodes of rhythmic, rostrocaudally progressing peripheral nerve discharges that alternated between the two sides of the body. Motoneuron recordings revealed an activity pattern comprising a slow oscillatory and a fast synaptic component that was consistent with fictive swimming behavior. Pharmacological and voltage-clamp analysis implicated glycine and glutamate in generation of motoneuron activity. Contralateral alternation of motor activity was disrupted with strychnine, indicating a role for glycine in coordinating left-right alternation during NMDA-induced locomotion. At embryonic stages, while rhythmic synaptic activity patterns could still be evoked in motoneurons, they were typically lower in frequency. Kinematic recordings revealed that prior to 3 days in development, NMDA was unable to reliably generate rhythmic tail beating behavior. We conclude that NMDA induces episodes of rhythmic motor activity in spinalized developing zebrafish that can be monitored physiologically in paralyzed preparations. Therefore as for other vertebrates, the zebrafish central pattern generator is intrinsic to the spinal cord and can operate in isolation provided a tonic source of excitation is given.
The cerebellar cortex and nuclei play important roles in the learning, planning, and execution of reach-to-grasp and prehensile movements. However, few studies have investigated the signals carried by cerebellar neurons during reach-to-grasp, particularly signals relating to target object properties, hand shape, and grasp force. In this study, the simple spike discharge of 77 Purkinje cells was recorded as two rhesus monkeys reached and grasped 16 objects. The objects varied systematically in volume, shape, and orientation and each was grasped at five different force levels. Linear multiple regression analyses showed the simple spike discharge was significantly modulated in relation to objects and force levels. Object related modulation occurred preferentially during reach or early in the grasp and was linearly related to grasp aperture. The simple spike discharge was positively correlated with grasp force during both the reach and the grasp. There was no significant interaction between object and grasp force modulation, supporting previous kinematic findings that grasp kinematics and force are signaled independently. Singular value decomposition (SVD) was used to quantify the temporal patterns in the simple spike discharge. Most cells had a predominant discharge pattern that remained relatively constant across object grasp dimensions and force levels. A single predominant simple spike discharge pattern that spans reach and grasp and accounts for most of the variation (&gt;60%) is consistent with the concept that the cerebellum is involved with synergies underlying prehension. Therefore Purkinje cells are involved with the signaling of prehension, providing independent signals for hand shaping and grasp force.
Systemic administration of A-425619, a potent and selective TRPV1 receptor antagonist that does not readily enter the CNS, produces antinociception in several rat models of pathological nociception, including complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced thermal hyperalgesia. To further understand the peripheral mechanisms of TRPV1-related antinociception, we examined the effects of systemic and site-specific injections of A-425619 on evoked and spontaneous firing of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in uninjured rats and rats with peripheral inflammation (CFA; 48 h). In uninjured rats, capsaicin-evoked (1 microg) WDR activity was completely blocked by intraplantar administration of A-425619 (3-100 nmol). Systemic injection of A-425619 (3-30 micromol/kg, iv) reduced WDR responses to thermal stimulation in both CFA-inflamed (47 degrees C) and uninjured (52 degrees C) rats. However, the efficacy of A-425619 to attenuate thermal-evoked WDR activity was significantly greater (P &lt; 0.01) in CFA-treated rats. Both intradorsal root ganglion (DRG; L5; 20 nmol) and intraplantar (30-300 nmol) injection of A-425619 reduced WDR responses to thermal stimulation. While the effectiveness of A-425619 was similar between CFA-inflamed and uninjured rats after intraplantar injection, the effects of A-425619 after intra-DRG injection were enhanced in the inflamed rats (compared with the uninjured rats). Spontaneous WDR discharges were unaltered by systemic or site-specific injections of A-425619. Thus noxious thermal stimulation triggers the transmission of TRPV1-related signals to spinal WDR neurons in both inflamed and uninjured animals. The apparent increase in TRPV1 signaling to WDR neurons after injury may be the result of changes to the distribution/sensitization of peripheral TRPV1 receptors.
Neurons in primary visual cortex are widely considered to be oriented filters or energy detectors that perform one-dimensional feature analysis. The main deviations from this picture are generally thought to include gain controls and modulatory influences. Here we investigate receptive field (RF) properties of single neurons with localized two-dimensional stimuli, the two-dimensional Hermite functions (TDHs). TDHs can be grouped into distinct complete orthonormal bases that are matched in contrast energy, spatial extent, and spatial frequency content but differ in two-dimensional form, and thus can be used to probe spatially specific nonlinearities. Here we use two such bases: Cartesian TDHs, which resemble vignetted gratings and checkerboards, and polar TDHs, which resemble vignetted annuli and dartboards. Of 63 isolated units, 51 responded to TDH stimuli. In 37/51 units, we found significant differences in overall response size (21/51) or apparent RF shape (28/51) that depended on which basis set was used. Because of the properties of the TDH stimuli, these findings are inconsistent with simple feedforward nonlinearities and with many variants of energy models. Rather, they imply the presence of nonlinearities that are not local in either space or spatial frequency. Units showing these differences were present to a similar degree in cat and monkey, in simple and complex cells, and in supragranular, infragranular, and granular layers. We thus find a widely distributed neurophysiological substrate for two-dimensional spatial analysis at the earliest stages of cortical processing. Moreover, the population pattern of tuning to TDH functions suggests that V1 neurons sample not only orientations, but a larger space of two-dimensional form, in an even-handed manner.
Spontaneous rhythmic neuronal activity is generated in the developing vertebrate nervous system. The patterned activity spreads diffusely throughout the fetal neuraxis. Here we demonstrate the ability of the fetal rat spinal cord and medulla to generate and transmit robust rhythmic patterns in the absence of synaptic activity. Regular rhythmic discharges were produced by fetal tissue bathed in low or zero [Ca(2+)](o) solution. The activity persisted in the presence of antagonists to neurotransmitter receptors that are known to mediate synaptic-mediated events associated with fetal rhythms. A combination of ventral root recordings and optical imaging using voltage-sensitive dyes demonstrated the extensive spread of rhythmic discharge in spinal cord and medullary neuronal populations of in vitro preparations. Whole cell recordings from medullary slices were performed to examine the ionic conductances and revealed the importance of persistent sodium conductances for generation of rhythmic activity in hypoglossal (XII) motoneurons. Rhythmic bursting in XII motoneurons persisted in the presence of gap junction blockers, although the amplitude of synchronized motor discharge recorded from nerve roots was diminished. We propose that nonsynaptically mediated conductances, potentially by extracellular ionic flux and/or ephaptic and electrotonic interactions mechanisms, act in concert with neurochemical transmission and gap junctions to promote the diffuse spread of rhythmic motor patterns in the developing nervous system.
The authors examined variations of serotonin transporter-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR) functional polymorphism in 26 stroke patients with major depression and in 25 unrelated nondepressed stroke subjects of Caucasian descent. Findings indicate a significant association between 5-HTTLPR short variant genotype and poststroke major depression.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) supports neuronal survival against a wide variety of insults. This includes tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha)-mediated neuronal damage, which represents one of the factors suspected to play a role in HIV-associated dementia (HAD). PC12 neurons engineered to express human IGF-1R (PC12/IGF-1R) maintain neuronal processes on collagen IV for several weeks. However, prolonged treatment with TNFalpha caused degeneration of neuronal processes, with no apparent signs of apoptosis. In this process, TNFalpha did not affect IGF-1-mediated phosphorylation of IRS-1, IRS-2, Akt, or Erks. In addition, PC12/IGF-1R cells were found to express predominantly alpha1beta1 integrin, which has high affinity to collagen IV. The treatment of PC12/IGF-1R neurons with a specific alpha1beta1 integrin inhibitor, obtustatin, also caused loss of neuronal processes, accompanied by a quick cell detachment and extensive apoptosis. In the presence of IGF-1, both TNFalpha-induced and obtustatin-induced degeneration of neuronal processes were effectively inhibited. Furthermore, TNFalpha-mediated neuronal degeneration correlated with decreased attachment of PC12/IGF-1R cells to collagen IV and with a reduced level of alpha1beta1 integrin, consistent with a role for this surface protein in the maintenance of neuronal processes. Thus the neuroprotective effects of IGF-1 are not restricted to its antiapoptotic properties but also involve an additional neuroprotective mechanism, by which IGF-1 counteracts the negative effect of TNFalpha on alpha1beta1 integrin-mediated attachment to collagen IV.

In subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) with cerebrovascular instability, hyperventilation may induce a risk of inducing or aggravating cerebral ischemia. We measured cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rates of oxygen (CMRO2), glucose (CMRglc), and lactate (CMRlac) at different PaCO2 levels after experimental SAH in rats (injection of 0.07 mL of autologous blood into the cisterna magna). Four groups of Sprague-Dawley male rats were studied at predetermined PaCO2 levels: group A: normocapnia (5.01-5.66 kPa [38.0-42.0 mm Hg]); group B: slight hyperventilation (4.34-5.00 kPa [32.5-37.5 mm Hg]); group C: moderate hyperventilation (3.67-4.33 kPa [27.5-32.4 mm Hg]); group D: profound hyperventilation (3.00-3.66 kPa [22.5-27.4 mm Hg]). Each of the four groups included eight rats with SAH and eight sham-operated controls. CBF was determined by the intracarotid Xe method; CMRo2, CMRglc, and CMRlac were obtained by cerebral arteriovenous differences. In both SAH rats and controls, hyperventilation decreased CBF in proportion to the decrement in PaCO2 without affecting either CMRO2, CMRglc, or CMRlac. In groups C and D, CBF decreased by 20%-35%, but CMRs were maintained by a compensatory increase in oxygen extraction fraction (OEF). The results show that even profound hyperventilation in this model of SAH is associated with an adequate increase in OEF so that CMRs of oxygen, glucose, and lactate remain similar to levels observed in normocapnic conditions.
Most experimental studies of spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats damage the thoracic cord, with the consequent functional loss being due to interruption of long tracts connecting the caudal spinal cord to the rostral nervous system. Less work has been done evaluating injury to the cervical cord, even though it is the most common level of human SCI. In addition to the long tracts, the cervical spinal cord contains the sensory and motor neurons responsible for upper extremity function. The purpose of this study was to further develop a rat model of cervical spinal cord contusion injury using a modified NYU/MASCIS weight drop device. Mild (6.25 mm) and moderate (12.5 mm) C5 unilateral injuries were produced. Behavioral recovery was examined using a grooming test, a paw preference test, a walkway test (The Catwalk), and a horizontal ladder test. Histological outcome measures included sparing at the lesion epicenter, sparing throughout the extent of the lesion, quantification of myelin loss rostral and caudal to the lesion, and motor neuron counts. Compared to controls, animals receiving SCI exhibited injury severity-specific deficits in forelimb, locomotor, and hindlimb function persisting for 6-weeks post-SCI. Histological analysis revealed ipsilateral containment of the injury, and differentiation between groups on all measures except motor neuron counts. This model has many advantages: (1) minimal animal care requirements post-SCI, (2) within subject controls, (3) functional loss involves primarily the ipsilateral forelimb, and (4) it is a behavioral and histological model for both gray and white matter damage caused by contusive SCI.



The vast surfaces of the gastrointestinal, respiratory, and genitourinary tracts represent major sites of potential attack by invading micro-organisms. Immunoglobulin A (IgA), as the principal antibody class in the secretions that bathe these mucosal surfaces, acts as an important first line of defence. IgA, also an important serum immunoglobulin, mediates a variety of protective functions through interaction with specific receptors and immune mediators. The importance of such protection is underlined by the fact that certain pathogens have evolved mechanisms to compromise IgA-mediated defence, providing an opportunity for more effective invasion. IgA function may also be perturbed in certain disease states, some of which are characterized by deposition of IgA in specific tissues. This review details current understanding of the roles played by IgA in both health and disease.

This article reviews the interpretation of the fetal motor repertoire in the light of neurophysiology and clinical neurology. The continuity of the maturative process from the fetus to the neonate allows us to speculate on the predictive value of optimal and non-optimal neurological function as observed in the fetus and their morphological consequences. Neonatologists know that early prediction concerning outcome is reliable only at the two ends of the spectrum, e.g., optimal and very abnormal situations. However, in intermediate situations the quality of observations achieved by 3D-4D ultrasonography already allows to demonstrate the prenatal onset of brain damage, based on morphologic and functional signs. Their identification during the second half of pregnancy may serve as a retrospective marker of a prenatal insult.
7-(1,1-Dimethylethyl)-6-(2-ethyl-2H-1,2,4-triazol-3-ylmethoxy)-3-(2-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3-b]pyridazine (TPA023) is a triazolopyridazine that binds with equivalent high (subnanomolar) affinity to the benzodiazepine binding site of recombinant human GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, or alpha5 subunit but has partial agonist efficacy at the alpha2 and alpha3 subtypes and essentially antagonist efficacy at the alpha1 and alpha5 subtypes. In rats, TPA023 gave time- and dose-dependent occupancy after oral dosing, with 50% occupancy corresponding to a dose of 0.42 mg/kg. It has anxiolytic-like activity in unconditioned (elevated plus maze) and conditioned (fear-potentiated startle and conditioned suppression of drinking) rat models of anxiety with minimum effective doses (MED; 1-3 mg/kg) corresponding to 70 to 88% occupancy. However, there was no appreciable sedation in a response sensitivity (chain-pulling) assay at a dose of 30 mg/kg, resulting in 99% occupancy. Similarly, TPA023 was robustly anxiolytic in the squirrel monkey conditioned emotional response assay, with a MED of 0.3 mg/kg, but did not produce any sedation in a lever-pressing test of sedation even at 10 mg/kg. TPA023 produced no impairment in performance in the mouse Rotarod assay, and there was only a mild interaction with ethanol. In addition to anxiolytic-like efficacy, TPA023 had anticonvulsant activity in a mouse pentylenetetrazole seizure model. Finally, TPA023 did not cause precipitated withdrawal in mice treated for 7 days with the nonselective agonist triazolam, nor did N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG 7142) precipitate withdrawal in mice treated for 7 days with TPA023. In summary, the novel alpha2/alpha3-selective efficacy profile of TPA023 translates into a nonsedating anxiolytic profile that is distinct from nonselective agonists.
Calcium regulates numerous processes in the brain. How one signal can coordinate so many diverse actions, even within the same neurone, is the subject of intense investigation. Here we have used two-photon calcium imaging to determine the mechanism that enables calcium to selectively and appropriately induce different forms of long-term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampus. Short-lasting LTP (LTP 1) required activation of ryanodine receptors (RyRs), which selectively increased calcium in synaptic spines. LTP of intermediate duration (LTP 2) was dependent on activation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors (IP3Rs) and subsequent calcium release specifically in dendrites. Long-lasting LTP (LTP 3) was selectively dependent on L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels (L-VDCCs), which generated somatic calcium influx. Activation of NMDA receptors was necessary, but not sufficient, for the generation of appropriate calcium signals in spines and dendrites, and the induction of LTP 1 and LTP 2. These results suggest that the selective induction of different forms of LTP is achieved via spatial segregation of functionally distinct calcium signals.
The interest in, and the need for effective measures to be used in screening, diagnosis, and the follow-up of skeletal pathologies is growing markedly. This paper proposes a completely new and non-invasive technique allowing the study of the human tibia bone marrow (BM) haemodynamics with a time resolution of 1 s. The technique, based on near infrared spectroscopy, is sensitive enough to allow the detection of BM blood volume and/or oxygen saturation changes during orthostatic variations imposed by a tilt bed. An increase in the slope of the bed of 15 degrees is sufficient to detect this phenomenon. The ability to study the possible presence of a neural control of BM haemodynamics is also discussed. No other existing technique currently allows one to obtain the proposed results and this approach might open up a new field of study related to human BM physiology.
The selective noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor reboxetine may have advantages over the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors fluoxetine and citalopram, in effects on sexual function and satisfaction. The effects of reboxetine and paroxetine on sexual function were compared by examining data from the UK centres in an international double-blind flexible-dose parallel-group multi-centre randomized controlled trial of acute treatment of patients with DSM-IV major depression. Patients were randomly assigned to receive reboxetine (4 mg b.d.) or paroxetine (20 mg mane) using a double-dummy technique to preserve the blind. The dosage could be increased at day 28 (to reboxetine 4 mg mane, 6 mg nocte; or paroxetine 20 mg b.d.). Antidepressant efficacy was assessed by the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) and Clinical Global Impression Scale for Severity (CGI-S) at all study visits, and the Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) at each visit after randomization. Sexual function and satisfaction was assessed by visual analogue scale (VAS) items of the Rush Sexual Inventory completed at baseline and days 28 and 56. There were no significant differences between groups in demographic or clinical features at baseline. There was a gradual reduction in severity of depressive symptoms (reboxetine, 14.3; paroxetine, 12.0: observed case analysis), with no significant differences between groups. There were significant differences (p 0.05), with advantages for reboxetine, at Week 4 and Week 8 on the VAS item assessing ability to become sexually excited, and non-significant trends with advantages for reboxetine, in frequency of sexual thoughts at Week 4 (p 0.05) and Week 8 (p 0.08); and in desire to initiate sexual activity at Week 4 (p 0.09). Exclusion of patients who had ever experienced sexual dysfunction with any medication prior to participation in this study (n 10) reduced the statistical significance of the findings, although there were still numerical advantages for reboxetine. Sexual function and satisfaction in depressed patients improves during double-blind acute treatment with reboxetine or paroxetine, but this improvement is greater and more rapid with reboxetine.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a natural mechanism for regulating gene expression, which exists in plants, invertebrates, and mammals. We investigated whether non-viral infusion of short interfering RNA (siRNA) by the intracerebroventricular route would enable a sequence-specific gene knockdown in the mouse brain and whether the knockdown translates into disease-relevant behavioral changes. Initially, we targeted enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in mice overexpressing EGFP. A selective knockdown of both EGFP protein and mRNA was observed throughout the brain, with lesser down-regulation in regions distal to the infusion site. We then targeted endogenous genes, encoding the dopamine (DAT) and serotonin transporters (SERT). DAT-siRNA infusion in adult mice produced a significant down-regulation of DAT mRNA and protein and elicited hyperlocomotion similar, but delayed, to that produced on infusion of GBR-12909, a potent and selective DAT inhibitor. Similarly, SERT-siRNA infusion resulted in significant knockdown of SERT mRNA and protein and elicited reduced immobility in the forced swim test similar to that obtained on infusion of citalopram, a very selective and potent SSRI. Application of this non-viral RNAi approach may accelerate target validation for neuropsychiatric disorders that involve a complex interplay of gene(s) from various brain regions.


For more than 20 years, coordination dynamics have provided research on human movement science with new views about the nonlinear relationships between behavioral and neural dynamics. A number of studies across various experimental settings including bimanual, postural or interpersonal coordination, and also coordination between movements of a limb and an external event in the environment revealed the self-organized nature of human coordination. Here we review an extensive body of literature - in the human movement science and the neuroscience fields - that has investigated the coordination dynamics of brain and behavior when individuals are involved in two rhythmic coordination patterns: synchronization (on-the-beat movements) and syncopation (in-between beats movements). When the frequency of movement approaches 2 Hz, the syncopation mode is destabilized and synchronization is spontaneously adopted. The abrupt change between the two patterns illustrates a phenomenon known as non-equilibrium phase transition. Phase transitions offer a novel entry point into the investigation of pattern formation (and dissolution) at both the behavioral and the cerebral levels as they illustrate the loss of stability of the system. Brain imaging methods (MEG, EEG and fMRI) were used to reveal the neural signatures of (in)stability underlying the differences between behavioral coordination patterns, and pointed at the role of self-organization and metastability principles in brain functioning. Relationships between behavioral and brain dynamics can therefore be investigated within a unified empirical and theoretical framework.

Recent progress in the understanding of movement control allows us to define more precisely the requirements for successful rehabilitation of patients with neurologic deficits after a spinal cord injury (SCI). Load- and hip joint position-related afferent input seems to be of crucial importance for the generation and success of locomotor training. In addition, there is accumulating evidence from animal experiments that axonal regeneration can be induced after a SCI. Consequently, in the near future, new therapeutic approaches will be developed for the treatment of subjects with SCI. Functional training and regeneration represent complimentary approaches. Regenerating spinal tract fibers needs functional training to make the appropriate connections, and training effects will be enhanced by regenerating fibers. A clinical basis for monitoring the effects of novel interventional therapies is needed. Refined and combined clinical and neurophysiologic measures are needed for a precise qualitative and quantitative assessment of spinal cord function in patients with SCI at an early stage. This is a basic requirement for predicting functional outcome, as well as for recognizing any improvement in the recovery of function caused by a new treatment. To this aim, 14 European spinal cord injury centers involved in the rehabilitation of patients with acute SCI have built a close clinical collaboration using a standardized protocol for the assessment of the outcome after SCI and the extent of recovery achieved by actually applied therapies in a larger population of patients with SCI.
The purpose of this study was to investigate trunk and knee strength in practitioners of hard-style martial arts. An additional objective was to examine reaction times in these participants by measuring simple reaction times (SRT), choice reaction times (CRT) and movement times (MT). Thirteen high-level martial artists and twelve sedentary participants were tested under isokinetic and isometric conditions on an isokinetic dynamometer. Response and movement times were also measured in response to simple and choice auditory cues. Results indicated that the martial arts group generated a greater body-weight adjusted peak torque with both legs at all speeds during isokinetic extension and flexion, and in isometric extension but not flexion. In isokinetic and isometric trunk flexion and extension, martial artists tended to have higher peak torques than controls, but they were not significantly different (p &gt; 0.05). During the SRT and CRT tasks the martial artists were no quicker in lifting their hand off a button in response to the stimulus [reaction time (RT)] but were significantly faster in moving to press another button [movement time (MT)]. In conclusion, the results reveal that training in a martial art increases the strength of both the flexors and extensors of the leg. Furthermore, they have faster movement times to auditory stimuli. These results are consistent with the physical aspects of the martial arts. Key PointsMartial artists undertaking hard-style martial arts have greater strength in their knee flexor and extensor muscles as tested under isokinetic testing. Under isometric testing conditions they have stronger knee extensors only.The trunk musculature is generally higher under both conditions of testing in the martial artists, although not significantly.The total reaction times of the martial artists to an auditory stimulus were significantly faster than the control participants. When analysed further it was revealed that the decrease in reaction time was due to the movement time component of the total reaction time.The training involved for the practice of the hard-style martial arts increases the strength of muscles involved in kicking. This increased strength is not seen in the trunk muscles. Furthermore, martial artists have a faster response time; the cause of which appears to be only the faster movement time.

The hallmark feature of premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is the predictable, cyclic nature of symptoms or distinct on/offness that begins in the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and remits shortly after the onset of menstruation. PMDD is distinguished from PMS by the severity of symptoms, predominance of mood symptoms, and role dysfunction, particularly in personal relationships and marital/family domains. Several treatment modalities are beneficial in PMDD and severe PMS, but the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have emerged as first-line therapy. The SSRIs can be administered continuously throughout the entire month, intermittently from ovulation to the onset of menstruation, or semi-intermittently with dosage increases during the late luteal phase. These guidelines present practical treatment algorithms for the use of SSRIs in women with pure PMDD or severe PMS, PMDD and underlying subsyndromal clinical features of mood or anxiety, or premenstrual exacerbation of a mood/anxiety disorder.
The relation between diabetes and major types of dementia is controversial. This systematic review examines the incidence of dementia in people with diabetes mellitus. We identified 14 eligible longitudinal population-based studies of variable methodological quality. The incidence of &quot;any dementia&quot; was higher in individuals with diabetes than in those without diabetes in seven of ten studies reporting this aggregate outcome. This high risk included both Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia (eight of 13 studies and six of nine studies respectively). Detailed data on modulating and mediating effects of glycaemic control, microvascular complications, and comorbidity (eg, hypertension and stroke) were generally absent. The findings of mechanistic studies suggest that vascular disease and alterations in glucose, insulin, and amyloid metabolism underlie the pathophysiology, but which of these mechanisms are clinically relevant is unclear. Further high quality studies need to be initiated, with objective diabetes assessment, together with reliable methods to establish the contribution of vascular disease and other comorbidity to dementia.
Numerous studies suggest roles for monoamines in modulating long-term potentiation (LTP). Previously, we reported that both induction and maintenance of perforant path-dentate gyrus LTP is enhanced when induced while animals explore novel environments. Here we investigate the contribution of serotonin and 5-HT1a receptors to the novelty-mediated enhancement of LTP. In freely moving animals, systemic administration of the selective 5-HT1a antagonist WAY-100635 (WAY) attenuated LTP in a dose-dependent manner when LTP was induced while animals explored novel cages. In contrast, LTP was completely unaffected by WAY when induced in familiar environments. LTP was also blocked in anesthetized animals by direct application of WAY to the dentate gyrus, but not to the median raphe nucleus (MRN), suggesting the effect of systemic WAY is mediated by a block of dentate 5-HT1a receptors. Paradoxically, systemic administration of the 5-HT1a agonist 8-OH-DPAT also attenuated LTP. This attenuation was mimicked in anesthetized animals following application of 8-OH-DPAT to the MRN, but not the dentate gyrus. In addition, application of a 5-HT1a agonist to the dentate gyrus reduced somatic GABAergic inhibition. Because serotonergic projections from the MRN terminate on dentate inhibitory interneurons, these data suggest 5-HT1a receptors contribute to LTP induction via inhibition of GABAergic interneurons. Moreover, activation of raphe 5-HT1a autoreceptors, which inhibits serotonin release, attenuated LTP induction even in familiar environments. This suggests that serotonin normally contributes to dentate LTP induction in a variety of behavioral states. Together, these data suggest that serotonin and dentate 5-HT1a receptors play a permissive role in dentate LTP induction, particularly in novel conditions, and presumably, during the encoding of novel, hippocampus-relevant information.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may induce cough and rhinopharyngeal inflammation. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by upper airway inflammation. We describe a patient who, during enalapril treatment, developed cough, upper airway symptoms, and diurnal sleepiness, with an increased number of obstructive apnea-hypopnea episodes (apnea-hypopnea index [AHI], 25) during sleep. Her symptoms and AHI improved 1 month after enalapril was discontinued and diuretic therapy (hydrochlorothiazide-spironolactone) was initiated. Similar findings were observed in 4 other patients with OSA who had ACE inhibitor-induced cough. The mean +/- SD AHI was 33.8+/-21.0 during enalapril treatment and 20.0+/-17.0 after withdrawal of this drug (P = .04). Exhaled nitric oxide, a marker of airway inflammation, was increased during enalapril treatment (15.0 +/- 4.3 parts per billion) and decreased after discontinuation of this drug (9.0 +/- 2.6; P = .03). No significant difference in the AHI and exhaled nitric oxide was observed in 4 patients with OSA who did not experience cough, before or after withdrawal of ACE inhibitor treatment. These findings suggest that ACE inhibitor treatment may contribute to OSA by inducing upper airway inflammation.
A unilateral four-headed pectoralis major muscle was observed on the left side of an 83 year-old Caucasian male cadaver. The accessory tendon arises from the lateral aspect of the pectoralis major muscle, travels along with the tendon of the long head of the biceps brachii and blends into the capsule of the shoulder joint. This anomaly is rare. A complete or partial absence of pectoralis major muscle is normally reported. Additionally, supernumerary heads of muscles other than pectoralis major have been documented. However, the existence of an accessory tendon to the pectoralis major muscle is unique. The implications of such a finding are discussed.

The current psychiatric diagnostic system, the diagnostic statistic manual, has recently come under increasing criticism. The major reason for the shortcomings of the current psychiatric diagnosis is the lack of a scientific brain-related etiological knowledge about mental disorders. The advancement toward such knowledge is further hampered by the lack of a theoretical framework or &quot;language&quot; that translates clinical findings of mental disorders to brain disturbances and insufficiencies. Here such a theoretical construct is proposed based on insights from neuroscience and neural-computation models. Correlates between clinical manifestations and presumed neuronal network disturbances are proposed in the form of a practical diagnostic system titled &quot;Brain Profiling&quot;. Three dimensions make-up brain profiling, &quot;neural complexity disorders&quot;, &quot;neuronal resilience insufficiency&quot;, and &quot;context-sensitive processing decline&quot;. The first dimension relates to disturbances occurring to fast neuronal activations in the millisecond range, it incorporates connectivity and hierarchical imbalances appertaining typically to psychotic and schizophrenic clinical manifestations. The second dimension relates to disturbances that alter slower changes namely long-term synaptic modulations, and incorporates disturbances to optimization and constraint satisfactions within relevant neuronal circuitry. Finally, the level of internal representations related to personality disorders is presented by a &quot;context-sensitive process decline&quot; as the third dimension. For practical use of brain profiling diagnosis a consensual list of psychiatric clinical manifestations provides a &quot;diagnostic input vector&quot;, clinical findings are coded 1 for &quot;detection&quot; and 0 for &quot;non-detection&quot;, 0.5 is coded for &quot;questionable&quot;. The entries are clustered according to their presumed neuronal dynamic relationships and coefficients determine their relevance to the specific related brain disturbance. Relevant equations calculate and normalize the different values attributed to relevant brain disturbances culminating in a three-digit estimation representing the three diagnostic dimensions. brain profiling has the promise for a future brain-related diagnosis. It offers testable predictions about the etiology of mental disorders because being brain-related it lends readily to brain imaging investigations. Being presented also as a one-point representation in a three-dimensional space, multiple follow-up diagnoses trace a trajectory representing an easy-to-see clinical history of the patient. Additional, more immediate, advantages involve reduced stigma because it relaters the disorder to the brain not the person, in addition the three-digit diagnostic code is clinically informative unlike the DSM codes that have no clinical relevance. To conclude, brain profiling diagnosis of mental disorders could be a bold new step toward a &quot;clinical-neuroscience&quot; substituting &quot;psychiatry&quot;.
There is evidence that moral behavior is a product of evolution and an innate aspect of the human brain. Functional magnetic resonance studies in normals, investigations of psychopaths, and acquired sociopathy from brain lesions suggest a neurobiology of moral behavior. Reports of sociopathy among patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) have provided a further opportunity to clarify the neurobiology of morality. They confirm a morality network that includes the ventromedial frontal cortex, the orbitofrontal cortex, and the amygdalae. The right ventromedial region is critical for the emotional tagging of moral situations, the orbitofrontal cortex responds to social cues and mitigates impulsive reactions, and the amygdalae are necessary for threat detection and moral learning. Alterations in moral behavior in FTD may result from a loss of the emotional label of moral dilemmas, coupled with disinhibited responses. More investigations are needed to fully understand how the brain mediates moral or ethical behavior.
A biophysical hypothesis to explain the powerful ameliorating effects of weak (nanoTesla range) magnetic fields on melatonin-related diseases is presented. The effects are dependent upon the molarity of the melatonin within specific organ spaces. The optimal ameliorating effects upon experimental allergic encephalomyelitis for both the derived intensities (about 35 and 70 nT) and the frequency (7 Hz) were congruent with the empirical observations from previously published and unpublished experiments with rats involving about 1-5000 nT strengths of either 0.5, 7, 40, or 60 Hz magnetic fields. The hypothesis predicts that weaker magnetic fields within the nanoTesla to picoTesla range would optimally affect concentrations of melatonin (in this situation) within the micromolar range and that neurological states (epilepsy) or conditions (ethanol, antidepressants, sleep deprivation) that affect nocturnal melatonin levels in human beings would determine the optimal effective intensity within the 7 Hz range. The resonance solution also suggests that mitochondrial proton gradients may be critical to the process. The model offers an alternative explanation to the variations of Faraday's Law and the Boltzmann constant that have been employed to explain and to dismiss biological effects from weak magnetic fields.
The case of HM, a man with intractable epilepsy who became amnesic following bilateral medial temporal lobe surgery nearly half a century ago has instigated ongoing research and theoretical speculation on the nature of memory and the role of the hippocampus. Neuropsychological testing showed that although HM had extensive anterograde memory loss he could still acquire motor and cognitive skills implicitly, but could not remember the context of this learning. This has lead to declarative and procedural descriptions of the memory process. Cholinergic and monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems have also been implicated in the memory process and anticholinergic drugs traditionally have been associated with impairment of declarative memory. The cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease is a classic example of an application of these neuropharmacological findings. In schizophrenia, preattentive deficits have been amply demonstrated by unconscious priming studies. Memory processes are also impaired in these patients. Dopamine, glutamate and even cholinergic dysfunction has been implicated in the clinical picture of schizophrenia. The present paper will attempt to bring together both the anatomical and pharmacological data from these disparate fields of research under a cohesive theory of cognition and memory. A hypothesis is presented for an inverse relationship between monoaminergic and cholinergic systems in the modulation of implicit (unconscious) and explicit (conscious) cognitive processes. It is postulated that muscarinic cholinergic receptors and monoaminergic systems facilitate unconscious and conscious processes, respectively, and they disfacilitate conscious and unconscious processes, respectively (the purported inverse relationship). In fact, the muscarinic and monoaminergic modulations of a neural network are proposed to be finely balanced such that, if, the activity of one receptor system is modified then this by necessity has effects on the other system. It takes into account receptor subtypes and their effects mediated through excitatory and inhibitory G-protein complexes. For example, m1/D2 and D1/m4 paired receptor subtypes, colocalized on separate neurons would have opposing functional effects. A theory is then presented that the critical underlying pathophysiology of schizophrenia involves a hypofunctional muscarinic cholinergic system, which induces abnormal facilitation of monoaminergic subsystems such as dopamine (e.g., a decrease in m1R function would potentiate D2R function). This extends the idea of an inverted U function for optimal monoaminergic concentrations. Not only would this impair unconscious preattentive processes, but according to the hypothesis, explicit cognition as well including memory deficits and would underlie the mechanism of psychosis. Contrary to current thinking a different view is also presented for the role of the hippocampus in the memory process. It is postulated that long-term explicit memory traces in the neocortex are laid down by phasic coactivation of forebrain projecting monoaminergic systems above some basal firing rate, such as the rostral serotonergic raphe, which projects diffusely to the cortex and according to a modified Hebbian principle. This is the proposed principal function of the hippocampal theta rhythm. The phasic activation of the cholinergic basal forebrain is mediated by projections from a separate cortical structure, possibly the lateral prefrontal cortex. Phasic muscarinic receptor activation is proposed to strengthen implicit memory traces (at a synaptic level) in the neocortex. Thus, the latter are spared by medial temporal surgery explaining the dissociation of explicit from implicit memory.

Brain imaging studies suggest that the functional connectivity of various limbic, prefrontal, and temporal brain structures can be understood as the basis for particularly intense experiences of impairment and many secondary symptoms of decompensated tinnitus. Results to date suggest cortical plasticity as a likely mechanism to be involved in the chronic progression of tinnitus. Relationships between the processing of auditory signals and neural networks associated with somatosensory, attentional, cognitive and emotional processes are relevant for the genesis of the pathology. However, the neural bases of subjective impairment in tinnitus patients are unknown. An integrative model of developing tinnitus is presented here, based on the most recent neurophysiological data in current discussion. We assume the involvement of altered brain functions in the development and maintenance of perceptions of tinnitus and outline various possibilities which could contribute to decompensation and chronic progression. The discussions surrounding present models of the generation of tinnitus and its reinforcement to the point of decompensation make it clear that a unidimensional approach in clinical interventions is insufficient. Patients with decompensated tinnitus suffer from a complex somatic and psychological disorder. The interactive processes involving emotions, behaviour and symptoms, as well as the high co-morbidity with affective and psychosomatic illnesses and the important influence of psychosocial factors (distress), make the use of stage-appropriate interdisciplinary treatments necessary.
This work investigates the effects of nonrigid transformation model and deformation constraints on the results of deformation-based morphometry (DBM) studies. We evaluate three popular registration algorithms: a B-spline algorithm with several different constraint terms, Thirion's demons algorithm, and a curvature PDE-based algorithm. All algorithms produced virtually identical overlaps of corresponding structures, but the underlying deformation fields were very different, and the Jacobian determinant values within homogeneous structures varied dramatically. In several cases, we observed bi-modal distributions of Jacobians within a region that violate the assumption of gaussianity that underlies many statistical tests. Our results demonstrate that, even with perfect overlap of corresponding structures, the statistics of Jacobian values are affected by bias due to design elements of the particular nonrigid registration. These findings are not limited to DBM, but also apply to voxel-based morphometry to the extent that it includes a Jacobian-based correction step (&quot;modulation&quot;).
Functional Magnetic Resonance imaging studies analyse sequences of brain volumes whose intensity changes predominantly reflect blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) effects. The most comprehensive signal model to date of the BOLD effect is formulated as a continuous-time system of nonlinear stochastic differential equations. In this paper we present a particle filtering method for the analysis of the BOLD system, and demonstrate it to be both accurate and robust in estimating the hidden physiological states including cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, total deoxyhemoglobin content, and the flow inducing signal, from functional imaging data.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation is a noninvasive method for stimulation of brain that is based on the ability of magnetic field to penetrate skull and brain meninges, subsequently inducing electric current in the brain tissues that produces neuronal depolarization and generation of action potentials. Moreover, transcranial magnetic stimulation has effects on neurochemical and synaptic processes in neurons. Due to its easy use and relatively fair side effects, nowadays, transcranial magnetic stimulation is widely used in neurosciences and medicine. The main areas of transcranial magnetic stimulation application are: 1) the investigation of cortical and spinal excitability, 2) the investigation of neuronal plasticity, 3) the investigation of neuronal connectivity, 4) functional mapping, and 5) the treatment of some neurological and psychiatric disorders. Transcranial magnetic stimulation alone or in combination with other noninvasive neuroimaging (PET--positron emission topography, MRI--magnetic resonance imaging) and neurofunctional (EEG--electroencephalography, ERP--event-related potentials, fMRI--functional magnetic resonance imaging) methods allows conducting research on brain functions. Thus, transcranial magnetic stimulation is suitable as a diagnostic tool in neurologic and neuropsychiatric brain research.

We review research on the neuropsychological effects that central nervous system (CNS) cancer treatments have on the cognitive abilities of children and adolescents. The authors focus on the two most common malignancies of childhood: leukemias and brain tumors. The literature review is structured so as to separate out earlier studies, generally those published prior to 1995, as opposed to manuscripts that have been published within the past decade. This is an important distinction for both leukemia and brain tumors. Earlier studies were ground breaking in that they began to map out what could be expected in terms of intelligence and academic problems in survivors of pediatric malignancies. Survivorship in this population has and continues to markedly increase and this is largely due to changes in treatment protocols. Research on neurocognitive effects of disease and treatment in pediatric oncology has become increasingly sophisticated, and this literature review not only reflects this trend, but highlights the growing collaboration between neuropsychology, cognitive neuroscience, and neuro-imaging. Thus, our goal was to provide a historical foundation, lead the reader towards the progression of research methodology up to the current state of the art, and perhaps most importantly, discuss future directions. These directions are especially relevant to the concepts of remediation and treatment of cognitive problems, and this is emphasized at the conclusion of the review.
In white matter disorders such as leukodystrophies (LD), periventricular leucomalacia (PVL), or multiple sclerosis (MS), the hypomyelination or the remyelination failure by oligodendrocyte progenitor cells involves errors in the sequence of events that normally occur during development when progenitors proliferate, migrate through the white matter, contact the axon, and differentiate into myelin-forming oligodendrocytes. Multiple mechanisms underlie the eventual progressive deterioration that typifies the natural history of developmental demyelination in LD and PVL and of adult-onset demyelination in MS. Over the past few years, pathophysiological studies have mostly focused on seeking abnormalities that impede oligodendroglial maturation at the level of migration, myelination, and survival. In contrast, there has been a strikingly lower interest for early proliferative and differentiation events that are likely to be equally critical for white matter development and myelin repair. This review highlights the Yin and Yang principles of interactions between intrinsic factors that coordinately regulate progenitor cell division and the onset of differentiation, i.e. the initial steps of oligodendrocyte lineage progression that are obviously crucial in health and diseases.

Breakdown of oligodendrocyte-neuron interactions in white matter (WM), such as the loss of myelin, results in axonal dysfunction and hence a disruption of information processing between brain regions. The major feature of leukodystrophies is the lack of proper myelin formation during early development or the onset of myelin loss late in life. These early childhood WM diseases are described as hypomyelination or dysmyelination arising from a primary block in normal myelin synthesis because of a genetic mutation expressed in oligodendrocytes, or failure in myelination secondary to neuronal or astroglial dysfunctions (van der Knaap 2001 Dev. Med. Child Neurol. 43:705-712). Here, we describe the pathophysiological parameters of Canavan disease (CD), caused by genetic mutations of the aspartoacylase (ASPA) gene, a metabolic enzyme restricted in the central nervous system (CNS) to oligodendrocytes. CD presents pathophysiological dysfunctions similar to diseases caused by myelin gene mutations, such as Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD) and several animal models, such as myelin deficient rat (md), jimpy (jp), shiverer (sh), and quaking (qk viable) mutant mice. These single gene mutations have pleiotropic effects, whereby the alteration of one myelin gene expression disrupts functional expression of other oligodendrocyte genes with an outcome of hypomyelination/dysmyelination. Among all of the known leukodystrophies, CD is the first disorder, which was approved and tested for the adeno-associated virus vector (AAV)-ASPA gene therapy (Leone et al. 2000 Ann. Neurol. 48:27-38; Janson et al. 2001 Trends Neurosci. 24:706-712) without much success following the first two attempts. ASPA gene delivery attempts in animal models have shown a lowering of N-acetyl L-aspartate and a change in motor functions, while sponginess of the WM, a characteristic of CD remained unchanged (Matalon et al. 2003 Mol. Ther. 7 (5, Part 1):580-587; McPhee et al. 2005 Brain Res. Mol. Brain Res. 135:112-121) even with better viral serotype and delivery of the gene during early phase of development (Klugmann et al. 2005 Mol. Ther. 11:745-753). While different approaches are being sought for the success of gene therapy, there are pivotal developmental questions to address regarding the specific regions of the CNS and cell lineages that become the target for the onset and progression of CD symptoms from early to late stages of development.
Inflammation during the perinatal period has become a recognized risk factor for developmental brain injuries over the past decade or more. To fully understand the relationship between inflammation and brain development, a comprehensive knowledge about the immune system within the brain is essential. Microglia are resident immune cells within the central nervous system and play a critical role in the development of an inflammatory response within the brain. Microglia are critically involved with both the innate and adaptive immune system, regulating inflammation and cell damage within the brain via activation of Toll-like receptors, production of cytokines, and a myriad of other intracellular and intercellular processes. In this article, microglial physiology is reviewed along with the role of microglia in developmental brain injuries in humans and animal models. Last, microglial functions within the innate and adaptive immune system will be summarized. Understanding the processes of inflammation and microglial activation is critical for formulating effective preventative and therapeutic strategies for developmental brain injuries.

Extracellular signals dictate the biological processes of neural stem cells (NSCs) both in vivo and in vitro. The intracellular response elicited by these signals is dependent on the context in which the signal is received, which in turn is decided by previous and concurrent signals impinging on the cell. A synthesis of signaling pathways that control proliferation, survival, and differentiation of NSCs in vivo and in vitro will lead to a better understanding of their biology, and will also permit more precise and reproducible manipulation of these cells to particular end points. In this review we summarize the known signals that cause proliferation, survival, and differentiation in mammalian NSCs.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESC) provide a potentially unlimited source of specialized cell types for regenerative medicine. Nonetheless, one of the key requirements used to fulfill this potential is the ability to direct the differentiation of hESC to selective fates in vitro. Studies have reported the development of culture strategies to derive multipotent mesenchymal precursors from hESCs in vitro. This chapter reviews the techniques that allow the selective derivation of such precursors and their differentiation toward various mesenchymal cell types. It also discusses current limitations and future perspectives on the use of hESC-derived mesenchymal tissues.
High-content imaging platforms capable of studying kinetic responses at a single-cell level have elevated kinetic recording techniques from labor-intensive low-throughput experiments to potential high-throughput screening assays. We have applied this technology to the investigation of heterogeneous cell cultures derived from primary neural tissue. The neuronal cultures mature into a coupled network and display spontaneous oscillations in intracellular calcium, which can be modified by the addition of pharmacological agents. We have developed algorithms to perform Fourier analysis and quantify both the degree of synchronization and the effects of modulators on the oscillations. Functional and phenotypic experiments can be combined using this approach. We have used post-hoc immunolabeling to identify subpopulations of cells in cocultures and to dissect the calcium responses of these cells from the population response. The combination of these techniques represents a powerful tool for drug discovery.
The Ras-regulatory network is a loosely defined composition of numerous Ras family members and effector pathways that couple to critical cell-regulatory processes. Investigators are increasingly turning to RNAi-mediated inhibition of gene expression as an effective tool to help generate authentic portraits of Ras protein function in general and to accurately characterize the contribution of Ras family members and Ras effectors to oncogenic transformation in particular. Here we provide detailed protocols for high-efficiency and high-throughput delivery of siRNAs to human cancer cell lines and primary human epithelial cells. In addition, we discuss appropriate controls and limitations for the use of RNAi to derive biologically relevant observations.
The E3 ubiquitin ligase IMP (impedes mitogenic signal propagation) was isolated as a novel Ras effector that negatively regulates ERK1/2 activation. Current evidence suggests that IMP limits the functional assembly of Raf/MEK complexes by inactivation of the KSR1 adaptor/scaffold protein. Interaction with Ras-GTP stimulates IMP autoubiquitination to relieve limitations on KSR function. The elevated sensitivity of IMP-depleted cells to ERK1/2 pathway activation suggests IMP acts as a signal threshold regulator by imposing reversible restrictions on the assembly of functional Raf/MEK/ERK kinase modules. These observations challenge commonly held concepts of signal transmission by Ras to the MAPK pathway and provide evidence for the role of amplitude modulation in tuning cellular responses to ERK1/2 pathway engagement. Here we describe details of the methods, including RNA interference, ubiquitin ligase assays, and protein complex analysis, that can be used to display the Ras-sensitive contribution of IMP to KSR-dependent modulation of the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway.
In the accompanying chapter, we describe an in vitro system that uses Xenopus egg extracts to study actin assembly induced by phosphatidylinositol (4,5)bisphosphate (PIP2) and Cdc42. Biochemical fractionation and candidate screening experiments conducted in the extract system have identified the Arp2/3 complex, the N-WASP-WIP (or N-WASP-CR16) complex, and the Cdc42-binding protein Toca-1 as important mediators of PIP2- and Cdc42-actin signaling. Toward our ultimate goal of reconstituting an in vitro system that recapitulates the signaling properties observed in vivo, we then developed a purified actin assembly assay system consisting of the regulatory components that we discovered from extracts. In these assays, the stereotypical sigmoidal kinetics of actin polymerization are monitored by pyrene-actin fluorescence in the presence of defined recombinant or purified proteins, enabling the detailed study of mechanism and protein function. In this chapter, we describe the preparation of the components used in these purified actin assembly reactions, as well as the assay conditions under which we monitor actin polymerization kinetics in vitro.
Extracellular recording of the action potential discharge of individual neurons has been an indispensable electrophysiological method for more than 50 yr. Although it requires relatively modest instrumentation, extracellular recording nevertheless provides critically important information concerning the patterning of intercellular communication in the nervous system. In 1996, Didier Pinault described &quot;juxtacellular labeling&quot; as &quot;a novel and very effective single-cell labeling method&quot; for revealing the morphology of extracellularly recorded neurons. Of particular interest for neuroscience is that juxtacellular labeling can be combined with immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry to reveal new and exciting information concerning the chemical phenotype of neurons whose electrophysiological properties have been characterized in vivo. By providing investigators with a means to &quot;match&quot; functional information from electrophysiological recordings with morphological and protein/gene expression data at the level of the single neuron, juxtacellular labeling has opened a new era in neuroscience research, one that holds the promise of an accelerated pace of discovery.
Microarray technology is a powerful tool that allows for simultaneous assessment of the expression of thousands of genes and identification of gene expression patterns associated with specific cell types. Here we describe a protocol using this method to examine stem cells.
The senses of hearing and balance are mediated by hair cells located in the cochlea and in the vestibular organs of the vertebrate inner ear. Loss of hair cells and other cell types of the inner ear results in hearing and balance disorders that substantially diminish the quality of life. The irreversibility of hearing loss in mammals is caused by the inability of the cochlea to replace lost hair cells. No drugs are available that stimulate inner ear cell regeneration. We describe here protocols to generate inner ear progenitor cells from murine ES cells and to differentiate these progenitors into hair cells and potentially into other inner ear cell types. In addition, we provide a modification of the protocol describing culture conditions in which human ES cells express a similar set of inner ear markers. Inner ear progenitor cells, generated from ES cells, may be used for the development of cell replacement therapy for the diseased inner ear, for high-throughput drug screening, and for the study of inner ear development.
This chapter describes the fabrication and use microfluidic chambers for cell migration and neuroscience research. Both microfluidic chambers are made using soft lithography and replica molding. The main advantages of using soft lithography to create microfluidic chambers are reproducibility, ease of use, and straightforward fabrication procedures. The devices can be fabricated in biology and chemistry laboratories with minimal access to clean-room facilities. First, a microfluidic chemotaxis chamber, which has been used in investigating chemotaxis of neutrophils, human breast cancer cells, and other cell types, is described. Precise and stable gradients of chemoattractants with arbitrary shapes can be generated for different applications. Second, a multicompartment culture chamber that can fluidically isolate neuronal processes from cell bodies is described. The design of this chamber is such that only neurites grow through a series of microgrooves embedded in a physical barrier. Both devices are compatible with phase, differential interference contrast, and fluorescence microscopy.
A large number of RNA binding proteins have recently been identified that influence various human genetic disorders. However, the specific function of many of these proteins and what role they may play in a particular disease remains unclear. Identification of the substrate mRNA bound by an RNA binding protein will provide insights into the function of that protein and how its aberrant expression could lead to a disease phenotype. We have developed a technique termed SNAAP, for isolation of specific nucleic acids associated with proteins, to identify natural mRNA substrates for an RNA binding protein. The technique couples affinity purification of specific mRNAs bound by an RNA binding protein, with the identification of that mRNA using differential display (DD). Methods are described herein for the isolation and identification of endogenous mRNAs bound by any RNA binding protein, as well as methodology to validate the specificity of the binding. The availability of technologies to isolate the cognate substrate mRNAs potentially bound and regulated by an RNA binding protein involved in genetic disorders will greatly expedite our etiological understanding of the disorder and provide modalities for intervention.
The success of experimental gene therapy is dependent on the ability to safely and efficiently introduce transgenes into the target cell or tissue. Retroviral-based vectors, notably those derived from Moloney murine leukemia virus (MLV) and lentiviral vectors derived from HIV, have proven to be valuable gene transfer vehicles as a result of their ease of production and their ability to mediate long-term transgene expression. One of the most widely used methods for viral vector production is based on the transient transfection of viral vector plasmid DNA into a producer cell line. Here, we describe protocols to produce and standardize high quality MLV-based retroviral and HIV-based lentiviral vectors for ex vivo and in vivo gene delivery.
This chapter presents a reliable, detailed method for performing double-label in situ hybridization (ISH) that has been validated for use in studies identifying the co-localization of cannabinoid CB1 receptor mRNA with other distinct species of mRNAs. This method permits simultaneous detection of two different species of mRNA within the same tissue section. Double-label ISH may be accomplished by hybridizing tissue sections with a combination of radiolabeled and digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes that are complementary to their target mRNAs. Single-label ISH may be accomplished by following the procedures described for use with radioisotopic probes (here [35S]-labeled) only. Silver grains derived from conventional emulsion autoradiography are used to detect the radiolabeled cRNA probe. An alkaline phosphatase-dependent chromogen reaction product is used to detect the nonisotopic (here, digoxigenin-labeled) cRNA probe. Necessary controls that are required to document the specificity of the labeling of the digoxigenin and radiolabeled probes are described. The methods detailed herein may be employed to detect even low levels of a target mRNA. These methods may be utilized to study co-localization and coregulation of expression of a particular gene within identified neurons in multiple systems.
Visualizing deep inside the tissue of a thick biological sample often poses severe constraints on image conditions. Standard restoration techniques (denoising and deconvolution) can then be very useful, allowing one to increase the signal-to-noise ratio and the resolution of the images. In this paper, we consider the problem of obtaining a good determination of the point-spread function (PSF) of a confocal microscope, a prerequisite for applying deconvolution to three-dimensional image stacks acquired with this system. Because of scattering and optical distortion induced by the sample, the PSF has to be acquired anew for each experiment. To tackle this problem, we used a screening approach to estimate the PSF adaptively and automatically from the images. Small PSF-like structures were detected in the images, and a theoretical PSF model reshaped to match the geometric characteristics of these structures. We used numerical experiments to quantify the sensitivity of our detection method, and we demonstrated its usefulness by deconvolving images of the hearing organ acquired in vitro and in vivo.
The aims of the study were to outline the sequence of events that gave rise to the vertebrate insulin-relaxin gene family and the chromosomal regions in which they reside. We analyzed the gene content surrounding the human insulin/relaxin genes with respect to what family they belonged to and if the duplication history of investigated families parallels the evolution of the insulin-relaxin family members. Markov Clustering and phylogenetic analysis were used to determine family identity. More than 15% of the genes belonged to families that have paralogs in the regions, defining two sets of quadruplicate paralogy regions. Thereby, the localization of insulin/relaxin genes in humans is in accordance with those regions on human chromosomes 1, 11, 12, 19q (insulin/insulin-like growth factors) and 1, 6p/15q, 9/5, 19p (insulin-like factors/relaxins) were formed during two genome duplications. We compared the human genome with that of Ciona intestinalis, a species that split from the vertebrate lineage before the two suggested genome duplications. Two insulin-like orthologs were discovered in addition to the already described Ci-insulin gene. Conserved synteny between the Ciona regions hosting the insulin-like genes and the two sets of human paralogons implies their common origin. Linkage of the two human paralogons, as seen in human chromosome 1, as well as the two regions hosting the Ciona insulin-like genes suggests that a segmental duplication gave rise to the region prior to the genome doublings. Thus, preserved gene content provides support that genome duplication(s) in addition to segmental and single-gene duplications shaped the genomes of extant vertebrates.
Tumor-specific alterations at the p53 gene locus in 30 human vestibular schwannomas (VS) comprising 10 confirmed NF2 cases and 20 sporadic cases were analyzed. We found loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the first intron of the p53 gene locus in 54% of the informative cases. This is the first report showing LOH at the p53 gene locus in a significant number of human VS and both sporadic and NF2 cases show the LOH event. Increased levels of normal size p53 mRNA and p53 protein were found in all the tumors analyzed. Thus p53 appears to be deregulated in all the tumors suggesting that p53 alterations may be associated with tumor progression in VS. There was a negative significant correlation of patients' age and percentage of Ser 392 phosphorylated p53 protein. The tumor samples obtained from younger patients of 35 yr and below showed higher percentage of Ser 392 phosphorylated p53 protein compared to the tumors of older patients. The increased percentage of Ser 392 phosphorylated p53 protein indicates that it could be involved in the acceleration of tumor growth in the younger patients. Our results suggest that age dependent phosphorylation of p53 protein and deregulation of p53 gene has a role in the development of human vestibular schwannomas.
RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM/IGSF4A (RA175), a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily with Ca2+-independent homophilic trans-cell adhesion activity, participates in synaptic and epithelial cell junctions. To clarify the biological function of RA175, we disrupted the mouse Igsf4a (Ra175/Tslc1/SynCam/Igsf4a Ra175) gene. Male mice lacking both alleles of Ra175 (Ra175-/-) were infertile and showed oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia; almost no mature motile spermatozoa were found in the epididymis. Heterozygous males and females and homozygous null females were fertile and had no overt developmental defects. RA175 was mainly expressed on the cell junction of spermatocytes, elongating and elongated spermatids (steps 9 to 15) in wild-type testes; the RA175 expression was restricted to the distal site (tail side) but not to the proximal site (head side) in elongated spermatids. In Ra175-/- testes, elongated and mature spermatids (steps 13 to 16) were almost undetectable; round spermatids were morphologically normal, but elongating spermatids (steps 9 to 12) failed to mature further and to translocate to the adluminal surface. The remaining elongating spermatids at improper positions were finally phagocytosed by Sertoli cells. Furthermore, undifferentiated and abnormal spermatids exfoliated into the tubular lumen from adluminal surfaces. Thus, RA175-based cell junction is necessary for retaining elongating spermatids in the invagination of Sertoli cells for their maturation and translocation to the adluminal surface for timely release.
MICALs comprise of a family of phylogenetically conserved, multidomain cytosolic flavoprotein monooxygenases. Drosophila (D-)MICAL binds the neuronal Sema1a receptor PlexA, and D-MICAL-PlexA interactions are required in vivo for Sema1a-induced axon repulsion. The biological functions of vertebrate MICAL proteins, however, remain unknown. Here, we describe three rodent MICAL genes and analyze their expression in the intact rat nervous system and in two models of spinal cord injury. MICAL-1, -2, and -3 expression patterns in the embryonic, postnatal, and adult nervous system support the idea that MICALs play roles in neural development and plasticity. In addition, MICAL expression is elevated in oligodendrocytes and in meningeal fibroblasts at sites of spinal cord injury but is unchanged in lesioned corticospinal tract neurons. Furthermore, we find that the selective monooxygenase inhibitor EGCG attenuates the repulsive effects of Sema3A and Sema3F in vitro, but not those of several other repulsive cues and substrates. These results implicate MICALs in neuronal regeneration and support the possibility of employing EGCG to attenuate Sema3-mediated axon repulsion in the injured spinal cord.
Citron-N (citron) binds activated Rho and concentrates at excitatory postsynaptic densities on the smooth dendritic shafts of hippocampal GABAergic neurons. Since little is known about how cytoplasmic proteins become targeted and retained at synapses, we asked how citron attains this discrete distribution. We first sought to determine whether the synaptic localization machinery is unique to GABAergic interneurons, but in neurons cultured from either cerebral cortex or hippocampus, low levels of citron are found in a small population of glutamatergic neurons concentrated at the tips of dendritic spines in addition to shaft synapses. These data suggest that the targeting domains in citron can be utilized appropriately by any neuron, and consistent with this idea, tagged, exogenous, full-length citron becomes concentrated at postsynaptic sites in all hippocampal neurons in which it is introduced. Citron contains multiple sites for protein-protein interaction, including coiled-coil, pleckstrin homology, cysteine-rich zinc binding and CMG domains, as well as a proline-rich region and a PDZ binding tail that is known to interact with PSD-95/SAP90. Using citron deletion mutants, we find that the coiled-coil (CC) domain, located in the N-terminal half of the protein, mediates somatodendritic targeting, self-oligomerization and puncta formation independent of the Rho binding domain, while regions in the C-terminal half of citron are responsible for precise alignment of postsynaptic citron clusters at sites apposing presynaptic boutons. Rho binding and activation regulate membrane targeting and the number of synapses containing citron. Thus, citron's clustering at postsynaptic membranes is mediated by multiple domains, and its synaptic distribution is modified in response to Rho activation.
Activation of OX1 orexin receptors heterologously expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells led to a rapid, strong, and long-lasting increase in ERK phosphorylation (activation). Dissection of the signal pathways to ERK using multiple inhibitors and dominant-negative constructs indicated involvement of Ras, protein kinase C, phosphoinositide-3-kinase, and Src. Most interestingly, Ca2+ influx appeared central for the ERK response in CHO cells, and the same was indicated in recombinant neuro-2a cells and cultured rat striatal neurons. Detailed investigations in CHO cells showed that inhibition of the receptor- and store-operated Ca2+ influx pathways could fully attenuate the response, whereas inhibition of the store-operated Ca2+ influx pathway alone or the Ca2+ release was ineffective. If the receptor-operated pathway was blocked, an exogenously activated store-operated pathway could take its place and restore the coupling of OX1 receptors to ERK. Further experiments suggested that Ca2+ influx, as such, may not be required for ERK phosphorylation, but that Ca2+, elevated via influx, acts as a switch enabling OX1 receptors to couple to cascades leading to ERK phosphorylation, cAMP elevation, and phospholipase C activation. In conclusion, the data suggest that the primary coupling of orexin receptors to Ca2+ influx allows them to couple to other signal pathways; in the absence of coupling to Ca2+ influx, orexin receptors can act as signal integrators by taking advantage of other Ca2+ influx pathways.
The roles of ionotropic glutamate receptors in mammalian reproduction are unknown. We therefore generated mice lacking a major subtype of (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors or all N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in GnRH neurons and other mainly limbic system neurons, primarily in hypothalamic and septal areas. Male mice without NMDA receptors in these neurons were not impaired in breeding and exhibited similar GnRH secretion as control littermates. However, male mice lacking GluR-B containing AMPA receptors in these neurons were poor breeders and severely impaired in reproductive behaviors such as aggression and mounting. Testis and sperm morphology, testis weight, and serum testosterone levels, as well as GnRH secretion, were unchanged. Contact with female cage bedding failed to elicit male sexual behavior in these mice, unlike in control male littermates. Their female counterparts had unchanged ovarian morphology, had bred successfully, and had normal litter sizes but exhibited pronounced impairments in maternal behaviors such as pup retrieval and maternal aggression. Our results suggest that NMDA receptors and GluR-B containing AMPA receptors are not essential for fertility, but that GluR-B containing AMPA receptors are essential for male and female reproduction-related behaviors, perhaps by mediating responses to pheromones or odorants.
Desipramine (DMI), talopram and talsupram, three of the most potent norepinephrine transporter (NET) inhibitors reported to date, were radiolabeled in high yields and at high specific radioactivity (58-75 GBq/micromol) by the methylation of nor-precursors with [C-11]methyl triflate. The regional brain distribution of each radioligand following intravenous injection into cynomolgus monkey was examined in vivo with positron emission tomography (PET). For all three radioligands, the regional brain distribution of radioactivity was slightly heterogeneous, with higher uptake of radioactivity in the mesencephalon, thalamus and lower brainstem than in striatum. The rank order of maximal brain radioactivity (as percentage of injected dose) was [C-11]DMI (2.7%) &gt; [C-11]talsupram (1.3%) &gt; [C-11]talopram (0.7%). The appearance of radioactive metabolites in plasma was similar for each radioligand (75-85% of radioactivity in plasma at 45 min). These metabolites were all more polar than their parent radioligand. The data show that these radioligands are inferior to existing radioligands for the study of brain NET with PET in vivo.
Aminergic signaling pathways have been implicated in a variety of neuropsychiatric illnesses, but the mechanisms by which these pathways influence complex behavior remain obscure. Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) have been shown to regulate the amount of monoamine neurotransmitter that is stored and released from synaptic vesicles in mammalian systems, and an increase in their expression has been observed in bipolar patients. The model organism Drosophila melanogaster provides a powerful, but underutilized genetic system for studying how dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5HT) may influence behavior. We show that a Drosophila isoform of VMAT (DVMAT-A) is expressed in both dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons in the adult Drosophila brain. Overexpression of DVMAT-A in these cells potentiates stereotypic grooming behaviors and locomotion and can be reversed by reserpine, which blocks DVMAT activity, and haloperidol, a DA receptor antagonist. We also observe a prolongation of courtship behavior, a decrease in successful mating and a decrease in fertility, suggesting a role for aminergic circuits in the modulation of sexual behaviors. Finally, we find that DMVAT-A overexpression decreases the fly's sensitivity to cocaine, suggesting that the synaptic machinery responsible for this behavior may be downregulated. DVMAT transgenes may be targeted to additional neuronal pathways using standard Drosophila techniques, and our results provide a novel paradigm to study the mechanisms by which monoamines regulate complex behaviors relevant to neuropsychiatric illness.
Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 1 (UCH-L1) can be detected in mouse testicular germ cells, mainly spermatogonia and somatic Sertoli cells, but its physiological role is unknown. We show that transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing EF1alpha promoter-driven UCH-L1 in the testis are sterile due to a block during spermatogenesis at an early stage (pachytene) of meiosis. Interestingly, almost all spermatogonia and Sertoli cells expressing excess UCH-L1, but little PCNA (proliferating cell nuclear antigen), showed no morphological signs of apoptosis or TUNEL-positive staining. Rather, germ cell apoptosis was mainly detected in primary spermatocytes having weak or negative UCH-L1 expression but strong PCNA expression. These data suggest that overexpression of UCH-L1 affects spermatogenesis during meiosis and, in particular, induces apoptosis in primary spermatocytes. In addition to results of caspases-3 upregulation and Bcl-2 downregulation, excess UCH-L1 influenced the distribution of PCNA, suggesting a specific role for UCH-L1 in the processes of mitotic proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells during spermatogenesis.
Regulatable gene therapy systems provide a method to alter neurotransmitter levels in vivo. We developed a rodent fibroblast cell line expressing the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cDNA that is silenced by doxycycline (DOX) administration. The ability of the cell line to improve cognition was tested by grafting after cholinergic lesions. Ibotenic acid was injected bilaterally into the nucleus basalis of rats, which were distributed into three groups. One group received no treatment, while the second group received cortical transplants (Graft). The third group received identical grafts but was treated with DOX to turn off ChAT expression (Graft/DOX). An unlesioned group served as control. Water maze acquisition was significantly better in the Graft group compared to the Graft/DOX group, an effect also seen in the retention and spatial probe trials. However, cognitive enhancement was restricted to spatial tasks, as inhibitory avoidance or open-field activity measures were unchanged. Molecular and biochemical analyses confirmed that DOX regulated transgene transcription and ACh levels. This study demonstrates that regulatable gene therapy has therapeutic value for single-gene disorders and also provides a mechanism to deliver small molecules in a spatiotemporal pattern to delineate the role of these compounds in discrete behavioral tasks.
We developed an algorithm that distinguishes between on and off states in patients with Parkinson's disease during daily life activities. Twenty-three patients were monitored continuously in a home-like situation for approximately 3 hours while they carried out normal daily-life activities. Behavior and comments of patients during the experiment were used to determine the on and off periods by a trained observer. Behavior of the patients was measured using triaxial accelerometers, which were placed at six different positions on the body. Parameters related to hypokinesia (percentage movement), bradykinesia (mean velocity), and tremor (percentage peak frequencies above 4 Hz) were used to distinguish between on and off states. The on-off detection was evaluated using sensitivity and specificity. The performance for each patient was defined as the average of the sensitivity and specificity. The best performance to classify on and off states was obtained by analysis of movements in the frequency domain with a sensitivity of 0.97 and a specificity of 0.97. We conclude that our algorithm can distinguish between on and off states with a sensitivity and specificity near 0.97. This method, together with our previously published method to detect levodopa-induced dyskinesia, can automatically assess the motor state of Parkinson's disease patients and can operate successfully in unsupervised ambulatory conditions.
Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome (HSS) is a heterogeneous clinicopathological disorder currently included within the broader title of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA). The classic histological hallmarks of HSS are axonal spheroids and excessive iron-containing granules accompanied by neuronal loss and gliosis in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata. In the modern literature, attention has been drawn to the co-occurrence of two other histological markers: Lewy bodies mainly composed of abnormal alpha-synuclein, and neurofibrillary tangles due to hyperphosphorilated tau aggregation. Discrepancies exist regarding the importance of these molecular changes and its relevance for the nosology of HSS. Most authors have emphasized the importance of the Lewy body-like pathology, favoring the inclusion of HSS within the alpha-synucleinopathies. We report on a case of late-onset HSS, with the typical histological findings restricted to the basal ganglia and cerebellum in which tau pathology was exceedingly more abundant than alpha-synuclein pathology. This case contributes to the increasing evidence about the heterogeneity of HSS. We favor the view that the molecular changes and the protein misfolding underlying the Lewy body and tangle formation in HSS/NBIA are secondary to the main pathological process and should not be taken as the basis for its nosological classification.
To determine the frequency and spectrum of complementary therapy (CT) use and its association with sociodemographic or disease-specific characteristics among Asian patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in Singapore, we interviewed 159 patients using a structured questionnaire. Sixty-one percent (95% CI=55-67) of participants used at least one type of CT for PD, of which the most common were traditional medicine, acupuncture, and vitamins/health supplements. Among CT users, 40% (95% CI=32-48) subjectively reported some improvement of their symptoms. However, only 16% informed their physicians of their use of CT. Due to unequal follow-up times, a survival analysis approach was adopted for statistical analysis. The rate of starting CT use was 1.2/100 person months. At 3 years after PD diagnosis, 48% had started using CT. Among a subgroup of participants, those with a baseline Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score of more than 16 were 2.5 times more likely to use CT compared to those with a baseline score of 16 or less (P=0.031; 95% CI=1.1-5.8). CT use was not associated with age of onset of PD or other sociodemographic factors. The use of CT is high among Asian PD patients. Patients with more severe motor dysfunction at onset are more likely to use CT.
Hemimasticatory spasm (HMS) is a condition characterized by paroxysmal involuntary contraction of masticatory muscles. We performed an electrophysiological investigation of a single patient with HMS to identify any pathophysiological changes associated with the condition. We identified a delayed M wave and jaw jerk on the affected side and an absent masseteric silent period during spasm. Botulinum toxin injections successfully treated the clinical symptoms and resulted in a significant reduction in the excitability of the blink reflex recovery cycle. These data suggest that HMS may be due to ectopic activity in the motor portion of the trigeminal nerve that is capable of inducing changes in the excitability of central reflex pathways. These changes can be altered by successful treatment with botulinum toxin.
The precise regulation of protein activity is fundamental to life. The allosteric control of an active site by a remote regulatory binding site is a mechanism of regulation found across protein classes, from enzymes to motors to signaling proteins. We describe a general approach for manipulating allosteric control using synthetic optical switches. Our strategy is exemplified by a ligand-gated ion channel of central importance in neuroscience, the ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR). Using structure-based design, we have modified its ubiquitous clamshell-type ligand-binding domain to develop a light-activated channel, which we call LiGluR. An agonist is covalently tethered to the protein through an azobenzene moiety, which functions as the optical switch. The agonist is reversibly presented to the binding site upon photoisomerization, initiating clamshell domain closure and concomitant channel gating. Photoswitching occurs on a millisecond timescale, with channel conductances that reflect the photostationary state of the azobenzene at a given wavelength. Our device has potential uses not only in biology but also in bioelectronics and nanotechnology.
Identifying the neuronal cell types that comprise the mammalian forebrain is a central unsolved problem in neuroscience. Global gene expression profiles offer a potentially unbiased way to assess functional relationships between neurons. Here, we carried out microarray analysis of 12 populations of neurons in the adult mouse forebrain. Five of these populations were chosen from cingulate cortex and included several subtypes of GABAergic interneurons and pyramidal neurons. The remaining seven were derived from the somatosensory cortex, hippocampus, amygdala and thalamus. Using these expression profiles, we were able to construct a taxonomic tree that reflected the expected major relationships between these populations, such as the distinction between cortical interneurons and projection neurons. The taxonomic tree indicated highly heterogeneous gene expression even within a single region. This dataset should be useful for the classification of unknown neuronal subtypes, the investigation of specifically expressed genes and the genetic manipulation of specific neuronal circuit elements.
Lis1 gene defects impair neuronal migration, causing the severe human brain malformation lissencephaly. Although much is known about its interactions with microtubules, microtubule-binding proteins such as CLIP-170, and with the dynein motor complex, the response of Lis1 to neuronal motility signals has not been elucidated. Lis1 deficiency is associated with deregulation of the Rho-family GTPases Cdc42, Rac1 and RhoA, and ensuing actin cytoskeletal defects, but the link between Lis1 and Rho GTPases remains unclear. We report here that calcium influx enhances neuronal motility through Lis1-dependent regulation of Rho GTPases. Lis1 promotes Cdc42 activation through interaction with the calcium sensitive GTPase scaffolding protein IQGAP1, maintaining the perimembrane localization of IQGAP1 and CLIP170 and thereby tethering microtubule ends to the cortical actin cytoskeleton. Lis1 thus is a key component of neuronal motility signal transduction that regulates the cytoskeleton by complexing with IQGAP1, active Cdc42 and CLIP-170 upon calcium influx.
To examine mirror neuron abnormalities in autism, high-functioning children with autism and matched controls underwent fMRI while imitating and observing emotional expressions. Although both groups performed the tasks equally well, children with autism showed no mirror neuron activity in the inferior frontal gyrus (pars opercularis). Notably, activity in this area was inversely related to symptom severity in the social domain, suggesting that a dysfunctional 'mirror neuron system' may underlie the social deficits observed in autism.
The involvement of dopamine within the nucleus accumbens in the formation and maintenance of pair bonds was assessed in a series of experiments using the monogamous prairie vole. We show that dopamine transmission that promotes pair bond formation occurs within the rostral shell of the nucleus accumbens, but not in its core or caudal shell. Within this specific brain region, D1- and D2-like receptor activation produced opposite effects: D1-like activation prevented pair bond formation, whereas D2-like activation facilitated it. After extended cohabitation with a female, male voles showed behavior indicative of pair bond maintenance-namely, selective aggression towards unfamiliar females. These voles also showed a significant upregulation in nucleus accumbens D1-like receptors, and blockade of these receptors abolished selective aggression. Thus, neuroplastic reorganization of the nucleus accumbens dopamine system is responsible for the enduring nature of monogamous pair bonding. Finally, we show that this system may also contribute to species-specific social organization.
Body fluid homeostasis requires the release of arginine-vasopressin (AVP, an antidiuretic hormone) from the neurohypophysis. This release is controlled by specific and highly sensitive 'osmoreceptors' in the hypothalamus. Indeed, AVP-releasing neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) are directly osmosensitive, and this osmosensitivity is mediated by stretch-inhibited cation channels. However, the molecular nature of these channels remains unknown. Here we show that SON neurons express an N-terminal splice variant of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type-1 (Trpv1), also known as the capsaicin receptor, but not full-length Trpv1. Unlike their wild-type counterparts, SON neurons in Trpv1 knockout (Trpv1(-/-)) mice could not generate ruthenium red-sensitive increases in membrane conductance and depolarizing potentials in response to hyperosmotic stimulation. Moreover, Trpv1(-/-) mice showed a pronounced serum hyperosmolality under basal conditions and severely compromised AVP responses to osmotic stimulation in vivo. These results suggest that the Trpv1 gene may encode a central component of the osmoreceptor.
Voluntary actions typically produce suppression of afferent sensation from the moving body part. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to delay the output of motor commands from the motor cortex during voluntary movement. We show attenuation of sensation during this delay, in the absence of movement. We conclude that sensory suppression mainly relies on central signals related to the preparation for movement and that these signals are upstream of primary motor cortex.
A long-standing debate in neuroscience is whether classical and operant conditioning are mechanistically similar or distinct. The feeding behavior of Aplysia provides a model system suitable for addressing this question. Here we report that classical and operant conditioning of feeding behavior differentially modify the intrinsic excitability of neuron B51, a critical element for the expression of the feeding response, thus revealing that these two forms of associative learning differ at the cellular level.
Precise quantification of complex three-dimensional (3D) structures from laser scanning microscopy (LSM) images is increasingly necessary in understanding normal function and pathologic processes in biology. This protocol describes a versatile shape analysis algorithm, Rayburst sampling, that generates automated 3D measurements from LSM images. Rayburst defines and efficiently casts a multidirectional core of rays from an interior point to the surface of a solid, allowing precise quantification of anisotropic and irregularly shaped 3D structures. Quantization error owing to the finite voxel representation in digital images is minimized by interpolating intensity values continuously between voxels. The Rayburst algorithm provides a primitive for the development of higher level algorithms that solve specific shape analysis problems. Examples are provided of applications to 3D neuronal morphometry: (i) estimation of diameters in tubular neuronal dendritic branching structures, and (ii) measurement of volumes and surface areas for dendritic spines and spatially complex histopathologic structures.
This protocol describes the fabrication and use of a microfluidic device to culture central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system neurons for neuroscience applications. This method uses replica-molded transparent polymer parts to create miniature multi-compartment cell culture platforms. The compartments are made of tiny channels with dimensions of tens to hundreds of micrometers that are large enough to culture a few thousand cells in well-controlled microenvironments. The compartments for axon and somata are separated by a physical partition that has a number of embedded micrometer-sized grooves. After 3-4 days in vitro (DIV), cells that are plated into the somal compartment have axons that extend across the barrier through the microgrooves. The culture platform is compatible with microscopy methods such as phase contrast, differential interference microscopy, fluorescence and confocal microscopy. Cells can be cultured for 2-3 weeks within the device, after which they can be fixed and stained for immunocytochemistry. Axonal and somal compartments can be maintained fluidically isolated from each other by using a small hydrostatic pressure difference; this feature can be used to localize soluble insults to one compartment for up to 20 h after each medium change. Fluidic isolation enables collection of pure axonal fraction and biochemical analysis by PCR. The microfluidic device provides a highly adaptable platform for neuroscience research and may find applications in modeling CNS injury and neurodegeneration. This protocol can be completed in 1-2 days.
This protocol describes a basic method for dissection and immunofluorescence staining of the Drosophila brain at various developmental stages. The Drosophila brain has become increasingly useful for studies of neuronal wiring and morphogenesis in combination with techniques such as the 'mosaic analysis with a repressible cell marker' (MARCM) system, where single neurons can be followed in live and fixed tissues for high-resolution analysis of wild-type or genetically manipulated cells. Such high-resolution anatomical study of the brain is also important in characterizing the organization of neural circuits using genetic tools such as GAL4 enhancer trap lines, as Drosophila has been intensively used for studying the neural basis of behavior. Advantages of fluorescence immunostaining include compatibility with multicolor labeling and confocal or multiphoton imaging. This brain dissection and immunofluorescence staining protocol requires approximately 2 to 6 d to complete.
In neuroscience, combining patch-clamping with protein identification in the same cell is becoming increasingly important to define which subtype or developmental stage of a neuron or glial cell is being recorded from, and to attribute measured membrane currents to expressed ion channels or receptors. Here, we describe a protocol to achieve this when studying cells in acute brain slices, which antibodies penetrate poorly into and for which detergent permeabilization cannot be used when using antibodies that recognize lipid components such as O4 sulfatide. The method avoids the need for resectioning of the electrophysiologically recorded slices. It employs filling of the cell with a fluorescent dye during whole-cell recording, to allow subsequent localization of the cell, followed by fixation and free-floating section labeling with up to three antibodies, which may recognize membrane, nuclear or cytosolic proteins. With practice, approximately 80% of patch-clamped cells can be retrieved and have their proteins identified in this way. The entire protocol can be completed in 3-4 d.
There is increasing interest in the isolation of adult microglia to study their functions at a morphological and molecular level during normal and neuroinflammatory conditions. Microglia have important roles in brain homeostasis, and in disease states they exert neuroprotective or neurodegenerative functions. To assay expression profiles or functions of microglia, we have developed a method to isolate microglial cells and infiltrating leukocytes from adult mouse brain. This protocol uses a digestion cocktail containing collagenase and dispase, and it involves separation over discontinuous percoll gradients. Isolated cells can be used for RNA analysis, including RNase protection analysis (RPA), quantitative RT-PCR, high-density microarray, proteomic or flow cytometric characterization of cell surface markers or adoptive transfer. Cell isolation can be completed in less than 4 h.
Vertebrate gap junction channels are formed by a family of more than 20 connexin proteins. These gap junction proteins are expressed with overlapping cellular and tissue specificity, and coding region mutations can cause human hereditary diseases. Here we present a summary of what has been learned from voltage clamp studies performed on cell pairs either endogenously expressing gap junctions or in which connexins are exogenously expressed. General protocols presented here are currently used to transfect mammalian cells with connexins and to study the biophysical properties of the heterologously expressed connexin channels. Transient transfection is accomplished overnight with maximal expression occurring at about 36 h; stable transfectants normally can be generated within three or four weeks through colony selection. Electrophysiological protocols are presented for analysis of voltage dependence and single-channel conductance of gap junction channels as well as for studies of chemical gating of these channels.
This protocol describes the equipment and methods used to establish conditioned place preference (CPP) or aversion (CPA). Place conditioning is a form of Pavlovian conditioning routinely used to measure the rewarding or aversive motivational effects of objects or experiences (e.g., abused drugs). Here, we present a place conditioning procedure that has been used extensively to study the motivational effects of ethanol and other abused drugs in mice. This protocol involves three phases: (i) habituation (or a pretest), (ii) conditioning of an association between the drug and a tactile or visual stimulus and (iii) a test that offers a choice between the drug-associated cue and a neutral cue. If the drug has motivational significance, mice will spend significantly more time (CPP) or less time (CPA) in proximity to the drug-associated cue. Potential problems in the design and interpretation of place conditioning studies are discussed. A typical experiment lasts 2 weeks.
Stereotaxic surgery has been an invaluable tool in systems neuroscience, applied in many experiments for the creation of site-targeted lesions, injection of anatomical tracers or implantation of electrodes or microdialysis probes. In this protocol, we describe stereotaxic surgery optimized for gene delivery by recombinant adeno-associated viruses and lentiviruses in mice and rats. This method allows the manipulation of gene expression in the rodent brain with excellent spatiotemporal control; essentially any brain region of choice can be targeted and cells (or a subpopulation of cells) in that region can be stably genetically altered at any postnatal developmental stage up to adulthood. Many aspects of the method, its versatility, ease of application and high reproducibility, make it an attractive approach for studying genetic, cellular and circuit functions in the brain. The entire protocol can be completed in 1-2 hours.
FM dyes have been used to label and then monitor synaptic vesicles, secretory granules and other endocytic structures in a variety of preparations. Here, we describe the general procedure for using FM dyes to study endosomal trafficking in general, and synaptic vesicle recycling in particular. The dye, dissolved in normal saline solution, is added to a chamber containing the preparation to be labeled. Stimulation evokes exocytosis, and compensatory endocytosis that follows traps FM dye inside the retrieved vesicles. The extracellular dye is then washed from the chamber, and labeled endocytic structures are examined with a fluorescence microscope. Fluorescence intensity provides a direct measure of the labeled vesicle number, a good measure of the amount of exocytosis. If the preparation is stimulated again, without dye in the chamber, dimming of the preparation provides a measure of exocytosis of labeled vesicles. With a synaptic preparation on hand, this protocol requires 1 day.
Circular dichroism (CD) is a useful spectroscopic technique for studying the secondary structure, folding and binding properties of proteins. This protocol covers how to use the intrinsic circular dichroic properties of proteins to follow their folding and unfolding as a function of time. Included are methods of obtaining data and for analyzing the folding and unfolding data to determine the rate constants and the order of the folding and unfolding reactions. The protocol focuses on the use of CD to follow folding when it is relatively slow, on the order of minutes to days. The methods for analyzing the data, however, can also be applied to data collected with a CD machine equipped with stopped-flow accessories in the range of milliseconds to seconds and folding analyzed by other spectroscopic methods including changes in absorption or fluorescence spectra as a function of time.
Circular dichroism (CD) is an excellent tool for rapid determination of the secondary structure and folding properties of proteins that have been obtained using recombinant techniques or purified from tissues. The most widely used applications of protein CD are to determine whether an expressed, purified protein is folded, or if a mutation affects its conformation or stability. In addition, it can be used to study protein interactions. This protocol details the basic steps of obtaining and interpreting CD data, and methods for analyzing spectra to estimate the secondary structural composition of proteins. CD has the advantage that measurements may be made on multiple samples containing &lt; or =20 microg of proteins in physiological buffers in a few hours. However, it does not give the residue-specific information that can be obtained by x-ray crystallography or NMR.
Circular dichroism (CD) is an excellent tool for examining the interactions and stability of proteins. This protocol covers methods to obtain and analyze circular dichroism spectra to measure changes in the folding of proteins as a function of denaturants, osmolytes or ligands. Applications include determination of the free energy of folding of a protein, the effects of mutations on protein stability and the estimation of binding constants for the interactions of proteins with other proteins, DNA or ligands, such as substrates or inhibitors. The experiments require 2-5 h.
One of the challenges for modern neuroscience is to understand the basis of coordinated neuronal function and networking in the human brain. Some of these questions can be addressed using low- and high-resolution imaging techniques on post-mortem human brain tissue. We have established a versatile protocol for fixation of post-mortem adult human brain tissue, storage of the tissue in a human brain bank, and immunohistochemical analysis in order to understand human brain functions in normal controls and in neuropathological conditions. The brains are fixed by perfusion through the internal carotid and basilar arteries to enhance the penetration of fixative throughout the brain, then blocked, postfixed, cryoprotected, snap-frozen and stored at -80 degrees C. Sections are processed for immunohistochemical single- or double-label staining and conventional-, electron- or confocal laser scanning-microscopy analysis. The results gained using this tissue and protocol are vital for determining the localization of neurochemicals throughout the human brain and to document the changes that occur in neurological diseases.
Mosaic analysis with a repressible cell marker (MARCM) is a genetic technique used in Drosophila to label single cells or multiple cells sharing a single progenitor. Labeled homozygous mutant cells can be generated in an otherwise unlabeled heterozygous animal. Mutant or wild-type labeled cells can also be made to express one or more transgenes. Major applications of MARCM include (i) lineage analysis, (ii) investigating gene function in single or small populations of cells and (iii) neuronal circuit tracing. Our laboratory uses MARCM primarily to label and genetically manipulate neurons; however, this protocol can be adapted to any cell of interest. The protocol involves generating two fly stocks with the necessary genetic elements for MARCM analysis and subsequently generating MARCM clones. Labeled clones can be followed in live and fixed tissues for high-resolution analysis of wild-type or genetically manipulated cells.NOTE: In the PDF version of this article initially published online, the first &quot;FRT&quot; and the &quot;Mutation&quot; labels in Figure 1b were transposed. In both the PDF and HTML versions, &quot;mutant&quot; was omitted from the label on the right, which should read &quot;Labeled homozygous mutant daughter cell&quot;. The figure has been corrected in all versions of the article.
Circular dichroism (CD) is an excellent spectroscopic technique for following the unfolding and folding of proteins as a function of temperature. One of its principal applications is to determine the effects of mutations and ligands on protein and polypeptide stability. If the change in CD as a function of temperature is reversible, analysis of the data may be used to determined the van't Hoff enthalpy and entropy of unfolding, the midpoint of the unfolding transition and the free energy of unfolding. Binding constants of protein-protein and protein-ligand interactions may also be estimated from the unfolding curves. Analysis of CD spectra obtained as a function of temperature is also useful to determine whether a protein has unfolding intermediates. Measurement of the spectra of five folded proteins and their unfolding curves at a single wavelength requires approximately 8 h.
This protocol details a method to quantify the distribution of protein and colocalization in neuronal cultures. To that end, this protocol includes itemized steps and considerations for performing immunocytochemistry, acquiring fluorescence images and quantifying multichannel fluorescence images. Success in quantifying immunostained neurons relies on the accessibility of the proteins of interest, the sensitivity and specificity of antibodies, the signal-to-noise ratio of the collected image and the sensitivity of the quantification method. In contrast to other commonly employed methods for quantification, the protocol detailed here requires manual selection of punctae and subtraction of background selected for each neurite. This approach reliably and uniquely allows for detection of proteins in low signal-to-noise ratio images, which are characteristic of developing neurons. Thus, this method serves an important niche in image analysis poorly addressed by alternative published methods. In general, immunocytochemistry requires 3.5-7 h, and one triple-immunostained neuron can be quantified in 1.5 h.
The plasticity of excitatory synapses has conventionally been studied from a functional perspective. Recent advances in neuronal imaging techniques have made it possible to study another aspect, the plasticity of the synaptic structure. This takes place at the dendritic spines, where most excitatory synapses are located. Actin is the most abundant cytoskeletal component in dendritic spines, and thus the most plausible site of regulation. The mechanism by which actin is regulated has not been characterized because of the lack of a specific method for detection of the polymerization status of actin in such a small subcellular structure. Here we describe an optical approach that allows us to monitor F-actin and G-actin equilibrium in living cells through the use of two-photon microscopy to observe fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between actin monomers. Our protocol provides the first direct method for looking at the dynamic equilibrium between F-actin and G-actin in intact cells.
Rational design of improved gene delivery vehicles is a challenging and potentially time-consuming process. As an alternative approach, directed evolution can provide a rapid and efficient means for identifying novel proteins with improved function. Here we describe a methodology for generating very large, random adeno-associated viral (AAV) libraries that can be selected for a desired function. First, the AAV2 cap gene is amplified in an error-prone PCR reaction and further diversified through a staggered extension process. The resulting PCR product is then cloned into pSub2 to generate a diverse (&gt;10(6)) AAV2 plasmid library. Finally, the AAV2 plasmid library is used to package a diverse pool of mutant AAV2 virions, such that particles are composed of a mutant AAV genome surrounded by the capsid proteins encoded in that genome, which can be used for functional screening and evolution. This procedure can be performed in approximately 2 weeks.
One of the challenges for modern neuroscience is to understand the rules of concerted neuronal function in vivo. This question can be addressed using noninvasive high-resolution imaging techniques like two-photon microscopy. This protocol describes a versatile approach for in vivo two-photon calcium imaging of neural networks, stained with membrane-permeant fluorescent-indicator dyes. It is based on a targeted pressure ejection of the dye into the tissue of interest and can be used for a large spectrum of indicator dyes, including Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 acetoxymethyl ester and Fura-2 acetoxymethyl ester. Through the use of dye mixtures and multicolor imaging, this technique allows the visualization of distinct neurons and glial cells up to 500 microm below the brain surface. It is suitable for staining the brain tissue of various different species (e.g., mouse, rat, cat and zebrafish) at all developmental stages. When combined with brain microendoscopy, it allows the monitoring of intracellular calcium signals in awake, behaving animals. The total time required to carry out the protocol, including dissection and cell staining, is approximately 2 h. Thereafter, imaging experiments might be performed for at least 6 h.
In this protocol we describe how to perform the Multi-Source Interference Task (MSIT), a validated functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) task that reliably and robustly activates the cingulo-frontal-parietal cognitive/attention network (CFP network) within individual subjects. The MSIT can be used to (i) identify the cognitive/attention network in normal volunteers and (ii) test its integrity in people with neuropsychiatric disorders. It is simple to perform, can be completed in less than 15 min and is not language specific, making it appropriate for children, adults and the elderly. Since its validation, over 100 adults have performed the task. The MSIT produces a robust and temporally stable reaction time interference effect (range 200-350 ms), and single runs of the MSIT have produced CFP network activation in approximately 95% of tested subjects. The robust, reliable and temporally stable neuroimaging and performance data make the MSIT a useful task with which to study normal human cognition and psychiatric pathophysiology.
The counting Stroop is a validated Stroop task variant. Initially designed as a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) task for identifying brain regions subserving cognition and attention (dorsal anterior midcingulate cortex (daMCC) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)), it has been used to study cognition in healthy volunteers and to identify functional brain abnormalities in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). During the counting Stroop, subjects report by button-press the number of words (one to four) appearing on the screen, regardless of word meaning. Neutral-word control trials contain single semantic category common animals (e.g., 'dog' written three times), while interference trials contain number words that are incongruent with the correct response (e.g., 'two' written four times). The counting Stroop can be completed in approximately 20 min per subject and can be used offline (behavioral performance) or with fMRI, positron emission tomography, event-related potentials, magnetoencephalography or intracranial recordings.
Ca2+, involved in almost all processes of cell life, mediates its activity through reversible interaction with specific binding sites in proteins. Although several Ca2+-dependent activities are known, many of the proteins responsible remain unidentified. Here we describe the synthesis, purification, characterization and potential uses of a new Ca2+-like reagent, azido ruthenium (AzRu), which can be photoactivated. AzRu strongly inhibits Ca2+-dependent activities. AzRu can be used to probe proteins in solution or embedded in membranes. AzRu has no effect on Ca2+-independent or Mg2+-dependent activity. After exposure to ultraviolet irradiation, AzRu binds covalently and specifically to Ca2+-binding proteins, thus providing a new approach for identifying and purifying Ca2+-binding proteins, for characterizing their Ca2+-binding sites and for exploring previously unknown Ca2+-dependent processes. In this protocol we also include a description of the preparation of [103Ru]AzRu, which can be used for labeling Ca2+-binding sites in proteins and identifying previously unknown Ca2+-binding proteins. The preparation of AzRu takes approximately 2-3 days.
The human capacity to acquire complex language seems to be without parallel in the natural world. The origins of this remarkable trait have long resisted adequate explanation, but advances in fields that range from molecular genetics to cognitive neuroscience offer new promise. Here we synthesize recent developments in linguistics, psychology and neuroimaging with progress in comparative genomics, gene-expression profiling and studies of developmental disorders. We argue that language should be viewed not as a wholesale innovation, but as a complex reconfiguration of ancestral systems that have been adapted in evolutionarily novel ways.
Neisseria meningitidis (the meningococcus) is an important commensal, pathogen and model organism that faces up to the environment in its exclusive human host with a small but hyperdynamic genome. Compared with Escherichia coli, several DNA-repair genes are absent in N. meningitidis, whereas the gene products of others interact differently. Instead of responding to external stimuli, the meningococcus spontaneously produces a plethora of genetic variants. The frequent genomic alterations and polymorphisms have profound consequences for the interaction of this microorganism with its host, impacting structural and antigenic changes in crucial surface components that are relevant for adherence and invasion as well as antibiotic resistance and vaccine development.
Nanotechnologies exploit materials and devices with a functional organization that has been engineered at the nanometre scale. The application of nanotechnology in cell biology and physiology enables targeted interactions at a fundamental molecular level. In neuroscience, this entails specific interactions with neurons and glial cells. Examples of current research include technologies that are designed to better interact with neural cells, advanced molecular imaging technologies, materials and hybrid molecules used in neural regeneration, neuroprotection, and targeted delivery of drugs and small molecules across the blood-brain barrier.
Emotional events often attain a privileged status in memory. Cognitive neuroscientists have begun to elucidate the psychological and neural mechanisms underlying emotional retention advantages in the human brain. The amygdala is a brain structure that directly mediates aspects of emotional learning and facilitates memory operations in other regions, including the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Emotion-memory interactions occur at various stages of information processing, from the initial encoding and consolidation of memory traces to their long-term retrieval. Recent advances are revealing new insights into the reactivation of latent emotional associations and the recollection of personal episodes from the remote past.

Progress in neuroscience leads not only to novel therapeutic opportunities but also raises several ethical problems. These problems are often subsumed under the term &quot;neuroethics,&quot; of which the definition and purpose often remain unclear. We discuss the problems of informed consent, free will, sense of self, and personality in light of recent neuroscientific progress. Due to distinct categories and frames of reference, these philosophical-ethical terms cannot be limited only to the brain; the development of systematic relations is suggested. This accounts for the &quot;special ethical position of the brain.&quot; It is concluded that only this sense can neuroethics account for the ethical complexity in neuropsychiatric disorders.
Firing rates and synchronous firing are often simultaneously relevant signals, and they independently or cooperatively represent external sensory inputs, cognitive events, and environmental situations such as body position. However, how rates and synchrony comodulate and which aspects of inputs are effectively encoded, particularly in the presence of dynamical inputs, are unanswered questions. We examine theoretically how mixed information in dynamic mean input and noise input is represented by dynamic population firing rates and synchrony. In a subthreshold regime, amplitudes of spatially uncorrelated noise are encoded up to a fairly high input frequency, but this requires both rate and synchrony output channels. In a suprathreshold regime, means and common noise amplitudes can be simultaneously and separately encoded by rates and synchrony, respectively, but the input frequency for which this is possible has a lower limit.
The results of several observational studies suggest that the use of estrogen replacement is associated with better mood, cognitive function and quality of life. Such findings are consistent with those of laboratory-based research showing that estrogen promotes neuronal sprouting, enhances cholinergic activity in the brain, decreases brain and plasma levels of beta-amyloid, increases serotonin postsynaptic responsivity and the turnover of noradrenaline, and inhibits monoamine oxidase activity. However, the findings from the Women's Health Initiative controlled trial showed that hormone replacement (estrogen plus progestin) not only failed to improve mood, cognition and quality of life but also increased the risk of dementia. At present, there is limited information about the effect of unopposed estradiol replacement therapy (ERT) on the mental health outcomes of women at increased risk of cognitive decline (aged 70 years and over). We designed the present randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to clarify this issue. One hundred and fifteen women were randomized to treatment with estradiol (n=58; 2mg per day) or placebo for a total period of 20 weeks. The outcomes of interest in this study included changes in the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scores between baseline and week 20, as well as changes in quality of life scores (as measured by the SF-36) and cognitive function (CAMCOG, Block Design, Memory for Faces, California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) and verbal fluency (VF)). Nineteen women treated with estradiol and 10 of those treated with placebo discontinued the use of the medication during trial, most frequently due to adverse reactions (OR=4.11, 95% CI=1.29-15.37). Intention-to-treat analysis showed that the active and placebo groups did not differ in their response to treatment in any of the outcome measures (p&gt;0.05). A separate analysis restricted to women who completed the 20-week-trial produced similar negative results. The results of this trial indicate that the use of a relatively high dosage of unopposed estrogen replacement for 20 weeks is not associated with significant changes in cognitive function, mood and quality of life. Other more efficacious and safer interventions need to be devised with the aim of improving the mental state and quality of life of older women.
Immunolocalization and expression of endogenous nicastrin (NCT) and presenilin 1 (PS1) fragments during postnatal development of rat cerebellum were investigated with fragment-specific antibodies. Immunoblotting for NCT revealed the expected mature and immature species, which gradually declined during development. In contrast, the expression of PS1 N-terminal fragment exhibited a peak at postnatal day 14 (P14) and declined thereafter. This chronological change was similarly observed with PS1 C-terminal fragment. Immunoprecipitation of NCT indicated its physical association with PS1 fragments. Colocalization of these molecules to the endoplasmic reticulum in cerebellar Purkinje cells indicates that they are organized into a complex in developing neurons. In addition, active sites of synaptogenesis, the base of the external granular layer and glomeruli, contained PS1 fragments and smaller amount of NCT. Isolated synaptic fraction contained both PS1 and NCT, suggesting their functional association within synapses. Transient abundance of NCT and PS1 fragments as a complex, when (P14) and where synaptogenesis is active, is consistent with intracellular trafficking of this complex in developing neurons and suggests its role as gamma-secretase in synaptogenesis.
There is a large body of evidence highlighting the importance of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously standardised a method that can be applied to study oxidative changes in individual brain proteins by using two-dimensional oxyblots (Korolainen MA, Goldsteins G, Alafuzoff I, Koistinaho J, Pirttil T. Proteomic analysis of protein oxidation in Alzheimer's disease brain. Electrophoresis 2002;23(19):3428-33). Here we have identified proteins that exhibited oxidative changes in AD when compared to age-matched controls and these protein changes have been further examined in relation to the neuropathological data. Indeed, several Tris-HCl soluble proteins tended to be less oxidised in AD when compared to controls. Two enzymes, mitochondrial glutamate dehydrogenase and cytosolic malate dehydrogenase, were increased in amount but showed significantly decreased degree of oxidation in AD brains when compared to controls. Furthermore, some changes related to the amounts or oxidation statuses of proteins were associated with the duration of the clinical impairment and also with the neuropathology. These results do not contradict the hypothesis of increased oxidative stress in AD but may represent co-existing compensatory changes in response to oxidative stress.
Infection by the lentivirus, human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), results in a variety of syndromes involving both the central (CNS) and the peripheral (PNS) nervous systems. Productive HIV-1 infection of the CNS is chiefly detectable in perivascular macrophages and microglia. HIV-1 encoded transcripts and proteins have also been detected in the PNS; however, productive viral replication appears to be sparse and restricted to the macrophage cell population. Despite the absence of productive infection of neurons, HIV-1 infection has been associated with neuronal loss in distinct regions of the brain. Neuronal cell loss may occur through both necrosis and apoptosis, although neuronal apoptosis appears to be a feature of AIDS, as only rare apoptotic neurons have been demonstrated in a few pre-AIDS cases. Although there is no clear consensus as to the underlying mechanism of HIV-induced neuropathogenesis, two complementary concepts predominate. Firstly, HIV-1 encoded proteins injure neurons directly without requiring the intermediary functions of nonneuronal cells. Alternatively, neuronal apoptosis may result indirectly from the secretion of neurotoxic host molecules by resident brain macrophages or microglia in response to HIV-1 infection, stimulation by viral proteins or immune activation. Herein, we review the neurological disorders and their underlying mechanisms associated with HIV infection, focusing on HIV-associated dementia (HAD) and HIV sensory neuropathy (HIV-SN). The evidence that neuronal loss in HIV-1-infected individuals may be due to neuronal apoptosis is then discussed. This review also summarizes the current data supporting both the direct and indirect mechanisms by which neuronal death may occur during infection with HIV-1 or the closely related lentiviruses SIV and FIV. Lastly, strategies are examined for treating or preventing HAD by targeting specific neurotoxic mechanisms.
Dyskinesias are a common consequence of dopaminergic therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease. Little is known about the influence of cellular replacement strategies upon drug-induced dyskinesias. In the current study, we employed parkinsonian rats to test whether the distribution of dopamine neuron grafts could differentially alter striatal circuitry and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Specifically, we compared behavioral and neurochemical consequences of dopamine reinnervation restricted to a focal region of the striatum to innervation encompassing the majority of the striatum by distributing the same number of cells into single locus or multiple locations. Both the single-site and widespread grafts reduced pregraft dyskinesias and normalized FosB/DeltaFosB in the dorsal two-thirds of the lateral striatum. However, single-site DA graft recipients developed a robust, novel forelimb-facial stereotypy and upregulated FosB/DeltaFosB expression in the ventrolateral striatum, an area associated with movements of tongue and forelimbs. The onset of forelimb-facial stereotypy correlated with measures of increased graft function.
The present study sought to determine the effects of long-term kindled seizures of the basal amygdala upon immune function in rat, utilizing the thymus, as a principal target for study. Histopathology from kindled Sprague-Dawley rats revealed the presence of epithelial cell thymoma in 70% of these rats. The results revealed an increased rate of apoptosis and proliferation in thymic epithelial cells. Analysis of thymocytes indicated a decrease in the ratio of CD4 to CD8 positive T cells and reduced proliferative response to T-cell mitogens. To determine whether these effects were mediated through the sympathetic nervous system, animals were treated with guanethidine, which blocked the development of epithelial cell thymomas, while mifepristone treatment, employed to determine the possible role of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, was ineffective in attenuating thymoma development. Thus, the present study demonstrated that functional and pathological changes in the thymus during kindled seizures are mediated through the sympathetic nervous system.
While 1 to 2% of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is caused by mutations in the SOD1 gene, the basis of the remaining instances of inherited disease is unknown. Neuropathology, mouse modeling, and human genetics have implicated neurofilaments in the pathogenesis of motor neuron diseases such as ALS and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT). A systematic analysis of the coding region and intron-exon boundaries of all three neurofilament genes is now reported from DNA samples derived from more than 200 non-SOD1 linked familial and sporadic ALS patients, along with &gt;400 non-disease control individuals. Rare variants within each of the three neurofilament subunits that are predicted to affect neurofilament assembly properties were identified at higher frequency in non-SOD1 mutant ALS samples. However, none could be unambiguously linked to dominantly inherited disease. Thus, mutations in neurofilaments are possible risk factors that may contribute to pathogenesis in ALS in conjunction with one or more additional genetic or environmental factors, but are not significant primary causes of ALS.
The present study was undertaken to determine whether olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) from the olfactory bulb were capable to promote axonal regeneration and functional recovery when transplanted either acutely or 1 week delayed into the T8 transected rat spinal cord. OEC transplants increased recovery of functional outcomes, as shown electrophysiologically by return of motor evoked potentials and by reduction of hindlimb hyperreflexia, and behaviorally by recovery of movements of hindlimb joints. Axonal regeneration was proven histologically by demonstrating long axonal outgrowth of raphespinal, coerulospinal, and corticospinal tracts within the caudal cord stump. Expression of GFAP and NG2 was down-regulated in perilesional cord segments in transplanted animals, indicating a more suitable environment for axonal regeneration. Overall, earlier recovery and better functional and histological results were observed in rats receiving acute than delayed OEC transplants. The beneficial effects obtained with transplantation after transection are encouraging for the application of OECs in the human injured spinal cord.
The well-known family of low-density lipoprotein receptors represents a collection of ancient membrane receptors that have been remarkably conserved throughout evolution. These multifunctional receptors, known to regulate cholesterol transport, are becoming increasingly interesting to the neuroscience community due to their ability to transduce a diversity of extracellular signals across the membrane in the adult CNS. Their roles in modulating synaptic plasticity and necessity in hippocampus-specific learning and memory have recently come to light. In addition, genetic, biochemical and behavioral studies have implicated these signaling systems in a number of human neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders involving loss of cognitive ability, such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and autism. This review describes the known functions of these receptors and discusses their potential role in processes of synaptic regulation and memory formation.
The time course and critical determinants of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress following limbic status epilepticus (SE) were investigated in hippocampal sub-regions of an electrical stimulation model in rats, at time points 4-44h after status. Mitochondrial and cytosolic enzyme activities were measured spectrophotometrically, and reduced glutathione (GSH) concentrations by HPLC, and compared to results from sham controls. The earliest change in any sub-region was a fall in GSH, appearing as early as 4h in CA3 (-13%, p&lt;0.05), and persisting at all time points. This was followed by a transient fall in complex I activity (CA3, 16h, -13%, p&lt;0.05), and later changes in aconitase (CA1,-18% and CA3, -22% at 44h, p&lt;0.05). The activity of the cytosolic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate-dehydrogenase was unaffected at all time points. It is known that GSH levels are dependent both on redox status, and on the availability of the precursor cysteine, in turn dependent on the cysteine/glutamate antiporter, for which extracellular glutamate concentrations are rate limiting. Both mechanisms are likely to contribute indirectly to GSH depletion following seizures. That a relative deficiency in GSH precedes later changes in the activities of complex I and aconitase in vulnerable hippocampal sub-regions, occurring within a clinically relevant therapeutic time window, suggests that strategies to boost GSH levels and/or otherwise reduce oxidative stress following seizures, deserve further study, both in terms of preventing the biochemical consequences of SE and the neuronal dysfunction and clinical consequences.
Adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors are neuromodulatory systems that can control mnemonic behavior, which is modified by diabetes. Since the density of these adenosine receptors can change upon chronic noxious brain conditions, we now tested if the density of A(1) and A(2A) receptors was modified in the hippocampus of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The binding density of the selective A(1) receptor antagonist, (3)H-DPCPX, was decreased by 36% in total hippocampal membranes 7 days after induction of diabetes and this down-regulation was maintained after 30 and 90 days, which was also confirmed by Western blot analysis of A(1) receptor immunoreactivity. In contrast, the binding density of the selective A(2A) receptor antagonist, (3)H-SCH 58261, was enhanced by 83% in total hippocampal membranes 7 days after induction of diabetes and this up-regulation persisted after 30 and 90 days. These results show that the balance between inhibitory A(1) and facilitatory A(2A) adenosine receptors is modified in the hippocampus of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Thus, the most abundant A(1) receptors are down-regulated and there is an up-regulation of A(2A) receptors, suggesting a gain of function of hippocampal A(2A) receptors compared to A(1) receptors in diabetes, as has been observed in other chronic noxious brain conditions where A(2A) receptor blockade affords robust neuroprotection.







Neurodegenerative diseases are responsible for agonizing symptoms that take their toll on the fragile human life. Aberrant protein processing and accumulation are considered to be the culprits of many classical neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, tauopathies, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, hereditary spastic paraplegia and various polyglutamine diseases. However, recently it has been shown that toxic RNA species or disruption of RNA processing and metabolism may be partly to blame as clearly illustrated in spinal muscular atrophy, spinocerebellar ataxia 8 and fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, the fruit fly or Drosophila melanogaster has taken its place at the forefront of an uphill struggle to unveil the molecular and cellular pathophysiology of both protein- and RNA-induced neurodegeneration, as well as discovery of novel drug targets. We review here the various fly models of neurodegenerative conditions, and summarise the novel insights that the fly has contributed to the field of neuroprotection and neurodegeneration.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a widely expressed transmembrane protein that is cleaved to generate Abeta peptides in the central nervous system and is a key player in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The precise biological functions of APP still remain unclear although various roles have been proposed. While a commonly accepted model argues that Abeta peptides are the cause of onset and early pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, recent discussions challenge this 'Abeta hypothesis' and suggest a direct role for APP in this neurodegenerative disease. Loss-of-function studies are an efficient way to elucidate the role of proteins and concurrently a variety of in vitro and in vivo studies has been performed for APP where protein levels have been downregulated and functional consequences monitored. Complete disruption of APP gene expression has been achieved by the generation of APP knockout animal models. Further knockdown studies using antisense and RNA interference have allowed scientists to reduce APP expression levels and have opened new avenues to explore the physiological roles of APP. In the present review, we focus on knockout and knockdown approaches that have provided insights into the physiological functions of APP and discuss their advantages and drawbacks.
Proteomics has become a powerful tool in neuroscience studies. Although numerous human neural stem cells are available for research purposes since many years, there exists only limited information on proteomic data from stable neural stem cell lines. Profiling and functional proteome studies of neuronal stem cells will help to describe the protein inventory as well as protein activity and interactions, subcellular localization and posttranslational modifications. The proteomic analysis of neuronal differentiation processes will elucidate the complex events leading to the generation of different phenotypes via distinctive developmental programs that control self-renewal, differentiation, and plasticity. Using the ReNcell VM197 model, a cell line derived from human fetal ventral mesencephalon stem cells, we studied the protein inventory of the stem cells by 2-DE gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometric protein identification and constructed a 2-DE protein map consisting of more than 400 identified protein spots. This proteome reference database constitutes the basis for further investigations of differential protein expression during differentiation. A profiling of the neuronal differentiation-associated changes displayed the large rearrangement of the proteome during this process, and the proteomic techniques proved to be a valuable tool for the elucidation of neuronal differentiation process and for target protein screening.
The past few years have seen remarkable progress in our understanding of stem cell biology. The wealth of genomic data and the multiplicity of sources have enabled researchers to begin to profile stem cells in detail. In this paper we describe the biological and technical controls necessary to obtain reliable data and the relative merits of various large-scale analytical techniques including microarray, expressed sequence tag enumeration, serial analysis of gene expression and massively parallel signature sequencing. We suggest that while much has been learned, additional information remains to be gleaned by meta-analysis of existing data.

The choroid plexus (CP) epithelium is one of the extrahypothalamic sources of arginine vasopressin (AVP). However, it is unclear whether the regulation of choroidal AVP synthesis in response to pathophysiological stimuli, such as hyperosmotic stress, is similar to that observed in the hypothalamus. In the present study, rats chronically implanted with cisterna magna cannulas, enabling the collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in freely moving animals, were subjected to salt loading. CSF osmolality increased from the baseline normonatremic levels ranging between 292 +/- 0.5 and 295 +/- 2 to 309 +/- 4 mosm/kg H(2)O at 2 days of hypernatremia. This elevated CSF osmolality was maintained at a relatively stable level until the end of a 10-day observation period. Changes in choroidal and hypothalamic AVP expression in response to hyperosmotic stress were assessed by semiquantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. An increase in hypothalamic AVP expression was accompanied by augmented AVP synthesis in the CP. Compared to normonatremia, choroidal levels of AVP mRNA increased 5- and 10-fold at 2 and 5 days of salt loading, respectively. Salt loading also resulted in increased hypothalamic expression of the alpha-II, beta(1), and beta(2) subunits of voltage-gated Na(+) channels. Similarly, the choroidal mRNA levels for the alpha-II and beta(1) subunits increased approximately 2-fold after 5 days of salt loading; however, no changes in the beta(2) subunit expression were found in the CPs of hypernatremic rats. These experiments support the hypothesis that the regulation of choroidal AVP synthesis is similar to that observed in the hypothalamus. It is also suggested that the increased expression of voltage-gated Na(+) channels found in the hypothalamus and CP after salt loading may play a role in the adaptation of AVP-producing cells to chronic hypernatremia.
As early as the 2nd century, Galen proposed that 'vital spirits' in the blood regulated human bodily functions. However, the concept of hormonal activity required a further 18 centuries to develop and relied upon the identification of 'ductless glands', Schwann's cell and the recognition by Bayliss and Starling of chemical messengers. Bernard's introduction of 'internal secretion' and its role in homeostasis laid a physiological basis for the development of endocrinology. Kocher and Addison recognized the consequences of ablation of glands by disease or surgery and identified their necessary role in life. Detailed descriptions of the endocrine cells of the gut and pancreas and their putative function were provided by Heidenhain, Langerhans, Laguesse and Sharpey-Schafer. Despite the dominant 19th century concept of nervism (Pavlov), in 1902, Starling and Bayliss using Hardy's term 'hormonos' described secretin and in so doing, established the gut as an endocrine organ. Thus, nervism was supplanted by hormonal regulation of function and thereafter numerous bioactive gut peptides and amines were identified. At virtually the same time (1892), Ramn y Cajal of Madrid reported the existence of a group of specialized intestinal cells that he referred to as 'interstitial cells'. Cajal postulated that they might function as an interface between the neural system and the smooth muscles of the gut. Some 22 years later, Keith suggested that their function might be analogous to the electroconductive system of the heart and proposed their role as components of an intestinal pacemaker system. This prescient hypothesis was subsequently confirmed in 1982 by Thuneberg and a decade later Maede identified c-Kit as a critical molecular regulator in the development and function of the interstitial cells of Cajal and further confirmed the commonality of neural and endocrine cells. The additional characterization of the endocrine regulatory system of the GI tract was implemented when Feyrter (1938) using Masson's staining techniques, identified 'helle Zellen' within the pancreatic ductal system and the intestinal epithelium and proposed the concept of a diffuse neuroendocrine system. Pearse subsequently grouped the various cells belonging to that system under the rubric of a unifying APUD series. Currently, the gut neuroendocrine system is viewed as a syncytium of neural and endocrine cells sharing a common cell lineage whose phenotypic regulation is as yet unclear. Their key role in the regulation of gastrointestinal function is, however, indubitable.
The transsphenoidal route is the most widely used technique for pituitary adenoma surgery due to its rapidity, good tolerance, effectiveness and low complication rate. These are the parameters we utilized in comparing endoscopic with microscopic transsphenoidal surgery. We reviewed the medical records of 418 patients affected by pituitary adenomas who underwent endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery between May 1998 and December 2004, and in this paper, we present the results of 381 patients who fulfilled the follow-up criteria after a minimum period of 15 months. Our experience confirms the previous data on the rapidity and satisfactory tolerance of the endoscopic procedure. We also confirm the low complication rate, specifying that complications characteristic of the approaching phase were certainly reduced; instead, complications characteristic of tumor removal still remained similar to those reported in the microsurgical literature. The results were comparable with those of the best microsurgical series regarding endosellar lesions, but tumor removal was notably superior when dealing with tumors having an extrasellar extension. The improvement may be explained by the excellent vision of the deep surgical fields due to the endoscope and by the extreme flexibility of the surgical trajectory, mainly due to the absence of the divaricator, giving access to the ramifications of the tumor, otherwise difficult to reach.


Prior to the contributions of Friedrich Feyrter (1895-1973), the regulation of gastrointestinal function was an ill-understood field that was polarized by a combination of the inability of clinical scientists to perceive the relationship between the cellular elements of 'nervism' and the newly recognized chemical messenger system. Feyrter, an Austrian pathologist of luminescent intellect and possessed of rigorous analytic capacity, recognized the interface of the divergent elements (neural and endocrine) and established the concept of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. His pathological descriptions of the specialized neuroendocrine cells producing biologically active substances and regulating homeostasis by a network functioning via endocrine, paracrine, and neuracrine mechanisms laid the basis for contemporary understanding of gut function. In 1938, Feyrter identified Helle Zellen (clear cells) of the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract, which was later incorporated into the amine precursor uptake decarboxylation concept of endocrine cells by A.G.E. Pearse (1916-2003). Feyrter proposed a diffuse network as a functional regulatory system as opposed to the then current doctrine of 'organ' regulation in his 1938 manuscript Uber diffuse endokrine epitheliale Organe. In addition to this seminal contribution, the prodigious intellect of Feyrter produced an array of novel observations including benign and malignant tumors of the skin, gastrointestinal tract, and eyes, carcinoid tumors and the carcinoid syndrome, the genesis of the nevus, the transformation of lipids and disorders of cellular metabolism. Sadly, the contributions of Feyrter were obscured in the catastrophe of wartime Germany and his accomplishments little recognized. We describe the life and times of this gifted scientist, teacher, and pathologist, often referred to as the 'Father of Neuroendocrinology'.
Inhibition of hypothalamic thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) neuronal activity is a well-established adaptation to caloric restriction (CR) that suppresses pituitary secretion of thyroid-stimulating hormone, but may also participate in modulation of autonomic function. Thus, we hypothesized that decreased hypothalamic TRH activity contributes to CR-induced bradycardia and decreased metabolic rate. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats were instrumented with telemetry devices for measurement of heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) and a lateral intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) guide cannula for central infusions. After recovery, rats were housed in metabolic chambers and given either ad libitum(ad-lib) or CR treatments for 7 days; half of each diet group was then given continuous i.c.v. infusions of TRH (25 nmol/h) or saline (0.25 microl/h) for 7 days via osmotic pump. This dose of TRH did not significantly alter peripheral free T(4) levels. In ad-lib rats, TRH infusion produced small reductions in food intake and small increases in HR and BP over saline-infused controls. In CR rats, TRH infusion resulted in an increase in HR and also energy expenditure over saline-infused controls. These results support the hypothesis that suppression of central TRH activity contributes to the homeostatic suppression of energy expenditure and HR observed during CR.
Tegaserod is a 5-HT(4) receptor partial agonist approved for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome in women with constipation and in both men and women with chronic constipation. The efficacy of tegaserod is based on the importance of 5-HT(4) receptors regulating intestinal peristalsis and secretion, and possibly visceral sensory pathways. Our aim was to investigate the effect of tegaserod on colorectal sensitivity using models of normal and exaggerated responsiveness to colorectal distension (CRD). The visceromotor responses (VMR) to CRD at graded pressures (0-60 mmHg) were measured by the number of reflex abdominal contractions. Acute colorectal hypersensitivity was induced by intracolonic infusion of dilute acetic acid. Chronic hypersensitivity was observed in rats following spontaneous resolution of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis. Rats with normosensitive colons served as controls. Tegaserod (0.1-10 mg kg(-1)) caused dose-dependent reduction of the VMR to CRD in control rats and in those with colonic hypersensitivity. 5-HT(4) antagonists reversed the effects of tegaserod in rats with normosensitive colons, and partially inhibited effects in rats with colonic hypersensitivity. Central administration of tegaserod had no inhibitory effect. These results support the assumption that colonic hypersensitivity could be normalized by tegaserod acting, at least in part, through peripheral 5-HT(4) receptors.
We studied effects of i.v. atilmotin (BAX-ACC-1638, a novel motilin agonist, circulating t(1/2) &lt; 10 min) on gastrointestinal transit in humans using a randomized, parallel-group, dose-response double-blind study of i.v. atilmotin, 6, 30, 60 microg or vehicle (placebo) given 2 min after standardized breakfast, lunch and dinner. The breakfast meal contained (99m)Tc-eggs and (111)In-milk. Full gastrointestinal transit was measured by scintigraphy. Primary endpoints were % gastric emptying (GE) at 30 min, GE t(1/2), colonic filling (CF) at 6 h, and geometric centre of colonic transit at 24 h. Analysis included adjustment for age, gender and body mass index, with Bonferroni correction applied for multiple comparisons. A significant treatment effect of atilmotin was detected for GE (%) at 30 min for solids and liquids (P &lt; 0.01 for both). There were no significant effects on CF or CT and no significant adverse clinical events. Thus, atilmotin accelerates GE of solids and liquids in healthy humans. These data suggest that, at the doses tested, atilmotin should be considered for treatment of stomach motility disorders.
Contrasting event-related potentials (ERPs) generated under different experimental conditions and inferring differential brain responses is widely practiced in cognitive neuroscience research. Traditionally, these contrasts and subsequent inferences have proceeded directly from ERPs measured at the scalp. For certain tasks, it is not unusual that ERPs from a subset of channels are given particular emphasis in data analysis, such as the channels displaying the maximum peak amplitude in regions of interest (&quot;best sensors&quot;) or channels showing the largest averaged ERP waveform differences. With the aid of a blind source separation (BSS) algorithm, second-order blind identification (SOBI), which has been recently validated for its ability to recover correlated neuronal sources, we show that single-trial ERPs from previously validated neuronal sources were more distinguishable among different experimental manipulations than the single-trial ERPs measured at the comparable &quot;best sensors&quot;. This suggests that by using validated SOBI-recovered neuronal sources, ERP researchers can improve the ability to detect differences in neuronal responses induced by experimental manipulations. Critically, our observations were made at the level of single trials, as opposed to the averaged ERP. Therefore, our conclusions are particularly relevant to phenomena involving trial-to-trial changes in brain activation, for example, rapid induction of brain plasticity and perceptual learning, as well as to the development of brain-computer interfaces. Similar advantages would also apply to analogous situations with magnetoencephalography (MEG).
It is a fundamental insight of neuroscience that the cerebral cortex is divided into spatially separated and functionally distinct areas. In this study, we tried to map a large number of visual areas in individual subjects passively viewing a simple stimulus sequence during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at 1.5 T. The blocked stimulus sequence contrasted static object photographs with video takes of movement through natural indoor and outdoor scenes, alternated with a control fixation task. Two runs of the 5-min sequence sufficed to invoke 29 distinguishable activations, 16 (13 bilateral) of which were observed in all 10 participants. At the ventral side, object responsive activations were organized along the lateral occipital-temporal surface and near the collateral and occipital-temporal sulci. The latter activations, corresponding to the lateral occipital complex, showed a different activation profile from those near the collateral sulcus, most likely corresponding to the color constancy areas V4/V8-V4alpha. A potentially new fusiform object area was seen in 6 subjects, even more anterior than the parahippocampal place area. At the dorsal side, consistent activations were mainly related to motion stimuli and included the well-known areas V3a, VIPS, POIPS, hV5+, STS and the cingulate sulcus. There was consistent activation in the parietal-occipital sulcus, containing the areas V6a and V6. In addition, all subjects showed activation in the superior-anterior precuneus. Thus, the short stimulus sequence robustly invoked multiple visual areas and can be used to map the organization of the visual system in normal and brain-damaged individuals.
Theory of Mind (ToM), the ability to attribute mental states to others, and empathy, the ability to infer emotional experiences, are important processes in social cognition. Brain imaging studies in healthy subjects have described a brain system involving medial prefrontal cortex, superior temporal sulcus and temporal pole in ToM processing. Studies investigating networks associated with empathic responding also suggest involvement of temporal and frontal lobe regions. In this fMRI study, we used a cartoon task derived from Sarfati et al. (1997) [Sarfati, Y., Hardy-Bayle, M.C., Besche, C., Widlocher, D. 1997. Attribution of intentions to others in people with schizophrenia: a non-verbal exploration with comic strips. Schizophrenia Research 25, 199-209.]with both ToM and empathy stimuli in order to allow comparison of brain activations in these two processes. Results of 13 right-handed, healthy, male volunteers were included. Functional images were acquired using a 1.5 T Phillips Gyroscan. Our results confirmed that ToM and empathy stimuli are associated with overlapping but distinct neuronal networks. Common areas of activation included the medial prefrontal cortex, temporoparietal junction and temporal poles. Compared to the empathy condition, ToM stimuli revealed increased activations in lateral orbitofrontal cortex, middle frontal gyrus, cuneus and superior temporal gyrus. Empathy, on the other hand, was associated with enhanced activations of paracingulate, anterior and posterior cingulate and amygdala. We therefore suggest that ToM and empathy both rely on networks associated with making inferences about mental states of others. However, empathic responding requires the additional recruitment of networks involved in emotional processing. These results have implications for our understanding of disorders characterized by impairments of social cognition, such as autism and psychopathy.
Impairments of olfactory processing in patients with schizophrenia (SZ) have been reported in various olfactory tasks such as detection, discrimination, recognition memory, identification, and naming. The purpose of our study was to determine whether impairments in odor familiarity and hedonicity judgments observed in SZ patients during a previous behavioral study are associated with modifications of the activation patterns in olfactory areas. Twelve SZ patients, and 12 healthy comparison (HC) subjects, were tested using the H2(15)O-PET technique and 48 different odorants delivered during 8 scans. In addition to an odorless baseline condition, they had either to detect odor, or to judge odor familiarity or hedonicity, giving their responses by pressing a button. Regional cerebral blood flows during olfactory conditions were compared with those for baseline condition. Between-group analyses were then performed, and completed by regions of interest analyses. Both groups had equivalent ability for the detection of suprathreshold odorants, but patients found odors less familiar, and pleasant odors less pleasant than HC subjects. These behavioral results were related to functional abnormalities in temporo-limbic and orbital olfactory regions lateralized in the left hemisphere: the posterior part of the piriform cortex and orbital regions for familiarity judgments, the insular gyrus for hedonicity judgments, and the left inferior frontal gyrus and anterior piriform cortex/putamen region for the three olfactory tasks. They mainly resulted from a lack of activation during task conditions in the SZ patients. These data could explain olfactory disturbances and other clinical features of schizophrenia such as anhedonia.


A new &quot;Molecules&quot; module of the Brain Architecture Management System (BAMS; http://brancusi.usc.edu/bkms) is described. With this module, BAMS becomes the first online knowledge management system to handle central nervous system (CNS) region and celltype chemoarchitectonic data in the context of axonal connections between regions and cell types, in multiple species. The &quot;Molecules&quot; module implements a general knowledge representation schema for data and metadata collated from published and unpublished material, and allows insertion of complex reports about the presence of molecules collated from the literature. For different CNS neural regions and cell types, the module's database structure includes representation of molecule expression revealed by various techniques including in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, molecule coexpression and time-dependent level changes, and physiological state of subjects. The metadata representation allows online comparison and evaluation of inserted experiments, and &quot;Molecules&quot;structure allows rapid development of data transfer protocols enabling neuroinformatics visualization tools to display gene expression patterns residing in BAMS, in terms of levels of expressed molecules and in situ hybridization data. The module's web interface allows users to construct lists of CNS regions containing a molecule (depending on physiological state), retrieve further details about inserted records, compare time-dependent data within and across experiments, reconstruct gene expression patterns, and construct complex reports from individual experiments.
Stereotactic human brain atlases, either in print or electronic form, are useful not only in functional neurosurgery, but also in neuroradiology, human brain mapping, and neuroscience education. The existing atlases represent structures on 2D plates taken at variable, often large intervals, which limit their applications. To overcome this problem, we propose a hybrid interpolation approach to build high-resolution brain atlases from the existing ones. In this approach, all section regions of each object are grouped into two types of components: simple and complex. A NURBS-based method is designed for interpolation of the simple components, and a distance map-based method for the complex components. Once all individual objects in the atlas are interpolated, the results are combined hierarchically in a bottom-up manner to produce the interpolation of the entire atlas. In the procedure, different knowledge-based and heuristic strategies are used to preserve various topological relationships. The proposed approach has been validated quantitatively and used for interpolation of two stereotactic brain atlases: the Talairach-Tournoux atlas and Schaltenbrand-Wahren atlas. The interpolations produced are of high resolution and feature high accuracy, 3D consistency, smooth surface, and preserved topology. They potentially open new applications for electronic stereotactic brain atlases, such as atlas reformatting, accurate 3D display, and 3D nonlinear warping against normal and pathological scans. The proposed approach is also potentially useful in other applications, which require interpolation and 3D modeling from sparse and/or variable intersection interval data. An example of 3D modeling of an infarct from MR diffusion images is presented.
Scientists continually relate information from the published literature to their current research. The challenge of this essential and time-consuming activity increases as the body of scientific literature continues to grow. In an attempt to lessen the challenge, we have developed an Electronic Laboratory Notebook (ELN) application. Our ELN functions as a component of another application we have developed, an open-source knowledge management system for the neuroscientific literature called NeuroScholar (http://www. neuroscholar. org/). Scanned notebook pages, images, and data files are entered into the ELN, where they can be annotated, organized, and linked to similarly annotated excerpts from the published literature within Neuroscholar. Associations between these knowledge constructs are created within a dynamic node-and-edge user interface. To produce an interactive, adaptable knowledge base. We demonstrate the ELN's utility by using it to organize data and literature related to our studies of the neuroendocrine hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH). We also discuss how the ELN could be applied to model other neuroendocrine systems; as an example we look at the role of PVH stressor-responsive neurons in the context of their involvement in the suppression of reproductive function. We present this application to the community as open-source software and invite contributions to its development.


The thorough characterization of transgenic mouse models of human central nervous system diseases is a necessary step in realizing the full benefit of using animal models to investigate disease processes and potential therapeutics. Because of the labor- and resource-intensive nature of high-resolution imaging, detailed investigation of possible structural or biochemical alterations in brain sections has typically focused on specific regions of interest as determined by the researcher a priori. For example, Parkinson's disease researchers often focus imaging on regions of the brain expected to exhibit pathology such as the substantia nigra and striatum. Because of limitations in acquiring and storing high-resolution imaging data, additional data contained in the specimen is not usually acquired or disseminated/reported to the research community. Here we present a method of imaging large regions of brain at close to the resolution limit of light microscopy using a mosaic imaging technique in conjunction with multiphoton microscopy. These maps are being used to characterize several genetically modified animal models of neurological disease by filling the information &quot;gap&quot; among techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging and electron microscopic analysis.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) regulates neurogenesis in normal developing brain, but the role of nNOS in neurogenesis in the ischemic brain remains unclear. To investigate the temporal and spatial relationship between cell proliferation of the ependymal/subventricular zone (SVZ), a principal neuroproliferative region in the adult brain, and nNOS expression, the male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 250-350 g were used. The focal cerebral ischemia was induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). 10 microl of 0.2% fluorescence dye DiI was injected into the right lateral ventricle to prelabel ependymal/subventricular zone cells before ischemia. The rats were killed immediately after ischemia and days 1, 3, 7, 11, 14, 21 and 28 after ischemia. DiI-labeled cell counting was employed to assess cell proliferation. Immunohistochemistry and grayscale analysis were performed to determine nNOS localization and its quantity in the specific regions. Compared with control, the density of DiI-labeled cells in the ipsilateral ependyma/SVZ was significantly higher at days 1, 3, 7 and 11 after ischemia, whereas the quantity of nNOS expression in the ependyma/SVZ adjacent regions was significantly lower at the above time points. Additionally, nNOS positive cells were largely excluded from SVZ, and their long processes did not enter the ependyma/SVZ. Our results indicate that after focal cerebral ischemia, decreased nNOS expression in the ipsilateral ependymal/SVZ adjacent regions might be related to cell proliferation in the ependymal/SVZ.
The high-metabolic demand of neurons and their reliance on glucose as an energy source places them at risk for dysfunction and death under conditions of metabolic and oxidative stress. Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) are mitochondrial inner membrane proteins implicated in the regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsim) and cellular energy metabolism. The authors cloned UCP4 cDNA from mouse and rat brain, and demonstrate that UCP4 mRNA is expressed abundantly in brain and at particularly high levels in populations of neurons believed to have high-energy requirements. Neural cells with increased levels of UCP4 exhibit decreased Deltapsim, reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and decreased mitochondrial calcium accumulation. UCP4 expressing cells also exhibited changes of oxygen-consumption rate, GDP sensitivity, and response of Deltapsim to oligomycin that were consistent with mitochondrial uncoupling. UCP4 modulates neuronal energy metabolism by increasing glucose uptake and shifting the mode of ATP production from mitochondrial respiration to glycolysis, thereby maintaining cellular ATP levels. The UCP4-mediated shift in energy metabolism reduces ROS production and increases the resistance of neurons to oxidative and mitochondrial stress. Knockdown of UCP4 expression by RNA interference in primary hippocampal neurons results in mitochondrial calcium overload and cell death. UCP4-mRNA expression is increased in neurons exposed to cold temperatures and in brain cells of rats maintained on caloric restriction, suggesting a role for UCP4 in the previously reported antiageing and neuroprotective effects of caloric restriction. By shifting energy metabolism to reduce ROS production and cellular reliance on mitochondrial respiration, UCP4 can protect neurons against oxidative stress and calcium overload.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, a rate-limiting enzyme for prostanoid synthesis, can be involved in inflammatory-mediated cytotoxicity. Although the contribution of COX-2 to peripheral inflammation is well understood, its role in brain inflammation is not fully recognized. In particular, COX-2 involvement in inflammatory responses induced by HIV proteins in the central nervous system is not known. Therefore, the present study focused on COX-2 expression and its role in modulating the expression of brain inflammatory-related genes following exposure to the HIV-1 transactivating protein Tat. Intrahippocampal injections of Tat induced dose-dependent upregulation of COX-2 mRNA and protein levels in C57BL/6 mice. COX-2 immunoreactivity was primarily localized in microglial cells and astrocytes. Tat-induced COX-2 expression was partially prevented by pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, a potent antioxidant and an inhibitor of the transcription factor, nuclear factor kappaB. Most importantly, administration of the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 attenuated Tat-mediated upregulation of mRNA and protein expression of inflammatory mediators, such as monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and inducible nitric oxide synthase. Moreover, treatment with NS-398 significantly attenuated Tat-induced activation of microglial cells. These results provide evidence that COX-2 overexpression can modulate induction of brain inflammatory mediators in response to HIV-1 Tat protein. Such alterations may play an important role in the development of brain inflammatory reactions in HIV-infected patients and contribute to the development of neurological complications in the course of HIV-1 infection.
Activity-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission are two types of enduring changes in neuronal connections that are believed to underlie learning and memory functions. Here we show that CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices from PTEN-deficient mice exhibit LTP, but are resistant to LTD. PTEN reduces phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3-K) activity, and pharmacological inhibition of PI3-K restores LTD in PTEN-deficient mice, suggesting that inhibition of PI3-K by PTEN is necessary for LTD induction. These findings demonstrate a pivotal role for PTEN in LTD, and suggest that alterations in PTEN could have an impact on learning and memory processes.
The Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) neuropathies divide into two main electrophysiological groups with slow and near normal conduction velocities corresponding to Schwann cell and axonal pathology. An intermediate group also exists with nerve conduction velocities, which overlaps the two main groups. Families with intermediate CMT can be recognized in which different affected individuals in the same family have motor conduction velocities in both the CMT type 1 and 2 ranges (i.e., above and below 38 m/s). The intermediate group is caused by a limited number of distinct gene mutations in dynamin2 (DNM2), gap-junction protein 1 (GJB1), neurofilament light polypeptide (NF-L) genes, and a rare mutation and as yet unknown genes on chromosome 1 and 10 loci. Intermediate forms of CMT may be associated with unique disease mechanisms affecting both Schwann cells and axons. It is useful to recognize this unique group of neuropathies for diagnostic and management purposes.
The X-linked form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT1X) is the second most common molecularly designated form of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy. The clinical phenotype is characterized by progressive distal muscle atrophy and weakness, areflexia, and variable sensory abnormalities. Affected males have moderate-to-severe symptoms, whereas heterozygous females are usually mildly affected or even asymptomatic. Several patients also have manifestations of central nervous system involvement or hearing impairment. Electrophysiological and pathological studies of peripheral nerves show evidence of demyelinating neuropathy with prominent axonal degeneration. A large number of mutations in the GJB1 gene encoding the gap junction (GJ) protein connexin32 (Cx32) cause CMT1X. Cx32 is expressed by Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes, as well as by other tissues, and the GJ formed by Cx32 play an important role in the homeostasis of myelinated axons. The reported CMT1X mutations are diverse and affect both the promoter region as well as the coding region of GJB1. Many Cx32 mutants fail to form functional GJ, or form GJ with abnormal biophysical properties. Furthermore, Cx32 mutants are often retained intracellularly either in the endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi in which they could potentially have additional dominant-negative effects. Animal models of CMT1X demonstrate that loss of Cx32 in myelinating Schwann cells causes a demyelinating neuropathy. No definite phenotype-genotype correlation has yet been established for CMT1X and effective molecular based therapeutics for this disease, remain to be developed.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders and is the most common inherited neuromuscular disorder, with an estimated overall prevalence of 17-40/10,000. Although there has been major advances in the understanding of the genetic basis of CMT in recent years, the most useful classification is still a neurophysiological classification that divides CMT into type 1 (demyelinating; median motor conduction velocity &lt; 38 m/s) and type 2 (axonal; median motor conduction velocity &gt; 38 m/s). An intermediate type is also increasingly being described. Inheritance can be autosomal-dominant (AD), X-linked, or autosomal-recessive (AR). AD CMT1 is the most common type of CMT and was the first form of CMT in which a causative gene was described. This review provides an up-to-date overview of AD CMT1 concentrating on the molecular genetics as the clinical, neurophysiological, and pathological features have been covered elsewhere. Four genes (PMP22, MPZ, LITAF, and EGR2) have been described in the last 15 yr associated with AD CMTI and a further gene (NEFL), originally described as causing AD CMT2 can also cause AD CMT1 (by neurophysiological criteria). Studies have shown many of these genes, when mutated, can cause a wide range of CMT phenotypes from the relatively mild CMT1 to the more severe Dejerine-Sottas disease and congenital hypomyelinating neuropathy, and even in some cases axonal CMT2. This review discusses what is known about these genes and in particular how they cause a peripheral neuropathy, when mutated.


Little information exists on the concentrations of recent antidepressants and their metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Using a stereoselective method, we measured plasma and CSF levels of mirtazapine (MIR), N-demethylmirtazapine and 8-OH-MIR in 3 depressed patients treated with racemic MIR (45 mg/day) for 4 weeks. S-(+)-MIR is considered to be the antidepressant enantiomer, but only R-(-)-MIR reached measurable concentrations in CSF. For R-(-)-MIR, the CSF/plasma ratio varied between 0.08 and 0.31. Further studies are needed to test the hypothesis that there are possible differences in the transport mechanisms of the enantiomers of MIR at the blood-CSF barrier.
The experience of colour is a core element of human vision. Colours provide important symbolic and contextual information not conveyed by form alone. Moreover, the experience of colour can arise without external stimulation. For many people, visual memories are rich with colour imagery. In the unusual phenomenon of grapheme-colour synaesthesia, achromatic forms such as letters, words and numbers elicit vivid experiences of colour. Few studies, however, have examined the neural correlates of such internally generated colour experiences. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare patterns of cortical activity for the perception of external coloured stimuli and internally generated colours in a group of grapheme-colour synaesthetes and matched non-synaesthetic controls. In a voluntary colour imagery task, both synaesthetes and non-synaesthetes made colour judgements on objects presented as grey scale photographs. In a synaesthetic colour task, we presented letters that elicited synaesthetic colours, and asked participants to perform a localisation task. We assessed the neural activity underpinning these two different forms of colour experience that occur in the absence of chromatic sensory input. In both synaesthetes and non-synaesthetes, voluntary colour imagery activated the colour-selective area, V4, in the right hemisphere. In contrast, the synaesthetic colour task resulted in unique activity for synaesthetes in the left medial lingual gyrus, an area previously implicated in tasks involving colour knowledge. Our data suggest that internally generated colour experiences recruit brain regions specialised for colour perception, with striking differences between voluntary colour imagery and synaesthetically induced colours.
We studied an amputee patient who experiences a conscious sense of movement (SoM) in her phantom hand, without significant activity in remaining muscles, when transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is applied at appropriate intensity over the corresponding sector of contralateral motor cortex. We used the novel methodological combination of TMS during fMRI to reveal the neural correlates of her phantom SoM. A critical contrast concerned trials at intermediate TMS intensities: low enough not to produce overt activity in remaining muscles; but high enough to produce a phantom SoM on approximately half such trials. Comparing trials with versus without a phantom SoM reported phenomenally, for the same intermediate TMS intensities, factored out any non-specific TMS effects on brain activity to reveal neural correlates of the phantom SoM itself. Areas activated included primary motor cortex, dorsal premotor cortex, anterior intraparietal sulcus, and caudal supplementary motor area, regions that are also involved in some hand movement illusions and motor imagery in normals. This adds support to proposals that a conscious sense of movement for the hand can be conveyed by activity within corresponding motor-related cortical structures.
The default mode of brain function hypothesis and the presence of spontaneous intrinsic low-frequency signal fluctuations during rest have recently attracted attention in the neuroscience community. In this study we asked two questions: First, is it possible to attenuate intrinsic activity in the self-referential, default mode of brain function by directing the brains resources to a goal-oriented and attention-demanding task? Second, what effect does a sustained attention-demanding overt task performance have on the two intrinsically active networks in the brain, those being the task-negative, default-mode and the anticorrelated, task-positive network? We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to monitor spontaneous intrinsic activity during rest and sustained performance of a sequential two-back working memory task. We compared intrinsic activity during rest and the two-back task to the signal increases and decreases observed in an epoch-related version of the working memory task. Our results show that spontaneous intrinsic activity in the default-mode network is not extinguished but rather attenuated during performance of the working memory task. Moreover, we show that the intrinsic activity in the task-positive network is reorganized in response to the working memory task. The results presented here complements earlier work that have shown that task-induced signal deactivations in the default-mode regions is modulated by cognitive load to also show that intrinsic, spontaneous signal fluctuations in the default-mode regions persist and reorganize in response to changes in external work load.
This study compared the event-related potentials elicited by single-digit addition, subtraction, and multiplication problems. With a delayed verification paradigm, 18 Chinese undergraduates were first asked to solve the arithmetic problems that were presented visually for 200 ms and, after 1.5 s, to judge whether a presented solution was correct or not. Results showed that, compared to addition and subtraction, multiplication elicited a greater N300 at the left frontal electrodes peaking around 320 ms (in the interval between 275 and 334 ms after the onset of the arithmetic problem). To control for the confounding effects of task difficulty and solution size, comparisons were further made between &quot;large&quot; addition problems (with sums between 11 and 17) and &quot;small&quot; multiplication problems (with products between 6 and 24). Similar results were obtained (i.e., a significant difference between addition and multiplication in the N300 component between 296 and 444 ms). Source analyses demonstrated that a single dipole in the left anterior brain areas could have contributed to the topographies of the difference waveforms (&quot;multiplication-addition&quot;, &quot;multiplication-subtraction&quot;, and &quot;'small' multiplication-'large' addition&quot;). These results are interpreted in terms of the greater reliance on phonological processing for the retrieval of multiplication facts than for the retrieval of addition and subtraction facts.

Autobiographical memory (AM) entails a complex set of operations, including episodic memory, self-reflection, emotion, visual imagery, attention, executive functions, and semantic processes. The heterogeneous nature of AM poses significant challenges in capturing its behavioral and neuroanatomical correlates. Investigators have recently turned their attention to the functional neuroanatomy of AM. We used the effect-location method of meta-analysis to analyze data from 24 functional imaging studies of AM. The results indicated a core neural network of left-lateralized regions, including the medial and ventrolateral prefrontal, medial and lateral temporal and retrosplenial/posterior cingulate cortices, the temporoparietal junction and the cerebellum. Secondary and tertiary regions, less frequently reported in imaging studies of AM, are also identified. We examined the neural correlates of putative component processes in AM, including, executive functions, self-reflection, episodic remembering and visuospatial processing. We also separately analyzed the effect of select variables on the AM network across individual studies, including memory age, qualitative factors (personal significance, level of detail and vividness), semantic and emotional content, and the effect of reference conditions. We found that memory age effects on medial temporal lobe structures may be modulated by qualitative aspects of memory. Studies using rest as a control task masked process-specific components of the AM neural network. Our findings support a neural distinction between episodic and semantic memory in AM. Finally, emotional events produced a shift in lateralization of the AM network with activation observed in emotion-centered regions and deactivation (or lack of activation) observed in regions associated with cognitive processes.
We used fMRI to study the neural correlates of crossmodal, visual-tactile extinction in a single case (patient GK). GK has chronic extinction after a lesion centred on right inferior parietal cortex, and has previously been investigated extensively in purely visual fMRI studies [e.g. Rees, G., Wojciulik, E., Clarke, K., Husain, M., Frith, C., &amp; Driver, J. (2000). Unconscious activation of visual cortex in the damaged right hemisphere of a parietal patient with extinction. Brain, 123(Pt 8), 1624-1633; Rees, G., Kreiman, G., &amp; Koch, C. (2002). Neural correlates of consciousness in humans. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 3(4), 261-270]. With concurrent stimulation of the right visual field plus left index finger, GK showed crossmodal extinction of left touch on approximately half of such trials here (reflecting impaired sensitivity, i.e. lowered d-prime), albeit becoming aware of left touch on the other half. fMRI revealed activation of contralateral primary somatosensory cortex on crossmodal trials when touch was extinguished from awareness, suggesting unconscious residual processing there. When GK became aware of the left touch, additional activation was found in surviving right parietal cortex, and in frontal regions; moreover, functional coupling was enhanced with a region of frontal cortex implicated in awareness by previous work. Finally, on trials where crossmodal extinction arose, surviving right parietal cortex showed stronger functional coupling with the left visual and right somatosensory regions driven by the competing stimuli, indicating that crossmodal extinction arises when inputs to separate modalities interact competitively via multimodal cortex.
The posterior parietal cortex is a fundamental structure for visuo-motor integration and control. Here I discuss recent transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies that I interpret as suggesting four concepts. The evolutionary process has enlarged the human posterior parietal cortex while still preserving the internal structure of the posterior parietal cortex of other primates. Visuo-motor control in the posterior parietal cortex may be implemented by coding primarily action goals. The lateralization of visuo-motor functions in the posterior parietal cortex suggests that the left posterior parietal cortex is more concerned with tool use and the right posterior parietal cortex is more concerned with imitation of the actions of others. Finally, visuo-motor inter-hemispheric transfer through parietal callosal fibers occurs at the level of 'motor intention'.
The current dominant view of the visual system is marked by the functional and anatomical dissociation between a ventral stream specialised for perception and a dorsal stream specialised for action. The &quot;double-dissociation&quot; between visual agnosia (VA), a deficit of visual recognition, and optic ataxia (OA), a deficit of visuo-manual guidance, considered as consecutive to ventral and dorsal damage, respectively, has provided the main argument for this dichotomic view. In the first part of this paper, we show that the currently available empirical data do not suffice to support a double-dissociation between OA and VA. In the second part, we review evidence coming from human neuropsychology and monkey data, which cast further doubts on the validity of a simple double-dissociation between perception and action because they argue for a far more complex organisation with multiple parallel visual-to-motor connections: 1. A dorso-dorsal pathway (involving the most dorsal part of the parietal and pre-motor cortices): for immediate visuo-motor control--with OA as typical disturbance. The latest research about OA is reviewed, showing how these patients exhibit deficits restricted to the most direct and fast visuo-motor transformations. We also propose that mild mirror ataxia, consisting of misreaching errors when the controlesional hand is guided to a visual goal though a mirror, could correspond to OA with an isolated &quot;hand effect&quot;. 2. A ventral stream-prefrontal pathway (connections from the ventral visual stream to pre-frontal areas, by-passing the parietal areas): for &quot;mediate&quot; control (involving spatial or temporal transpositions [Rossetti, Y., &amp; Pisella, L. (2003). Mediate responses as direct evidence for intention: Neuropsychology of Not to-, Not now- and Not there-tasks. In S. Johnson (Ed.), Cognitive Neuroscience perspectives on the problem of intentional action (pp. 67-105). MIT Press.])--with VA as typical disturbance. Preserved visuo-manual guidance in patients with VA is restricted to immediate goal-directed guidance, they exhibit deficits for delayed or pantomimed actions. 3. A ventro-dorsal pathway (involving the more ventral part of the parietal lobe and the pre-motor and pre-frontal areas): for complex planning and programming relying on high representational levels with a more bilateral organisation or an hemispheric lateralisation--with mirror apraxia, limb apraxia and spatial neglect as representatives. Mirror apraxia is a deficit that affects both hands after unilateral inferior parietal lesion with the patients reaching systematically and repeatedly toward the virtual image in the mirror. Limb apraxia is localized on a more advanced conceptual level of object-related actions and results from deficient integrative, computational and &quot;working memory&quot; capacities of the left inferior parietal lobule. A component of spatial working memory has recently been revealed also in spatial neglect consecutive to lesion involving the network of the right inferior parietal lobule and the right frontal areas. We conclude by pointing to the differential temporal constraints and integrative capabilities of these parallel visuo-motor pathways as keys to interpret the neuropsychological deficits.
We investigated the role of dopamine in distinct forms of reversal shifting by comparing two groups of patients with mild Parkinson's disease (PD), one ON and one OFF their normal dopaminergic medication. In accordance with our previous work, patients ON medication exhibited impaired reversal shifting relative to patients OFF medication. The present results extend previous studies by showing that the medication-induced deficit on reversal shifting was restricted to conditions where reversals were signaled by unexpected punishment. By contrast, patients ON medication performed as well as patients OFF medication and controls when the reversal was signaled by unexpected reward. The medication-induced deficit was particularly pronounced in patients on the dopamine D3 receptor agonist pramipexole. These data indicate that dopaminergic medication in PD impairs reversal shifting depending on the motivational valence of unexpected outcomes.
Word retrieval ability is commonly assessed with a semantic verbal fluency task, in which subjects must produce a list of exemplars of a category (e.g., animals). The order in which exemplars are produced is not random; rather, subjects tend to produce &quot;clusters&quot; of semantically related items (e.g., cow, pig, sheep) and occasionally &quot;switch&quot; to other clusters (e.g., lion, tiger, bear). Patients with frontal lobe pathology (associated with focal lesions or Parkinson's disease) exhibit reduced output on semantic fluency tasks that has been characterized as a reduction in switching, in contrast to other impaired patient groups who produce normal switches but smaller clusters (e.g., [Troyer, A. K., Moscovitch, M., Winocur, G., Leach, L., &amp; Freedman, M. (1998). Clustering and switching on verbal fluency tests in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society, 4(2), 137-143]). The ability to initiate a switch between two semantic categories may require the selection of weakly activated representations over active (but already reported) representations. Previous studies have shown that increased demands on selection among competing representations are associated with activity in the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) and with deficits in patients with lesions including LIFG [Thompson-Schill, S. L., Jonides, J., Marshuetz, C., Smith, E. E., D'Esposito, M., Kan, I. P., et al. (2002). Effects of frontal lobe damage on interference effects in working memory. Cognitive Affective &amp; Behavioral Neuroscience, 2(2), 109-120; Thompson-Schill, S. L., Swick, D., Farah, M. J., D'Esposito, M., Kan, I. P., &amp; Knight, R. T. (1998). Verb generation in patients with focal frontal lesions: A neuropsychological test of neuroimaging findings. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 26, 14792-14797]. In the present study, we investigated the neural correlates of switching in the verbal fluency task, and in particular, the role of the LIFG in switching between semantic sub-categories. We observed greater activation in the LIFG during switching compared to free generation (Experiment 1) and self-reported clustering (Experiment 2), which is consistent with the hypothesis that the switching mechanism is subserved by the LIFG due to high semantic selection demands.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is thought to be characterized by dysfunctional memory processes, i.e., the automatic re-experiencing of the traumatic event and the inability to consciously recall facts about the traumatic event, as well as altered emotional processing of trauma-relevant cues. The present study examined the cerebral mechanisms underlying the cued recall of trauma-specific memories and the emotional processing of the presented cues in 16 PTSD patients, 15 trauma-exposed subjects without PTSD and 16 healthy controls. Subjects received questions about their specific trauma as well as other disastrous and neutral events while the electroencephalogram and heart rate were measured. The PTSD patients showed no impairment in trauma-specific declarative memory compared to non-PTSD subjects but had some deficits in general declarative memory as assessed by the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised. Compared to healthy control subjects, PTSD patients displayed increased P300 and late positive complex amplitudes to trauma-specific questions, indicating enhanced emotional processing of these cues. In line with their behavioral performance, both trauma-exposed groups showed decreased terminal contingent negative variation amplitudes to trauma-specific questions over frontal electrodes reflecting altered memory retrieval. Within-group comparisons revealed that only the PTSD group but not the other groups showed a differentiation between trauma-specific and neutral questions with respect to the LPC, tCNV and P300. Concordantly with previous studies, PTSD patients showed elevated resting heart rate compared to the healthy controls. These findings are discussed in the context of current models of the role of declarative memory in the development and maintenance of PTSD.
Perceptual priming is a fundamental long-term memory capability that allows more efficient and faster responding to a stimulus as a result of prior exposure to that stimulus. The two major components of priming are facilitated response expression and improved stimulus identification. Recent fMRI studies have identified a potential neural correlate for response-facilitation, namely the repetition-related activity decrements in prefrontal cortex that are linearly correlated with improvements in reaction times. However, the neural processes underlying such response-facilitation are still unclear. They could be stimulus-selective stimulus-response mapping processes or general response-learning mechanisms. In human imaging studies, behavioral priming has been associated with decreased hemodynamic responses in prefrontal cortex and in category-specific brain regions of the ventral visual stream. Currently, it is unclear whether priming-related response decreases in prefrontal cortex are also category-specific. In this fMRI study, 16 subjects performed a repetition priming task employing category-specific identification judgments on pictures of faces (male/female judgment), scenes (indoor/outdoor judgment) and scrambled 'noise' pictures (simple button press). The repeated faces and scenes were identified faster than first presentations indicating priming. Hemodynamic decreases for repetitions were observed in a left inferior (near Brodman Area, BA, 44) and middle frontal (BA8) region of the prefrontal cortex, in category-specific areas of the ventral stream (bilateral fusiform face area, FFA, parahippocampal place area, PPA), and two category-specific right lateral occipital (LOC) regions. Hemodynamic increases for repetitions appeared in the caudate and cerebellum. However, the prefrontal areas were the only regions that showed a correlation between repetition-related reaction time improvement and hemodynamic decrease. Importantly, the correlations were category-specific in their relationship to reaction time improvement: in the left inferior frontal cortex the correlations were specific for scenes whereas and in left middle frontal gyrus they were specific for faces. There were no correlations between behavior and repetition suppression for both LOC regions, FFA and PPA. These data reveal that response-facilitation in prefrontal cortex is organized according to stimulus-properties, compatible with learning of stimulus-response mapping rather than response learning in general.
This study explores the processing of Arabic numerals in three patients with dense left unilateral neglect. Three tasks have been used: a test of visual awareness (is the stimulus on the left, on the right or on both sides?), a number comparison task (is the number larger or smaller than 5?), a number parity judgment task (is the number odd or even?). The test of visual awareness indicated that all three patients were completely unaware of the stimuli presented in the left hemifield. Despite this, the number comparison and number parity judgment tasks clearly indicated that Arabic numerals were unconsciously processed at semantic level (i.e. quantity). These results show that patients with left unilateral neglect can still semantically process Arabic numerals unconsciously.
There are moments in everyday life when we need to consider the thoughts and intentions of other individuals in order to act in a socially appropriate manner. Most of this mentalizing occurs spontaneously as we go about our business in the complexity of the real world. As such, studying the neural basis of spontaneous mentalizing has been virtually impossible. Here we devised a means to achieve this by employing a unique combination of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), a detailed and interactive virtual reality simulation of a bustling familiar city, and a retrospective verbal report protocol. We were able to provide insights into the content of spontaneous mentalizing events and identify the brain regions that underlie them. We found increased activity in a number of regions, namely the right posterior superior temporal sulcus, the medial prefrontal cortex and the right temporal pole associated with spontaneous mentalizing. Furthermore, we observed the right posterior superior temporal sulcus to be consistently active during several different subtypes of mentalizing events. By contrast, medial prefrontal cortex seemed to be particularly involved in thinking about agents that were visible in the environment. Our findings show that it is possible to investigate the neural basis of mentalizing in a manner closer to its true context, the real world, opening up intriguing possibilities for making comparisons with those who have mentalizing problems.
Previous research on the role of the basal ganglia in category learning has focused on patients with Parkinson's and Huntington's disease, neurodegenerative diseases frequently accompanied by additional cortical pathology. The goal of the present study was to extend this work to patients with basal ganglia lesions due to stroke, asking if similar changes in performance would be observed in patients with more focal pathology. Patients with basal ganglia lesions centered in the putamen (6 left side, 1 right side) were tested on rule-based and information-integration visual categorization tasks. In rule-based tasks, it is assumed that participants can learn the category structures through an explicit reasoning process. In information-integration tasks, optimal performance requires the integration of information from two or more stimulus components, and participants are typically unaware of the category rules. Consistent with previous studies involving patients with degenerative disorders of the basal ganglia, the stroke patients were impaired on the rule-based task, and quantitative, model-based analyses indicate that this deficit was due to the inefficient application of decision strategies. In contrast, the patients were unimpaired on the information-integration task. This pattern of results provides converging evidence supporting a role of the basal ganglia and, in particular, the putamen in rule-based category learning.
In the cognitive neuroscience literature on the distinction between categorical and coordinate spatial relations, it has often been observed that categorical spatial relations are referred to linguistically by words like English prepositions, many of which specify binary oppositions-e.g., above/below, left/right, on/off, in/out. However, the actual semantic content of English prepositions, and of comparable word classes in other languages, has not been carefully considered. This paper has three aims. The first and most important aim is to inform cognitive neuroscientists interested in spatial representation about relevant research on the kinds of categorical spatial relations that are encoded in the 6000+ languages of the world. Emphasis is placed on cross-linguistic similarities and differences involving deictic relations, topological relations, and projective relations, the last of which are organized around three distinct frames of reference--intrinsic, relative, and absolute. The second aim is to review what is currently known about the neuroanatomical correlates of linguistically encoded categorical spatial relations, with special focus on the left supramarginal and angular gyri, and to suggest ways in which cross-linguistic data can help guide future research in this area of inquiry. The third aim is to explore the interface between language and other mental systems, specifically by summarizing studies which suggest that although linguistic and perceptual/cognitive representations of space are at least partially distinct, language nevertheless has the power to bring about not only modifications of perceptual sensitivities but also adjustments of cognitive styles.
The present study re-assesses the question whether deficits, after brain damage, in constructional tasks can be partitioned in different types of disorders of spatial cognition. Based on a current cognitive neuroscience account, originally proposed by Kosslyn [Kosslyn, S. M. (1987). Seeing and imagining in the cerebral hemispheres: A computational approach. Psychological Review, 94, 148-175], that posits two complementary lateralized systems for the encoding of (categorical and coordinate) spatial relations, it is here proposed that two qualitatively different types of &quot;constructional apraxia&quot; can occur and that the nature of the constructional impairment after unilateral lesions closely reflects the loss of lateralized components for the perceptual processing of differing types of spatial relations. New evidence is presented, based on the study of two groups of patients with unilateral posterior brain lesions, which supports such a bipartition of constructional apraxia. In addition, past evidence is reviewed in the light of this new cognitive neuroscience account.
Two of the principal components of prospective memory (i.e., remembering to carry out delayed intentions) are recognizing the appropriate context to act (&quot;cue identification&quot;) and remembering the action to be performed (&quot;intention retrieval&quot;). In this experiment, the demands on these components were manipulated while measuring brain activity using fMRI to explore whether the two components share a common neural basis. The results showed significant behavioral differences between the cue identification and intention retrieval conditions. However, a consistent pattern of hemodynamic changes was found in both prospective memory conditions in anterior prefrontal cortex (BA 10), with lateral BA 10 activation accompanied by medial BA 10 deactivation. These effects were more pronounced when demands on intention retrieval were high. This is consistent with the hypothesis that anterior prefrontal cortex (area 10) supports the biasing of attention between external events (e.g., identifying the cue amid distracting stimuli) and internal thought processes (i.e., maintaining the intention and remembering the intended actions). Together, the results suggest that whilst cue identification and intention retrieval may be behaviorally separable, they share at least some common neural basis in anterior prefrontal cortex.
Although damage to right posterior parietal cortex (RPPC) produces bias in line bisection, Karnath et al. [Karnath, H.-O., Berger, M. F., Kker, W., &amp; Rorden, C. (2004). The anatomy of spatial neglect based on voxelwise statistical analysis: A study of 140 patients. Cerebral Cortex, 14, 1164-1172] claim that it plays little role in spatial neglect, which is better measured by target cancellation. We used a detection task (approximating cancellation in requiring detection) to investigate this claim by compromising the parietal cortex with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Two outline shapes, one on each side of fixation, were briefly displayed before a mask. The target was a discontinuity in the left or right of the outline of one of these perceptual objects. Subjects indicated position or absence of target as fast as possible. Stimulus-mask onset asynchrony was adjusted individually to yield 75% detection. TMS was delivered over left posterior parietal cortex (LPPC), RPPC and Vertex, with Sham TMS over RPPC as a baseline control. Target detection was near ceiling and fastest at central positions and worst and slowest at the far right. Detection was significantly reduced at the far left position by TMS over RPPC. No other effects were obtained and latency was not affected by TMS. Disruption of RPPC by TMS does produce left neglect as measured by detection. Given the pattern of performance and since it was disrupted on one side of the display rather than on one side of each shape, attention and neglect were in a scene-based rather than object-based reference frame.
A card ordering task was developed to evaluate the role of the temporal lobe in perceiving subtle featural displacements of faces that contribute to judgments of facial expression and identity. Individuals with varying degrees of temporal lobe damage and healthy controls were required to manually sort cards depicting morphs of facial expressions or facial identities so that the cards were sequentially ordered from one morph endpoint to another. Four morph progressions were used--three emotion morphs (neutral-to-anger, neutral-to-fear, and fear-to-anger) and an identity morph. Five exemplars were given per morph type. Debriefing verified that participants were using feature-level cues to sort the cards. A patient with bilateral amygdala damage due to epilepsy did not differ in her sorting abilities from unilateral temporal lobectomy patients or controls. In contrast, a post-encephalitic patient with widespread left temporal lobe damage showed impairments that were most marked on the fear-to-anger and identity sorts. These results show that amygdala-damaged individuals can use information contained in facial expressions to solve tasks that rely on feature-level analysis, which recruits processing in other temporal lobe regions involved in making fine featural distinctions.
Goldenberg and co-workers put forward the hypothesis that coding of hand gestures with respect to body parts depends upon the functioning of the left hemisphere while the right hemisphere would be involved in imitation of finger postures. They supported this claim with experimental evidence from lesion studies, however, they failed to back it up with functional neuroimaging data. To verify Goldenberg's hypothesis on hemisphere asymmetries for hand/finger postures imitation, the performance of 35 patients with left hemisphere lesion (L/pts), of 24 patients with right hemisphere lesion (R/pts) and that of 41 matched controls was assessed in two imitation tasks, respectively, taxing hand or finger postures. The data, adjusted for the performance of the controls and for the effect of age were analysed using a multivariate, nonparametric approach. The outcome partly supports Goldenberg and colleagues' hypothesis: hand minus finger performance did differs between the R/pts and L/pts patients, even considering the pertinent hand-finger performances by control participants, however, in line with neuroimaging evidence, the left hemisphere's contribution is greater than that of the right for both finger and hand posture imitation.
We used fMRI to examine the functional correlates of syntactical processing in the first (L1) and second (L2) languages of non-proficient, late bilinguals. Subjects either covertly read words or produced sentences from them. Syntactical production during sentence production activated regions including left inferior frontal (LIFG) gyrus and the supplementary motor area in both languages. Analyses performed on the LIFG activation identified on a subject-by-subject basis revealed greater activation in L2 compared to L1 during sentence production and during word reading, consistent with previous work suggesting that greater cognitive effort may be subserved by less well-tuned neural representations that require greater neuronal activity. Remarkably, there was a greater separation in the LIFG activations in L1 versus L2 in less compared to more proficient bilinguals during syntax production, suggesting a functional reorganisation of regions involved in syntactical production as a function of syntactical proficiency.
Patients with unilateral neglect show a variety of impairments when reaching towards objects in contralesional space. The basis of these deficits could be perceptual, motor or at one of the intermediate stages linking these processes. Here, we review studies of visually guided reaching in neglect and integrate these results with findings from normal human and monkey action control. We consider evidence which shows that neglect patients can be slow to initiate or execute reaches particularly to a contralesional target. We discuss the directional and spatial deficits that may interact to contribute to such reaching abnormalities and highlight the importance of effective target selection and on-line guidance, exploring the idea that deficits in these mechanisms underlie increased susceptibility to ipsilesional visual distraction in neglect. We also examine the relationship between optic ataxia and neglect by considering two illustrative cases, one with pure optic ataxia and the other with optic ataxia plus neglect, which reveal differences in the anatomical substrates of the two syndromes. We conclude that many patients with neglect make abnormal visually guided reaches, but the pattern of reaching deficits is highly variable, most likely reflecting heterogeneity of lesion location across subjects. Rather than being specific to the neglect syndrome, abnormalities of reaching in these patients may correspond to the extent of damage to the visuomotor control system which involves critical regions in both the parietal and frontal cortex, the white matter tracts connecting them and subcortical regions. Thus, the action control deficits in neglect may be conceptualised as a range of impairments affecting multiple stages in the visuomotor control process.
Many aspects of spatial neglect can be explained as arising from competition for attentional selection, with salient ipsilesional stimuli emerging as the winner more often than contralesional stimuli. The outcome of the competition, however, can be affected both by bottom-up perceptual factors such as the gestalt properties of the display and by top-down factors such as expectancy or stimulus blocking. This study examines whether the competition for attentional selection can be modulated by manipulating the probability of the target's location in hemispatial neglect. Five patients with left-sided hemispatial neglect and a group of control participants performed a visual target discrimination task. In equal probability blocks, the target appeared randomly in any of six possible horizontal locations (three left, three right) whereas in biased blocks, the target appeared in the mid-location on the left on 50% of the trials and in each of the other locations on 10% of the trials. The target appeared either alone or was accompanied by a distractor on the opposite side. The results showed that the spatial bias facilitated detection of all left-sided targets in the neglect group, but was more spatially specific in the control group. Furthermore, while distractors on either side interfered with target processing in both groups, the patterns differed across the visual field. Finally, the magnitude of facilitation due to the bias was greatest in the condition with the most inhibition, i.e. a left-sided target accompanied by a right-sided distractor in the neglect group. These data underscore the competitive push-pull relationship between different bottom-up and top-down attentional factors, particularly within neglect patients, in whom a strong ipsilesional attentional bias already exists.
The aim of this paper is to provide an interpretation of face apraxia which accounts also for the role of right hemisphere lesions. Thirty-one patients with left hemisphere (L/pts) and 31 patients with right hemisphere (R/pts) lesions entered a cross-sectional study to identify those presenting with either lower or upper face apraxia. The 16L/pts and 8R/pts who presented with face apraxia in the acute stage and could be retested 4 months later, were followed up longitudinally. The degree of recovery did not differ between the two groups of patients. The traditional hypothesis of face apraxia based on the presence of a left-sided praxis centre could not account for these findings. A new trade-off model of face praxis resources distributed across the two hemispheres is presented. This model, based on individual differences in the healthy brain, accounts for the presence and persistence of face apraxia in a proportion of R/pts.
Previous studies suggested that perceptual memory as indexed by visual priming is normal in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, these studies did not specifically test the long-term effects of visual priming, which may differ significantly between Alzheimer's patients and normal subjects. To test this possibility, we examined long-term visual priming in AD patients, 1 hour, 1 month, and 3 months after training. Our results indicated a significant difference in visual priming between AD patients and normal subjects after 3 months, but not 1 month. For AD patients, there was a strong positive correlation between the 3-month priming effect and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores-severely demented patients were less likely to exhibit priming after 3 months. It appears that severe cortical degeneration may render AD patients unable to consolidate their perceptual memories. Our results suggest that lack of visual priming in AD patients is linked to the inability to maintain fragmented perceptual memories.
Contrast sensitivity improves in visually normal children until 7 years of age and is impaired in children who experienced early visual deprivation from bilateral congenital cataracts. Here, we investigated whether the deficits after early visual deprivation change during childhood by retesting the contrast sensitivity of seven patients treated for bilateral congenital cataract who had been first tested before 7.5 years of age, and of two patients first tested after 11 years of age. For the younger group, contrast sensitivity at low spatial frequencies improved after 1- and 2-year intervals, while their sensitivity at mid and high spatial frequencies did not change. There was no systematic change in the two older patients. The results indicate that early visual input sets up the neural substrate for later improvement in contrast sensitivity at mid and high spatial frequencies. However, there is sufficient plasticity during middle childhood to allow some recovery at low spatial frequencies. The results shed new light on the role of early visual experience and the nature of developmental plasticity.
Unilateral neglect, a neurological disorder in which patients fail to detect or respond to contralesional stimuli, has long been considered a failure of attentional orienting mechanisms. This review provides a selective overview of the prominent biases in spatial orienting and exploratory motor behaviour observed in these patients before considering the impact of other factors on the presentation of the disorder and how those factors might inform current neurological models of neglect. In the latter part of the review, we intend to suggest that neglect is likely to be a combination of distinct but interacting impairments including biases in attentional orienting, exploratory motor behaviours and a deficit of spatial working memory. That is, we suggest that the cardinal symptom of neglect - a loss of awareness for contralesional stimuli and events - arises as a result of a combination of these impairments rather than being associated solely with the more dramatic and immediately evident biases in spatial attention.
Very few studies have investigated sensorimotor control in apraxia using tasks that differ in movement complexity. Nevertheless, there is some evidence to suggest that spontaneous behaviour, although relatively preserved, can be rather clumsy or awkward, and that patients with ideomotor apraxia may have subtle kinematic abnormalities in movements made in the laboratory. It remains unclear whether patients with ideomotor apraxia perform normally on movements such as visually guided aiming, that may not depend on higher-order, more cognitive, processes and that are relatively unguided by overlearned contexts. In this study, three different sensorimotor tasks were given to the same sample of patients with quantified apraxic disturbance. Finger tapping, goal-directed grasping and aiming with and without visual feedback were examined in these patients. A clear dissociation was found between grossly impaired gesture imitation and intact motor programming of goal-directed movements with visual feedback. Apraxic patients were, however, impaired on aiming movements without visual feedback, suggesting that apraxia is associated with an increased reliance on integration of online visual information with feedforward/feedback somatosensory and motor signals. Furthermore, patients were impaired on single finger tapping which was a surprisingly good predictor of apraxia severity.
We report a study on a patient (DW) with integrative visual agnosia and a category-specific recognition impairment for living things. We assessed DW's local and global processing and tested if his integrative agnosia could have led directly to his category-specific impairment. The main findings were: (i) DW was faster at identifying local compared to global letters. (ii) DW showed no local-to-global (or global-to-local) interference effects in selective attention tasks. (iii) DW showed a congruency effect in a divided attention task, suggesting that, when his attention was cued to both levels, he could process information simultaneously and integrate local and global information. (iv) Controls were poorer at naming nonliving compared to living things when presented with silhouettes. These data suggest that local and global information are differentially weighted in the visual recognition of living and nonliving things, and that an impairment in processing the overall shape of an object can lead to a category-specific deficit for living things. Crucially, this implies that category-specific impairments do not necessarily reflect damage to the semantic system, and models of semantic memory based on this assumption need to be revised.
The two standardized tests of face recognition that are widely used suffer from serious shortcomings [Duchaine, B. &amp; Weidenfeld, A. (2003). An evaluation of two commonly used tests of unfamiliar face recognition. Neuropsychologia, 41, 713-720; Duchaine, B. &amp; Nakayama, K. (2004). Developmental prosopagnosia and the Benton Facial Recognition Test. Neurology, 62, 1219-1220]. Images in the Warrington Recognition Memory for Faces test include substantial non-facial information, and the simultaneous presentation of faces in the Benton Facial Recognition Test allows feature matching. Here, we present results from a new test, the Cambridge Face Memory Test, which builds on the strengths of the previous tests. In the test, participants are introduced to six target faces, and then they are tested with forced choice items consisting of three faces, one of which is a target. For each target face, three test items contain views identical to those studied in the introduction, five present novel views, and four present novel views with noise. There are a total of 72 items, and 50 controls averaged 58. To determine whether the test requires the special mechanisms used to recognize upright faces, we conducted two experiments. We predicted that controls would perform much more poorly when the face images are inverted, and as predicted, inverted performance was much worse with a mean of 42. Next we assessed whether eight prosopagnosics would perform poorly on the upright version. The prosopagnosic mean was 37, and six prosopagnosics scored outside the normal range. In contrast, the Warrington test and the Benton test failed to classify a majority of the prosopagnosics as impaired. These results indicate that the new test effectively assesses face recognition across a wide range of abilities.
The functional-neuroanatomic relationship that describes the involvement of the parietal cortex in visual search was investigated using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS; 10 Hz, 500 ms in duration). Twelve adult participants performed feature-based visual search for a unique letter-without eye movements-under conditions that involved manipulations of search efficiency (efficient versus inefficient) and target-selection demands (set-size: 4 versus 10). rTMS was applied over the right posterior parietal cortex at the onset of the search array for all factorial conditions (0-500 ms); stimulation was additionally administered at 500 ms post-array onset (500-1000 ms) during inefficient search (set-size 10). Stimulation over the primary sensorimotor cortex served as a within-subjects control condition, and eye movements were monitored continuously. Significant increases in reaction time were restricted to parietal stimulation during inefficient search (set-size 10), with interference observed when rTMS was administered at the onset of the search array and at 500 ms post-array onset. The early effect was confined to target-present trials and the late effect was confined to target-absent trials, which may indicate temporally dissociable parietal involvement in target detection and response-based selection and/or search termination, respectively. Error rates did not vary significantly as a function of any of the independent variables. Taken together, these results are consistent with evidence from functional magnetic resonance studies indicating that inefficient feature-based visual search requires an intact parietal cortex, and also indicate that the parietal cortex is involved in inefficient search later than has been previously reported.
Perspective-taking is a stepping stone to human empathy. When empathizing with another individual, one can imagine how the other perceives the situation and feels as a result. To what extent does imagining the other differs from imagining oneself in similar painful situations? In this functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, participants were shown pictures of people with their hands or feet in painful or non-painful situations and instructed to imagine and rate the level of pain perceived from different perspectives. Both the Self's and the Other's perspectives were associated with activation in the neural network involved in pain processing, including the parietal operculum, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC; BA32) and anterior insula. However, the Self-perspective yielded higher pain ratings and involved the pain matrix more extensively in the secondary somatosensory cortex, the ACC (BA 24a'/24b'), and the insula proper. Adopting the perspective of the Other was associated with specific increase in the posterior cingulate/precuneus and the right temporo-parietal junction. These results show the similarities between Self- and Other-pain representation, but most interestingly they also highlight some distinctiveness between these two representations, which is a crucial aspect of human empathy. It may be what allows us to distinguish empathic responses to others versus our own personal distress. These findings are consistent with the view that empathy does not involve a complete Self-Other merging.
The developing brain is traditionally viewed to possess a great compensatory potential. Here we ask whether visual processing of point-light displays depicting human walking is compromised in adolescents who were born premature (between 27 and 33 gestation weeks) and suffer early bilateral damage to periventricular brain regions. Combining psychophysics with volumetric analysis of structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we found that even relatively small periventricular parieto-occipital lesions may result in long-lasting breakdown of visual processing of point-light displays. Analysis of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves revealed higher susceptibility of the patients' perceptual system to camouflage of a point-light figure. The lack of difference in sensitivity between former preterms with normal MRI scan and term-born controls indicates that perceptual deficiencies in patients with periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) are not simply due to premature birth. Most importantly, sensitivity in patients even with mild PVL was lower than in both control groups. Display 180 degrees inversion in the image plane, which is known to impair processing of point-light displays, resulted in a substantial reduction of sensitivity so that it no longer differed between the groups. Despite the social and ecological significance of human locomotion, the capacity of the brain to detect biological motion is substantially modulated by periventricular lesions even if they occur very early in life. The findings point to specific restrictions on the brain's spontaneous compensatory plasticity in perceptual development.
In a recent ERP study of inhibitory control using the Stop-Signal Task [Pliszka, S., Liotti, M., Woldorff, M. (2000). Inhibitory control in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Event-related potentials identify the processing component and timing of an impaired right-frontal response-inhibition mechanism. Biological Psychiatry, 48, 238-246], we showed that in normal children (age 10-12 years) the Stop Signals elicited a robust, right-frontal-maximal N200 (latency approximately 200 ms) that was strongly reduced in children with ADHD. To further investigate the mechanisms of response inhibition, this paradigm was applied to 11 healthy young adults. To better distinguish response-inhibition-related activity from early attentional effects, a &quot;Stop-Signal-Irrelevant&quot; condition was added, in which subjects performed the task while ignoring the Stop Signals. In the Stop-Signal-Relevant condition, the right frontal N200 to the Stop Signals was larger for Successful inhibition (SI) than for Failed inhibition (FI) trials. The timing and distribution of this effect was strikingly similar to that of the right-frontal ADHD deficit reported in Pliszka et al. (2000), supporting this activity being related to successful normal inhibitory control processes. In contrast, a posterior N200 was larger for Stop-Relevant than for Stop-Irrelevant trials, likely reflecting enhanced early sensory attention to the Stop Signals when relevant. Two longer-latency failure-specific ERP effects were also observed: a greater frontopolar negative wave (370-450 ms) to Failed than Successful inhibitions, and a greater parietal positive slow wave (450-650 ms) for Failed inhibitions than ignore-stop trials, likely reflecting differential recruitment of error detection and correction mechanisms following Failed attempts to inhibit a response.
Associations between efficient processing of brief, rapidly presented, successive stimuli and language learning impairments (LLI) in older children and adults have been well documented. In this paper we examine the role that impaired rapid auditory processing (RAP) might play during early language acquisition. Using behavioral measures we have demonstrated that RAP abilities in infancy are critically linked to later language abilities for both non-speech and speech stimuli. Variance in infant RAP thresholds reliably predict language outcome at 3 years-of-age for infants at risk for LLI and control infants. We present data here describing patterns of electrocortical (EEG/ERP) activation at 6 month-of-age to the same non-verbal stimuli used in our behavioral studies. Well-defined differences were seen between infants from families with a history of LLI (FH+) and FH- controls in the amplitude of the mismatch response (MMR) as well as the latency of the N250 component in the 70 ms ISI condition only. Smaller mismatch responses and delayed onsets of the N250 component were seen in the FH+ group. The latency differences in the N250 component, but not the MMR amplitude variation, were significantly related to 24-month language outcome. Such converging tasks provide the opportunity to examine early precursors of LLI and allow the opportunity for earlier identification and intervention.
Neuroimaging studies of normal young adults have consistently found right prefrontal cortex (RPFC) activity during the performance of recency memory tasks. However, it is unclear whether the involvement of RPFC during these tasks reflects retrieval processes or executive processes such as: strategic ordering or monitoring. In the current study, we distinguish between those PFC regions that are more related to retrieval processes, versus strategic ordering processes. An event-related fMRI study was conducted in which eight young subjects were scanned while performing verbal episodic retrieval tasks (recognition and recency memory tasks), and verbal non-memory strategic organizing control tasks (reverse alphabetizing of words). The fMRI results show that young subjects engaged right dorsolateral PFC during recency and reverse alphabetizing control tasks. Left ventral PFC was engaged across all tasks; however, a subset of voxels within this region was more active during retrieval tasks. Left dorsolateral and right ventral PFC activity was more related to the performance of reverse alphabetizing tasks, respectively. We conclude that right dorsolateral PFC activity during recency memory reflects more general strategic organizational or monitoring processes, and is not EM-specific.
An important role for emotion in decision-making has recently been highlighted by disruptions in problem solving abilities after lesion to the frontal lobes. Such complex decision-making skills appear to be based on a class of memory ability (emotion-based learning) that may be anatomically independent of hippocampally mediated episodic memory systems. There have long been reports of intact emotion-based learning in amnesia, arguably dating back to the classic report of Claparede. However, all such accounts relate to relatively simple patterns of emotional valence learning, rather than the more complex contingency patterns of emotional experience, which characterise everyday life. A patient, SL, who had a profound anterograde amnesia following posterior cerebral artery infarction, performed a measure of complex emotion-based learning (the Iowa Gambling Task) on three separate occasions. Despite his severe episodic memory impairment, he showed normal levels of performance on the Gambling Task, at levels comparable or better than controls-including learning that persisted across substantial periods of time (weeks). Thus, emotion-based learning systems appear able to encode, and sustain, more sophisticated patterns of valence learning than have previously been reported.
Dichotic listening (DL) is the most frequently used method to study language lateralization. The current study investigated the effect of voice-onset-time (VOT) in dichotic listening with consonant-vowel (CV) syllables. Eighty-nine subjects with normal hearing and overall right-ear-advantage (REA) were tested with a PC version of the DL test. Voiced and unvoiced stop-consonants were used in combination with the vowel /a/. This produced three syllables with short VOT /ba, da, ga/ and three syllables with long VOT /pa, ta, ka/. There were, therefore, four possible combinations of VOTs when the syllables were presented as dichotic pairs. These were short-long (SL), i.e. syllable-pairs with a short VOT in the left ear and a syllable with a long VOT in the right ear; and similarly long-short (LS), short-short (SS), and long-long (LL). The results showed that syllable pairs with long VOT presented in the right ear and short VOT simultaneously presented in the left ear, produced the largest REA. This was followed by the LL and SS conditions. The LS condition produced a significant left-ear-advantage (LEA). These results demonstrate that VOT significantly affects ear-advantage as observed in the DL test and suggest that VOT may be a more powerful determinant of DL performance than the classic REA effect. The findings are discussed within the framework of different hypotheses about speech laterality.
Using the &quot;remember-know&quot; procedure to assess recognition memory, previous studies yielded evidence of impaired recollection but intact familiarity in schizophrenia patients. However, so far, the recognition memory performance of schizophrenia patients has not yet been analysed using the dual-process signal detection model (DPSD) by Yonelinas [Yonelinas, A. P. (2001). Components of episodic memory: The contribution of recollection and familiarity. Philosophical Transactions of Royal Society of London. Series B: Biological Sciences, 356(1413), 1363-1374], which accurately accounts for response and memory bias. Also, clinical symptoms have not yet been taken into account. Based on findings from neuropsychological and neurobiological research we hypothesized that high negative symptoms might be associated with a profile of impaired recollection and spared familiarity. The recognition memory performance of 22 schizophrenia patients scoring higher or lower on the negative symptoms subscale of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) was assessed by means of a word list discrimination task. Following the rationale of the dual-process signal detection model, estimates of recollection and familiarity were derived. The recollection estimate, derived by the DPSD model, was lower in patients with more severe negative symptomatology compared with both the patients with lower negative symptoms scores and healthy individuals. Familiarity was not affected if IQ was partialled out. Furthermore, the results yielded increased false alarm rates in patients with negative schizophrenia. The findings confirm an association of negative symptoms and recollection impairment in schizophrenia.
We describe the psychophysical features of vocal amusia in a professional tango singer caused by an infarction mainly involving the superior temporal cortex of the right hemisphere. The lesion also extended to the supramarginal gyrus, the posterior aspect of the postcentral gyrus and the posterior insula. She presented with impairment of musical perception that was especially pronounced in discriminating timbre and loudness but also in discriminating pitch, and a severely impaired ability to reproduce the pitch just presented. In contrast, language and motor disturbances were almost entirely absent. By comparing her pre- and post-stroke singing, we were able to show that her singing after the stroke lacked the fine control of the subtle stress and pitch changes that characterized her pre-stroke singing. Such impairment could not be explained by the impairment of pitch perception. The findings suggest that damage to the right temporoparietal cortex is enough to produce both perceptive and expressive deficits in music.
Studies of semantic impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have yielded conflicting results, some finding evidence of considerable deficits, others finding that semantic knowledge is relatively intact. How do we reconcile findings from picture naming tasks that seem to indicate semantic impairment in AD with results from certain sorting tasks that suggest intact semantics? To investigate the basis of the contradictory results described above, we conducted a study using two types of tasks: (1) picture naming; and (2) board sorting. The board sorting task we used is a simultaneous similarity judgment task, in which participants are asked to place more similar concepts closer together and less similar ones farther apart. We compared the performance of AD patients on these two tasks, using a number of different analyses that yield very different patterns of results. Our results indicate that whether patients show impairment or not depends on both the nature of the task and the subsequent analysis chosen. Specifically, tasks and analyses that focus on relational knowledge (e.g., dog is more related to cat than to camel) lead to different conclusions than those based on specific information about individual items. These findings suggest that the board sorting method, when coupled with multiple analyses, provides a more complete picture of the underlying semantic deficit in AD than previous studies have shown.
Constraint-Induced Movement therapy or CI therapy is a behavioral approach to neurorehabilitation based on a program of neuroscience experiments conducted with deafferented monkeys. Over the last 20 years, a large body of evidence has accumulated to support the efficacy of CI therapy for rehabilitating hemiparetic arm use in individuals with chronic stroke. Given the persuasive evidence for its efficacy to date, other research questions have risen to the forefront. How cost-effective is CI therapy? What are optimal training and other treatment parameters? What patient characteristics moderate the effects of CI therapy? The papers gathered in this special issue address many of these topics.
Recent important advancements in genomic research have opened the way to new strategies for public health management. One of these questions pertains to how individual genetic variation may be associated with individual variability in response to drug treatment. The field of pharmacogenetics may have a profound impact on treatment of complex psychiatric disorders like schizophrenia. However, pharmacogenetic studies in schizophrenia have produced conflicting results. The first studies examined potential associations between clinical response and drug receptor genes. Subsequent studies have tried to use more objective phenotypes still in association with drug receptor genes. More recently, other studies have sought the association between putative causative or modifier genes and intermediate phenotypes. Thus, conflicting results may be at least in part explained by variability and choice of the phenotype, by choice of candidate genes, or by the relatively little knowledge about the neurobiology of this disorder. We propose that choosing intermediate phenotypes that allow in vivo measurement of specific neuronal functions may be of great help in reducing several of the potential confounds intrinsic to clinical measurements. Functional neuroimaging is ideally suited to address several of these potential confounds, and it may represent a powerful strategy to investigate the relationship between behavior, brain function, genes, and individual variability in the response to treatment with antipsychotic drugs in schizophrenia. Preliminary evidence with potential susceptilibity genes such as COMT, DISC1, and GRM3 support these assumptions.

Psychopathology, mental illness, and psychiatric treatment are concepts relevant to modern medicine and medical psychology and replete with cumbersome intellectual and literary baggage. They bear the imprint of suppositions, world views, and general beliefs and values exemplified in the science, history, and general culture of Anglo European societies. The study in higher apes of phenomena addressed by such concepts raises conceptual dilemmas, usually termed speciesism and anthropomorphism, not unlike those encountered in comparative human studies of similar phenomena across cultures and historical periods, namely, ethnocentrism and anachronism. The authors' synthesis of literature and their analysis of the implications of higher ape psychopathology represent an epistemically compelling account that broadens the scope of the comparative study of behavioral irregularities, a topic that provides a different slant for examining challenging questions in evolutionary biology and primatology, such as cognition, self awareness, intentional behavior, culture and behavioral traditions, social intelligence, sickness and healing, and altruism. Theoretical and empirical study of this topic expands formulation and can help provide informative answers about human evolution as well as essential features of human psychiatric syndromes, with potential practical implications. The study of psychopathology of higher apes and other non human primates represents an appropriate focus for neuroscience and bio-behavioral sciences.
The interpretation of proverbs has a long tradition in the assessment of abstract thinking, particularly in schizophrenia. Although the usefulness of proverb interpretation as a diagnostic tool has been questioned over the years, the comprehension of non-literal language nevertheless plays an important role in social interactions. Thus, researchers remain interested in the neurocognitive mechanisms mediating comprehension and use of figurative language. The present paper summarizes and evaluates the evidence from behavioral, lesion and imaging studies including data for compromised figurative language processing derived from clinical populations. One main focus is on studies of figurative language comprehension in schizophrenia. Several theoretical explanations proposed to account for the difficulties schizophrenia patients experience when confronted with figurative language will be addressed. An integration of the evidence from different areas of research is attempted and directions for future investigation are outlined.

This review discusses the theory and practical application of independent component analysis (ICA) to multi-channel EEG data. We use examples from an audiovisual attention-shifting task performed by young and old subjects to illustrate the power of ICA to resolve subtle differences between evoked responses in the two age groups. Preliminary analysis of these data using ICA suggests a loss of task specificity in independent component (IC) processes in frontal and somatomotor cortex during post-response periods in older as compared to younger subjects, trends not detected during examination of scalp-channel event-related potential (ERP) averages. We discuss possible approaches to component clustering across subjects and new ways to visualize mean and trial-by-trial variations in the data, including ERP-image plots of dynamics within and across trials as well as plots of event-related spectral perturbations in component power, phase locking, and coherence. We believe that widespread application of these and related analysis methods should bring EEG once again to the forefront of brain imaging, merging its high time and frequency resolution with enhanced cm-scale spatial resolution of its cortical sources.
Social neuro-science has recently started to investigate the neuronal mechanisms underlying our ability to understand the mental and emotional states of others. In this review, imaging research conducted on theory of mind (ToM or mentalizing) and empathy is selectively reviewed. It is proposed that even though these abilities are often used as synonyms in the literature these capacities represent different abilities that rely on different neuronal circuitry. ToM refers to our ability to understand mental states such as intentions, goals and beliefs, and relies on structures of the temporal lobe and the pre-frontal cortex. In contrast, empathy refers to our ability to share the feelings (emotions and sensations) of others and relies on sensorimotor cortices as well as limbic and para-limbic structures. It is further argued that the concept of empathy as used in lay terms refers to a multi-level construct extending from simple forms of emotion contagion to complex forms of cognitive perspective taking. Future research should investigate the relative contribution of empathizing and mentalizing abilities in the understanding of other people's states. Finally, it is suggested that the abilities to understand other people's thoughts and to share their affects display different ontogenetic trajectories reflecting the different developmental paths of their underlying neural structures. In particular, empathy develops much earlier than mentalizing abilities, because the former relys on limbic structures which develop early in ontogeny, whereas the latter rely on lateral temporal lobe and pre-frontal structures which are among the last to fully mature.
Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience have allowed us to begin investigating the development of both structure and function in the infant brain. However, despite the rapid evolution of technology, surprisingly few studies have examined the intersection between brain and behaviour over the first years of life. Even fewer have done so in the context of a particular research question. This paper aims to provide an overview of four domains that have been studied using techniques amenable to elucidating the brain/behaviour interface: language, face processing, object permanence, and joint attention, with particular emphasis on studies focusing on early development. The importance of the unique role of development and the interplay between structure and function is stressed throughout. It is hoped that this review will serve as a catalyst for further thinking about the substantial gaps in our understanding of the relationship between brain and behaviour across development. Further, our aim is to provide ideas about candidate brain areas that are likely to be implicated in particular behaviours or cognitive domains.
Advances in neuroimaging have ushered in a new era of developmental neuroscience. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is particularly well suited for pediatric studies because it does not use ionizing radiation which enables safe longitudinal scans of healthy children. Key findings related to brain anatomical changes during childhood and adolescent are increases in white matter volumes throughout the brain and regionally specific inverted U-shaped trajectories of gray matter volumes. Brain morphometric measures are highly variable across individuals and there is considerable overlap amongst groups of boys versus girls, typically developing versus neuropsychiatric populations, and young versus old. Studies are ongoing to explore the influences of genetic and environmental factors on developmental trajectories.
Habituation to a novel environment in rodents is commonly defined as a change in exploratory or locomotor activity over time (intrasession) or with repeated exposures (intersession). While numerous neuroactive substances are known to influence habituation, neurotransmitters that play particularly important roles are serotonin, acetylcholine, dopamine and glutamate. Although habituation is a complex process, studies over the past two decades have demonstrated that there is a genetic component. At present, although researchers are still attempting to isolate key genes that control habituation, findings in mutant mice have begun to highlight some of the genes that could play a role. The challenge will be in deciphering what genes are directly involved in the process of habituation, what genes indirectly influence habituation through a secondary mechanism, and what genes have no role in habituation but are only affected as part of the downstream cascade.
The cortico-reticular theory of absence epilepsy explains the origin of the bilateral generalized spike-wave discharges (SWDs) characterizing absence seizures via a subcortical pacemaker that is responsible for both normal sleep spindles and pathological SWDs. This pacemaker is the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN); it produces spontaneous oscillations together with thalamic relay cells and the cortex in an assembled thalamo-cortico-thalamic network. Recently, Meeren et al. [2002. Cortical focus drives widespread corticothalamic networks during spontaneous absence seizures in rats. Journal of Neuroscience 22, 1480-1495.] proposed a focal theory of absence epilepsy based on experimental findings in the WAG/Rij rat, a genetic model of absence epilepsy: the somatosensory cortex contains a focus that initiates a cascade of events that ultimately leads to the occurrence of the bilateral and generalized SWDs if the state of the thalamo-cortical circuitry is favorable. Pharmacological, neurochemical, and neurophysiological data are presented and reviewed here that suggest SWDs might emerge from spontaneous oscillating neurons in the somatosensory cortex during both wakefulness and drowsiness. There is evidence for a variety of neurobiological changes, including a deficient global (parvalbumin) and local GABA-ergic (neurophysiological) system in the neocortex, which may explain why specifically the perioral region of the somatosensory cortex is hyperexcitable and the initiation site of 10Hz oscillations. The neuronal cortical and subcortical circuitry that produces SWDs is part of a large oscillatory system involved in generating cerebral rhythms associated with vibrissal movements. It needs to be established whether similar or comparable pathophysiological processes are also present in humans. Our hypothesis can be readily tested in other models and in humans considering that it is very specific and can be subjected to experimental verification.
There are a number of reasons to suppose that language evolved from manual gestures. We review evidence that the transition from primarily manual to primarily vocal language was a gradual process, and is best understood if it is supposed that speech itself a gestural system rather than an acoustic system, an idea captured by the motor theory of speech perception and articulatory phonology. Studies of primate premotor cortex, and, in particular, of the so-called &quot;mirror system&quot; suggest a double hand/mouth command system that may have evolved initially in the context of ingestion, and later formed a platform for combined manual and vocal communication. In humans, speech is typically accompanied by manual gesture, speech production itself is influenced by executing or observing hand movements, and manual actions also play an important role in the development of speech, from the babbling stage onwards. The final stage at which speech became relatively autonomous may have occurred late in hominid evolution, perhaps with a mutation of the FOXP2 gene around 100,000 years ago.
For a long time, studies devoted to intranasal chemoreception have separately considered the different systems which coexist in the human nasal cavity, especially the olfactory and trigeminal systems. For the former, the findings have contributed to a better understanding of transduction, perception and the treatment of odors. For the latter, data have contributed to the knowledge of somatosensory innervation into the nose, especially in relation to nociception. During the last two decades, an increasing number of studies focused on interactions occurring between both systems. Indeed, most odorant molecules have the propensity to simultaneously stimulate olfactory and trigeminal systems in the nasal cavity. The interactions between both systems appear complex and take place at peripheral, central or perceptual levels. Studies in neurobiology, electrophysiology, psychophysics or functional imaging contribute to determine how both olfactory and trigeminal systems coexist and how one system could influence the other in the treatment of sensory information. However, several structural, functional and methodological questions remain unsolved in the field of olfactory/trigeminal interactions and deserve further research.
Disorders of the ejaculatory threshold, such as lifelong premature ejaculation, are fairly common in humans and can have a great impact on the quality of life. Research in humans and rats have indicated that increased serotonin levels in the central nervous system elevate the ejaculatory threshold, probably via 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors, whereas depletion of serotonin decreases the ejaculatory threshold. 5-HT(1A) receptor activation strongly lowers the ejaculatory threshold, probably mediated by both the reduction of serotonin levels via presynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors and yet unknown effects of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. The present review attempts to integrate psychopharmacological data on serotonergic control over ejaculation with the knowledge of the neuroanatomical substrate of ejaculation, indicating the importance of the lumbosacral spinal cord, the nucleus paragigantocellularis, the lateral hypothalamic area and several other supraspinal areas. In addition, the gaps in our understanding of the role of serotonin in the ejaculatory threshold are discussed. Filling in those gaps might help to design specific drugs that alter the ejaculatory threshold, thereby alleviating ejaculatory disorders.
Male mice with targeted deletion of the genes encoding the neuronal (NOS-1-/- or nNOS-/-) isoform of nitric oxide synthase display altered aggressive behaviors. Male nNOS-1-/- mice are more aggressive than wild-type (WT) mice in all testing paradigms. Testosterone is necessary, but not sufficient, for evoking the persistent aggression, and that serotonin (5-HT) metabolism is altered in male nNOS-1-/- mice. The specific deletion of the nNOS-1 gene not only results in a lack of nNOS-1 protein, but in common with many genes, affects several 'down-stream' processes. In this review, we address whether the elevated aggression in male nNOS-1-/- mice reflects pleiotropic effects of the nNOS-1 gene on pain sensitivity, 'anxiety-like', or 'depressive-like' behaviors. For example, male nNOS-1-/- mice display increased sensitivity to painful stimuli, which may prolong aggressive interactions. Despite elevated corticosterone concentrations, nNOS-1 knockout mice appear to be less 'anxious' or fearful than WT mice. Male nNOS-1-/- mice display longer latencies to right themselves on an inverted platform and spend more time in the center of an open field than WT mice. Because of reduced serotonin turnover, the excessive aggressiveness displayed by nNOS-1-/- mice may be symptomatic of a depressive-like syndrome. However, nNOS-1-/- mice rarely display behavioral 'despair' when assessed with the Porsolt forced swim test; rather, nNOS-1-/- mice show vigorous swimming throughout the assessment suggesting that the aggressive behavior does not represent depressive-like behavior. Importantly, aggressive behavior is not a unitary process, but is the result of complex interactions among several physiological, motivational, and behavioral systems, with contributions from the social as well as the physical environment. Lastly, the multiple, and often unanticipated, effects of targeted gene disruption on aggressive behavior are considered.
Illusory contours (IC) have attracted a considerable interest in recent years to derive models of how sensory information is processed and integrated within the visual system. In addition to various findings from neuropsychology, neurophysiology, and psychophysics, several recent studies have used functional neuroimaging to identify the cerebral substrates underlying human perception of IC (in particular Kanizsa figures). In this paper, we review the results from more than 20 neuroimaging studies on IC perception and highlight the great diversity of findings across these studies. We then provide a detailed discussion about the localization ('where' debate) and the timing ('when' debate) of IC processing as suggested by functional neuroimaging. Cortical responses involving visual areas as early as V1/V2 and latencies as rapid as 100 ms have been reported in several studies. Particular issues concerning the role of the right hemisphere and the retinotopic encoding of IC are also discussed. These different findings are tentatively brought together to propose different hypothetical cortical mechanisms that might be responsible for the visual formation of IC. Several remaining questions on IC processing that could potentially be explored with functional neuroimaging techniques are finally emphasized.
The ability to characterise psychopathologies on the basis of their underlying neurobiology is critical in improving our understanding of disorder etiology and making more effective diagnostic and treatment decisions. Given the well-documented relationship between temperament (i.e. core personality traits) and psychopathology, research investigating the neurobiological substrates that underlie temperament is potentially key to our understanding of the biological basis of mental disorder. We present evidence that specific areas of the prefrontal cortex (including the dorsolateral prefrontal, anterior cingulate, and orbitofrontal cortices) and limbic structures (including the amygdala, hippocampus and nucleus accumbens) are key regions associated with three fundamental dimensions of temperament: Negative Affect, Positive Affect, and Constraint. Proposed relationships are based on two types of research: (a) research into the neurobiological correlates of affective and cognitive processes underlying these dimensions; and (b) research into the neurobiology of various psychopathologies, which have been correlated with these dimensions. A model is proposed detailing how these structures might comprise neural networks whose functioning underlies the three temperaments. Recommendations are made for future research into the neurobiology of temperament, including the need to focus on neural networks rather than individual structures, and the importance of prospective, longitudinal, multi-modal imaging studies in at-risk youth.
Current dissatisfaction with the limbic system concept reflects a desire to move beyond the limbic system in efforts to explain key facets of emotional functions and motivational behavior. This review promotes an anatomical viewpoint, which originated as a result of histotechnical advances. These improvements paved the way for anatomical discoveries, which in turn led to the concepts of the ventral striatopallidal system and extended amygdala. These two systems, together with the basal nucleus of Meynert and the septum-diagonal band system, serve as output channels for an expanded version of the classic limbic lobe of Broca, which contains all non-isocortical parts of the cortical mantle together with the large laterobasal-cortical amygdaloid complex. Thus defined, the limbic lobe contains all of the major cortical (e.g. orbitofrontal, cingulate and insular cortices in addition to the hippocampal formation) and cortical-like (laterobasal-cortical amygdala) structures known to be especially important for emotional and motivational functions. In their role as output channels for the limbic lobe, the basal forebrain functional-anatomical systems contribute to the establishment of a number of cortico-subcortical circuits, which provide an important part of the anatomical substrate for the elaboration of emotional functions and adaptive behavior.
The conceptual basis and continuing development of Alheid and Heimer's [Alheid, G.F., Heimer, L., 1988. New perspectives in basal forebrain organization of special relevance for neuropsychiatric disorders: the striatopallidal, amygdaloid and corticopetal components of substantia innominata. Neuroscience 27, 1-39] theory of basal forebrain organization based on the description of basal forebrain functional-anatomical 'macrosytems' is reviewed. It is posed that the macrosystem theory leads to a hypothesis that different macrosystems cooperate and compete to exert distinct influences on motor and cognitive function. Emergent corollaries include, e.g. that the organization of the outputs of different macrosystems should differ. Consistent with these considerations, extant literature and some unpublished data indicate that the input nuclei of macrosystems are not abundantly interconnected and macrosystems systems have distinct neuroanatomical relationships with basal forebrain and brainstem cholinergic and dopaminergic ascending modulatory systems. Furthermore, macrosystem outputs appear to be directed almost exclusively at the reticular formation or structures intimately associated with it. The relative merits of the theory of functional-anatomical macrosystems are discussed in relation to Swanson's model of cerebral hemisphere control of motivated behavior.
Compared to the study of negative emotions such as fear, the neurobiology of positive emotional processes and the associated positive affect (PA) states has only recently received scientific attention. Biological theories conceptualize PA as being related to (i) signals indicating that bodies are returning to equilibrium among those studying homeostasis, (ii) utility estimation among those favoring neuroeconomic views, and (iii) approach and other instinctual behaviors among those cultivating neuroethological perspectives. Indeed, there are probably several distinct forms of positive affect, but all are closely related to ancient sub-neocortical limbic brain regions we share with other mammals. There is now a convergence of evidence to suggest that various regions of the limbic system, including especially ventral striatal dopamine systems are implemented in an anticipatory (appetitive) positive affective state. Dopamine independent mechanisms utilizing opiate and GABA receptors in the ventral striatum, amygdala and orbital frontal cortex are important in elaborating consummatory PA (i.e. sensory pleasure) states, and various neuropeptides mediate homeostatic satisfactions.
It is well recognised that patients with Parkinson's disease exhibit cognitive deficits, even in the earliest disease stages. Whereas, L-DOPA therapy in early Parkinson's disease is accepted to improve the motor symptoms, the effects on cognitive performance are more complex: both positive and negative effects have been observed. The purpose of the present article is to review the effects of L-DOPA medication in Parkinson's disease on cognitive functions in the broad domains of cognitive flexibility and working memory. The review places the effects in Parkinson's disease within a framework of evidence from studies with healthy human volunteers, rodents and non-human primates as well as computational modeling work. It is suggested that beneficial or detrimental effects of L-DOPA are observed depending on task demands and basal dopamine levels in distinct parts of the striatum. The study of the beneficial and detrimental cognitive effects of L-DOPA in Parkinson's disease has substantial implications for the understanding and treatment development of cognitive abnormalities in Parkinson's disease as well as normal health.
Objective The relationship between firing pattern and sensitivity of neurons was studied in chronically compressed dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and the Hindmarsh-Rose (HR) neuronal model. Methods Spontaneous activities from single fibers of chronically compressed DRG neurons in rats were recorded, and divided into periodic and non-periodic firing patterns. The sensitivity of the two kinds of firing pattern neuron to sympathetic stimulation (SS) was compared. Result It was found that 27.3% of periodic firing neurons and 93.2% of non-periodic firing neurons responded to SS respectively (periodic vs non-periodic, P &lt; 0.01). The responses to SS with different stimulation time were greater non-periodic firing neurons than periodic firing neurons (P &lt; 0.01). The non-periodic firing neurons obviously responded to SS. After the firing pattern of these neurons transformed to periodic firing pattern, their responses to SS disappeared or decreased obviously. The HR neuronal model exhibited a significantly greater response to perturbation in non-periodic (chaotic) firing pattern than in periodic firing pattern. Conclusion The non-periodic firing neurons with deterministic chaos are more sensitive to external stimuli than the periodic firing neurons.

Even simple behaviors of vertebrates are typically generated by the concerted action of large numbers of brain cells. However, the mechanisms by which groups of neurons work together as functional populations to guide behavior remain largely unknown. One of the major model systems for exploring these mechanisms has been mammalian visuomotor behavior. We describe here experiments that establish a new model system for analyzing the sensory control of behavior by neuronal populations using a mammalian somatosensory response: orientation to touch cues in a rodent. We found that the CNS mechanisms used to direct these orientation responses to touch can be delineated from behavioral experiments. In this study we demonstrate that the superior colliculus, a component of the vertebrate midbrain most often thought of as a visual structure, is an essential component of the naked mole-rat's unique tactile orienting behavior. Furthermore, the information processing that underlies this behavior displays striking parallels with that used for visual orientation at anatomical and computational levels.
Cannabinoid type 1 receptors and transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 channels have been proposed to act as metabotropic and ionotropic receptors, respectively, for two classes of endogenous polyunsaturated fatty acid amides, the acylethanolamides and the acyldopamides. Furthermore, we and others have shown that functional crosstalk occurs between these two receptors when they are expressed in the same cell. Although demonstrated in sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord and myenteric neurons, co-expression of cannabinoid type 1 and transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 has not yet been studied in the brain. In the present study, we addressed this issue by using commercially available specific antibodies whose specificity was confirmed by data obtained with brains from cannabinoid type 1(-/-) and transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1(-/-) mice. Double cannabinoid type 1/transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 immunofluorescence and single cannabinoid type 1 or transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 avidin-biotin complex immunohistochemistry techniques were performed and both methods used point to the same results. Cannabinoid type 1/transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 expression was observed in the hippocampus, basal ganglia, thalamus, hypothalamus, cerebral peduncle, pontine nuclei, periaqueductal gray matter, cerebellar cortex and dentate cerebellar nucleus. In particular, in the hippocampus, cannabinoid type 1/transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 expression was detected on cell bodies of many pyramidal neurons throughout the CA1-CA3 subfields and in the molecular layer of dentate gyrus. In the cerebellar cortex, expression of cannabinoid type 1/transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptors was found surrounding soma and axons of the vast majority of Purkinje cell bodies, whose cytoplasm was found unstained for both receptors. Cannabinoid type 1 and transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 immunoreactivity was also detected in: a) the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, in which some intensely transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 immunopositive cell bodies were found in dense and fine cannabinoid type 1/transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 positive and cannabinoid type 1 positive nerve fiber meshworks, respectively; b) the cytoplasm of thalamic and hypothalamic neurons; and c) some neurons of the ventral periaqueductal gray. These data support the hypothesis of a functional relationship between the two receptor types in the CNS.
The aim of this study was to examine the influence of different fat diets on serotonin receptor and transporter binding. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a diet of either high saturated fat, omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid or low fat (control) for eight weeks. Using Beta-Imager quantification techniques, [(3)H]ketanserin, [(3)H]mesulergine and [(3)H]paroxetine binding to serotonin (5-HT)(2A), 5-HT(2C) receptors and 5-HT transporters (5-HTT) was measured throughout the brain in all four groups. All three high fatty acid diets influenced serotonin receptor binding, however the most pronounced effects were that compared with the low fat control group, i) 5-HT(2A) receptor binding was increased in the caudate putamen, but reduced in the mammillary nucleus in high saturated fat and high omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid diet groups; ii) 5-HT(2C) receptor binding was reduced in the mamillary nucleus of saturated fat group and reduced in prefrontal cortex of the omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid groups; and iii) 5-HTT binding was reduced in the hippocampus in the omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid group. Overall, the omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid diet exerted the most influence on serotonin receptor and transporter binding. These results may be of importance in relation to neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, where associations between altered fatty acid levels and the serotonergic system have been made.
C-type natriuretic peptide, widely distributed in the CNS, may work as a neuromodulator. In this work, we investigated modulation by C-type natriuretic peptide of functional properties of glutamate receptors in rat retinal GABAergic amacrine cells in culture. Immunocytochemical data revealed that natriuretic peptide receptor-B was strongly expressed on the membrane of cultured GABAergic amacrine cells. By whole cell recording techniques we further identified the glutamate receptor expressed on the GABAergic amacrine cells as an AMPA-preferring subtype. Incubation with C-type natriuretic peptide suppressed the AMPA receptor-mediated current of these cells in a dose-dependent manner by decreasing the efficacy and apparent affinity for glutamate. The effect of C-type natriuretic peptide was reversed by HS-142-1, a guanylyl cyclase-coupled natriuretic peptide receptor-A/B antagonist. Meanwhile, the selective natriuretic peptide receptor-C agonist cANF did not change the glutamate current. In conjunction with the immunocytochemical data, these results suggest that the C-type natriuretic peptide effect may be mediated by natriuretic peptide receptor-B. Furthermore, incubation of retinal cultures in the C-type natriuretic peptide-containing medium elevated cGMP immunoreactivity in the GABAergic amacrine cells, and the C-type natriuretic peptide effect on the glutamate current was mimicked by application of 8-Br-cGMP. It is therefore concluded that C-type natriuretic peptide may modulate the glutamate current by increasing the intracellular concentration of cGMP in these cells via activation of natriuretic peptide receptor-B.
The basolateral amygdala and portions of the &quot;extended&quot; amygdala (i.e. central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and shell of the nucleus accumbens) have been implicated in the aversive aspects of withdrawal from chronic opiate administration. Given that similar withdrawal signs are observed following a single opiate exposure, these structures may also play a role in &quot;acute opiate dependence.&quot; In the current study, drug-nave rats underwent naloxone-precipitated withdrawal from acute morphine (10 mg/kg) exposure on two successive days. On either the first or second day of testing, the basolateral amygdala, central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, or nucleus accumbens was temporarily inactivated immediately prior to naloxone injection by microinfusion of the glutamatergic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid receptor antagonist 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo(f)quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (3 microg/0.5 microl). On the first day, inactivation of the basolateral amygdala, central nucleus of the amygdala, or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, but not the nucleus accumbens blocked withdrawal-potentiated startle, a behavioral measure of the anxiogenic effects of withdrawal. On the second day, inactivation of the nucleus accumbens, but not the basolateral amygdala, central nucleus of the amygdala, or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis disrupted the withdrawal effect. Effects of structural inactivations on withdrawal-potentiated startle were not influenced by differences in withdrawal severity on the two days of testing. A fear-potentiated startle procedure provided functional confirmation of correct cannulae placement in basolateral amygdale- and central nucleus of the amygdala-implanted animals. Our findings indicate a double dissociation in the neural substrates of withdrawal-potentiated startle following a first versus second morphine exposure, and may reflect a reorganization of the neural circuitry underlying the expression of withdrawal-induced negative affect during the earliest stages of opiate dependence.
We report new molecular evidence for the presence of an N-type (Ca(v)2.2, alpha1B) voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel in hair cells of the saccular epithelium of the rainbow trout. The Ca(v)2.2 amino-acid sequence shows 68% and 63% identity compared with chick and human Ca(v)2.2, respectively. This channel reveals features that are characteristic of an N-type Ca(2+) channel: an omega-conotoxin GVIA binding domain, G(betagamma) binding regions, and a synaptic protein interaction site. Immunohistochemical studies with a custom antibody show that immunoreactivity for the Ca(v)2.2 is concentrated in the basolateral and apical regions of hair cells. Whereas trout brain and saccular macula express an 11-amino-acid insert in the second G(betagamma) binding domain of the Ca(v)2.2 I-II loop, isolated hair cells appear not to express this variant. We constructed fusion polypeptides representing portions of the I-II loop, beta1 and beta2a auxiliary subunits, the II-III loop, and syntaxin, and examined their intermolecular interactions via immunoprecipitation and surface plasmon resonance. The I-II loop polypeptides bound both beta1 and beta2a subunits with a preference for beta1, and the II-III loop exhibited Ca(2+)-dependent syntaxin binding. We demonstrated syntaxin immunoreactivity near afferent endings in hair cells, at hair-cell apices, and in efferent endings on hair cells, the former two sites consistent with binding of syntaxin to Ca(v)2.2. The present molecular characterization of the Ca(v)2.2 channel provides novel biochemical evidence for an N-type channel in hair cells, and details molecular interactions of this channel that reflect hair-cell function, such as spontaneous activity and vesicular trafficking. The current work, to our knowledge, represents the first demonstration of a putative N-type channel in hair cells as documented by tissue-specific antibody immunoreactivity and hair-cell-specific cDNA sequence.
Neuronal death is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. We have shown previously that phosphorylated double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase is present in degenerating hippocampal neurons and in senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease brains and that genetically down-regulating double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase activity protects against in vitro beta-amyloid peptide neurotoxicity. In this report, we showed that two double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase blockers attenuate, in human neuroblastoma cells, beta-amyloid peptide toxicity evaluated by caspase 3 assessment. In addition, we have used the newly engineered APP(SL)/presenilin 1 knock-in transgenic mice, which display a severe neuronal loss in hippocampal regions, to analyze the activation of double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase. Western blots revealed the increased levels of activated double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase and the inhibition of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha activity in the brains of these double transgenic mice. Phosphorylated RNA-dependent protein kinase-like endoplasmic reticulum-resident kinase was also increased in the brains of these mice. The levels of activated double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase were also increased in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. At 3, 6 and 12 months, hippocampal neurons display double stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase labelings in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Confocal microscopy showed that almost constantly activated double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase co-localized with DNA strand breaks in apoptotic nuclei of CA1 hippocampal neurons. Taken together these results demonstrate that double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase is associated with neurodegeneration in APP(SL)/presenilin 1 knock-in mice and could represent a new therapeutic target for neuroprotection.
Recently, we reported that erythropoietin attenuates neonatal brain injury caused by focal cerebral ischemia. The long-term effects of erythropoietin on focal cerebral ischemia-induced injury to the developing brain and the potential gender differences in these long-term effects have not been studied in detail. The current study demonstrated a similarity in the mean infarct volume in both the vehicle-treated male and female rats at 6 and 12 weeks after focal cerebral ischemia. On the other hand, erythropoietin treatment (1000 U/kg x three doses after focal cerebral ischemia) caused a significant reduction in the mean infarct volume in both males and females at 6 weeks after focal cerebral ischemia when compared with the corresponding vehicle-treated animals (males: 141.4+/-48.2 mm3 vs. 194.0+/-59.2 mm3, P&lt;0.05; females: 85.4+/-31.6 mm3 vs. 183.4+/-46.3 mm3, P&lt;0.05). Interestingly, the reduction in the mean infarct volume in the erythropoietin-treated males was significantly less than that in the erythropoietin-treated females at 6 weeks after focal cerebral ischemia (141.4+/-48.2 mm3 vs. 85.4+/-31.6 mm3, P&lt;0.05). At 12 weeks after focal cerebral ischemia, the mean infarct volume in the erythropoietin-treated males significantly increased to 181.0+/-50.4 mm3 (P&lt;0.05). In contrast, the mean infarct volume in the erythropoietin-treated females remained stable (87.0+/-41.7 mm3). Additionally, erythropoietin treatment significantly improved sensorimotor function recovery with a misstep number similar to the sham-operation group at 6 and 12 weeks after focal cerebral ischemia. Moreover, the mean number of missteps in the erythropoietin-treated females was less than that in males at 6 (13.5+/-2.0 vs. 24.5+/-2.5, P&lt;0.05) and 12 (12.5+/-2.0 vs. 20.0+/-2.0, P&lt;0.05) weeks after focal cerebral ischemia. These results indicate that erythropoietin administration after focal cerebral ischemia produces a significant long-term neuroprotective benefit on the developing brain, and that this effect is more beneficial in the female rats.
Mutations in reeler, the gene coding for the Reelin protein, result in pronounced motor deficits associated with positioning errors (i.e. ectopic locations) in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices. In this study we provide the first evidence that the reeler mutant also has profound sensory defects. We focused on the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, which receives inputs from small diameter primary afferents and processes information about noxious, painful stimulation. We used immunocytochemistry to map the distribution of Reelin and Disabled-1 (the protein product of the reeler gene, and the intracellular adaptor protein, Dab1, involved in its signaling pathway) in adjacent regions of the developing dorsal horn, from early to late embryonic development. As high levels of Dab1 accumulate in cells that sustain positioning errors in reeler mutants, our findings of increased Dab1 immunoreactivity in reeler laminae I-III, lamina V and the lateral spinal nucleus suggest that there are incorrectly located neurons in the reeler dorsal horn. Subsequently, we identified an aberrant neuronal compaction in reeler lamina I and a reduction of neurons in the lateral spinal nucleus throughout the spinal cord. Additionally, we detected neurokinin-1 receptors expressed by Dab1-labeled neurons in reeler laminae I-III and the lateral spinal nucleus. Consistent with these anatomical abnormalities having functional consequences, we found a significant reduction in mechanical sensitivity and a pronounced thermal hyperalgesia (increased pain sensitivity) in reeler compared with control mice. As the nociceptors in control and reeler dorsal root ganglia are similar, our results indicate that Reelin signaling is an essential contributor to the normal development of central circuits that underlie nociceptive processing and pain.
Using high performance liquid chromatography fraction analysis we have recently established that numerous smooth muscle preparations, including the canine mesenteric artery and vein, release beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide upon short-pulse electrical field stimulation in tetrodotoxin- and omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive manners [ Release of beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide upon stimulation of postganglionic nerve terminals in blood vessels and urinary bladder. J Biol Chem 279:48893-48903.]. The beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide metabolites ADP-ribose and cyclic ADP-ribose are also present in the tissue superfusates. CD38 is a multifunctional enzyme involved in the degradation of beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide to ADP-ribose and cyclic ADP-ribose. Western immunoblot analysis revealed that CD38 is expressed in both artery and vein. Confocal laser scanning microscopy established colocalization of CD38 with tyrosine hydroxylase, synaptotagmin and synaptic vesicle protein in both blood vessels. High performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection demonstrated that whole tissue segments metabolize 1,N(6)-etheno-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide to 1,N(6)-etheno-ADP-ribose and nicotinamide-guanine dinucleotide to cyclic GDP-ribose, suggesting the presence of both nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-glycohydrolase and ADP-ribosyl cyclase activities in these blood vessels. Both enzymes appear to be associated with the membrane fraction, and therefore might be attributed to CD38. These data demonstrate a previously uncharacterized localization of CD38 in perivascular autonomic nerve terminals. Therefore, the beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide/CD38 system may provide new mechanisms in autonomic neurovascular control.
As receptivity of the injured hippocampus to cell grafts decreases with time after injury, strategies that improve graft integration are necessary for graft-mediated treatment of chronic neurodegenerative conditions such as temporal lobe epilepsy. We ascertained the efficacy of two distinct graft-augmentation strategies for improving the survival of embryonic day 19 hippocampal CA3 cell grafts placed into the adult hippocampus at 4-months after kainic acid induced injury. The donor cells were labeled with 5'-bromodeoxyuridine, and pre-treated and grafted with either brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and a caspase inhibitor or fibroblast growth factor and caspase inhibitor. The yield of surviving grafted cells and neurons were quantified at 2-months post-grafting. The yield of surviving cells was substantially greater in grafts treated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and caspase inhibitor (84%) or fibroblast growth factor and caspase inhibitor (99% of injected cells) than standard cell grafts (26%). Because approximately 85% of surviving grafted cells were neurons, increased yield in augmented groups reflects enhanced survival of grafted neurons. Evaluation of the mossy fiber synaptic re-organization in additional kainic acid-lesioned rats receiving grafts enriched with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and caspase inhibitor at 3-months post-grafting revealed reduced aberrant dentate mossy fiber sprouting in the dentate supragranular layer than &quot;lesion-only&quot; rats at 4 months post-kainic acid, suggesting that some of the aberrantly sprouted mossy fibers in the dentate supragranular layer withdraw when apt target cells (i.e. grafted neurons) become available in their vicinity. Thus, the yield of surviving neurons from CA3 cell grafts placed into the adult hippocampus at an extended time-point after injury could be enhanced through apt neurotrophic supplementation and caspase inhibition. Apt grafting is also efficacious for reversing some of the abnormal synaptic reorganization prevalent in the hippocampus at later time-points after injury.
The anterior subventricular zone of the adult mammalian brain contains progenitor cells which are upregulated after cerebral ischemia. We have previously reported that while a part of the progenitors residing in adult monkey anterior subventricular zone travels to the olfactory bulb, many of these cells sustain location in the anterior subventricular zone for months after injury, exhibiting a phenotype of either neural or neuronal precursors. Here we show that ischemia increased the numbers of anterior subventricular zone progenitor cells expressing developmentally regulated transcription factors including Pax6 (paired-box 6), Emx2 (empty spiracles-homeobox 2), Sox 1-3 (sex determining region Y-box 1-3), Ngn1 (neurogenin 1), Dlx1,5 (distalless-homeobox 1,5), Olig1,3 (oligodendrocyte lineage gene 1,3) and Nkx2.2 (Nk-box 2.2), as compared with control brains. Analysis of transcription factor protein expression by sustained neural or neuronal precursors in anterior subventricular zone revealed that these two cell types were positive for characteristic sets of transcription factors. The proteins Pax6, Emx2, Sox2,3 and Olig1 were predominantly localized to dividing neural precursors while the factors Sox1, Ngn1, Dlx1,5, Olig2 and Nkx2.2 were mainly expressed by neuronal precursors. Further, differences between monkeys and non-primate mammals emerged, related to expression patterns of Pax6, Olig2 and Dlx2. Our results suggest that a complex network of developmental signals might be involved in the specification of primate progenitor cells.
Synaptic plasticity and behaviors are likely dependent on the capacity of neurons to meet the energy demands imposed by neuronal activity. We used physical activity, a paradigm intrinsically associated with energy consumption/expenditure and cognitive enhancement, to study how energy metabolism interacts with the substrates for neuroplasticity. We found that in an area critical for learning and memory, the hippocampus, exercise modified aspects of energy metabolism by decreasing oxidative stress and increasing the levels of cytochrome c oxidase-II, a specific component of mitochondrial machinery. We infused 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, a modulator of energy metabolism, directly into the hippocampus during 3 days of voluntary wheel running and measured its effects on brain-derived neurotrophic factor-mediated synaptic plasticity. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is a central player for the effects of exercise on synaptic and cognitive plasticity. We found that 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 decreased exercise-induced brain-derived neurotrophic factor but had no significant effect on neurotrophin-3 levels, thereby suggesting a level of specificity for brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hippocampus. 25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 injection also abolished the effects of exercise on the consummate end-products of brain-derived neurotrophic factor action, i.e. cyclic AMP response element-binding protein and synapsin I, and modulated phosphorylated calmodulin protein kinase II, a signal transduction cascade downstream to brain-derived neurotrophic factor action that is important for learning and memory. We also found that exercise significantly increased the expression of the mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2, an energy-balancing factor concerned with ATP production and free radical management. Our results reveal a fundamental mechanism by which key elements of energy metabolism may modulate the substrates of hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels are known to be expressed in the plasmalemma of central neurons; however, recent data suggest that large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels may also be present in mitochondrial membranes. To determine the subcellular localization and distribution of large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels, rat brain fractions obtained by Ficoll-sucrose density gradient centrifugation were examined by Western blotting, immunocytochemistry and immuno-gold electron microscopy. Immunoblotting studies demonstrated the presence of a consistent signal for the alpha subunit of the large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channel in the mitochondrial fraction. Double-labeling immunofluorescence also demonstrated that large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels are present in mitochondria and co-localize with mitochondrial-specific proteins such as the translocase of the inner membrane 23, adenine nucleotide translocator, cytochrome c oxidase or complex IV-subunit 1 and the inner mitochondrial membrane protein but do not co-localize with calnexin, an endoplasmic reticulum marker. Western blotting of discrete subcellular fractions demonstrated that cytochrome c oxidase or complex IV-subunit 1 was only expressed in the mitochondrial fraction whereas actin, acetylcholinesterase, cadherins, calnexin, 58 kDa Golgi protein, lactate dehydrogenase and microtubule-associated protein 1 were not, demonstrating the purity of the mitochondrial fraction. Electron microscopic examination of the mitochondrial pellet demonstrated gold particle labeling within mitochondria, indicative of the presence of large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels in the inner mitochondrial membrane. These studies provide concrete morphological evidence for the existence of large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels in mitochondria: our findings corroborate the recent electrophysiological evidence of mitochondrial large-conductance voltage- and calcium-sensitive channels in glioma and cardiac cells.
Leptin, an adipocyte-derived hormone, reduces food intake by regulating orexigenic and anorexigenic factors in the hypothalamus. Although brain-derived neurotrophic factor is an important anorexigenic factor in the hypothalamus, little is known about the regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression by leptin in the hypothalamus. In the present study, we examined the effect of leptin on the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hypothalamus. I.V. administration of leptin (10 microg/g) led to the increase in the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA, which was observed in the dorsomedial part of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. The increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA was detected in phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3-positive neurons, suggesting that leptin induced brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in neurons of the dorsomedial part of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. In addition, the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor was increased at the protein level in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus of leptin-injected mice. Interestingly, brain-derived neurotrophic factor-positive fibers also increased in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus of leptin-injected mice, which were in close apposition to tyrosine kinase receptor B-immunoreactive neurons and colocalized with synaptophysin, a marker of presynaptic terminals. These results suggest that leptin induces brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in the dorsomedial part of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus and brain-derived neurotrophic factor may exert as anorexigenic factors possibly through the activation of tyrosine kinase receptor B in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus.
Neuronal outgrowth is a fundamental process for normal development of the nervous system. Despite recent advances, the molecular mechanisms governing neuronal motility are still poorly understood. To provide insight into the intracellular signaling mechanisms required for neuronal outgrowth, we have characterized the effects of a compound previously identified for its anti-motility effects on transformed cells. We show that this compound, motuporamine C, acts as a robust inhibitor of chick neurite outgrowth in a dose-dependent fashion. Furthermore, in the presence of motuporamine C, growth cone collapse is observed, followed by neurite retraction. After removal, growth cones re-extend lamellipodial and filopodial processes and re-establish motility. Neurons exposed to motuporamine C exhibit a significant upregulation of active Rho-GTP. Additionally, effector-blocking experiments using Rho and Rho-associated kinase inhibitors indicate that the Rho pathway plays a critical role in motuporamine C-mediated growth cone collapse. Thus, we have characterized a novel anti-motility compound that has a robust inhibitory effect on neuronal outgrowth and involves signaling through the Rho-Rho kinase collapse pathway. Due to these robust effects, motuporamine C may serve as a valuable tool in further examining the intracellular mechanisms associated with growth cone motility.
In the current experiment we conducted a multi-level analysis of age-related characteristics in the hippocampus of young adult (3 months), middle-aged (12 months), and old (24 months) Fisher 344xBrown Norway hybrid (FBNF1) rats. We examined the relationships between aging, hippocampus, and memory using a combination of behavioral, non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy, and postmortem neuroanatomical measures in the same rats. Aging was associated with functional deficits on hippocampus-dependent memory tasks, accompanied by structural alterations observed both in vivo (magnetic resonance imaging-hippocampal volume) and postmortem (dentate gyrus neuronal density and neurogenesis). Neuronal metabolic integrity, assessed by levels of N-acetylaspartate with magnetic resonance spectroscopy, was however, preserved. Further, our results suggest that neurogenesis (doublecortin) seems to be related to both performance deficits on hippocampus-dependent tasks and hippocampal volume reduction. The observed pattern of age-related alterations closely resembles that previously reported in humans and suggests FBNF1 rats to be a useful model of normal human aging.
Both neural development and prefrontal cortex function are known to be abnormal in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. In order to test the hypothesis that these features may be related with genes that regulate neuronal migration, we analyzed two genomic regions: the lissencephaly critical region (chromosome 17p) encompassing the LIS1 gene and which is involved in human lissencephaly; and the genes related to the platelet-activating-factor, functionally related to LIS1, in 52 schizophrenic patients, 36 bipolar I patients and 65 normal control subjects. In addition, all patients and the 25 control subjects completed a neuropsychological battery. Thirteen (14.8%) patients showed genetic variations in either two markers related with lissencephaly or in the platelet-activating-factor receptor gene. These patients performed significantly worse in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test-Perseverative Errors in comparison with patients with no lissencephaly critical region/platelet-activating-factor receptor variations. The presence of lissencephaly critical region/platelet-activating-factor receptor variations was parametrically related to perseverative errors, and this accounted for 17% of the variance (P = 0.0001). Finally, logistic regression showed that poor Wisconsin Card Sorting Test-Perseverative Errors performance was the only predictor of belonging to the positive lissencephaly critical region/platelet-activating-factor receptor group. These preliminary findings suggest that the variations in genes involved in neuronal migration predict the severity of the prefrontal cognitive deficits in both disorders.
Rett syndrome is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in methyl-CpG binding protein 2. Females with identical mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 gene can display varying severity of symptoms, suggesting that other factors such as X-chromosome inactivation affect phenotypic expression in Rett syndrome. Although X-chromosome inactivation is random and balanced in the blood and brain of the majority of girls with classic Rett syndrome, skewing in the ratio of expression of the mutant methyl-CpG binding protein 2-X to the wildtype-X affects the severity of symptoms. In this study, the pattern of immunostaining for methyl-CpG binding protein 2 was compared with that of neuronal nuclei specific protein, a pan-neuronal marker, to assess X-chromosome inactivation in a Rett syndrome mouse model. The number of cortical neurons and cortical volume were assessed by unbiased stereological measurements in younger adult (7-9 week old) wildtype (wildtype/methyl-CpG binding protein 2+/+), female heterozygous (heterozygous/methyl-CpG binding protein 2+/-), and null (methyl-CpG binding protein 2-/y) male mice and in older adult (24-95 week old) wildtype and heterozygous mice. The results showed that the number of neuronal nuclei specific protein-positive cells and cortical volume did not differ by genotype or age. However, younger adult heterozygous mice had significantly fewer methyl-CpG binding protein 2 cells and the pattern of methyl-CpG binding protein 2 staining was less distinct than in younger adult wildtype mice. However, in older adult heterozygous mice, the number and pattern of methyl-CpG binding protein 2-expressing neurons were similar to the wildtype. The ratio of methyl-CpG binding protein 2 to neuronal nuclei specific protein-stained neurons, a potential measure of X-chromosome inactivation, was close to 50% in the younger adult heterozygous mice, but nearly 70% in the older adult heterozygous mice. These results suggest that X-chromosome inactivation status changes with age. Such a change may underlie the more stable neurological function in older Rett syndrome patients.
Intracellular management of cholesterol is a critical process in the brain. Deficits with cholesterol transport and storage are linked to neurodegenerative disorders such as Neimann-Pick disease type C and Alzheimer's disease. One protein putatively involved in cholesterol transport is metastatic lymph node 64 (MLN64). MLN64 localizes to late endosomes which are part of the cholesterol internalization pathway. However, a detailed pattern of MLN64 expression in the brain is unclear. Using immunocytochemical and immunoblot analyses, we demonstrated the presence of MLN64 in several tissue types and various regions within the brain. MLN64 immunostaining in the CNS was heterogeneous, indicating selective expression in discrete specific cell populations and regions. MLN64 immunoreactivity was detected in glia and neurons, which displayed intracellular labeling consistent with an endosomal localization. Although previous studies suggested that MLN64 may promote steroid production in the brain, MLN64 immunoreactivity did not colocalize with steroidogenic cells in the CNS. These results demonstrate that MLN64 is produced in the mouse and human CNS in a restricted pattern of expression, suggesting that MLN64 serves a cell-specific function in cholesterol transport.
ATP7A is a P-type ATPase that transports copper from cytosol into the secretory pathway for loading onto cuproproteins or efflux. Mutations in Atp7a cause Menkes disease, a copper-deficiency disorder fatal in the postnatal period due to severe neurodegeneration. Early postnatal copper injections are known to diminish degenerative changes in some human patients and mice bearing mutations in Atp7a. In situ hybridization studies previously demonstrated that ATP7A transcripts are expressed widely in the brain. ATP7A-specific antibody was used to study the neurodevelopmental expression and localization of ATP7A protein in the mouse brain. Based on immunoblot analyses, ATP7A expression is most abundant in the early postnatal period, reaching peak levels at P4 in neocortex and cerebellum. In the developing and adult brain, ATP7A levels are greatest in the choroid plexus/ependymal cells of the lateral and third ventricles. ATP7A expression decreases in most neuronal subpopulations from birth to adulthood. In contrast, ATP7A expression increases in CA2 hippocampal pyramidal and cerebellar Purkinje neurons. ATP7A is expressed in a subset of astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, tanycytes and endothelial cells. ATP7A is largely localized to the trans-Golgi network, adopting the cell-specific and developmentally-regulated morphology of this organelle. The presence of ATP7A in the axons of postnatal, but not adult, optic nerve suggests stage-specific roles for this enzyme. In sum, the precisely-regulated neurodevelopmental expression of ATP7A correlates well with the limited therapeutic window for effective treatment of Menkes disease.
Ca(V)1.2 and Ca(V)1.3, are the main dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type calcium channel isoforms in the brain. To reveal the contribution of each isoform to the neuronal activation pattern elicited by the dihydropyridine L-type calcium channel activator BayK 8644, we utilized Fos expression as a marker of neuronal activation in mutant mice (Ca(V)1.2(DHP-/-) mice) expressing dihydropyridine-insensitive Ca(V)1.2 L-type calcium channels. BayK 8644-treated wildtype mice displayed intense and widespread Fos expression throughout the neuroaxis in 77 of 80 brain regions quantified. The Fos response in Ca(V)1.2(DHP-/-) mice was greatly attenuated or absent in most of these areas, suggesting that a major part of the widespread Fos induction including most cortical areas was mediated by Ca(V)1.2 L-type calcium channels. BayK 8644-induced Fos expression in Ca(V)1.2(DHP-/-) mice indicating predominantly Ca(V)1.3 L-type calcium channel-mediated activation was noted in more restricted neuronal populations (20 of 80), in particular in the central amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, lateral preoptic area, locus coeruleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, central nucleus of the inferior colliculus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. Our data indicate that selective stimulation of other than Ca(V)1.2 L-type calcium channels, mostly Ca(V)1.3, causes neuronal activation in a specific set of mainly limbic, hypothalamic and brainstem areas, which are associated with functions including integration of emotion-related behavior. Hence, selective modulation of Ca(V)1.3 L-type calcium channels could represent a novel (pharmacotherapeutic) tool to influence these CNS functions.
The current research examines the influence of midazolam (MDZ) on memory reconsolidation using a contextual fear paradigm in rats, based on three context-shock training trials (0.7 mA, 3 s). First, we evaluate the effect of MDZ (1 mg/kg, i.p.) injected shortly after the training procedure. Second, we examined the influence of MDZ after a brief exposure (90 s) either in the training context (reactivation procedure) or in a neutral environment (no reactivation procedure) and one day later, freezing behavior was scored when rats were re-exposed to the training environment. Third, we investigate both the effect of MDZ administered at different times following reactivation on fear memory and the persistence of such effect 10 days after reactivation. Finally, we test whether the MDZ effect could be reverted by a single weak training trial (0.2 mA, 3 s) or by the presentation of the same unconditioned stimulus in the absence of the conditioned stimulus as a reminder which proves to induce significant freezing in rats not previously trained. Results show that MDZ interferes with the formation of a contextual fear memory only when administered after the reactivation procedure but not after the training procedure. This interference was effective up to 60 min after reactivation and not at a later time. No spontaneous recovery of freezing behavior was observed 11 days after MDZ injection which was not reverted by a weak training trial and by the unconditioned stimulus alone. All these data support the idea that stimulating GABA A receptor sites via MDZ selectively disrupts the reconsolidation process of a contextual fear memory.
Biochemical and in situ hybridization studies demonstrated that the levels of protein kinase C variants were significantly increased in the hippocampus of the experimental models of epilepsy in rats. In addition it has been demonstrated that protein kinase C plays an important role in modulating synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. We examined the effects of activating of protein kinase C on the excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons and synaptic transmission, using whole-cell current-clamp and extracellular field potential recording techniques. Indolactam V (1 microM) a novel protein kinase C activator, increased the excitability of CA1 neurons acting at both pre- and post-synaptic sites. Indolactam V, acting postsynaptically, significantly reduced the threshold for initiation of action potential from -42+/-3.8 mV to -51+/-3.1 mV and selectively inhibited the slow afterhyperpolarizing potential. Indolactam V also altered the neuronal firing properties in response to prolonged depolarizing pulse by eliminating the spike frequency accommodation. Our data indicate that indolactam V potentiated both amplitudes of Shaffer-collateral stimulation evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents and disynaptically evoked inhibitory evoked postsynaptic currents. However, the potentiation of inhibitory evoked postsynaptic currents amplitudes was not observed after blockade of NMDA and AMPA/kainate currents suggesting it was due to excitatory activity driving inhibitory neurons. The results indicate that the potentiation of pharmacologically isolated excitatory postsynaptic currents (215% of control) and amplitudes of population spikes (290% of control) was due to action of indolactam V presynaptically since the agonist reduced the paired-pulse ratio and the potentiating effect was not blocked by dialyzing the postsynaptic neuron through the recording electrode with a specific protein kinase C inactivator calphostin C. These findings suggest that protein kinase C increases the amplitude of epileptiform activity by causing potentiation of excitatory synaptic transmission, increasing the excitability of postsynaptic neurons and reducing negative feed back provided by slow afterhyperpolarizing potential.
Nuclear factor-kappaB is a transcription factor that regulates a variety of genes involved not only with immune and inflammatory responses, but also in cell survival. Nuclear-factor kappaB in the CNS is an area of current research interest; however, its role in age-related neural degeneration is obscure. The present study examines developmental degeneration changes in wild type and nuclear factor-kappaB p50 subunit knockout mice (p50-/-) using various morphological methodologies. P50-/- mice appeared normal at birth. At 6 and 10 months old, the body weight of p50-/- mice was significantly less than that of wild type mice and they started to die from aging. Consistently, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling positive cells in the cortex were significantly more in p50-/- mice than that in wild type mice, and neuronal cells in the cortex, hippocampus and caudate nucleus-putamen decreased in p50-/- mice. Fewer myelinated axons of the optic nerve were found in p50-/- mice than in wild type mice at 6 months. In p50-/- mice, morphological examinations showed: 1) aging and degenerative changes in the cortex and hippocampus including increased lipofuscin granules in neural cytoplasm, 2) abnormal capillaries, 3) dark and watery alterations and organelle accumulations, 4) apoptotic glia cells, and 5) terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling and caspase-3 positive neurons. These results suggest that nuclear-factor kappaB may play an important role in neurovascular development, cell survival, and the aging process in the CNS. This new evidence linking nuclear-factor kappaB to myelination and aging may be of considerable importance for several areas of basic and clinical neuroscience.
The nitrergic system produces nitric oxide as an atypical neurotransmitter in the nervous system. Nitric oxide is produced from l-arginine through specific enzymes known as nitric oxide synthases. Of these, the more abundant form in neurons is the constitutive neuronal nitric oxide synthase, although the inducible isoform can be expressed as well, especially following stress or other injuries. The excessive formation of nitric oxide results in protein nitration, particularly at tyrosine residues, thus the presence of nitrotyrosine can be used as a marker of nitric oxide production. In previous studies we have shown the distribution of the components of the nitrergic system in the cerebellum of rodents, where neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was present in stellate and basket cells, and occasionally in granule cells. Here, we present evidence that in the sheep, as a model of larger mammals, most cerebellar neurons display an intense immunostaining for neuronal nitric oxide synthase, including unipolar brush cells, and Lugaro and Golgi neurons, which are not immunoreactive in rodents. In addition, weak immunoreactivity for inducible nitric oxide synthase and nitrotyrosine was found in particular cell types, indicating a basal expression for these markers. Our results suggest a larger dependence on the nitrergic system for the cerebella of larger mammals. Since this increase happens in both activating and inhibitory neurons of the cerebellar circuitry, we propose that in these animals there is a higher steady-state regulation of the cerebellum based on nitric oxide.
Several studies have suggested that noradrenergic afferents to the medial preoptic area might be involved in hypnogenesis and in lowering the body temperature, and that the alpha1 adrenergic receptors might be mediating these responses. This study was undertaken to find out the changes in sleep-wakefulness and body temperature in rats, when these adrenergic receptors of the medial preoptic area are blocked by alpha1 selective antagonist, prazosin. Adult male Wistar rats were chronically implanted with electrooculogram, electroencephalogram and electromyogram electrodes for sleep-wakefulness assessment, and a bilateral guide cannula for microinjection of prazosin at the medial preoptic area. A radio-transmitter was implanted in the abdomen for telemetric measurement of body temperature in four groups of rats. Sleep-wakefulness was also assessed telemetrically in four other groups of rats. Sleep-wakefulness recordings from these rats were done in a specialized chamber, where they could move about freely and select the ambient temperature which they prefer. Prazosin induced a dose dependent increase in wake period and in body temperature, when microinjected into the medial preoptic area. Results suggest that preoptic alpha1 adrenergic receptors mediate hypnogenic and hypothermic responses. It is proposed that the noradrenergic afferents to the medial preoptic area, by tonic activation of alpha1 adrenergic receptors, contribute towards increase in sleep especially during the daytime.
The inactivation of voltage-gated L-type Ca(2+) channels (Ca(V)1) regulates Ca(2+) entry and controls intracellular Ca(2+) levels that are essential for cellular activity. The molecular entities implicated in L-channel (Ca(V)1.2) inactivation are not fully identified. Here we show for the first time the functional impact of one of the two highly conserved clusters of six negatively charged glutamates and aspartate (802-807; poly ED motif) at the II-III loop of the alpha 1 subunits of rabbit of Ca(v)1.2, alpha(1)1.2 and alpha(1)1.2 DeltaN60-Delta1733) on voltage-dependent inactivation. Mutation of the poly ED motif to alanine or glutamine/asparagine greatly enhanced voltage-dependent inactivation, shifting the voltage dependence to negative potentials by &gt;50 mV and conferring a neuronal like inactivation kinetics onto Ca(V)1.2. The large shift in the midpoint of inactivation of the steady-state inactivation kinetics was observed also in Ca(2+) or Ba(2+) and was not altered by the beta2A subunit. Missing from the fast inactivating neuronal P/Q (Ca(V)2.1)-, N (Ca(V)2.2)- or R (Ca(V)2.3)-type channels and modulating Ca(V)1.2 inactivation kinetics, the poly ED motif is likely to be a specific L-type Ca(2+) channels inactivating domain. Our results fit a model in which the poly ED either by itself or as part of a larger inactivating motif acts as Ca(V)1.2 specific built-in &quot;stopper.&quot; In this model, Ca(V)1 accomplishes a large Ca(2+) influx during depolarization, possibly by the poly ED hindering occlusion at the pore. Furthermore, the selective designed poly ED perhaps clarifies major inactivation differences between L- and non-L-type calcium channels.
Vitamin A and its derivatives, retinoids, are involved in the regulation of gene expression by binding two nuclear receptor families, retinoic acid receptors and retinoid X receptors. Retinoid receptors are highly expressed in the striatum, revealing an involvement of this system in the control of movement as demonstrated by previous observations in knockout mice. To further assess the role of retinoids in adult striatal function, the present study investigated the effect of vitamin A deprivation on rat motor activity and coordination, the rate of synthesis and release of dopamine, the functioning of D1 and D2 receptors and their expression in the striatum. Moreover, the content of acetylcholine in the striatum was measured. Results show that 24 weeks of postnatal vitamin A deprivation induced severe locomotor deficits and impaired motor coordination. Vitamin A deprivation rats showed a significant hyperactivity following D1 receptor stimulation by R(+)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyil-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine or amphetamine and reduced catalepsy in response to haloperidol treatment. This different response to the above drugs is not due to a change in striatal DA release or synthesis between vitamin A deprivation and control animals. In situ hybridization experiments showed identical level of expression for the D1 and D2 receptor transcripts. On the other hand, the striatal tissue content of acetylcholine was reduced significantly by about 30% starting from the initial manifestation of motor deficits. We suggest that the locomotor impairment could be imputable to the dysfunction in striatal cholinergic interneurons. Our results stress the basic role of vitamin A in the maintenance of basal ganglia motor function in the adult rat brain.
Partial proteolysis and phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) occur in reperfused brain, but the contribution of eIF4G alterations to brain injury has not been established. A component of the complex delivering mRNA to the small ribosomal subunit, eIF4G is also found in stress granules. Stress granules sequester inactive 48S preinitiation complexes during stress-induced translation arrest. We performed double-labeling immunofluorescence histochemistry for total or ser 1108 phosphorylated eIF4G and the stress granule component T-cell internal antigen following normothermic, 10 min cardiac arrest-induced global brain ischemia and up to 4 h reperfusion in the rat. In cornu ammonis (Ammon's horn; CA) 1 at 90 min and 4 h reperfusion, eIF4G staining transformed from a homogeneous to an aggregated distribution. The number of eIF4G-containing stress granules differed between CA1 and CA3 during reperfusion. In hippocampal pyramidal neurons, phosphorylated eIF4G appeared exclusively in stress granules. Supragranular interneurons of the dentate gyrus showed a large increase in cytoplasmic eIF4G(P) following reperfusion. Immunoblot analysis with antisera against different portions of eIF4G showed a large increase in phosphorylated C-terminal eIF4G fragments, suggesting these accumulate in the cytoplasm of dentate gyrus interneurons. Thus, altered eIF4G subcellular compartmentalization may contribute to prolonged translation arrest in CA1 pyramidal neurons. Accumulation of phosphorylated eIF4G fragments may contribute to the vulnerability of dentate interneurons. Ischemia and reperfusion invoke different translational control responses in distinct hippocampal neuron populations, which may contribute to the differential ischemic vulnerabilities of these cells.
Three series of experiments were carried out to characterize interneurons located within the trigeminal motor nucleus of young rats aged 5-24 days. Cholera toxin injections were made bilaterally into the masseter and, sometimes, digastric muscles to label motoneurons. In the first set of experiments, thick slices were taken from the pontine brainstem and cholera toxin-positive and cholera toxin-negative neurons located inside the trigeminal motor nucleus were filled with biocytin through whole-cell recording patch electrodes. Positively identified motoneurons (cholera toxin+) of various shapes and sizes always had a thick, unbranched axon that entered the motor root following a tight zigzag course. Many cholera toxin-negative neurons were also classified as motoneurons after biocytin filling based on this particularity of their axon. These are probably either fusimotor motoneurons or motoneurons supplying other jaw muscles. The cholera toxin-negative neurons classified as interneurons differed markedly from motoneurons in that they had thin, usually branched axons that supplied the ipsilateral reticular region surrounding the trigeminal motor nucleus (peritrigeminal area), the main trigeminal sensory nucleus, the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus, the medial reticular formation of both sides, and the contralateral medial peritrigeminal area. Most often, their dendrites were arranged in bipolar arbors that extended beyond the borders of the trigeminal motor nucleus into the peritrigeminal area. Immunohistochemistry against glutamate, GABA and glycine was used to further document the nature and distribution of putative interneurons. Immunoreactive neurons were uniformly distributed throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the trigeminal motor nucleus. Their concentration seemed greater toward the edges of the nucleus and they were scarce in the digastric motoneuron pool. Glutamate- outnumbered GABA- and glycine-immunoreactive neurons. There was no clear segregation between the three populations. In the final experiment, 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetra-methylindocarbocyanine perchlorate crystals were inserted into one trigeminal motor nucleus in thick slices and allowed to diffuse for several weeks. This procedure marked commissural fibers and interneurons in the contralateral trigeminal motor nucleus. Together these results conclusively support the existence of interneurons in the trigeminal motor nucleus.
The neocortex of congenitally deaf mice was examined using electrophysiological recording techniques combined with cortical myeloarchitecture. Our results indicate that relative activity patterns across sensory systems during development contribute to modality assignment of cortical fields as well as the size of cortical fields. In congenitally deaf mice, &quot;auditory cortex&quot; contained neurons that responded to somatosensory, visual, or both somatosensory and visual stimulation; the primary visual area contained a larger proportion of neurons that responded to somatosensory stimulation than in normal animals, and the primary visual area had significantly increased in size. Thus, cortical architecture and functional specification were de-correlated. When results are considered in the light of molecular studies and studies in which peripheral activity is altered in development, it becomes clear that similar types of changes to the neocortex, such as alterations in cortical field size, can be achieved in more than one way in the developing and evolving neocortex.
Proteins and peptides are useful research and therapeutic tools, however applications are limited because delivery to the desired location is not easily achievable. There are two hurdles in protein/peptide delivery to the brain: the blood-brain barrier and intracellular penetration. Penetration to both brain and the intracellular space can be achieved by adjusting hydrophilicity, and small molecule pharmacological agents have been successfully developed using this approach. But with proteins and peptides, it is difficult to modify the hydrophilicity without influencing biological functions. Trans-acting factor protein from the human immunodeficiency virus contains a highly conserved cationic peptide sequence necessary for transduction across the cell membrane. While trans-acting factor peptide has been used for in vitro protein transduction, its in vivo application is very limited because it is rapidly degraded by proteolysis. Polyethylenimine is a chemically synthesized small molecule cationization agent; the charge density is greater than a peptide-based cationic cluster such as trans-acting factor, and it is resistant to proteolysis in vivo. We first tested intracellular protein transduction following direct brain injection in mice using polyethylenimine-conjugated green fluorescence protein and beta-galactosidase (molecular weights 29 and 540 kDa, respectively). Polyethylenimine-conjugates penetrated to the intracellular space immediately surrounding the injection site within one hour. We further tested polyethylenimine-mediated protein transduction following intranasal administration, which bypasses the blood-brain barrier. Polyethylenimine-conjugates in pH 7.5 solution did not reach the brain, probably because the polyethylenimine-conjugates penetrated into the intracellular space where first exposed to the tissue, i.e. at the nasal mucosae. We temporarily reduced the electrostatic interaction between cationized polyethylenimine-conjugates and cellular surfaces by adjusting the pH to 4.5; solution rapidly reached the brain and penetrated to the intracellular space. This study suggests that polyethylenimine is a useful protein transduction agent in the brain in vivo, and adjusting cationic charge interaction can determine the extent of brain penetration.
Cannabinoids have profound effects on synaptic function and behavior. Of the two cloned cannabinoid receptors, cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) is widely distributed in the CNS and accounts for most of the neurological effects of cannabinoids, while cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2) expression in the CNS is very limited. The presence of additional receptors [i.e. cannabinoid receptor 3 (CB3)] is suggested by growing evidence of cannabinoid effects that are not mediated by CB1 or CB2. The most direct functional evidence for a CB3 comes from a study in hippocampus where deletion of CB1 was shown to have no effect on cannabinoid-mediated suppression of the excitatory synapse between Schaffer collateral/commissural fibers and CA1 pyramidal cells [Novel cannabinoid-sensitive receptor mediates inhibition of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. Neuroscience 106:1-4]. In contrast, we report here that in extracellular field recordings, the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 (5 microM) had no effect on Schaffer collateral/commissural fiber-CA1 pyramidal cell (Sch-CA1) synaptic transmission in slices from two independently made cannabinoid receptor 1-/- lines [Zimmer et al 1999 and Ledent et al 1999] while strongly suppressing Sch-CA1 synaptic transmission in CB1+/+ mice of the background strains. Also, we observed robust cannabinoid-mediated suppression of the Sch-CA1 synapse in pure C57BL/6 mice, contradicting a recent report that cannabinoid suppression of this synapse is absent in this strain [Hoffman AF, Macgill AM, Smith D, Oz M, Lupica CR (2005) Species and strain differences in the expression of a novel glutamate-modulating cannabinoid receptor in the rodent hippocampus. Eur J Neurosci 22:2387-2391]. Our results strongly suggest that cannabinoid-induced suppression of the Sch-CA1 synapse is mediated by CB1. Non-canonical cannabinoid receptors do not seem to play a major role in inhibiting transmitter release at this synapse.
The projection from the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) conveys information about the affective significance of sensory stimuli to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). By using an anterograde tract-tracing procedure combined with immunocytochemistry and correlated light/electron microscopical examination, labeled BLA afferents to layers 2-6 of the rat mPFC are shown to establish asymmetrical synaptic contacts, not only with dendritic spines (approximately 95.7% of targets innervated), but also with the aspiny dendritic shafts and somata of multipolar parvalbumin immunopositive (PV+) neurons. A population of PV- dendritic shafts was also innervated. Labeled BLA synaptic input to identified PV+ structures occurred in layers 2-6 of mPFC. The results indicate that labeled BLA afferents predominantly contact the spiny processes of presumed pyramidal cells and also provide a direct and specific innervation to a sub-population of local circuit neurons in mPFC containing PV. Since PV+ cells include two significant classes of fast-spiking GABAergic inhibitory interneuron (basket and axo-axonic cells), these novel observations indicate that the amygdalocortical pathway in the rat has the ability to directly influence functionally strategic 'feed-forward' inhibitory mechanisms at the first stage of processing amygdalocortical information.
Docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3), one of the main structural lipids in the mammalian brain, plays crucial roles in the development and function of brain neurons. We examined the effect of docosahexaenoic acid on neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells in vitro and in vivo. Neural stem cells obtained from 15.5-day-old rat embryos were propagated as neurospheres and cultured under differential conditions with or without docosahexaenoic acid for 4 and 7 days. Docosahexaenoic acid significantly increased the number of Tuj1-positive neurons compared with the control on both culture days, and the newborn neurons in the docosahexaenoic acid group were morphologically more mature than in the control. Docosahexaenoic acid significantly decreased the incorporation ratio of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, the mitotic division marker, during the first 24 h period; it also significantly decreased the number of pyknotic cells on day 7. Thus, docosahexaenoic acid promotes the differentiation of neural stem cells into neurons by promoting cell cycle exit and suppressing cell death. Furthermore, dietary administration of docosahexaenoic acid significantly increased the number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine(+)/NeuN(+) newborn neurons in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus in adult rats. These results demonstrate that docosahexaenoic acid effectively promotes neurogenesis both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that it has the new property of modulating hippocampal function regulated by neurogenesis.
Gene expression profiling of suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventrolateral preoptic area and the lateral hypothalamus was used to identify genes regulated diurnally in the hypothalamus of Mus musculus. The putative transcription regulator, cysteine and histidine-rich domain-containing, zinc binding protein 1, which had not been previously described in brain, was found to cycle diurnally in hypothalamus and forebrain with peak levels of mRNA expression during the dark phase. mRNA for the brain-type fatty acid binding protein 7 was found to change rhythmically in hypothalamic and extra-hypothalamic brain regions reaching peak levels early in the light phase suggesting that lipid metabolism is under circadian regulation in astrocytes. Rhythmically expressed genes in suprachiasmatic nucleus identified here were compared with previous reports in a meta-analysis. Genes held in common included fabp7, and the period gene, Per2. Also identified were genes implicated in guanosine-mediated signaling pathways that included dexamethasone-induced ras-related protein one (dexras1), regulator of G-protein signaling (rgs) 16, and ras-like family member 11b. Northern blotting confirmed diurnal changes in mRNA expression in the hypothalamus for these genes. Ras-like family member 11b was examined in more detail using in situ hybridization and antiphase diurnal changes in expression in suprachiasmatic nucleus and arcuate nucleus were identified implicating the gene in circadian-related, guanosine-mediated signaling. The transcription transactivator protein, CBP/p300-interacting transactivators with glutamic acid/aspartic acid-rich carboxyl-terminal domain, which had not been previously identified in brain, was enriched in suprachiasmatic nucleus and discrete regions of the hypothalamus and forebrain. The potential regulatory role of CBP/p300-interacting transactivators with glutamic acid/aspartic acid-rich carboxyl-terminal domain in the transcription of genes like TGF-alpha implicates the protein in diurnal activity rhythms. These results demonstrate the ability of gene expression profiling to identify potential candidates important in circadian or homeostatic processes.
Cell replacement has the potential to become a frontline therapy to remedy behavioral impairments in Huntington's disease. To determine the efficacy of stem cell transplantation, behavioral assessment and in vivo monitoring of the lesion environment are paramount. We here demonstrate that neural stem cells from the MHP36 cell line prevented the development of a deficit on the beam walk test while providing partial recovery of learning in the water maze. However, no beneficial effect on rats' impairment in the staircase test was observed. By quantification of the lesion from serial magnetic resonance images, no effect of neural stem cells on lesion volume was observed. Instead, a preservation of striatal volume over time and its correlation with performance on the beam walk test suggested that sparing of behavioral function was associated with a stagnation of ongoing tissue loss rather than a reduction in lesion size. Serial imaging therefore warrants further implementation in clinical trials of neural grafts to monitor in vivo changes in the damaged brain due to transplantation.
Neurotrophins are known to promote survival after neural injury. To determine the relative importance of tyrosine kinase receptors on the survival of axotomized trigeminal nuclear neurons, we examined the temporal expression profile of tyrosine kinase A, tyrosine kinase B and tyrosine kinase C receptors in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and the motor trigeminal nucleus following transection of the masseteric nerve in rats. Axotomized neurons in these nuclei were retrogradely identified with FluoroGold. We found increase in tyrosine kinase A-immunoreactive mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus neurons in the second week after axotomy but no change in the number of tyrosine kinase A-immunoreactive motor trigeminal nucleus neurons. There was no change in the number of tyrosine kinase B-immunoreactive mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus neurons but the significant increase of tyrosine kinase B-immunoreactive motor trigeminal nucleus neurons throughout the period of observation (3 weeks) peaked at approximately 1 week after axotomy. There was no alteration in the number of tyrosine kinase C-immunoreactive mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus neurons but significant increase in tyrosine kinase C-immunoreactive motor trigeminal nucleus neurons observable by 4 days post-axotomy was followed by decline to levels lower than the control in 2 weeks. Temporal changes in the expression of individual tyrosine kinase receptors in mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and motor trigeminal nucleus neurons following transection of the masseteric nerve suggest differential contribution of tyrosine kinase-specific neurotrophins to the survival of these neurons after axotomy.
The causes of neurodegeneration are not well understood. However, the role of environmental and endogenous toxins is receiving much attention. In this study, we compared the synthetic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium with beta-carbolines occurring in human brain. Methylation of both nitrogens is necessary to convert a beta-carboline into a potent inhibitor of mitochondrial complex I. The respective beta-carboline, 2,9-dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion is neurotoxic in rats. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we incubated mouse neuroblastoma 2A cells with 2,9-dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion, and compared the findings with effects of norharman, the precursor beta-carboline of methylated derivatives, and with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium. 2,9-Dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion caused a significant increase of reactive oxygen species (higher efficiency than 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium) and of mitochondrial membrane potential within the first minutes. After 60 min, the membrane potential dissipated. Concomitantly, the levels of glutathione increased in 2,9-dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion but not in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium treated cells. After 24 h effector caspases 3 and 7 were activated and the number of apoptotic cells increased as revealed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting cytometry. When incubated longer (48 h), cells underwent late apoptosis/secondary necrosis as shown by fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis and confirmed qualitatively by an electron microscopy study. The effects of 2,9-dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion on apoptotic changes were similar to those induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium(,) while norharman showed only a weak potency at the very high doses. To investigate whether 2,9-dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion is neurotoxic under in vivo conditions and whether only dopaminergic neurones are affected we conducted a dose-response study. Three weeks after injection of 2,9-dimethyl-beta-carbolinium ion in the substantia nigra we found a dose-dependent decrease of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum of rats. The levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine were diminished although the decrease was less. The levels of noradrenaline increased after some doses. The findings strongly suggest an important role of endogenous beta-carbolines in neurodegeneration with apoptosis as the predominant mechanism.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurones exhibit a short-latency phasic response to unexpected, biologically salient stimuli. In the rat, the superior colliculus is critical for relaying short-latency visual information to dopaminergic neurones. Since both collicular and dopaminergic neurones are also responsive to noxious stimuli, we examined whether the superior colliculus plays a more general role in the transmission of short-latency sensory information to the ventral midbrain. We therefore tested whether the superior colliculus is a critical relay for nociceptive input to midbrain dopaminergic neurones. Simultaneous recordings were made from collicular and dopaminergic neurones in the anesthetized rat, during the application of noxious stimuli (footshock). Most collicular neurones exhibited a short-latency, short duration excitation to footshock. The majority of dopaminergic neurones (92/110; 84%) also showed a short-latency phasic response to the stimulus. Of these, 79/92 (86%) responded with an initial inhibition and the remaining 14/92 (14%) responded with an excitation. Response latencies of dopaminergic neurones were reliably longer than those of collicular neurones. Tonic suppression of collicular activity by an intracollicular injection of the local anesthetic lidocaine reduced the latency, increased the duration but reduced the magnitude of the phasic inhibitory dopaminergic response. These changes were accompanied by a decrease in the baseline firing rate of dopaminergic neurones. Activation of the superior colliculus by the local injections of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline also reduced the latency of inhibitory nociceptive responses of dopaminergic neurones, which was accompanied by an increased in baseline dopaminergic firing. Aspiration of the ipsilateral superior colliculus failed to alter the nociceptive response characteristics of dopaminergic neurones although fewer nociceptive neurones were encountered after the lesions. Together these results suggest that the superior colliculus can modulate both the baseline activity of dopaminergic neurones and their phasic responses to noxious events. However, the superior colliculus is unlikely to be the primary source of nociceptive sensory input to the ventral midbrain.
During sensorimotor recovery following stroke ipsi- and contralesional alterations in brain function have been characterized in patients as well as animal models of focal ischemia, but the contribution of these bilateral processes to the functional improvement is only poorly understood. Here we examined the role of the homotopic contralateral cortex for sensorimotor recovery after focal ischemic infarcts at different time periods after the insult. One group of animals received a unilateral single photothrombotic infarct in the forelimb sensorimotor cortex, while four additional groups received a second lesion in the contralateral homotopic cortex either immediately or 2 days, 7 days, or 10 days after the first infarct. The time course of functional recovery of the impaired forelimbs was assessed using different sensorimotor scores: forelimb-activity during exploratory behavior and frequency of forelimb-sliding in the glass cylinder as well as forelimb misplacement during grid walking. Focal infarcts in the forelimb sensorimotor cortex area significantly impaired the function of the contralateral forelimb in these different behavioral tests. The subsequent damage of the contralateral homotopic forelimb sensorimotor cortex only affected the forelimb opposite to the new lesion but did not reinstate the original deficit. The time course of sensorimotor recovery after bilateral sequential cortical infarcts did not significantly differ from animals with unilateral single lesions. These data indicate that following small ischemic cortical infarcts in the forelimb sensorimotor cortex the contralateral cortex homotopic to the lesion plays only a minor role for functional recovery.
The present study investigated the influence of trophic factors on the expression of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide (CARTp) in guinea-pig cardiac ganglia maintained in explant culture. In acutely isolated cardiac ganglia preparations, &lt;1% of the cholinergic cardiac neurons exhibited CARTp immunoreactivity. In contrast, this number increased to &gt;25% of the cardiac neurons after 72 h in explant culture. This increase in the number of CARTp neurons in cultured cardiac ganglia explants was accompanied by an increase in CARTp transcript levels as assessed by real time polymerase chain reaction. Treatment of cardiac ganglia cultures with neurturin or glial-derived trophic factor (both at 10 ng/ml) for 72 h prevented the increase in neurons that exhibited CARTp immunoreactivity. In contrast, treatment with ciliary neurotrophic factor (50 ng/ml) for 72 h produced a small significant increase in the percentage of CARTp-immunoreactive cardiac neurons and treatment with nerve growth factor (100 ng/ml) had no effect. Neurturin treatment also decreased cardiac neuron CARTp levels after 72 h in explant culture. Cardiac neurons exhibited immunoreactivity to the neurturin receptor GFRalpha2 whereas non-neural cells preferentially exhibited immunoreactivity to the glial-derived neurotrophic factor receptor GFRalpha1 and neurturin transcripts were detected in cardiac tissue extracts. We hypothesize that a target-derived inhibitory factor, very likely neurturin, is a critical factor suppressing the expression of CARTp in guinea-pig cardiac neurons. These observations contrast with those reported in sympathetic neurons that suggest up-regulation of trophic factors after axotomy or during explant culture is a key factor contributing to the up-regulation of many neuropeptides.
The total cell numbers were estimated in the neocortical part of the human telencephalon in 10 normal brains of newborn babies within four major developmental zones: the cortical plate/marginal zone, the subplate, the intermediate zone and the ventricular/subventricular zone. Furthermore, the total number of neuron and glial cells was estimated in the cortical plate. The gestational ages ranged from 38 + 0-42 + 5 weeks + days of gestation. The mean total cell number was 32.6 x 10(9) (coefficient of error = 0.04) and the total number of neurons in the cortical plate 19.8 x 10(9) (coefficient of error = 0.06). This indicates that the total number of neocortical neurons equals the total number in the adults, which, however, is not the case for the glial cells.
A major difficulty in treating alcohol addiction is the high rate of relapse even after prolonged abstinence. Relapse can be triggered by several factors, including stress, re-exposure to the drug, conditioned discrete stimuli and exposure to the context in which alcohol consumption occurred. The present study investigated the role played by the environmental context on ethanol relapse using an extinction/reinstatement animal model: rats were trained to self-administer ethanol in a distinctive context, and extinction occurred in a setting that differed by visual, tactile and olfactory properties; reinstatement was tested by placing the animals into the ethanol-associated context in the absence of ethanol. We found that re-exposure to the ethanol-associated context significantly increased responses on the ethanol-paired lever. The increase in responding required the presence of the complete configuration of the multimodal context. The non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (0.3 mg/kg) administered 20 min prior to the reinstatement test significantly attenuated context-induced reinstatement of lever press responding, compared with saline-treated subjects. These data indicate that the environmental context associated with ethanol availability influences ethanol-seeking behavior in the rat, and that endogenous opioids are involved in this process. Our findings are in accordance with clinical reports demonstrating naltrexone efficacy in the treatment of alcohol relapse in humans, and indicate that the context-induced reinstatement model described here may be useful to investigate the biological mechanisms underlying alcohol relapse.
Modulation of inhibitory glycine receptors by zinc (Zn(2+)) and endogenous redox agents such as glutathione may alter inhibition in the mammalian brain. Despite the abundance of Zn(2+) in the hippocampus and its ability to modulate glycine receptors, few studies have examined Zn(2+) modulation of hippocampal glycine receptors. Whether redox agents modulate hippocampal glycine receptors also remains unknown. This study examined Zn(2+) and redox modulation of glycine receptor-mediated currents in cultured embryonic mouse hippocampal neurons using whole-cell recordings. Zn(2+) concentrations below 10 microM potentiated currents elicited by low glycine, beta-alanine, and taurine concentrations by 300-400%. Zn(2+) concentrations above 300 microM produced nearly complete inhibition. Potentiating Zn(2+) concentrations shifted the dose-response curves for the three agonists to the left and decreased the Hill coefficient for glycine and beta-alanine but not taurine. Inhibiting Zn(2+) concentrations shifted the dose-response curves for glycine and beta-alanine to the right but reduced the maximum taurine response. Histidine residues may participate in potentiation because diethyl pyrocarbonate and pH 5.4 diminished Zn(2+) enhancement of glycine currents. pH 5.4 diminished Zn(2+) block of glycine currents, but diethyl pyrocarbonate did not. These findings indicate that separate sites mediate Zn(2+) potentiation and inhibition. The redox agents glutathione, dithiothreitol, tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine, and 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) did not alter glycine currents by a redox mechanism. However, glutathione and dithiothreitol interfered with the effects of Zn(2+) on glycine currents by chelating it. Carnosine had similar effects. Thus, Zn(2+) and thiol containing redox agents that chelate Zn(2+) modulate hippocampal glycine receptors with the mechanism of Zn(2+) modulation being agonist dependent.
The study of anxiety and fear involves complex interrelationships between psychiatry and the autonomic nervous system. Altered noradrenergic signaling is linked to certain types of depression and anxiety disorders, and treatment often includes specific transporter blockade. The norepinephrine transporter is crucial in limiting catecholaminergic signaling. Norepinephrine transporter-deficient mice have increased circulating catecholamines and elevated heart rate and blood pressure. We hypothesized, therefore, that reduced norepinephrine clearance would heighten the autonomic cardiovascular response to anxiety and fear. In separate experiments, norepinephrine transporter-deficient (norepinephrine transporter-/-) mice underwent tactile startle and trace fear conditioning to measure hemodynamic responses. A dramatic tachycardia was observed in norepinephrine transporter-/- mice compared with controls following both airpuff or footshock stimuli, and pressure changes were also greater. Interestingly, in contrast to normally elevated home cage levels in norepinephrine transporter-deficient mice, prestimulus heart rate and blood pressure were actually higher in norepinephrine transporter+/+ animals throughout behavioral testing. Upon placement in the behavioral chamber, norepinephrine transporter-deficient mice demonstrated a notable bradycardia and depressor effect that was more pronounced in females. Power spectral analysis indicated an increase in low frequency oscillations of heart rate variability; in mice, suggesting increased parasympathetic tone. Finally, norepinephrine transporter-/- mice exhibited sexual dimorphism in freeze behavior, which was greatest in females. Therefore, while reduced catecholamine clearance amplifies immediate cardiovascular responses to anxiety- or fear-inducing stimuli in norepinephrine transporter-/- mice, norepinephrine transporter deficiency apparently prevents protracted hemodynamic escalation in a fearful environment. Conceivably, chronic norepinephrine transporter blockade with transporter-specific drugs might attenuate recognition of autonomic and somatic distress signals in individuals with anxiety disorders, possibly lessening their behavioral reactivity, and reducing the cardiovascular risk factors associated with persistent emotional arousal.
Fractal analysis was applied to human pallidal neuronal spike trains recorded from patients with Parkinson's disease during ablative surgery of the internal segment of the globus pallidus. Fractal dynamics was quantified by computing the scaling exponent with the average wavelet coefficient approach. We observed fractal persistent correlation in the fluctuation of the interspike intervals of neuronal spike trains recorded in the internal segment of the globus pallidus both before and after the administration of dopamine agonist apomorphine. However, there was a significant increase in the scaling exponent during the &quot;on&quot; state after apomorphine administration as compared with the parkinsonian &quot;off&quot; state prior to apomorphine. In addition, we observed a statistically significant decrease in the average firing rate in the transition from the &quot;off&quot; to the &quot;on&quot; state. We conclude that robust fractal dynamics can be observed in single neurons in the human CNS, indicating that human neuronal dynamics of the internal segment of the globus pallidus are essentially a nonlinear and nonequilibrium process, with a long-range correlation or memory extending across many time scales. Accompanying the &quot;on&quot; state after apomorphine administration was an improvement in the long-range persistent correlation as compared with the more random dynamics in the &quot;off&quot; state. A scaling exponent signaling a breakdown or modification in long-range correlation in a single neuron may serve as a useful indicator of a dysfunctional network in the human CNS.
Learning and memory depend on signaling molecules that affect synaptic efficacy. The cytoskeleton has been implicated in regulating synaptic transmission but its role in learning and memory is poorly understood. Fear learning depends on plasticity in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. We therefore examined whether the cytoskeletal-regulatory protein, myosin light chain kinase, might contribute to fear learning in the rat lateral amygdala. Microinjection of ML-7, a specific inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase, into the lateral nucleus of the amygdala before fear conditioning, but not immediately afterward, enhanced both short-term memory and long-term memory, suggesting that myosin light chain kinase is involved specifically in memory acquisition rather than in posttraining consolidation of memory. Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor had no effect on memory retrieval. Furthermore, ML-7 had no effect on behavior when the training stimuli were presented in a non-associative manner. Anatomical studies showed that myosin light chain kinase is present in cells throughout lateral nucleus of the amygdala and is localized to dendritic shafts and spines that are postsynaptic to the projections from the auditory thalamus to lateral nucleus of the amygdala, a pathway specifically implicated in fear learning. Inhibition of myosin light chain kinase enhanced long-term potentiation, a physiological model of learning, in the auditory thalamic pathway to the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. When ML-7 was applied without associative tetanic stimulation it had no effect on synaptic responses in lateral nucleus of the amygdala. Thus, myosin light chain kinase activity in lateral nucleus of the amygdala appears to normally suppress synaptic plasticity in the circuits underlying fear learning, suggesting that myosin light chain kinase may help prevent the acquisition of irrelevant fears. Impairment of this mechanism could contribute to pathological fear learning.
Intrathecally-administered endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 produce antinociceptive effects which are different from each other. In order to elucidate a cellular basis for this result, we examined the effects of endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 on holding currents and spontaneous glutamatergic excitatory transmission in substantia gelatinosa neurons of adult rat spinal cord slices by use of the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. In about half of the neurons examined, endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 produced an outward current having a similar amplitude (25-27 pA at 1 microM) at -70 mV with almost the same value of effective concentration producing half-maximal response (0.19-0.21 microM). Both of them reversed at a potential close to the equilibrium potential for K+, and had the slope conductance that was larger at negative (-120 to -140 mV) than positive potentials (-60 to -90 mV). The endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 currents were reduced in amplitude by K+-channel inhibitors, Ba2+ (100 microM) and 4-aminopyridine (1 mM), and also by mu-opioid receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (1 microM) to a similar extent. The endomorphin-2 but not endomorphin-1 current amplitude was increased by dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor diprotin A (30 microM). One micromolar endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 reduced the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current with a similar time course and extent without altering its amplitude; these actions were not in the presence of D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (1 microM). We conclude that endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 hyperpolarize membranes by opening inwardly-rectifying K+ channels and attenuate the spontaneous release of L-glutamate from nerve terminals in the substantia gelatinosa, both of which are mediated by mu-opioid receptors, in a manner quantitatively similar to each other. The difference in antinociceptive effects between endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 could not be attributed to a distinction in their effects on excitatory transmission in substantia gelatinosa neurons, and may be explained by a difference in their enzymatic degradation.
A transcription factor known as cyclic AMP response element-binding protein has been shown to be involved in the central sensitization in neuropathic pain and inflammation pain. The present study examined the roles of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein and of the phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein in the maintenance of mechanical and cold allodynia induced by a neuropathic pain model, &quot;spared nerve injury,&quot; in rats. First, the results of immunohistochemical study showed that phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein, but not cyclic AMP response element-binding protein, increased bilaterally in the spinal dorsal horn 14 days following spared nerve injury, indicating a possible contribution of phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein in spared nerve injury. Second, chronic intrathecal application of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein antisense oligodeoxynucleotide with three doses (10 microg/day, 20 microg/day and 40 microg/day) for 5 days demonstrated that the higher doses (20 and 40 microg) significantly attenuated both mechanical (bilaterally) and cold (ipsilaterally) allodynia, compared with sense oligodeoxynucleotide and the lower dose (10 microg). Western blot results showed that the alleviation in intensity of behavioral performance was accompanied by a significant reduction of total cyclic AMP response element-binding protein and phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein in the spinal dorsal horn. Moreover, there were no differences in cyclic AMP response element-binding protein and phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein between ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal horns. Our data demonstrate a close association between the expression of behavioral hypersensitivity and cyclic AMP response element-binding protein activation in the spinal dorsal horn following spared nerve injury, supporting the notion that phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein may play an important role in the maintenance of chronic neuropathic pain.
We addressed the issue of the possible degradation of the aiming precision of a whole-body pointing task, when movement coordination is deranged by selective fatigue of the postural task component. The protocol involved continuous repetition (0.1 Hz frequency) of rapid whole-body pointing trials toward a target located beyond arm length, starting from stance and requiring knee flexion. Six healthy human subjects repeated the trials until exhaustion. Such repetition led to electromyography signs of fatigue in rectus femoris (active in body lowering and raising), but not in deltoid (prime mover for arm reaching component). Rectus femoris fatigue affected the equilibrium control strategy, since the anteroposterior displacement of the center of foot pressure was reduced during the fatigued compared with the initial trials. Conversely, the precision of the aiming movement was unaffected by the rectus femoris fatigue in spite of changes in finger trajectory. Trunk inclination at the end of whole-body pointing task and hip and shoulder marker trajectories were unaffected by rectus femoris fatigue. Control experiments were made, whereby fatiguing repetitions of the postural component of the task were performed without finger pointing, except in the first and last five complete whole-body pointing trials. The results were not different from those of the main protocol, except for a transient change in finger trajectory in the very first trial after fatigue. The CNS takes into account the state of postural muscles' fatigue and the concurrently ensuing equilibrium constraints in order to appropriately modify whole-body pointing strategy and keep pointing precision at the target.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have recently been identified in autosomal dominant late-onset Parkinson's disease. Expression of LRRK2 has previously been reported in brain; however, no precise anatomical information is yet available. We have performed in situ hybridization and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to map LRRK2 mRNA expression in mouse brain. We find LRRK2 is highly expressed in the striatum, cortex and olfactory tubercle; however, little or no expression is found in the substantia nigra, where dopaminergic neurons preferentially degenerate in Parkinson's disease. These findings suggest that LRRK2 mRNA is expressed in dopamine-receptive areas rather than in the dopamine-synthesizing neurons. Consistent with a role LRRK2 in Parkinson's disease, dysfunction of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 protein in dopamine-innervated areas may to lead to altered dopaminergic neurotransmission and degeneration of the nigro-striatal pathway.
Studies on 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (&quot;ecstasy&quot;)-induced neurotoxicity mainly focus on damage of serotonergic terminals. Less attention has been given to neuronal cell death produced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine and other amphetamines in areas including the cortex, striatum and thalamus. In the present study we investigated 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in neuronal serum free cultures from rat cortex. Since 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine intake induces hyperthermia in both animals and humans, the experiments were performed under normal (36.5 degrees C) and hyperthermic conditions (40 degrees C). Our findings showed a dose-, time- and temperature-dependent apoptotic cell death induced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in cortical neurons. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced damage was potentiated under hyperthermia. The neurotoxicity was reduced by the serotonin 2A-receptor antagonists, ketanserin and (2R,4R)-5-[2-[2-[2-(3-methoxyphenyl)ethyl]phenoxy]ethyl]-1-methyl-3-pyrrolidinol hydrochloride, in both normothermic and hyperthermic conditions. (+/-)-2,5-Dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride, a model agonist for the serotonin 2A-receptor, also induced a dose- and time-dependent apoptotic cell death. Again, protection was provided by ketanserin and (2R,4R)-5-[2-[2-[2-(3-methoxyphenyl)ethyl]phenoxy]ethyl]-1-methyl-3-pyrrolidinol hydrochloride against (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride-induced neurotoxicity, thereby indicating that the 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine stimulation of the serotonin 2A-receptor leads to neurotoxicity. This study provides for the first time evidence that direct 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine serotonin 2A-receptor stimulation leads to neuronal cortical death. alpha-Phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone a free radical scavenger and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine as well as the NMDA-receptor antagonist MK-801 provided protection under normothermia and hyperthermia, thereby suggesting the participation of free radicals in 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced cell death. Since 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine serotonin 2A-receptor agonistic properties lead to neuronal death, clinically available atypical antipsychotic drugs with serotonin 2A-antagonistic properties could be a valuable therapeutic tool against 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced neurodegeneration.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor is a potent proinflammatory cytokine; however, its role in spinal cord injury is poorly understood. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of macrophage migration inhibitory factor on spinal cord neuron survival and viability. Due to the importance of nitric oxide metabolism in these events, part of our study was also focused on the influence of recombinant macrophage migration inhibitory factor on neuronal nitric oxide expression. Exposure of cultured mouse spinal cord neurons to macrophage migration inhibitory factor markedly increased cellular oxidative stress as measured by 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein fluorescence and intracellular calcium levels. In addition, an antagonist of the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor, 8-(diethylamino)octyl 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate, completely blocked the macrophage migration inhibitory factor-induced increase in intracellular calcium levels. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor treatment also decreased cell viability, increased cellular lactate dehydrogenase release, and induced chromatin condensation and aggregation in cultured spinal cord neurons. Finally, exposure to macrophage migration inhibitory factor markedly decreased expression and activity of neuronal nitric oxide, accompanied by a decrease in cellular guanosine 3'5'-cyclic monophosphate levels. The present results indicate that macrophage migration inhibitory factor can induce dysfunction of spinal cord neurons, leading to cell death through oxidative stress and intracellular calcium-dependent pathways.
Earlier studies have implicated brain-derived neurotrophic factor in stress and in the mechanism of action of antidepressants. It has been shown that antidepressants upregulate, whereas corticosterone downregulates, brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in rat brain. Whether various classes of antidepressants reverse corticosterone-mediated downregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor is unclear. Also not known is how antidepressants or corticosterone regulates brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression. To clarify this, we examined the effects of various classes of antidepressants and corticosterone, alone and in combination, on the mRNA expression of total brain-derived neurotrophic factor and of individual brain-derived neurotrophic factor exons, in rat brain. Normal or corticosterone pellet-implanted (100 mg, 21 days) rats were injected with different classes of antidepressants, fluoxetine, desipramine, or phenelzine, intraperitoneally for 21 days and killed 2 h after the last injection. mRNA expression of total brain-derived neurotrophic factor and of exons I-IV was measured in frontal cortex and hippocampus. Given to normal rats, fluoxetine increased total brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA only in hippocampus, whereas desipramine or phenelzine increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA in both frontal cortex and hippocampus. When specific exons were examined, desipramine increased expression of exons I and III in both brain areas, whereas phenelzine increased exon I in both frontal cortex and hippocampus but exon IV only in hippocampus. On the other hand, fluoxetine increased only exon II in hippocampus. Corticosterone treatment of normal rats decreased expression of total brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA in both brain areas, specifically decreasing exons II and IV. Treatment with desipramine or phenelzine of corticosterone pellet-implanted rats reversed the corticosterone-induced decrease in total brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in both brain areas; however, fluoxetine reversed the decrease only partially in hippocampus. Interestingly, antidepressant treatment of corticosterone pellet-implanted rats increased only those specific exons that are increased during treatment of normal rats with each particular antidepressant. We found that although corticosterone and antidepressants both modulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression, and antidepressants reverse the corticosterone-induced brain-derived neurotrophic factor decrease, antidepressants and corticosterone differ in how they regulate the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor exon(s).
In simple reaction time tasks, lesions of rat dorsomedial prefrontal cortex impair the ability to wait for trigger stimuli and result in increased premature responding. This effect could be due to impairments in attending to trigger stimuli, estimating the timing of trigger stimuli, or inhibitory control of the motor response. Here, we examined these issues by reversibly inactivating dorsomedial prefrontal cortex during simple reaction time tasks with variable or fixed foreperiods. There were three consistent effects of dorsomedial prefrontal cortex inactivation: 1) increased premature responding, 2) increased variability in the timing of premature responses, and 3) speeded response latencies, especially on trials with short foreperiods in tasks with variable foreperiods. We observed these effects independent of differences in foreperiod duration, foreperiod variability, and stimulus probabilities. Therefore, dorsomedial prefrontal cortex appears not to be involved in attending to the trigger stimulus or in time estimation. Instead, we suggest that dorsomedial prefrontal cortex is critical for inhibiting responses before the maximum foreperiod duration, i.e. the &quot;deadline&quot; [Ollman RT, Billington MJ (1972) The deadline model for simple reaction times. Cognit Psychol 3:311-336], after which the rat should respond even if the trigger stimulus has not occurred.
The effects of the destruction of the medial preoptic area and the lateral preoptic area with N-methyl-d-aspartic acid on sleep-wakefulness, brain temperature and thermoregulation were studied in two groups of male Wistar rats. Electroencephalogram, electrooculogram and electromyogram, along with brain temperature, were recorded for 3 days, prior to the destruction of the medial preoptic area and the lateral preoptic area, and on the 7th and 21st days after the destruction of these areas. The thermoregulatory capacity of the rats was assessed by recording their brain temperature when they were exposed to severe cold (5+/-1 degrees C) and heat (37+/-1 degrees C) before and after the lesion. Though sleep was decreased after the destruction of both the medial preoptic area and the lateral preoptic area, paradoxical sleep was reduced only by the destruction of the medial preoptic area. Decrease in sleep after the medial preoptic area lesion was brought about by a decrease in the duration of the slow wave sleep episodes and the frequency of paradoxical sleep episodes. Decrease in sleep after the lateral preoptic area lesion was brought about by a decrease in the frequency of slow wave sleep episodes. There was a significant increase in brain temperature after the medial preoptic area lesion but not after the lateral preoptic area lesion. The rats with lesion in the medial preoptic area showed deficits in thermoregulation on exposure to cold, while those with the lateral preoptic area lesion showed deficits in heat defense ability. The present findings suggest that the medial preoptic area and the lateral preoptic area regulate sleep by different modalities and that there is an anatomical segregation of heat and cold defense functions within the basal forebrain.
The large majority of women receiving hormone therapy initiate therapy early in life for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. However, the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study, the only randomized clinical trial to date on hormone therapy and dementia, was carried out in women age 65 and older. That trial provided important insights into the detrimental effects of hormone therapy on dementia in women initiating later in life. The generalizability of those findings to the typical hormone therapy user who initiates earlier in life is unknown. To address this important issue, this review focuses on observational trials of hormone therapy and dementia risk, randomized clinical trials of hormone therapy and cognitive function, and basic science studies. These lines of research provide suggestive, but not definitive, evidence that early initiation of hormone therapy may provide cognitive benefits, particularly to verbal memory and other hippocampally mediated functions. Other forms of hormone therapy, other cognitive domains, and cyclic hormone regimens may not conform to this &quot;critical period hypothesis.&quot; Further research is needed to test the validity and limits of this hypothesis.
Previous studies have found that central administration of arginine vasopressin and arginine vasopressin receptor V1a antagonists respectively inhibited and stimulated receptivity but did not examine effects on other aspects of female sexual behavior. Central oxytocin facilitates both proceptive and receptive components of sexual behavior and diminishes male-directed agonistic behavior. The present study examined i.c.v.-administered arginine vasopressin and V1a antagonist effects on proceptive, receptive and agonistic behaviors, and interactions with oxytocin. In experiment 1, rats were primed s.c. with 2 microg estradiol benzoate x 2 days and with 500 microg of progesterone on day 3. Arginine vasopressin (0.2, 0.4 microg) or normal saline vehicle was administered 5 h after progesterone treatment and sexual and agonistic behavior measured 30, 60 and 90 min later. Compared with saline, both doses of arginine vasopressin significantly decreased lordosis responses to mounting and hop-dart proceptive behavior and trended toward significantly increasing agonistic behaviors. In experiment 2, oxytocin (2 microg) infusion just after arginine vasopressin (0.4 microg) significantly increased lordoses and decreased agonistic behaviors but did not affect hopping and darting. In experiment 3, conducted in ovariectomized rats primed with estradiol benzoate (1 microg/day s.c. x 2 days), i.c.v. infusion of 0.5 and 1.0 microg of the selective V1a antagonist, d(CH2)5Tyr-(Me)arginine vasopressin on day 3 significantly increased lordoses and trended toward increasing hopping and darting 4 and 6 h after i.c.v. treatment. In experiment 4, 1 microg of the selective oxytocin antagonist, d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2, Thr4, Tyr-NH2(9)]OVT given 1 h before d(CH2)5Tyr-(Me)arginine vasopressin (1 microg) significantly decreased lordoses. Previous studies indicate that arginine vasopressin contributes to light phase inhibition of female sexual behavior. Our findings suggest that arginine vasopressin may exert this effect through interactions that decrease oxytocin stimulation of sexual behavior and raise the question whether sex steroid conditions that stimulate sexual behavior may suppress central arginine vasopressin and V1a receptor activity.
The amygdala plays a key role in emotional processing and anxiety-related physiological and behavioral responses. Previous studies have shown that injections of the anxiety-related neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor or the related neuropeptide urocortin 1 into the region of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus induce anxiety-like behavior in several behavioral paradigms. Brainstem serotonergic systems in the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus may be part of a distributed neural system that, together with the basolateral amygdala, regulates acute and chronic anxiety states. We therefore investigated the effect of an acute bilateral injection of urocortin 1 into the basolateral amygdala on behavior in the social interaction test and on c-Fos expression within serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus. Male rats were implanted with bilateral cannulae directed at the region of the basolateral amygdala; 72 h after surgery, rats were injected with urocortin 1 (50 fmol/100 nl) or vehicle (100 nl of 1% bovine serum albumin in distilled water). Thirty minutes after injection, a subgroup of rats from each experimental group was exposed to the social interaction test; remaining animals were left in the home cage. Two hours after injection rats were perfused with paraformaldehyde and brains were removed and processed for immunohistochemistry. Acute injection of urocortin 1 had anxiogenic effects in the social interaction test, reducing total interaction time without affecting locomotor activity or exploratory behavior. These behavioral effects were associated with increases in c-Fos expression within brainstem serotonergic neurons. In home cage rats and rats exposed to the social interaction test, urocortin 1 treatment increased the number of c-Fos-immunoreactive serotonergic neurons within subdivisions of both the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the basolateral amygdala and serotonergic neurons within the midbrain raphe complex are part of an integrated neural system modulating anxiety state.
This review briefly summarizes recent developments in our understanding of the role of androgens in maintaining normal hippocampal structure. Studies in rats and vervet monkeys have demonstrated that removal of the testes reduces the density of synaptic contacts on dendritic spines of cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal neurons. This effect is rapidly reversed by treatment with either testosterone or the non-aromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone, suggesting that maintenance of normal synaptic density is androgen-dependent, via a mechanism that does not require intermediate estrogen biosynthesis. Similar effects of these androgens are observed in ovariectomized female rats, except that in the female the actions of testosterone include a substantial contribution from estrogen formation. The ability to stimulate hippocampal spine synapse density is not directly related to systemic androgenic potency: thus, weak androgens such as dehydroepiandrosterone exert effects that are comparable to those of dihydrotestosterone; while partial agonist responses are observed after injection of the synthetic antiandrogen, flutamide. These data provide a morphological counterpart to observations that androgens enhance cognitive function and mood state, suggesting that these effects may result at least in part from hippocampal neurotrophic responses. The unusual specificity of these responses raises the possibility that effects of androgens on the brain may be mediated via different mechanisms than the masculinizing actions of these steroids in non-neural androgen target organs.
The capacity of activity-dependent synaptic modification is essential in processing and storing information, yet little is known about how synaptic plasticity alters the input-output conversion efficiency at the synapses. In the adult mouse hippocampus in vivo, we carefully compared the input-output relationship, in terms of presynaptic activity levels versus postsynaptic potentials, before and after the induction of synaptic plasticity and found that synaptic plasticity led synapses to respond more robustly to inputs, that is, synaptic gain was increased as a function of synaptic activity with an expansive, power-law nonlinearity, i.e. conforming to the so-called gamma curve. In extreme cases, long-term potentiation and depression coexist in the same synaptic pathway with long-term potentiation dominating over long-term depression at higher levels of presynaptic activity. These findings predict a novel function of synaptic plasticity, i.e. a contrast-enhancing filtering of neural information through a gamma correction-like process.
Prenatal cocaine exposure induces alterations in attentional function that presumably involve locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons and their projections. Previous reports indicate that embryonic rat locus coeruleus neurons exposed to cocaine, both in vitro and in vivo, showed in decreased cell survival and inhibition of neurite outgrowth, and that the effects were most deleterious during early gestation. The present study performed in vitro addressed the specificity of the inhibitory effects of cocaine by comparing locus coeruleus neurite formation and extension to that of dopaminergic substantia nigra neurons following exposure to a physiologically-relevant dose of cocaine (500 ng/ml, two times a day, for four days) during peak neuritogenesis. Following cocaine treatment, immunocytochemistry (anti-norepinephrine antibody to locus coeruleus; anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibody to substantia nigra) and image analysis were performed to measure a variety of neurite outgrowth parameters. For locus coeruleus neurons, cocaine treatment decreased the 1) number of cells initiating neurites [P&lt;0.001], 2) mean number [P&lt;0.05] and length of neurites [P&lt;0.0001], 3) mean number [P&lt;0.0016] and length of branched neurites [P&lt;0.0006], and 4) mean length of the longest neurites [P&lt;0.0001]. In comparison, substantia nigra neurons were not significantly affected by cocaine for any of the parameters examined. More importantly, a significant interaction between cocaine treatment and brain region was observed [P&lt;0.0002] indicating greater vulnerability of locus coeruleus, relative to substantia nigra neurons, to cocaine exposure. These data support our hypothesis that cocaine targets the noradrenergic system by negatively regulating locus coeruleus neuronal outgrowth, which likely affects pathfinding, synaptic connectivity, and ultimately attentional behavior in cocaine-exposed offspring.
Brainstem respiratory neurons innervate the hypoglossal motor nucleus which in turn transmits this respiratory drive signal to the genioglossus muscle of the tongue. The mechanism of this transmission is important to help maintain an open airspace for effective breathing, and is thought to rely almost exclusively on non-N-methyl-d-aspartate (non-NMDA) glutamate receptor activation during respiration. However those studies were performed in slices of medulla from neonatal animals in vitro which may have led to an underestimation of the contribution of NMDA glutamate receptors that may normally operate in intact preparations. The current study tests the hypothesis that both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors contribute to respiratory drive transmission at the hypoglossal motor nucleus in vivo. Experiments were performed in urethane-anesthetized and tracheotomized adult Wistar rats in which vagus nerves were either intact or sectioned. In the presence of augmented genioglossus activity produced by vagotomy, microdialysis perfusion of either an NMDA receptor antagonist (D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, 0.001-10 mM) or a non-NMDA receptor antagonist (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione disodium salt, 0.001-1 mM) to the hypoglossal motor nucleus reduced respiratory-related genioglossus activity in a dose-dependent manner (P &lt; 0.001) indicating that both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors are necessary for transmission of the respiratory drive signal to genioglossus muscle in vivo. Similar effects were observed in the vagus nerve intact rats. Further experiments demonstrated that each delivered antagonist had effects that were specific to its respective receptor. Regression analysis also revealed that the activity of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors at the hypoglossal motor nucleus is related to levels of the prevailing respiratory drive. These results show that both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors at the hypoglossal motor nucleus are involved in transmission of the respiratory drive signal to genioglossus muscle in vivo.
Behavioral evidence supports a role for peripheral glutamate receptors in normal nociceptive transmission. In this study, we examined the release of the excitatory amino acids, glutamate and aspartate, in the s.c. perfusate of the rat hind instep by in vivo microdialysis. Antidromic stimulation of the sciatic nerve and noxious stimuli in the form of heat stimulation and local application of capsaicin cream (1%) to the instep caused an increase in excitatory amino acid release. This capsaicin-induced excitatory amino acid release was suppressed by pretreatment with capsaicin. Both systemic (10 mg/kg, i.v.) and local injections (10(-5) M in the perfusate) of morphine inhibited the increase in excitatory amino acid release evoked by local application of capsaicin cream to the instep. This inhibitory effect of morphine was antagonized by naloxone either given systemically (5 mg/kg, i.v.) or locally (10(-5) M). These results suggest that excitatory amino acids are released from small diameter afferent fibers by heat stimulation in the periphery or local application of capsaicin cream, and that activation of opioid receptors, present on the peripheral endings of small-diameter afferent fibers, can regulate noxious stimulus-induced excitatory amino acid release.
The presynaptic N type Ca channel (CaV2.2) is associated with the transmitter release site apparatus and plays a critical role in the gating of transmitter release. It has been suggested that a distinct CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant is targeted to the nerve terminal and is anchored at the release face by calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase (CASK) and Munc-18-interacting protein (MINT), two modular adaptor proteins. We used the isolated chick ciliary ganglion calyx terminal together with two new antibodies (L4569, L4570) selective for CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant to test these hypotheses. CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant was present at the presynaptic transmitter release sites, as identified by Rab3a-interacting molecule (RIM) co-staining and quantitative immunocytochemistry. CASK was also present at the terminal both in conjunction with, and independent of its binding partner, MINT. Immunoprecipitation of CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant from brain lysate coprecipitated CASK, confirming that these two proteins can form a complex. However, CASK was not colocalized either with CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant or the transmitter release site marker RIM at the calyx terminal release face. Neither was MINT colocalized with CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant. Our results show that native CaV2.2 long C terminal splice variant is targeted to the transmitter release sites at an intact presynaptic terminal. However, the lack of enrichment of CASK at the release site combined with the failure of this protein or its partner MINT to colocalize with CaV2.2 argues against the idea that these modular adaptor proteins anchor CaV2.2 at presynaptic nerve terminals.
The uncrossed retinotectal projection of rats undergoes extensive axonal elimination and subsequent growth of axonal arbors in topographically appropriate territories within the first two/three postnatal weeks. Nitric oxide has been implicated in development and stabilization of synapses in the retinotectal pathway since blockade of nitric oxide synthesis disrupts the normal pattern of retinal innervation in subcortical nuclei. The present work investigated the role of arachidonic acid pathway in the development and maintenance of ipsilateral retinotectal axons. We also investigated the role of this retrograde messenger in the modulation of plasticity that follows retinal lesions in the opposite eye. Pigmented rats received systemic treatment with quinacrine, a phospholipase A2 inhibitor, indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, nordihydroguaiaretic acid, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor or vehicle during 4-8 days at various postnatal ages. Rats given a unilateral temporal retinal lesion were treated with either quinacrine or vehicle during the same period. For anterograde tracing of ipsilateral retinal projections, animals received intraocular injections of horseradish peroxidase. Before the third postnatal week no difference was observed in the laminar or topographic organization of the ipsilateral retinotectal projection between vehicle and treated rats in either normal or lesion conditions. After the third postnatal week, however, systemic blockade of phospholipase A2 or 5-lipoxygenase, but not cyclooxygenase induced sprouting of uncrossed axons throughout the collicular visual layers in unoperated rats. In retinal lesion groups, phospholipase A2 blockade increased the sprouting of uncrossed intact axons to the collicular surface in the same period. The results suggest that arachidonic acid or lipoxygenase metabolites play a role in the maintenance of the retinotectal synapses after the critical period and that the blockade of the arachidonic acid pathway induces reactive sprouting of retinal axons late in development.
Previous studies have indicated that thalamic nucleus submedius is involved in opioid-mediated antinociception in tail flick test and formalin test. The current study examined the effects of opioids microinjected into the thalamic nucleus submedius on the allodynia developed in neuropathic pain model rats, and determined the roles of different subtypes of opioid receptors in the thalamic nucleus submedius opioid-evoked antiallodynia. The allodynic behaviors induced by L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation were assessed by mechanical (von Frey filaments) and cold (4 degrees C plate) stimuli. Morphine (1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 microg) microinjected into the thalamic nucleus submedius contralateral to the nerve injury paw produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the mechanical and cold allodynia, and these effects were reversed by microinjection of the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1.0 microg) into the same site. Microinjection of endomorphin-1 (5.0 microg), a highly selective mu-opioid receptor agonist, and [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]-enkephalin (10 microg), a delta-/mu-opioid receptor agonist, also inhibited the allodynic behaviors, and these effects were blocked by selective mu-opioid receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine hydrochloride (3.75 microg). However, the [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]-enkephalin-evoked antiallodynic effects were not influenced by the selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole (5.0 microg). Microinjection of the selective kappa-receptor agonist spiradoline mesylate salt (100 microg) into the thalamic nucleus submedius failed to alter the allodynia induced by spinal nerve ligation. These results suggest that the thalamic nucleus submedius is involved in opioid-evoked antiallodynia which is mediated by mu- but not delta- and kappa-opioid receptor in the neuropathic pain model rats.
Cigarette smoking is associated with the development of several diseases and antioxidants play a major role in the prevention of smoking-related diseases. Apoptosis is suggested as a possible contributing factor in the pathogenesis of smoking-induced toxicity. Therefore the present study was designed to investigate the influence of chronic cigarette smoke exposure on apoptosis and the modulatory effect of bacoside A (triterpenoid saponin isolated from the plant Bacopa monniera) on smoking-induced apoptosis in rat brain. Adult male albino rats of Wistar strain were exposed to cigarette smoke and simultaneously administered with bacoside A (10 mg/kg b.w./day, orally) for a period of 12 weeks. Expression of brain hsp70 was analyzed by Western blotting. Apoptosis was identified by DNA fragmentation, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxy uridine triphosphate nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining and transmission electron microscopy. The results showed that exposure to cigarette smoke induced hsp70 expression and apoptosis as characterized by DNA laddering, increased TUNEL-positive cells and ultrastructural apoptotic features in the brain. Administration of bacoside A prevented expression of hsp70 and neuronal apoptosis during cigarette smoking. We speculate that apoptosis may be responsible for the smoking-induced brain damage and bacoside A can protect the brain from the toxic effects of cigarette smoking.
Deep brain stimulation is associated with delayed improvement of parkinsonian symptoms, such as hypokinesia with subthalamic nucleus stimulation, or dystonia with globus pallidus internus stimulation. The latency observed is better explained by molecular alterations than immediate electrophysiological processes, and clinical improvement may involve adaptive gene expression. Here, we have studied immediate early gene expression as fast molecular response to subthalamic nucleus stimulation. Bipolar electrodes were implanted bilaterally into the subthalamic nucleus of anesthetized male Wistar rats. High-frequency stimulation (130 Hz or 80 Hz, 60 micros, 300 microA) or low-frequency stimulation (5 Hz, 60 micros, 300 microA) was performed with the right electrode for 15, 60, 120, and 240 min whereas the silent left electrode served as negative control. Brains were fixed by transcardial perfusion and frozen sections were stained with polyclonal antibodies directed against three immediate early gene-encoded proteins, c-Fos, c-Jun, and Krox-24 (NGFI-A, Egr-1, Zif268, Tis8, Zenk). After 120 and 240 h, c-Fos immunoreactivity was strongly upregulated in subthalamic nucleus neurons on the stimulated site. In contrast, no c-Fos immunoreactivity was detected on the non-stimulated site except for single positive cells located in close proximity to the electrode tracks. Furthermore, c-Fos immunoreactivity was induced in subthalamic nucleus projection areas, such as primary and secondary motor cortex, primary somatosensory and insular cortex, lateral and medial globus pallidus, suprageniculate thalamic nucleus, pontine nuclei, medial geniculate nucleus, and substantia nigra. Similarly, c-Jun and Krox-24 were induced at the site of stimulation and in projection areas following high-frequency subthalamic nucleus stimulation. Whereas high frequency stimulation with 80 Hz was similarly effective none of the three immediate early gene-encoded proteins was induced with low-frequency stimulation (5 Hz) for 4 h. This is in accordance with the therapeutic effects of deep brain stimulation which are only elicited with high frequency stimulation. Our data provide evidence that immediate early gene expression in the subthalamic nucleus is rapidly and substantially induced by high-frequency stimulation. The induction of immediate early genes in projection sites suggests ipsilateral transsynaptic modulation of neuronal activity.
Drinking a sugar solution on an intermittent schedule can promote sugar bingeing and cause signs of dependence while releasing dopamine repeatedly like a drug of abuse. It is hypothesized that sweet taste alone is sufficient for this effect in sucrose bingeing rats. On the theory that acetylcholine in the nucleus accumbens plays a role in satiety, it is further hypothesized that purging the stomach contents will delay acetylcholine release. Rats with gastric fistulas and nucleus accumbens guide shafts for microdialysis were fed 12 h each day. During the first hour, fistulas were open for the sham-feeding group and closed for the real-feeding group, and 10% sucrose was the only food source. For the remaining 11 h, liquid rodent diet was available as well as the 10% sucrose to provide a balanced diet. In microdialysis tests during the first sugar meal on days 1, 2 and 21, extracellular dopamine increased at least 30% each day in both groups. Acetylcholine also increased during the sugar meals for the real-feeding animals, but not during sham feeding. In conclusion, the taste of sugar can increase extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens without fail in animals on a dietary regimen that causes bingeing and sugar dependency. During sham feeding, the acetylcholine satiation signal is eliminated, and the animals drink more. These findings support the hypothesis that dopamine is released repeatedly in response to taste when bingeing on sweet food, and the acetylcholine satiety effect is greatly reduced by purging; this may be relevant to bulimia nervosa in humans.
Densely aggregated beta-amyloid peptides are believed to play a key role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid plaques are a potential target for molecular imaging to determine the clinical status of Alzheimer's disease. Phase-contrast X-ray imaging combined with computed tomography is a promising technique that can be used to visualize the physical density of structures in biological tissues non-invasively, and without the use of imaging agents. Using brain tissue isolated from a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, we show that beta-amyloid 40-positive/beta-amyloid 42-positive amyloid plaques, but not beta-amyloid 40-negative/beta-amyloid 42-positive amyloid plaques, exist as high-density aggregates that can be specifically detected by phase-contrast X-ray computed tomography. The phase-contrast X-ray computed tomography detected beta-amyloid 40-positive/beta-amyloid 42-positive amyloid plaques in three-dimensions with an extremely high sensitivity comparable to that of histological analysis, and also enabled the load of amyloid plaques to be quantified. Furthermore, the use of phase-contrast X-ray computed tomography reveals that the physical density of beta-amyloid 40-positive/beta-amyloid 42-positive amyloid plaques increases with age, and that the large volume, high-density, amyloid plaques that are specifically observed in aged Alzheimer's disease mice are closely associated with neuritic dystrophy. These results demonstrate that phase-contrast X-ray computed tomography is a highly sensitive imaging technique for analyzing dense-cored amyloid plaques in postmortem samples, and is beneficial in elucidating amyloid pathophysiology in Alzheimer's disease.
The aim of this study was to determine whether inhibition of the extracellular-regulated kinase signaling pathway decreases acute amphetamine-induced behavioral activity and neuropeptide gene expression in the rat striatum. Western blotting revealed that extracellular-regulated kinase1/2 phosphorylation was highly induced in the rat striatum 15 min after an acute amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) injection without altering the total amount of extracellular-regulated kinase protein. In a separate experiment, the systemic injection of SL327, a selective inhibitor of extracellular regulated kinase kinase that crosses the blood-brain barrier, 1 h prior to amphetamine administration decreased amphetamine-induced vertical and horizontal activity. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry showed that SL327 abolished the high levels of preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin mRNA induced by amphetamine in the striatum with no alteration of their basal levels. In another set of experiments, the hyperlocomotor activity induced by amphetamine was reduced by pretreatment with intra-striatal infusion of U0126. U0126 also blocked the amphetamine-induced increases in phospho-extracellular-regulated kinase and preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin gene expression in the striatum. These data indicate that activation of the extracellular-regulated kinase cascade contributes to the behavioral effects and changes in striatal neuropeptide gene expression induced by acute amphetamine.
Neurons in the region of dorsomedial hypothalamus are involved in the organization of the physiological responses to emotional stress. We have recently shown that the cardiovascular response evoked by activation of dorsomedial hypothalamus neurons is largely dependent on a synaptic relay with the lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether excitatory amino acid receptors at the lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region are involved in mediating the response evoked by activation of dorsomedial hypothalamus neurons. In conscious rats, the cardiovascular effects produced by microinjection of GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodide into the dorsomedial hypothalamus were evaluated before and after injection of different excitatory amino acid antagonists into lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region. Pretreatment of lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region with the non-selective ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenic acid or with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-selective antagonist, MK-801, largely reduced the tachycardic and pressor effects evoked by activation of dorsomedial hypothalamus neurons by bicuculline methiodide microinjection (heart rate 90 and 74%; blood pressure 81 and 84%, respectively). The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-selective antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, did not alter the cardiovascular response evoked by dorsomedial hypothalamus activation. In an additional series of experiments, microinjection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, N-methyl-D-aspartate, into the lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region, evoked an increase in heart rate and a pressor response that was accompanied by an increase in locomotor activity. These effects were not altered by pretreatment of lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region neurons with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione but were completely abolished by MK-801. Altogether, these findings indicate that the cardiovascular response evoked by dorsomedial hypothalamus activation involves a synaptic relay at the lateral/dorsolateral periaqueductal gray region that is mediated at least in large part by excitatory amino acid receptors, possibly N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Neurons containing tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) constitute a rostro-caudally elongated group of cells in the posterior thalamus. These neurons are located in the rostral part of the subparafascicular nucleus and in the subparafascicular area, caudally. Projections of the caudally located TIP39 neurons have been previously identified by their disappearance following lesions. We have now mapped the projections of the rat rostral subparafascicular neurons using injections of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine and the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit, and confirmed the projections from more caudal areas previously inferred from lesion studies. Neurons from both the rostral subparafascicular nucleus and the subparafascicular area project to the medial prefrontal, insular, ecto- and perirhinal cortex, nucleus of the diagonal band, septum, central and basomedial amygdaloid nuclei, fundus striati, basal forebrain, midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei, hypothalamus, subthalamus and the periaqueductal gray. The subparafascicular area projects more densely to the amygdala and the hypothalamus. In contrast, only the rostral part of the subparafascicular nucleus projects significantly to the superficial layers of prefrontal, insular, ectorhinal and somatosensory cortical areas. Double labeling showed that anterogradely labeled fibers from the rostral part of the subparafascicular nucleus contain TIP39 in many forebrain areas, but do not in hypothalamic areas. Injections of the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit into the lateral septum and the fundus striati confirmed that they were indeed target regions of both the rostral subparafascicular nucleus and the subparafascicular area. In contrast, TIP39 neurons did not project to the anterior hypothalamic nucleus. Our data provide an anatomical basis for the potential involvement of rostral subparafascicular neurons in limbic and autonomic regulation, with TIP39 cells being major subparafascicular output neurons projecting to forebrain regions.
Dendritic spines of pyramidal cells are the main postsynaptic targets of cortical excitatory synapses and as such, they are fundamental both in neuronal plasticity and for the integration of excitatory inputs to pyramidal neurons. There is significant variation in the number and density of dendritic spines among pyramidal cells located in different cortical areas and species, especially in primates. This variation is believed to contribute to functional differences reported among cortical areas. In this study, we analyzed the density of dendritic spines in the motor, somatosensory and visuo-temporal regions of the mouse cerebral cortex. Over 17,000 individual spines on the basal dendrites of layer III pyramidal neurons were drawn and their morphologies compared among these cortical regions. In contrast to previous observations in primates, there was no significant difference in the density of spines along the dendrites of neurons in the mouse. However, systematic differences in spine dimensions (spine head size and spine neck length) were detected, whereby the largest spines were found in the motor region, followed by those in the somatosensory region and those in visuo-temporal region.
Cortical neurosteroid levels vary dramatically across development; during the second week of life elevated levels of allopregnanolone are associated with decreased GABA(A) receptor function. Since GABA(A) receptor modulation plays a role in proliferative regulation in developing neocortex, it is possible that endogenous neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone, acting through GABA(A) receptors, modulate cortical development. We augmented normally low levels with exogenous administration of allopregnanolone (10 mg/kg) during the first week of rodent life. The localization of parvalbumin-labeled cells was markedly altered; the ratio of cell number in the deep (layers V-VI) vs. superficial (layers I-III) layers of adult prefrontal cortex increased two-fold in rats administered allopregnanolone on postnatal day 1 or 5. The mechanism underlying these anatomical changes likely involves GABA(A) receptors because similar changes in interneuron placement were observed after neonatal benzodiazepine administration. Measures of mature cortical function were also altered after neonatal neurosteroid administration, including [(3)H]MK-801 binding, prepulse inhibition and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity. Moreover, neonatal allopregnanolone administration increases the number of parvalbumin-expressing neurons in medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus while the total neuron number is decreased. These findings suggest that connectivity between the medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus and prefrontal cortex is likely altered by neonatal neurosteroid administration and may result in a disinhibited frontal cortex. Disinhibition in the prefrontal cortex is associated with behavioral changes relevant to human psychosis and developmental disorders. If neurosteroids play a role in normal development of prefrontal/medial dorsal patency as suggested by these studies, then alterations in neurosteroid levels may contribute to abnormal neurodevelopment.
In urethane-anesthetized female rats, a branch of the hypogastric nerve equivalent to the vas deferens nerve in males was shown anatomically and electrophysiologically to supply the uterine horns and we have consequently termed this the uterine nerve. Administration of p-chloroamphetamine i.v. elicited patterned bursting uterine nerve activity responses together with contractions of the uterine horns and musculature of the vaginal wall. These responses are qualitatively similar to ejaculatory responses observed following p-chloroamphetamine administration to anesthetized male rats and the urethrogenital reflex in females, suggesting they represent responses occurring during sexual processes. This response to p-chloroamphetamine was still present after complete transection of the spinal cord at T8. These data indicate that common neurophysiological and pharmacological mechanisms regulate genital reflexes at the lumbosacral spinal level in both the female and the male rat.
Insulin-like growth factors I and II are known to regulate the development of the CNS. We examined the developmental changes in insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II expression in the postnatal rat corpus callosum. Insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II mRNA expression increased at 3 days as compared with 1 day whereas the protein expression increased up to 7 days. Insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II immunoexpression was specifically localized in round cells confirmed by double immunofluorescence with OX-42 to be the amoeboid microglial cells. Insulin-like growth factor I expression was observed up to 7 days in amoeboid microglial cells while insulin-like growth factor II expression was detected in 1-3 day old rats. Exposure of primary rat microglial cell cultures to lipopolysaccharide increased insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II mRNA and protein expression significantly along with their immunoexpression in microglial cells. The lipopolysaccharide-induced increase in insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II mRNA and protein expression was significantly decreased with all-trans-retinoic acid. We conclude that insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II expression in amoeboid microglial cells in the developing brain is related to their activation. Once the activation is inhibited, either by transformation of the amoeboid microglial cells into ramified microglia regarded as resting cells or as shown by the effect of all-trans-retinoic acid administration, insulin-like growth factor I and insulin-like growth factor II mRNA and protein expression is downregulated.
The localization of the neuropeptide tyrosine Y1 receptor was studied with immunohistochemistry in parasagittal and transverse, free-floating sections of the rat lumbar spinal cord. At least seven distinct Y1 receptor-positive populations could tentatively be recognized: Type 1) abundant small, fusiform Y1 receptor-positive neurons in laminae I-II, producing a profuse neuropil; Type 2) Y1 receptor-positive projection neurons in lamina I; Type 3) small Y1 receptor-positive neurons in lamina III, similar to Type 1 neurons, but less densely packed; Type 4) a number of large, multipolar Y1 receptor-positive neurons in the border area between laminae III-IV, with dendrites projecting toward laminae I-II; Type 5) a considerable number of large, multipolar Y1 receptor-positive neurons in laminae V-VI; Type 6) many large Y1 receptor-positive neurons around the central canal (area X); and Type 7) a small number of large Y1 receptor-positive neurons in the medial aspect of the ventral horns (lamina VIII). Many of the neurons present in laminae V-VI and area X produce craniocaudal processes extending for several hundred micrometers. Retrograde tracing using cholera toxin B subunit injected at the 9th thoracic spinal cord level shows that several Type 5 neurons in laminae V-VI, and at least a few Type 2 in lamina I and Type 6 in area X have projections extending to the lower segments of the thoracic spinal cord (and perhaps to supraspinal levels). The present results define distinct subpopulations of neuropeptide tyrosine-sensitive neurons, localized in superficial and deep layers of the dorsal, in the ventral horns and in area X. The lamina II neurons express somatostatin [The neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor is a somatic receptor on dorsal root ganglion neurons and a postsynaptic receptor on somatostatin dorsal horn neurons. Eur J Neurosci 11:2211-2225] and are presumably glutamatergic [Todd AJ, Hughes DI, Polgar E, Nagy GG, Mackie M, Ottersen OP, Maxwell DJ (2003) The expression of vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 in neurochemically defined axonal populations in the rat spinal cord with emphasis on the dorsal horn. Eur J Neurosci 17:13-27], that is they are excitatory interneurons under a Y1 receptor-mediated inhibitory influence. The remaining Y1 receptor-positive spinal neurons need to be phenotyped, for example if the large Y1 receptor-positive laminae III-IV neurons (Type 5) are identical to the neurokinin (NK)1R-positive neurons previously shown to receive neuropeptide tyrosine positive dendritic contacts [Polgr E, Shehab SA, Watt C, Todd AJ (1999) GABAergic neurons that contain neuropeptide Y selectively target cells with the NK1 receptor in laminae III and IV of the rat spinal cord. J Neurosci 19:2637-2646]. If so, neuropeptide tyrosine could have an antinociceptive action not only via Y1 receptor-positive interneurons (Type 1) but also projection neurons. The present results show neuropeptide tyrosine-sensitive neuron populations virtually in all parts of the lumbar spinal cord, suggesting a role for neuropeptide tyrosine signaling in many spinal functions, including pain.
Trauma to the conus medullaris and cauda equina may result in autonomic, sensory, and motor dysfunctions. We have previously developed a rat model of cauda equina injury, where a lumbosacral ventral root avulsion resulted in a progressive and parallel death of motoneurons and preganglionic parasympathetic neurons, which are important for i.e. bladder control. Here, we report that an acute implantation of an avulsed ventral root into the rat conus medullaris protects preganglionic parasympathetic neurons and motoneurons from cell death as well as promotes axonal regeneration into the implanted root at 6 weeks post-implantation. Implantation resulted in survival of 44+/-4% of preganglionic parasympathetic neurons and 44+/-4% of motoneurons compared with 22% of preganglionic parasympathetic neurons and 16% of motoneurons after avulsion alone. Retrograde labeling from the implanted root at 6 weeks showed that 53+/-13% of surviving preganglionic parasympathetic neurons and 64+/-14% of surviving motoneurons reinnervated the graft. Implantation prevented injury-induced atrophy of preganglionic parasympathetic neurons and reduced atrophy of motoneurons. Light and electron microscopic studies of the implanted ventral roots demonstrated a large number of both myelinated axons (79+/-13% of the number of myelinated axons in corresponding control ventral roots) and unmyelinated axons. Although the diameter of myelinated axons in the implanted roots was significantly smaller than that of control roots, the degree of myelination was appropriate for the axonal size, suggesting normal conduction properties. Our results show that preganglionic parasympathetic neurons have the same ability as motoneurons to survive and reinnervate implanted roots, a prerequisite for successful therapeutic strategies for autonomic control in selected patients with acute conus medullaris and cauda equina injuries.
To identify the active components of honeybee venom in production of inflammation and pain-related behaviors, five major peptidergic subfractions were separated, purified and identified from the whole honeybee venom. Among them, four active peptidergic components were characterized as apamin, mast-cell degranulating peptide (MCDP), phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2))-related peptide and melittin, respectively. All five subfractions were effective in production of local inflammatory responses (paw edema) in rats although the efficacies were different. Among the five identified subfractions, only MCDP, PLA(2)-related peptide and melittin were able to produce ongoing pain-related behaviors shown as paw flinches, while only apamin and melittin were potent to produce both thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity. As shown in our previous report, melittin was the most potent polypeptide in production of local inflammation as well as ongoing pain and hypersensitivity. To further explore the peripheral mechanisms underlying melittin-induced nociception and hypersensitivity, a single dose of capsazepine, a blocker of thermal nociceptor transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1, was treated s.c. prior to or after melittin administration. The results showed that both pre- and post-treatment of capsazepine could significantly prevent and suppress the melittin-induced ongoing nociceptive responses and thermal hypersensitivity, but were without influencing mechanical hypersensitivity. The present results suggest that the naturally occurring peptidergic substances of the whole honeybee venom have various pharmacological potencies to produce local inflammation, nociception and pain hypersensitivity in mammals, and among the five identified reverse-phase high pressure liquid chromatography subfractions (four polypeptides), melittin, a polypeptide occupying over 50% of the whole honeybee venom, plays a central role in production of local inflammation, nociception and hyperalgesia or allodynia following the experimental honeybee's sting. Peripheral transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 is likely to be involved in melittin-produced ongoing pain and heat hyperalgesia, but not mechanical hyperalgesia, in rats.
The monocarboxylate transporters 1 and 4 are expressed in brain as well as in skeletal muscle and play important roles in the energy metabolism of both tissues. In brain, monocarboxylate transporter 1 occurs in astrocytes, ependymocytes, and endothelial cells while monocarboxylate transporter 4 appears to be restricted to astrocytes. In muscle, monocarboxylate transporter 1 is enriched in oxidative muscle fibers whereas monocarboxylate transporter 4 is expressed in all fibers, with the lowest levels in oxidative fiber types. The mechanisms regulating monocarboxylate transporter 1 and monocarboxylate transporter 4 expression are not known. We hypothesized that the expression of these transporters would be sensitive to long term changes in metabolic activity level. This hypothesis can be tested in rat skeletal muscle, where permanent changes in activity level can be induced by cross-reinnervation. We transplanted motor axons originally innervating the fast-twitch extensor digitorum longus muscle to the slow-twitch soleus muscle and vice versa. Four months later, microscopic analysis revealed transformation of muscle fiber types in the cross-reinnervated muscles. Western blot analysis showed that monocarboxylate transporter 1 was increased by 140% in extensor digitorum longus muscle and decreased by 30% in soleus muscle after cross-reinnervation. In contrast, cross-reinnervation induced a 62% decrease of monocarboxylate transporter 4 in extensor digitorum longus muscle and a 1300% increase in soleus muscle. Our findings show that cross-reinnervation causes pronounced changes in the expression levels of monocarboxylate transporter 1 and monocarboxylate transporter 4, probably as a direct consequence of the new pattern of nerve impulses. The data indicate that the mode of innervation dictates the expression of monocarboxylate transporter proteins in the target cells and that the change in monocarboxylate transporter isoform profile is an integral part of the muscle fiber transformation that occurs after cross-reinnervation. Our findings support the hypothesis that the expression of monocarboxylate transporter 1 and monocarboxylate transporter 4 in excitable tissues is regulated by activity.
It is traditional to believe that neurons in primary visual cortex are sensitive only or principally to stimulation within a spatially restricted receptive field (classical receptive field). It follows from this that they should only be capable of encoding the direction of stimulus movement orthogonal to the local contour, since this is the only information available in their classical receptive field &quot;aperture.&quot; This direction is not necessarily the same as the motion of the entire object, as the direction cue within an aperture is ambiguous to the global direction of motion, which can only be derived by integrating with unambiguous components of the object. Recent results, however, show that primary visual cortex neurons can integrate spatially and temporally distributed cues outside the classical receptive field, and so we reexamined whether primary visual cortex neurons suffer the &quot;aperture problem.&quot; With the stimulation of an optimally oriented bar drifting across the classical receptive field in different global directions, here we show that a subpopulation of primary visual cortex neurons (25/81) recorded from anesthetized and paralyzed marmosets is capable of integrating informative unambiguous direction cues presented by the bar ends, well outside their classical receptive fields, to encode global motion direction. Although the stimuli within the classical receptive field were identical, their directional responses were significantly modulated according to the global direction of stimulus movement. Hence, some primary visual cortex neurons are not local motion energy filters, but may encode signals that contribute directly to global motion processing.
7beta-Hydroxycholesterol has been previously demonstrated to inhibit astrocytosis in injured cortex or spinal cord of rats. In this study, we explored the inhibitory effects of the liposome containing 7beta-hydroxycholesterol on the reactive astrocytosis caused by the injection of iron into the hippocampus of rats and furthermore evaluated the involvement of reactive astrocytosis in iron-induced epilepsy. Injection of ferric chloride solution unilaterally into the hippocampus of rats induced spontaneous spiking activity ipsilaterally then developed into bilateral hippocampi and generalized convulsive seizures within the first week post-operation, and spontaneous epileptiform activity and generalized seizures lasted as long as 2 weeks post-operation, whereas none of the rats injected with sodium chloride solution unilaterally into the hippocampus developed generalized seizures. With immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses, apparent reactive astrocytosis in bilateral hippocampi was detected using antibody against glial fibrillary acidic protein 14 days after the injection of ferric chloride solution, but no significant differences were found in the amount of synaptophysin protein, a presynaptic vesicle protein, as compared with the rats injected with sodium chloride solution. Infusion of liposome suspension containing 7beta-hydroxycholesterol into the same site immediately after the injection of ferric chloride solution reduced the extent of the reactive astrocytosis by 50%-55% of the amount of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the hippocampi of both hemispheres, and non-significantly elevated the amount of synaptophysin protein in both sides of hippocampus. However, these effects did not significantly modify the seizure latency and the incidence of generalized seizures in the rats. These findings demonstrate the effects of 7beta-hydroxycholesterol on the inhibition of reactive astrocytosis caused by iron deposition in the hippocampus of rats, and suggest that the reactive astrocytosis may not play a causal role in the development of iron-induced seizures.
Activation of A1 adenosine receptors is important for both the neuromodulatory and neuroprotective effects of adenosine. However, short periods of global ischemia decrease A1 adenosine receptor density in the brain and it is not known if a parallel loss of functional efficiency of A1 adenosine receptors occurs. We now tested if hypoxia leads to changes in the density and efficiency of A1 adenosine receptors to inhibit excitatory synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal slices. In control conditions, the adenosine analog 2-chloroadenosine, inhibited field excitatory post-synaptic potentials with an EC50 of 0.23 microM. After hypoxia (95% N2 and 5% CO2, for 60 min) and reoxygenation (30 min), the EC50 increased to 0.73 microM. This EC50 shift was prevented by the presence of the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 8-phenyltheophyline, but not by the A(2A)R antagonist 7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c] pyrimidine, during the hypoxic period. This decreased efficiency of A1 adenosine receptors was not paralleled by a global change of A1 adenosine receptor density or affinity (as evaluated by the binding parameters obtained in nerve terminal membranes). However, the density of biotinylated A1 adenosine receptors at the plasma membrane of nerve terminals was reduced by 30% upon hypoxia/reoxygenation, in a manner prevented by the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine and mimicked by prolonged (60 min) supra-maximal activation of A1 adenosine receptors with 2-chloroadenosine (10 microM). These results indicate that hypoxia leads to a rapid (&lt;90 min) homologous desensitization of A1 adenosine receptor-mediated inhibition of synaptic transmission that is likely due to an internalization of A1 adenosine receptors in nerve terminals.
Human tactile discrimination studies have shown that visual stimuli enhance tactile performance. Other studies on event-related potentials showed that somatosensory N140 was enhanced when attention of human subjects was directed to tactile stimuli. Therefore, we hypothesized that N140 would be modulated when human subjects performed tactile cross-modal delay tasks. Scalp-event-related potentials were recorded from normal subjects performing either a tactile-tactile unimodal, or a tactile-visual cross-modal delayed matching-to-sample task. Identical tactile stimuli were used in both tasks. N140 component evoked by the tactile stimuli was enhanced in the cross-modal task. Enhancement of this component was also observed in control cross-modal tasks. The results suggest that tactile-visual cross-modal association affects tactile sensory-perceptual processes in humans.
Mutations in the SOD1 gene are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The mechanisms by which these mutations lead to cell loss within the spinal cord ventral horns are unknown. In the present report we used the G93A transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis to develop and characterize an in vitro tool for the investigation of subtle alterations of spinal tissue prior to frank neuronal degeneration. To this aim, we developed organotypic slice cultures from wild type and G93A embryonic spinal cords. We combined immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy techniques to compare wild type and G93A spinal cord tissues after 14 days of growth under standard in vitro conditions. By SMI32 and choline acetyl transferase immunostaining, the distribution and morphology of motoneurons were compared in the two culture groups. Wild type and mutant cultures displayed no differences in the analyzed parameters as well as in the number of motoneurons. Similar results were observed when glial fibrillary acidic protein and myelin basic protein-positive cells were examined. Cell types within the G93A slice underwent maturation and slices could be maintained in culture for at least 3 weeks when prepared from embryos. Electron microscopy investigation confirmed the absence of early signs of mitochondria vacuolization or protein aggregate formation in G93A ventral horns. However, a significantly different ratio between inhibitory and excitatory synapses was present in G93A cultures, when compared with wild type ones, suggesting the expression of subtle synaptic dysfunction in G93A cultured tissue. When compared with controls, G93A motoneurons exhibited increased vulnerability to AMPA glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxic stress prior to clear disease appearance. This in vitro disease model may thus represent a valuable tool to test early mechanisms contributing to motoneuron degeneration and potential therapeutic molecular interventions.
A short ischemic event (ischemic preconditioning) can result in subsequent resistance to severe ischemic injury (ischemic tolerance). Glutamate is released after ischemia and produces cell death. It has been described that after ischemic preconditioning, the release of glutamate is reduced. We have shown that an in vitro model of ischemic preconditioning produces upregulation of glutamate transporters which mediates brain tolerance. We have now decided to investigate whether ischemic preconditioning-induced glutamate transporter upregulation takes also place in vivo, its cellular localization and the mechanisms by which this upregulation is controlled. A period of 10 min of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion was used as a model of ischemic preconditioning in rat. EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 glutamate transporters were found in brain from control animals. Ischemic preconditioning produced an up-regulation of EAAT2 and EAAT3 but not of EAAT1 expression. Ischemic preconditioning-induced increase in EAAT3 expression was reduced by the TNF-alpha converting enzyme inhibitor BB1101. Intracerebral administration of either anti-TNF-alpha antibody or of a TNFR1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide also inhibited ischemic preconditioning-induced EAAT3 up-regulation. Immunohistochemical studies suggest that, whereas the expression of EAAT3 is located in both neuronal cytoplasm and plasma membrane, ischemic preconditioning-induced up-regulation of EAAT3 is mainly localized at the plasma membrane level. In summary, these results demonstrate that in vivo ischemic preconditioning increases the expression of EAAT2 and EAAT3 glutamate transporters the upregulation of the latter being at least partly mediated by TNF-alpha converting enzyme/TNF-alpha/TNFR1 pathway.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is a versatile protein kinase, which has been implicated in signaling numerous biological functions ranging from embryonic development to memory formation. Recent reports, including ours, indicate that ERK plays a central role in promoting neuronal degeneration in various neuronal systems including neurodegenerative diseases. Mechanisms involved in ERK-induced neuronal degeneration are beginning to emerge. In this review, we summarize evidence suggesting ERK to be a predominant inducer of a non-apoptotic mode of neuronal death. Further, we discuss the mechanisms and the putative molecular inter-players associated with ERK-mediated neuronal death.
Chronic exposure to heroin is known to cause cognitive deficits. However, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms. It has been suggested that opiate-induced neurotoxicity as well as impaired plasticity and regeneration may be relevant. One of the target regions where regeneration still can be observed in the adult brain is the hippocampus. Since polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule is regarded as one of the key players involved in plasticity and regeneration of neural tissue, we analyzed polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule expression in the fascia dentate hilus of the human hippocampus of 29 lethally intoxicated heroin addicts and matched controls. Immunohistochemistry with an antibody directed against polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule revealed its expression in differently sized cells which could be identified as neurons and glial cells. We observed an increase in the percentage of polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule positive neurons in hippocampal hilus of heroin addicts compared with controls (P = 0.001).Interestingly, we also observed polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule expression in glial cells as evidenced by double immunofluorescence with glial fibrillary acidic protein and polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule using confocal laser scanning microscopy. The fraction of polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule positive glial cells was also higher in heroin addicts compared with controls (P = 0.009). In addition, within the group of addicts morphine blood concentrations showed a positive correlation with the percentage of polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule positive neurons (P = 0.04; r = 0.547). In conclusion, we observed an increase in polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule positive neurons and glial cells in hippocampi of heroin addicts. This might reflect an attempt to repair cell damage due to heroin exposure.
Extracellular ATP might act as a trophic factor on growing axons during development of the CNS via P2 receptors. In the present study the postnatal presence of selected P2 receptor subtypes was analyzed and their putative trophic capacity in entorhino-hippocampal slice co-cultures of mouse brain was tested. The effect of the P2 receptor ligands 2-methylthioadenosine-5'-triphosphate (P2X/Y receptor agonist) and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (P2X/Y receptor antagonist) on axonal growth and fiber density of biocytin-labeled hippocampal projections was compared both with untreated cultures and with cultures treated with artificial cerebrospinal fluid. After 10 days in vitro, double immunofluorescence labeling revealed the expression of P2X(1), P2X(2), P2X(4) as well as P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptors in the examined regions of entorhinal fiber termination. Further, quantitative analysis of identified biocytin-traced entorhinal fibers showed a significant increase in fiber density in the dentate gyrus after incubation of the slices with the P2 receptor agonist 2-methylthioadenosine-5'-triphosphate. This neurite outgrowth promoting effect was completely abolished by the P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid. Our in vitro data indicate that ATP via its P2X and P2Y receptors can shape hippocampal connectivity during development.
Rats repeatedly exposed to restraint show a reduced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response upon restraint re-exposure. This hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response habituation to restraint does not generalize to other novel stressors and is associated with a decrease in stress-induced c-fos expression in a number of stress-reactive brain regions. We examined whether habituation to repeated restraint is also associated with adaptation of immediate early gene expression in brain regions that process and relay primary sensory information. These brain regions may not be expected to show gene expression adaptation to repeated restraint because of their necessary role in experience discrimination. Rats were divided into a repeated restraint group (five 1-hour daily restraint sessions) and an unstressed group (restraint nave). On the sixth day rats from each group were either killed with no additional stress experience or at 15, 30 or 60 min during restraint. Immediate early gene expression (corticotrophin-releasing hormone heteronuclear RNA, c-fos mRNA, zif268 mRNA) was determined by in situ hybridization. A reduction in stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hormone secretion (plasma corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone) and immediate early gene expression levels in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the lateral septum and the orbital cortex was observed in repeated restraint as compared with restraint nave animals. This reduction was already evident at 15 min of restraint. Unexpectedly, we also found in repeated restraint rats a reduction in restraint-induced c-fos expression in primary sensory-processing brain areas (primary somatosensory cortex, and ventroposteriomedial and dorsolateral geniculate nuclei of thalamus). The overall levels of hippocampal mineralocorticoid receptor heteronuclear RNA or glucocorticoid receptor mRNA were not decreased by repeated restraint, as may occur in response to severe chronic stress. We propose that repeated restraint leads to a systems-level adaptation whereby re-exposure to restraint elicits a rapid inhibitory modulation of primary sensory processing (i.e. sensory gating), thereby producing a widespread attenuation of the neural response to restraint.
Noradrenergic terminals in the central nervous system are widespread; as such this system plays a role in varying functions such as stress responses, sympathetic regulation, attention, and memory processing, and its dysregulation has been linked to several pathologies. In particular, the norepinephrine transporter is a target in the brain of many therapeutic and abused drugs. We used the selective ligand [(3)H]nisoxetine, therefore, to describe autoradiographically the normal regional distribution of the norepinephrine transporter in the non-human primate central nervous system, thereby providing a baseline to which alterations due to pathological conditions can be compared. The norepinephrine transporter in the monkey brain was distributed heterogeneously, with highest levels occurring in the locus coeruleus complex and raphe nuclei, and moderate binding density in the hypothalamus, midline thalamic nuclei, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central nucleus of the amygdala, and brainstem nuclei such as the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and nucleus of the solitary tract. Low levels of binding to the norepinephrine transporter were measured in basolateral amygdala and cortical, hippocampal, and striatal regions. The distribution of the norepinephrine transporter in the non-human primate brain was comparable overall to that described in other species, however disparities exist between the rodent and the monkey in brain regions that play a role in such critical processes as memory and learning. The differences in such areas point to the possibility of important functional differences in noradrenergic information processing across species, and suggest the use of caution in applying findings made in the rodent to the human condition.
Low-frequency stimulation of the kindling site interferes with the course of kindling epileptogenesis. The present study examined the effect of unilateral low-frequency stimulation of the central piriform cortex on seizure development induced by amygdaloid kindling in rats. The ipsilateral or contralateral central piriform cortex received low-frequency stimulation (15 min train of 0.1 ms pulses at 1 Hz and 50-150 muA) immediately after termination of once daily kindling stimulation (2 s train of 1 ms pulses at 60 Hz and 150-300 microA) in the right amygdala for 30 days. Low-frequency stimulation of either the ipsilateral or contralateral central piriform cortex significantly suppressed the progression of seizure stages and reduced afterdischarge duration throughout the course of amygdaloid kindling. The marked suppression induced by low-frequency stimulation of the central piriform cortex on either side was predominantly due to the significant retardation of progression from stage 0 to stage 1 and stage 3 to stage 4 seizures. In addition, the suppressive effect of low-frequency stimulation did not disappear when the stimulation was stopped; it could persist for at least 10 days. These findings indicate that brain areas other than the kindling focus, such as the central piriform cortex on both sides, can also be used as reasonable targets for low-frequency stimulation to retard seizure development induced by amygdaloid kindling. Secondly, like the ipsilateral central piriform cortex, the contralateral central piriform cortex may also participate in the progression and secondary generalization of focal seizures. The study suggests that unilateral low-frequency stimulation of the central piriform cortex may have a significant antiepileptogenic effect, and may be helpful for exploring effective and long-lasting therapies for human temporal lobe epilepsy.
Loss of GABA-mediated inhibition in the spinal cord is thought to mediate allodynia and spontaneous pain after nerve injury. Despite extensive investigation of GABA itself, relatively little is known about how nerve injury alters the receptors at which GABA acts. This study examined levels of GABA(B) receptor protein in the spinal cord dorsal horn, and in the L4 and L5 (lumbar designations) dorsal root ganglia one to 18 weeks after L5 spinal nerve ligation. Mechanical allodynia was maximal by 1 week and persisted at blunted levels for at least 18 weeks after injury. Spontaneous pain behaviors were evident for 6 weeks. Western blotting of dorsal horn detected two isoforms of the GABA(B(1)) subunit and a single GABA(B(2)) subunit. High levels of GABA(B(1a)) and low levels of GABA(B(1b)) protein were present in the dorsal root ganglia. However, GABA(B(2)) protein was not detected in the dorsal root ganglia, consistent with the proposed existence of an atypical receptor composed of GABA(B(1)) homodimers. The levels of GABA(B(1a)), GABA(B(1b)), and GABA(B(2)) protein in the ipsilateral dorsal horn were unchanged at any time after injury. Immunohistochemical staining also did not detect a change in GABA(B(1)) or GABA(B(2)) subunits in dorsal horn segments having a robust loss of isolectin B4 staining. The levels of GABA(B(1a)) protein were also unchanged in the L4 or L5 dorsal root ganglia at any time after spinal nerve ligation. Levels of GABA(B(2)) remained undetectable. Finally, baclofen-stimulated binding of guanosine-5'-(gamma-O-thio)triphosphate in dorsal horn did not differ between sham and ligated rats. Collectively, these results argue that a loss of GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition, particularly of central terminals of primary afferents, is unlikely to mediate the development or maintenance of allodynia or spontaneous pain behaviors after spinal nerve injury.
Perineuronal nets of extracellular matrix are associated with distinct types of neurons in the cerebral cortex and many subcortical regions. Large complexes of aggregating proteoglycans form a chemically specified microenvironment around the somata, proximal dendrites and the axon initial segment, including the presynaptic boutons attached to these domains. The subcellular distribution and the temporal course of postnatal formation suggest that perineuronal nets may be involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity. Here we investigate structural and cytochemical characteristics of the extracellular matrix around axon initial segments virtually devoid of synaptic contacts. Wisteria floribunda agglutinin staining, the immunocytochemical detection of aggrecan and tenascin-R, as well as affinity-labeling of hyaluronan were used to analyze perineuronal nets associated with large motoneurons in the mouse superior colliculus. The molecular composition of perineuronal nets was divergent between neurons but was identical around the different cellular domains of the individual neurons. The axon initial segments largely devoid of synapses were covered by a continuous matrix sheath infiltrating the adjacent neuropil. The periaxonal zone penetrated by matrix components often increased in diameter along the initial segment from the axon hillock toward the myelinated part of the axon. The axonal and somatodendritic domains of perineuronal nets were concomitantly formed during the first three weeks of postnatal development. The common molecular properties and major structural features of subcellular perineuronal net domains were retained in organotypic midbrain slice cultures. The results support the hypothesis that the aggrecan-related extracellular matrix of perineuronal nets provides a continuous micromilieu for different subcellular domains performing integration and generation of the electrical activity of neurons.
The present study explored the effects of gestational ethanol exposure on enduring changes in the distribution of projection neurons and local circuit neurons in somatosensory/motor cortex. Critical events in corticogenesis occur during macaque gestation: the first six weeks of gestation include the period of primary stem cell production and the next 18 weeks are marked by the birth, migration, early differentiation, and death of cortical neurons. Monkeys were exposed to ethanol (or saline) one day per week during the first six or during the entire 24 weeks of gestation. Offspring were killed as adolescents. Projection neurons and local circuit neurons were identified immunohistochemically with antibodies directed against glutamate and anti-GABA, respectively. In all animals, both projection neurons and local circuit neurons were distributed in all laminae of both somatosensory and motor cortices. Ethanol did not affect the size of Cresyl Violet-stained, glutamate-positive, or GABA-immunolabeled somata, however, it did decrease neuronal density. The total density of Cresyl Violet-stained neurons was reduced in monkeys treated with ethanol (or saline) one day per week during the first six weeks of gestation and during the entire 24 weeks of gestation. Similar reductions were detected for glutamate- and GABA-positive neurons. The densities of Cresyl Violet-stained and of glutamate- and GABA-expressing neurons were reduced in all cortical layers. The only exception was layer V which was unaffected in monkeys treated with ethanol (or saline) one day per week during the first six weeks of gestation and during the entire 24 weeks of gestation. Thus, the parallel effects on both neuronal subpopulations suggest that ethanol targets a population of undetermined neuronal precursors.
Considerable evidence supports the role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. One hallmark of Alzheimer's disease is the accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide, which invokes a cascade of oxidative damage to neurons that can eventually result in neuronal death. Amyloid beta-peptide is the main component of senile plaques and generates free radicals ultimately leading to neuronal damage of membrane lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. Therefore, interest in the protective role of different antioxidant compounds has been growing for treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other oxidative stress-related disorders. Among different antioxidant drugs, much interest has been devoted to &quot;thiol-delivering&quot; compounds. Tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate is an inhibitor of phosphatidylcholine specific phospholipase C, and recent studies reported its ability to act as a glutathione-mimetic compound. In the present study, we investigate the in vivo ability of tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate to protect synaptosomes against amyloid beta-peptide-induced oxidative stress. Gerbils were injected i.p. with tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate or with saline solution, and synaptosomes were isolated from the brain. Synaptosomal preparations isolated from tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate injected gerbils and treated ex vivo with amyloid beta-peptide (1-42) showed a significant decrease of oxidative stress parameters: reactive oxygen species levels, protein oxidation (protein carbonyl and 3-nitrotyrosine levels) and lipid peroxidation (4-hydroxy-2-nonenal levels). Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that modulation of free radicals generated by amyloid beta-peptide might represent an efficient therapeutic strategy for treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other oxidative-stress related disorders. Based on the above data, we suggest that tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate is a potent antioxidant and could be of importance for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other oxidative stress-related disorders.
Peripheral nerve injury in a limb usually causes functional reorganization of the contralateral motor cortex. However, a dynamic process of the novel transhemispheric functional reorganization in the motor cortex was found in adult rats after transferring the seventh cervical nerve root from the contralateral healthy side to the injured limb. Initially the ipsilateral motor cortex activated the injured forepaw for 5 months after the operation. Then, both hemispheres of the cortex activated the injured forepaw, and finally the contralateral cortex exclusively controlled the injured forepaw. It is concluded an extensive functional shift occurred between two hemispheres based on neural plasticity in the CNS. The experimental results of the later lesions of the ipsilateral cortex suggest that maintaining transhemispheric functional reorganization does not depend on the corpus callosum, but depends on mechanisms involving central axonal sprouting. Possible mechanisms underlying the alternative changes in cortical functions were discussed in rats and in patients having similar operations.
The purpose of this study was to investigate sex-related differences in nociception elicited by s.c. injection of different concentrations (1-5%) of formalin. S.c. formalin-induced biphasic (early and late phases) persistent nociception was assessed by extracellularly recording the spontaneous activities of single spinal dorsal horn wide-dynamic range neurons in anesthetized male and female rats. The nociceptive responses of the dorsal horn wide-dynamic range neurons following s.c. injection of 5%, but not 1% and 2.5%, formalin in female rats were significantly stronger than the responses obtained in male rats. However, these concentration-dependent differences with respect to different sexes existed only in the late, but not the early, phase of formalin-induced nociception in intact, not spinal rats. The 5% formalin-induced late phase nociception in male rats was significantly depressed by 15 min of repeated conditioning electrical stimulation at a frequency of 5 Hz as well as 50 Hz during and after the period of conditioning electrical stimulation (intensity: 1 mA; pulse duration: 1 ms). In contrast, the inhibitory effect of 50 Hz conditioning electrical stimulation on the 5% formalin-elicited late phase response in female rats was markedly greater in magnitude and longer in duration than that of 5 Hz conditioning electrical stimulation. No significant depressive effects of 5 Hz conditioning electrical stimulation on formalin-induced nociception were found in female rats, indicating that the distinct effects of conditioning electrical stimulation at different frequencies are different in animals of opposite sexes. In conclusion, s.c. administration of different concentrations of formalin shows a distinct sex-related difference in its late tonic nociception of spinal nociceptive sensory neurons. Sex differences in formalin-induced tonic nociception are stimulus intensity dependent and related to the modulation from the supraspinal regions. S.c. formalin-induced late phase nociception in female rats is only sensitive to depression at a frequency of 50 Hz, but not 5 Hz, of conditioning electrical stimulation. This suggests that the involvement of the central mechanisms in the antinociceptive effects of conditioning electrical stimulation may be different at various frequencies of stimulation.
Physiological studies indicate that the output neurons in the multisensory (i.e. intermediate and deep) laminae of the cat superior colliculus receive converging information from widespread regions of the neuraxis, integrate this information, and then relay the product to regions of the brainstem involved in the control of head and eye movements. Yet, an understanding of the neuroanatomy of these converging afferents has been hampered because many terminals contact distal dendrites that are difficult to label with the neurochemical markers generally used to visualize superior colliculus output neurons. Here we show that the SMI-32 antibody, directed at the non-phosphorylated epitopes of high molecular weight neurofilament proteins, is an effective marker for these superior colliculus output neurons. It is also one that can label their distal dendrites. Superior colliculus sections processed for SMI-32 revealed numerous labeled neurons with varying morphologies within the deep laminae. In contrast, few labeled neurons were observed in the superficial laminae. Neurons with large somata in the lateral aspects of the deep superior colliculus were particularly well labeled, and many of their secondary and tertiary dendrites were clearly visible. Injections of the fluorescent biotinylated dextran amine into the pontine reticular formation revealed that approximately 80% of the SMI-32 immunostained neurons also contained retrogradely transported biotinylated dextran amine, indicating that SMI-32 is a common cytoskeletal component expressed in descending output neurons. Superior colliculus output neurons also are known to express the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin, and many SMI-32 immunostained neurons also proved to be parvalbumin immunostained. These studies suggest that SMI-32 can serve as a useful immunohistochemical marker for detailing the somatic and dendritic morphology of superior colliculus output neurons and for facilitating evaluations of their input/output relationships.
The rat retrosplenial cortex is part of a heavily interconnected limbic circuit, considered to have an important role in spatial memory. Interestingly, the granular retrosplenial cortex has an exceptionally distinct system of dendritic bundles, originating from callosally projecting pyramidal neurons in layer II. These can be detected as early as postnatal day 5; and, although their functional significance remains to be elucidated, the existence of these bundles makes the granular retrosplenial cortex an attractive model system for a wide range of development and functional investigations. Here, we report four results concerning the development of modularity in the granular retrosplenial cortex in rats as investigated by neurochemical markers associated to cortico-cortical and thalamo-cortical connections. Emphasis is placed on zinc, an activity-related substance associated with glutamatergic, non-thalamic terminations. 1) Zinc shows a transient strong expression during early postnatal development, but later than the appearance of the upper layer bundles (at postnatal day 5). By postnatal day 11 to postnatal day 15 staining for zinc achieved its most complex pattern; such that layer I had an elaborate organization both in the tangential and radial dimensions. Three sublaminae were distinguished (layers Ia-c): a superficial, thin tier (Ia) with patchy, moderate staining which periodically intruded into the underlying layer Ib (&quot;funnel&quot; modules), a middle band of variable width and light staining (Ib), and a deep, thin band with heavy and patchy staining (Ic) which, at rostral levels, spread upward into layer Ib (as &quot;dome-like&quot; modules). 2) At postnatal day 15, immunohistochemical methods showed that layers Ia, b zinc-funnels were co-localized with glutamate receptor subunits 2/3, GABA receptor type A alpha1 subunit and the thalamo-cortical marker, vesicular glutamate transporter 2. Layer Ic and the zinc dome-like modules were co-labeled for the cortico-cortical marker, vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and calretinin. 3) The spatial coincidence between zinc funnels in layers Ia, b and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 was further investigated by electron microscopy, which demonstrated co-localization of zinc and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 in synaptic boutons. The unusual co-localization of zinc and thalamo-cortical terminations was confirmed by retrograde transport of zinc to neurones in the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus at postnatal day 9 and postnatal day 13, and can thus be considered a transient zinc expression in thalamo-cortical boutons. This was not observed at postnatal day 28 or later. 4) After postnatal day 18, zinc staining started to fade in all layers. Before postnatal day 21, the heavy staining for zinc in the domes had completely disappeared. Zinc staining in layer Ia and the funnels virtually disappeared after postnatal day 28. A transient expression of zinc is reported in at least one other cortical area (layer IV of barrel cortex from postnatal day 5 to postnatal day 14, maximal at postnatal days 9-11). We conclude that the transient expression of zinc can occur in both limbic and sensory areas, and that down-regulation of zinc in cortical modules might be related to synaptic plasticity and remodeling during development.
Glutamate is a primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS. Glutamate released from presynaptic neurons is cleared from the synaptic cleft passively by diffusion and actively by glutamate transporters. In this study, the role of glutamate transporters in sensory processing in the spinal cord has been investigated in behavioral, in vivo and in vitro experiments. Intrathecal application of a non-selective glutamate transport inhibitor, L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (10 microl of 100 microM solution) induced hypersensitivity to peripheral mechanical and thermal stimuli. Topical application of L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (100 microM) onto the dorsal surface of the L3-L6 spinal cord increased spontaneous activities, innocuous and noxious stimulus-evoked responses and after-discharges of wide dynamic range neurons in the L4-5 spinal segments. Whole cell recordings made from superficial dorsal horn neurons in an isolated whole spinal cord from newborn rats (2-3 weeks old) revealed that bath-applied L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (100 microM) produced partial membrane depolarization, increased spontaneous action potentials with decreased neuronal membrane resistance and time constant, but without significant changes of capacitance. Finally, the amplitude and duration of primary afferent evoked-excitatory postsynaptic currents recorded from neurons in the substantia gelatinosa in the spinal slices from young adult rats (6-8 weeks old) were increased in the presence of L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (100 microM). This study indicates that glutamate transporters regulate baseline excitability and responses of dorsal horn neurons to peripheral stimulation, and suggests that dysfunction of glutamate transporters may contribute to certain types of pathological pain.
Long-term potentiation is a form of neural functional plasticity which has been related with memory formation and recovery of function after brain injury. Previous studies have shown that a transient early-long-term potentiation can be prolonged by direct stimulation of distinct brain areas, or behavioral stimuli with a high motivational content. The basolateral amygdala and other subcortical structures, like the medial septum and the locus coeruleus, are involved in mediating the reinforcing effect. We have previously shown that the lesion of the fimbria-fornix--the main entrance of subcortical afferents to the hippocampus--abolishes the reinforcing basolateral amygdala-effects on long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus in vivo. It remains to be investigated, however, if such subcortical afferents may also be important for behavioral reinforcement of long-term potentiation. Young-adult (8 weeks) Sprague-Dawley male rats were fimbria-fornix-transected under anesthesia, and electrodes were implanted at the dentate gyrus and the perforant path. One week after surgery the freely moving animals were studied. Fimbria-fornix-lesion reduced the ability of the animals to develop long-term potentiation when a short pulse duration was used for tetanization (0.1 ms per half-wave of a biphasic stimulus), whereas increasing the pulse duration to 0.2 ms per half-wave during tetanization resulted in a transient early-long-term potentiation lasting about 4 h in the lesioned animals, comparable to that obtained in non-lesioned or sham-operated control rats. In water-deprived (24 h) control animals, i.e. in non-lesioned and sham-operated rats, early-long-term potentiation could be behaviorally reinforced by drinking 15 min after tetanization. However, in fimbria-fornix-lesioned animals long-term potentiation-reinforcement by drinking was not detected. This result indicates that the effect of behavioral-motivational stimuli to reinforce long-term potentiation is mediated by subcortical, heterosynaptic afferents.
Fear-conditioned analgesia is an important survival response which is expressed upon re-exposure to a context previously paired with a noxious stimulus. The aim of the present study was to characterize further the behavioral, monoaminergic and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis alterations associated with expression of fear-conditioned analgesia. Rats which had received footshock conditioning 24 h earlier, exhibited reduced formalin-evoked nociceptive behavior upon re-exposure to the footshock chamber, compared with non-footshocked formalin-treated rats. Intra-plantar injection of formalin reduced the duration of contextually-induced freezing and 20-40 kHz ultrasound emission. Intra-plantar injection of formalin to non-footshocked, non-conditioned rats did not induce ultrasonic vocalizations. Intra-plantar injection of formalin to footshock-conditioned rats, significantly increased tissue levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid:dopamine ratio in the periaqueductal gray and reduced levels of dopamine in the thalamus, compared with saline-treated footshocked controls. Non-footshocked, non-conditioned rats were capable of mounting a robust formalin-evoked increase in plasma corticosterone levels. Moreover, plasma corticosterone levels were significantly higher in saline-treated, footshock conditioned rats compared with saline-treated non-footshocked rats and levels did not differ between saline- and formalin-treated footshock conditioned rats. Assessment of the effects of the intra-plantar injection procedure revealed an attenuation of short-term extinction of contextually-induced freezing in rats anesthetized for intra-plantar injection of saline compared with non-anesthetized, non-injected rats as well as discrete effects on monoamines, their metabolites and plasma corticosterone levels. These data extend behavioral characterization of the phenomenon of fear-conditioned analgesia and suggest that measurement of ultrasound emission may be used as an ethologically relevant index of the defense response during fear-conditioned analgesia. Ultrasonic vocalization may also be a useful behavioral output to aid separation of nociception and aversion. The data provide evidence for discrete alterations in dopaminergic activity in the periaqueductal gray and thalamus and for altered hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis activity following expression of defensive behavior.
The expression of the human cyp19 gene, encoding P450 aromatase, the key enzyme for estrogen biosynthesis, involves alternative splicing of multiple forms of exon I regulated by different promoters. Aromatase expression has been detected in the human cerebral cortex, although the precise cellular distribution and promoter regulation are not fully characterized. We examined the variants of exon I of cyp19 by PCR analysis and the cellular distribution of the enzyme using immunohistochemistry in the human temporal cortex. We detected four different variants of exon I, suggesting a complex regulation of cyp19 in the cerebral cortex. In addition, the enzyme was localized mainly in a large subpopulation of pyramidal neurons and in a subpopulation of astrocytes. However, the majority of GABAergic interneurons identified by their expression of the calcium-binding proteins calbindin, calretinin and parvalbumin, did not display aromatase immunoreactivity. The broad range of potential modulators of the cyp19 gene in the cortex and the widespread expression of the protein in specific neuronal and glial subpopulations suggest that local estrogen formation may play an important role in human cortical function.
A-type K(+) currents (I(A)) in olfactory receptor neurons have been characterized electrophysiologically but the molecular identities of the underlying channel subunits have not been determined. Using RT-PCR, immunoblot and immunohistochemistry, we found that the two candidate channel families underlying I(A), shaker and shal, are expressed in olfactory epithelia of Swiss Webster mice. Specifically, Kv1.4, the only I(A) candidate from the shaker family, and Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 from the shal family were expressed, but Kv4.1 mRNA was not amplified from the olfactory epithelia. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical studies confirmed the existence of Kv1.4 and Kv4.2/3 subunits. Furthermore, quantitative RT-PCR showed that pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) reduced the expression of Kv1.4 and Kv4.2 but did not reduce the already low expression of Kv4.3. The PACAP-induced reduction of Kv4.1 and Kv4.2 expression was completely blocked by inhibiting the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway but was still significantly downregulated by PACAP when the cyclic AMP pathway was inhibited. In addition, downstream of the PLC pathway, calcium mediated the reduction of both Kv1.4 and Kv4.2 expression and I(A) current density. Phosphokinase C (PKC) activation did not affect Kv1.4 and Kv4.2 mRNA expression, even though PKC reduced I(A) current density. Together with our previous studies, our data suggest that A-type K(+) currents in olfactory receptor neurons are composed of multiple K(+) channel subunits, among which Kv1.4 and Kv4.2 are subject to transcriptional modulation by PACAP. We also found that PACAP predominately uses a PLC-calcium pathway to modulate Kv4.1 and Kv4.2 expression. Modulation of A-type K(+) current expression may contribute to the previously observed neuroprotective effects of PACAP on olfactory receptor neurons.
A growing body of evidences suggests that receptor desensitization is implicated in the development of tolerance to opioids, which is generally regulated by protein kinases and receptor trafficking proteins. In the present study, we demonstrated that repeated s.c. treatment with etorphine, but not morphine, produced a significant increase in protein levels of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2, dynamin II, beta-arrestin 2 and phosphorylated-conventional protein kinase C in membranes of the mouse spinal cord, suggesting that the etorphine-induced mu-opioid receptor desensitization may result from G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2/dynaminII/beta-arrestin2-dependent phosphorylation of mu-opioid receptors. Unlike etorphine, morphine failed to change the levels of these trafficking proteins. Furthermore, we found that the level of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the mouse spinal cord was clearly increased by chronic in vivo and in vitro treatment with morphine, whereas no such effect was noted by etorphine. In the behavioral study, intraperitoneal pretreatment with the glial-modulating agent propentofylline suppressed the development of tolerance to morphine-induced antinociception. In addition, intrathecal injection of astrocytes and astrocyte-conditioned medium mixture, which were obtained from cultured astrocytes of the newborn mouse spinal cord, aggravated the development of tolerance to morphine. In contrast, these agents failed to affect the development of tolerance induced by etorphine. These findings provide direct evidence for the distinct mechanisms between etorphine and morphine on the development of tolerance to spinal antinociception. These findings raise the possibility that the increased astroglia response produced by chronic morphine could be associated with the lack of mu-opioid receptor internalization.
Inflammatory and degenerative pathophysiological processes within the CNS are important causes of human disease. Astrocytes appear to modulate these reactions and are a major source of inflammatory mediators, e.g. extracellular adenine nucleotides, in nervous tissues. Actions following extracellular nucleotides binding to type 2 purinergic receptors are regulated by ectonucleotidases, including members of the CD39/ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase family. The ectonucleotidases of astrocytes expressed by rat brain rapidly convert extracellular ATP to ADP, ultimately to AMP. RT-PCR, immunocytochemistry as well as Western blotting analysis demonstrated expression of multiple ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase family members at both the mRNA and protein level. By quantitative real-time PCR, we identified Entpd2 (CD39L1) as the dominant Entpd gene expressed by rat hippocampal, cortical and cerebellar astrocytes. These data in combination with the elevated ecto-ATPase activity observed in these brain regions, suggest that NTPDase2, an ecto-enzyme that preferentially hydrolyzes ATP, is the major ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase expressed by rat astrocytes. NTPDase2 may modulate inflammatory reactions within the CNS and could represent a useful therapeutic target in human disease.
Human neural stem cells have the ability to differentiate into all three major cell types in the CNS including neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The multipotency of human neural stem cells shed a light on the possibility of using stem cells as a therapeutic tool for various neurological disorders including neurodegenerative diseases and neurotrauma that involve a loss of functional neurons. We have discovered previously a priming procedure to direct primarily cultured human neural stem cells to differentiate into almost pure neurons when grafted into adult CNS. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon is still unknown. To unravel transcriptional changes of human neural stem cells upon priming, cDNA microarray was used to study temporal changes in human neural stem cell gene expression profile during priming and differentiation. As a result, transcriptional levels of 520 annotated genes were detected changed in at least at two time points during the priming process. In addition, transcription levels of more than 3000 hypothetical protein encoding genes and EST genes were modulated during the priming and differentiation processes of human neural stem cells. We further analyzed the named genes and grouped them into 14 functional categories. Of particular interest, key cell signal transduction pathways, including the G-protein-mediated signaling pathways (heterotrimeric and small monomeric GTPase pathways), the Wnt signaling pathway and the TGF-beta pathway, are modulated by the neural stem cell priming, suggesting important roles of these key signaling pathways in priming and differentiation of human neural stem cells.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors have gained a preeminent position in the field of gene delivery to the normal brain through their ability to achieve extensive transduction of neurons and to mediate long-term gene expression with no apparent toxicity. In adult animals direct infusion of AAV vectors into the brain parenchyma results in highly efficient transduction of target structures. However AAV-mediated global delivery to the adult brain has been an elusive goal. In contrast, widespread global gene delivery has been obtained by i.c.v. injection of AAV1 or AAV2 in neonates. Among the novel AAV serotypes cloned and engineered for production of recombinant vectors, AAV8 has shown a tremendous potential for in vivo gene delivery with nearly complete transduction of many tissues in rodents after intravascular infusion. Here we compare the efficiency of an AAV8 serotyped vector with that of AAV1 and AAV2 serotyped vectors for the extent of gene delivery to the brain after neonatal injection into the lateral ventricles. The vectors all encoded green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of a hybrid CMV enhancer/chicken beta-actin promoter with AAV2 inverted terminal repeats, but differed from each other with respect to the capsid type. A total of 6.8 x 10(10) genome copies were injected into the lateral ventricles of postnatal day 0 mice. Mice were killed at postnatal day 30 and brains analyzed for distribution of GFP-positive cells. AAV8 proved to be more efficient than AAV1 or AAV2 vectors for gene delivery to all of the structures analyzed, including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and cerebellum. Moreover the intensity of gene expression, assessed using a microarray reader, was considerably higher for AAV8 in all structures analyzed. In conclusion, the enhanced transduction achieved by AAV8 compared with AAV1 and AAV2 indicates that AAV8 is the superior serotype for gene delivery to the CNS.
Approximately 20-30% of neurons in the avian cochlear nucleus (nucleus magnocellularis) die following deafferentation (i.e. deafness produced by cochlea removal) and the remaining neurons show a decrease in soma size. Cell death is generally accepted to be a highly regulated process involving various pro-survival and pro-death molecules. One treatment that has been shown to modify the expression of these molecules is chronic administration of lithium. The present experiments examined whether lithium treatment can protect neurons from deafferentation-induced cell death. Post-hatch chicks were treated with LiCl or saline for 17 consecutive days, beginning on the day of hatching. On the 17th day, a unilateral cochlea ablation was performed. Five days following surgery, the nucleus magnocellularis neurons were counted stereologically on opposite sides of the same brains. Lithium reduced deafferentation-induced cell death by more than 50% (9.8% cell death as compared with 22.4% in saline-treated subjects). Lithium did not affect cell number on the intact side of the brain. Lithium also did not prevent the deafferentation-induced decrease in soma size, suggesting a dissociation between the mechanisms involved in the afferent control of soma size and those involved in the afferent control of cell viability. A possible mechanism for lithium's neuroprotective influence was examined in a second set of subjects. Previous studies suggest that the pro-survival molecule, bcl-2, may play a role in regulating cell death following deafferentation. Tissues from lithium- and saline-treated subjects were examined using immunocytochemistry. Chronic administration of lithium dramatically increased the expression of bcl-2 protein in nucleus magnocellularis neurons. These data suggest that lithium may impart its neuroprotective effect by altering the expression of molecules that regulate cell death.
It is well known that following peripheral nerve injury, there are numerous changes in neurotransmitter and neuropeptide expression in the superficial dorsal horn, the dorsal root ganglion and the periphery. Of particular interest are the relative contributions of two sub-types of unmyelinated C-fibers in the initiation and maintenance of chronic pain, the peptidergic, and the non-peptidergic. Evidence gathered in recent years has led researchers to believe that the non-peptidergic nociceptive primary afferents are functionally distinct from their peptidergic counterpart. For our study, we used a well-established animal model of constriction neuropathy (the Kruger model) and studied Wistar rats at 5, 7, 10, 15 and 21 days after nerve lesion caused by the application of a fixed-diameter polyethylene cuff to the left sciatic nerve. Animals were assessed for the onset and evolution of mechanical allodynia using calibrated von Frey filaments and were additionally tested for thermal (heat and cold) hypersensitivity. Immunocytochemical detection of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and isolectin B4 (IB4) binding was used to visualize the dorsal horn distribution of the boutons from the peptidergic and non-peptidergic fibers respectively. Using confocal microscopy and image analysis, we detected a significant decrease in the density of IB4-labeled boutons, ipsilateral to the lesion, at seven and 10 days following nerve injury. The density of IB4-labeled varicosities retuned to control levels by 15 days. There were no significant changes in the density of CGRP-labeled varicosities at all time points examined. Applying electron microscopy, we initially detected degenerative changes in the central elements of type I glomeruli and then a considerable reduction in their number followed by recovery at 15 days post-lesion. As the central boutons of type Ia represent varicosities from the fibers which bind IB4, the ultrastructural changes confirmed that there was a bona fide transient loss of varicosities, not simply a loss of IB4 binding. These data indicate that, in this animal model, morphological changes in the nociceptive C-fiber input of the rat dorsal horn are restricted to the non-peptidergic sub-population and are transient in nature. Furthermore, such changes do not correlate with the time-course of the allodynia.
Besides formation of neurofibrillary tangles and neuron loss, the Alzheimer's disease brain is characterized by neuritic plaques consisting of beta-amyloid peptide deposits and impaired neurotransmission. The proteins Munc18a, Munc18-interacting protein 1 and Munc18-interacting protein 2 mediate exocytosis and decrease beta-amyloid peptide formation. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 and its activator p35 disrupt Munc18a-syntaxin 1 binding, thereby promoting synaptic vesicle fusion during exocytosis. We investigated protein levels of the signaling pathway: p35, cyclin-dependent kinase 5, Munc18a, syntaxin 1A and 1B, Munc18-interacting protein 1 and Munc18-interacting protein 2 in Alzheimer's disease cortex and found that this pathway was up-regulated in the Alzheimer's disease parietal and occipital cortex. In the cortex of transgenic Tg2576 mice over-expressing human beta-amyloid precursor protein with the Swedish mutation known to lead to familial Alzheimer's disease, which have substantial levels of beta-amyloid peptide but lack neurofibrillary tangles and neuron loss, no alterations of protein levels were detected. These data suggest that the pathway is enhanced in dying or surviving neurons and might serve a protective role by compensating for decreased neurotransmission and decreasing beta-amyloid peptide levels early during the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
The expression of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channel subunits appears to be critical for high-frequency firing of many neuronal populations. In the cortex these subunits are mainly associated with fast-firing GABAergic interneurons containing parvalbumin or somatostatin. Since the basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala contains similar interneurons, it is of interest to determine if these potassium channel subunits are expressed in these same interneuronal subpopulations. To investigate this issue, peroxidase and dual-labeling fluorescence immunohistochemistry combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy was used to determine which interneuronal subpopulations in the basolateral nuclear complex of the rat amygdala express Kv3.1b and Kv3.2 subunits. Antibodies to parvalbumin, somatostatin, calretinin, and cholecystokinin were used to label separate subsets of basolateral amygdalar interneurons. Examination of immunoperoxidase preparations suggested that the expression of both channels was restricted to nonpyramidal interneurons in the basolateral amygdala. Somata and proximal dendrites were intensely-stained, and axon terminals arising from presumptive basket cells and chandelier cells were lightly stained. Immunofluorescence observations revealed that parvalbumin+ neurons were the main interneuronal subpopulation expressing the Kv3.1b potassium channel subunit in the basolateral amygdala. More than 92-96% of parvalbumin+ neurons were Kv3.1b+, depending on the nucleus. These parvalbumin+/Kv3.1b+ double-labeled cells constituted 90-99% of all Kv3.1b+ neurons. Parvalbumin+ neurons were also the main interneuronal subpopulation expressing the Kv3.2 potassium channel subunit. More than 67-78% of parvalbumin+ neurons were Kv3.2+, depending on the nucleus. However, these parvalbumin+/Kv3.2+ double-labeled cells constituted only 71-81% of all Kv3.2+ neurons. Most of the remaining neurons with significant levels of the Kv3.2 subunit were somatostatin+ interneurons. These Kv3.2-containing somatostatin+ interneurons constituted 27-50% of the somatostatin+ population, depending on the nucleus in question. These data suggest that both fast-firing and burst-firing parvalbumin+ interneurons in the basolateral amygdala express the Kv3.1b subunit. The significance of Kv3.2 expression in some parvalbumin+ and somatostatin+ interneurons remains to be determined.
It is well documented that the hormone leptin regulates energy balance via its actions in the hypothalamus. However, evidence is accumulating that leptin plays a key role in numerous CNS functions. Indeed, leptin receptors are expressed in many extrahypothalamic brain regions, with high levels found in the hippocampus and cerebellum. In the hippocampus leptin has been shown to facilitate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function and modulate synaptic plasticity. A role for leptin in cerebellar function is also indicated as leptin-deficient rodents display reduced mobility that is unrelated to obesity. Here we show that leptin receptor immunolabeling can be detected in cultured cerebellar granule cells, being expressed at the somatic plasma membrane and also concentrated at synapses. Furthermore, leptin facilitated NR2B N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx in cerebellar granule cells via a mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent pathway. These findings provide the first direct evidence for a cellular action of leptin in cerebellar neurons. In addition, given that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity in the cerebellum is crucial for normal locomotor function, these data also have important implications for the potential role of leptin in the control of movement.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei contain the primary circadian clock, and suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons exhibit a diurnal modulation of spontaneous firing rate. The present study examined the voltage-gated persistent Ca(2+) current, in acutely isolated rat suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons using a ramp-type voltage-clamp protocol. Slow triangular voltage-clamp commands from a holding potential of -85 mV to +5 mV elicited inward current (100-400 pA) that was completely blocked by Cd(2+). This current showed little or no hysteresis, and was identified as persistent Ca(2+) current. The threshold for persistent Ca(2+) current ranged between -60 and -45 mV, and it was maximal at about -8 mV. Nifedipine at 10-20 microM blocked 80-100%. To assess the role of persistent Ca(2+) current in the generation of spontaneous action potentials in both acutely isolated and intact suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons, the effect of Cd(2+) and nifedipine on firing rate was studied using on-cell recording. Application of Cd(2+) exerted a weak excitatory effect and nifedipine had no significant effect on the spontaneous firing rate of isolated suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons. In all intact suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons in slice preparations (n=15), Cd(2+) slowly inhibited spontaneous firing; in high-frequency firing cells (four of 15), a transient increase of firing rate preceded inhibition. No significant effect of nifedipine on firing rate of intact suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons was found. Therefore, persistent Ca(2+) current itself (as carrier of charge) does not appear to contribute significantly to spontaneous firing of suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons. A slowly developing inhibitory effect of Cd(2+) on spontaneous firing of intact suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons in slice preparations may be due to penetration of Cd(2+) through Ca(2+) channels, and its subsequent effect on intracellular mechanisms, while the transient increase of firing rate in high-frequency firing neurons is probably due to inhibition of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current.
We previously demonstrated that chronic treatment with the dopamine-D2 receptor antagonist, haloperidol, increases mRNA and protein content of the phosphoprotein, synapsin II, in the rat striatum. Since dopamine-D2 receptor antagonism and dopamine-D1 receptor blockade can have opposing effects on gene expression, the present investigation compared the effects of haloperidol with those of the dopamine-D1 receptor antagonist, R-[+]-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine (SCH23390), on the expression of synapsin II protein. Haloperidol and SCH23390 respectively elevated and reduced concentrations of the molecule in mouse primary midbrain cell cultures. Additional experiments revealed that the dopamine-D1 receptor agonist, R-[+]-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzapezine-7,8-diol (SKF38393), upregulated the phosphoprotein in these cells. Furthermore, in vivo rat studies demonstrated that chronic haloperidol treatment increases synapsin II protein expression in the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, as was observed in the striatum. In contrast, chronic SCH23390 administration reduced concentrations of this protein in all of these regions, although the reductions seen in the medial prefrontal cortex were insignificant. Neither haloperidol nor the dopamine-D1 receptor antagonist affected synapsin I protein expression in any of the studied brain areas. Based on these findings, we propose dopamine receptors may specifically regulate synapsin II expression through a cyclic AMP-dependent pathway. Since synapsin II is involved in neurotransmitter release and synaptogenesis, and changes in synaptic efficacy and structure are suggested in schizophrenia as well as in haloperidol treatment, our findings offer insight into the mechanistic actions of the antipsychotic agent at the synaptic level.
The two paralogous P2X receptor subunit genes p2rx3.1 and p2rx3.2 are selectively expressed in overlapping, but unique, patterns of sensory neurons in the developing zebrafish. We constructed a series of transgenes derived from both genes using the recombineering technique. Transgenes utilizing either enhanced green fluorescent protein or monomeric red fluorescent protein-1 were shown to be expressed with the same spatial and temporal patterns as the native genes. The p2rx3.1-derived transgenes labeled the vast majority of the Rohon-Beard neurons in the spinal cord and neurons of the trigeminal ganglia. The p2rx3.2-derived transgene labeled fewer Rohon-Beard and trigeminal neurons than what was observed for the p2rx3.1-derived transgenes, but was also detected in neurons of the epibranchial ganglia. Three distinct populations of sensory neurons were detected: those expressing only one or the other paralog, and those expressing both paralogs. The fluorescent proteins encoded by the transgenes allowed for visualization of the neuronal somas as well as their peripheral and central projections. These reagents should prove extremely useful in providing the basis for future studies aimed at elucidating the developmental and physiological attributes of sensory neurons.
Sex differences in the magnitude of response to thermal and tactile stimuli have been demonstrated in both clinical and animal studies. Female rats typically display lower thresholds to painful stimuli and display more robust responses following nerve injury as compared with males. There is a body of evidence implicating the sex hormones in mediating this sex difference. In the present study, we sought to determine which gonadal hormones were involved in mediating the observed female hypersensitivity in female rats both prior to and following experimental nerve root injury using a chronic hormone replacement paradigm. Female rats were ovariectomized and hormone pellets containing 17beta-estradiol, progesterone (P), 17beta-estradiol+progesterone or placebo were implanted s.c. Our results demonstrate that only the group of female rats that received progesterone alone maintained the hypersensitive phenotype following ovariectomy, compared with gonadally intact male rats. This result was observed both in response to thermal stimuli in non-injured female rats and to thermal and tactile stimuli following L5 nerve root ligation, a model of low back pain associated with lumbar radiculopathy. Postmortem analysis of serum gonadal hormone concentrations demonstrates that the hormonal manipulations were successful and the exogenous hormones were similar to physiological levels observed in the sham-ovariectomized controls. Taken together, these results demonstrate the critical role for progesterone in mediating enhanced female tactile and thermal hypersensitivity following L5 nerve root ligation.
Hippocampal sclerosis constitutes the most frequent neuropathological finding in patients with medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Serial analysis of gene expression was used to get a global view of the gene profile in human hippocampus in control condition and in epileptic condition associated with hippocampal sclerosis. Libraries were generated from control hippocampus, obtained by rapid autopsy, and from hippocampal surgical specimens of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and the classical pattern of hippocampal sclerosis. More than 50,000 tags were analyzed (28,282, control hippocampus; 25,953, hippocampal sclerosis) resulting in 9206 (control hippocampus) and 9599 (hippocampal sclerosis) unique tags (genes), each representing a specific mRNA transcript. Comparison of the two libraries resulted in the identification of 143 transcripts that were differentially expressed. These genes belong to a variety of functional classes, including basic metabolism, transcription regulation, protein synthesis and degradation, signal transduction, structural proteins, regeneration and synaptic plasticity and genes of unknown identity of function. The database generated by this study provides an extensive inventory of genes expressed in human control hippocampus, identifies new high-abundant genes associated with altered hippocampal morphology in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and serves as a reference for future studies aimed at detecting hippocampal transcriptional responses under various pathological conditions.
Many studies have reported cross-tolerance between nicotine and ethanol. Previously we demonstrated that intracerebellar nicotine attenuates ethanol-induced motor impairment. In this study, intracerebellar nicotine (0.625, 2.5, 5 ng; once daily for five days) significantly attenuated ethanol-induced motor impairment in a dose-dependent fashion suggesting the development of cross-tolerance between nicotine and ethanol in male CD-1 mice. Using the same paradigm, intracerebellar nicotine (5 ng) microinfused for 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 days significantly attenuated ethanol-induced motor impairment in all groups except the 1-day treatment group. Cross-tolerance, which developed optimally in 5-day nicotine treatment group, was reversible and detectable up to 40 h post-nicotine microinfusion. Intracerebellar microinfusion of hexamethonium (1 mug once daily for 5 days): (i) did not alter ethanol-induced motor impairment indicating no tonic nicotine receptor involvement; (ii) 10 min prior to daily intracerebellar nicotine treatment virtually abolished the cross-tolerance between nicotine and ethanol indicating nicotinic acetylcholine receptor participation; (iii) when microinfused 10 min after daily intracerebellar nicotine treatment, failed to abolish the cross-tolerance which suggested possible participation of downstream second messenger mechanisms. Chronic intracerebellar microinfusion of nicotine: (i) failed to attenuate acute pentobarbital (25mg/kg i.p.)-induced motor impairment; and (ii) produced no change in normal motor coordination when followed by saline injection. Finally, the cerebellar concentration of total nitric oxide products (nitrite+nitrate; NO(x)); (i) was increased after 5-day intracerebellar nicotine; (ii) was decreased by acute ethanol administration; and (iii) decreased due to acute ethanol administration which was opposed by chronic intracerebellar nicotine treatment. These results support a functional correlation between the cerebellar nitric oxide production and ethanol-induced motor impairment and suggest possible participation of nitric oxide as a factor in the observed cross-tolerance between nicotine and ethanol.
It is now well established that corticotropin releasing factor is present in two major excitatory afferent systems to the cerebellum, namely climbing fibers and mossy fibers. Two major classes of corticotropin releasing factor receptors, each with unique binding characteristics, have been identified as type 1 and type 2. In this study we used an antibody made to the n-terminus of the type 2 corticotropin releasing factor receptor. Characterization of this antibody showed that it strongly labeled a protein with a molecular weight of 16-32 kDa and only faintly labels a 62-83 kDa protein. The lower molecular weight protein corresponds to the weight of a recently described truncated isoform of this receptor that is designated corticotropin releasing factor-type 2alpha-truncated isoform. We carried out transfection paradigms using corticotropin releasing factor-type 2alpha-truncated isoform constructs and confirmed that the antibody recognized the truncated isoform of the type 2 corticotropin releasing factor receptor. Further, light and electron microscopic studies were carried out in mice and rats to define the distribution of the truncated receptor. Immunoreactivity is evident in the basal region of many, but not all Purkinje cell bodies and their initial axonal segments, as well as the initial axonal segments of isolated Golgi cells, and cerebellar nuclear neurons. In addition, punctate elements in the molecular layer were immunolabeled. The localization of the receptor to the initial segment of Purkinje cells was confirmed with electron microscopy. Further, the punctate labeling in the molecular layer was localized to parallel fibers and their terminals. In conclusion, evidence has been presented to show that distinct isoforms of the corticotropin releasing factor receptor are present in the cerebellum. The complex interactions between corticotropin releasing factor and other members of the corticotropin releasing factor family of peptides with both pre- and postsynaptic receptors support a growing concept that corticotropin releasing factor plays an important role in modulating activity in cerebellar circuits and ultimately in controlling motor behavior.
We have systematically characterized neuronal survival and growth in cultures derived from newborn/postnatal day 1 mouse cochlea. Dissociated cultures of the cochlear spiral ganglion provide an experimental environment in which to examine molecular mechanisms of survival, development and physiology of auditory neurons. To relate survival to the total number of neurons present in the source tissue, three cochleas from different newborn CD-1 mice were embedded in Araldite resin and serially sectioned at 5 mum thickness. All neurons were counted. To avoid overcounting, each section served as a lookup section for the next, giving 8240+/-423 (S.D.) neurons per ganglion. Cultures maintained in the presence of adjacent non-neural tissue, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin 3, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and 10% fetal bovine serum returned the best overall survival (30%) at 42 h post-plating. Best overall survival required the continuous presence of a serum component(s) larger than 100,000 MW. Plating efficiency (number of neurons that attach to the well after 4 h) was similar in the presence or absence of LIF. Inclusion of LIF maintained 100% survival of plated neurons over 42 h of culture; without LIF, a large fraction of the neurons did not survive. LIF appeared to maintain survival by preferentially preserving a population of bipolar neurons, while having little effect on the number of monopolar neurons. This work provides quantitative measures of survival and morphology of auditory neurons in vitro. The results support the idea that survival of spiral ganglion neurons in vivo may depend on interactions with adjacent, non-neural tissue and raise the possibility that maintenance of bipolar morphology after hair cell damage may require biochemical mechanisms in addition to those induced by neurotrophins.
We have previously reported that a classical conditioning paradigm involving stimulation of a row of facial vibrissae produced expansion of the cortical representation of the activated vibrissae (&quot;trained row&quot;), this was demonstrated by labeling with 2-deoxyglucose in layer IV of the barrel cortex. We have also shown that functional reorganization of the primary somatosensory cortex is accompanied by an increase in the density of small GABAergic cells and glutamate decarboxylase 67-positive neurons in the hollows of barrels representing the &quot;trained row.&quot; GABA neurons of the rat neocortex co-localize with calcium-binding proteins [parvalbumin, carletinin, calbindin D28k] and neuropeptides (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, somatostatin). In the present study we have examined GABAergic parvalbumin-positive, interneurons in the cortical representation of &quot;trained&quot; facial vibrissae after short-term aversive training, in order to determine whether the observed changes in glutamate decarboxylase 67-positive neurons are accompanied by changes in parvalbumin-positive neurons. Using double immunofluorescent staining, it was found that (i) all parvalbumin-positive neurons in the barrel hollows were glutamate decarboxylase 67-positive, (ii) following aversive training density of glutamate decarboxylase 67-positive neurons in barrel hollows increased significantly compared with controls and (iii) density glutamate decarboxylase 67-positive/parvalbumin-positive neurons in &quot;trained&quot; barrel hollows did not change compared with controls. This study is the first to demonstrate that the density of double-labeled glutamate decarboxylase 67-positive/parvalbumin-positive neurons does not alter during cortical plasticity, thus suggesting that some other population (i.e. parvalbumin negative) of GABAergic interneurons is involved in learning-dependent changes in layer IV of the barrel cortex.
Dopamine modulates synaptic transmission in various brain regions. The disorder of dopamine system may be related to neurodevelopmental dysfunction. However, the action of dopamine on synaptic transmission during development is largely unknown. We studied the effect of dopamine on GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission in neonatal rat hippocampus from the early period of synapse formation by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal cells. Dopamine (100 muM) profoundly decreased the amplitude of GABA(A) receptor-mediated postsynaptic currents (GABA(A)-PSCs) to 32.2+/-5.4% (mean+/-S.E.M., EC(50): 2.9 muM) in the first postnatal week, when GABA provides excitatory drive. Dopamine also decreased the amplitude of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) to 29.1+/-2.7% (EC(50): 18.7 muM) in the second postnatal week, when glutamate responses first appear. The dopamine-induced inhibition declined after these periods and became only partial after postnatal day 30. Further we identified the receptor subtype involved in the dopamine-induced inhibition as phosphatidylinositol-linked D1-like receptor, since 6-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-1-(3-methylphenyl)-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol hydrobromide (SKF 83959), a selective agonist for phosphatidylinositol-linked D1-like receptor, clearly mimicked the action of dopamine, and 1-[6-[((17beta)-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5[10]-trien-17-yl)amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U-73122), an inhibitor of phospholipase C, significantly reduced the dopamine-induced inhibition. Dopamine did not change the response to puff-applied GABA or kainic acid, nor the amplitude of miniature GABA(A)-PSCs or miniature EPSCs. These results suggest that the activation of phosphatidylinositol-linked D1-like receptor profoundly suppresses the excitatory transmission during the early period of synapse formation in the developing hippocampus by presynaptic mechanisms. This study firstly demonstrates the effect of phosphatidylinositol-linked D1-like receptor on synaptic transmission.
Neurotransmission at chemical synapses of the brain involves alpha-neurexins, neuron-specific cell-surface molecules that are encoded by three genes in mammals. Deletion of alpha-neurexins in mice previously demonstrated an essential function, leading to early postnatal death of many double-knockout mice and all triple mutants. Neurotransmitter release at central synapses of newborn knockouts was severely reduced, a function of alpha-neurexins that requires their extracellular sequences. Here, we investigated the role of alpha-neurexins at neuromuscular junctions, presynaptic terminals that lack a neuronal postsynaptic partner, addressing an important question because the function of neurexins was hypothesized to involve cell-adhesion complexes between neurons. Using systems physiology, morphological analyses and electrophysiological recordings, we show that quantal content, i.e. the number of acetylcholine quanta released per nerve impulse from motor nerve terminals, and frequency of spontaneous miniature endplate potentials at the slow-twitch soleus muscle are reduced in adult alpha-neurexin double-knockouts, consistent with earlier data on central synapses. However, the same parameters at diaphragm muscle neuromuscular junctions showed no difference in basal neurotransmission. To reconcile these observations, we tested the capability of control and alpha-neurexin-deficient diaphragm neuromuscular junctions to compensate for an experimental reduction of postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors by a compensatory increase of presynaptic release: Knockout neuromuscular junctions produced significantly less upregulation of quantal content than synapses from control mice. Our data suggest that alpha-neurexins are required for efficient neurotransmitter release at neuromuscular junctions, and that they may perform a role in the molecular mechanism of synaptic homeostasis at these peripheral synapses.
To complete a series of studies on the expression of substance P and neurokinin receptors in mammalian retinas, we investigated the occurrence of these molecules in developing mouse retinas and in retinas of mice with genetic deletion of the neurokinin 1 receptor, the preferred substance P receptor. Using semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we measured detectable levels of the gamma isoform of preprotachykinin A (a substance P precursor) mRNA at postnatal day 4. Neurokinin 1 receptor and neurokinin 3 receptor mRNAs were also detected at postnatal day 4. While gamma preprotachykinin A and neurokinin 1 receptor mRNA levels significantly increased up to eye opening (postnatal day 11), neurokinin 3 receptor mRNA levels remained constant throughout development. Substance P, neurokinin 1 receptor and neurokinin 3 receptor immunoreactivities were present at postnatal day 5. Substance P was in amacrine cells, neurokinin 1 receptor in developing amacrine and bipolar cells and neurokinin 3 receptor in OFF-type cone bipolar cells. Interestingly, a transient increase in the density of neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactive processes was observed at eye opening in lamina 3 of the inner plexiform layer, suggesting a role of substance P and neurokinin 1 receptor in this developmental phase. However, in neurokinin 1 receptor knockout retinas, besides a significant increase of the gamma preprotachykinin A mRNA levels, no major changes were detected: neurokinin 3 receptor mRNA levels as well as substance P and neurokinin 3 receptor immunostainings were similar to wild types. Together with previous studies, these observations indicate that there are major differences in neurokinin 1 receptor expression patterns among developing mammalian retinas. The observations in neurokinin 1 receptor knockout mice may not be applicable to rats or rabbits, and substance P and neurokinin 1 receptor may play different developmental roles in different species.
Lesions of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons cause supersensitivity to dopamine in the striatum. Previous work has shown that such supersensitivity, an important aspect of rodent models of Parkinson's disease, is associated with anatomically abnormal patterns in the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase. After lesions of dopaminergic neurons, dopamine D1-receptor agonists activate extracellular signal-regulated kinase in the dorsal striatum, something not observed in intact animals. Here we used a more selective method of dopamine depletion. Dopamine-deficient mice, in which the tyrosine hydroxylase gene is specifically inactivated in dopaminergic neurons, were used to investigate dopamine D1-receptor-mediated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase. In wild-type mice, acute treatment with a dopamine D1-receptor agonist results in activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase in the nucleus accumbens without activation in the dorsal striatum. In contrast, in dopamine-deficient mice, dopamine D1-receptor-agonist treatment results in activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase not only in the nucleus accumbens, but also throughout most of the dorsal striatum. Chronic replacement of dopamine by repeated injection of L-DOPA for 36 h reverses this supersensitive extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation. This reversal displays a dorsal to ventral progression such that, by 36 h, extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation is virtually restricted to the nucleus accumbens, as in wild-type mice. The reversal of dopamine D1-receptor activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase in dopamine-deficient mice following chronic L-DOPA treatment shows that the lack of dopamine, rather than absence of other factors secreted from dopaminergic neurons, is responsible for dopamine supersensitivity.
We aimed to examine whether commonly observed individual differences in sleep architecture and the sleep electroencephalogram reflect individual traits, which are amenable to a genetic investigation of human sleep. We studied intra-individual stability and inter-individual variation in sleep and sleep electroencephalogram spectra across four baseline recordings of eight healthy young men. A similarity concept based on Euclidean distances between vectors was applied. Visually scored sleep variables served as feature vector components, along with electroencephalogram power spectra in non-rapid-eye-movement and rapid-eye-movement sleep. The distributions of similarity coefficients of feature vectors revealed a clear distinction between high within-subject similarity (i.e. stability), and low between-subject similarity (i.e. variation). Moreover, a cluster analysis based on electroencephalogram spectra in both non-rapid-eye-movement and rapid-eye-movement sleep segregated all four baseline nights of each individual into a distinct cluster. To investigate whether high and low sleep pressure affects the similarity coefficients, normalized non-rapid-eye-movement sleep electroencephalogram spectra of the first and second half of the recordings were compared. Because the electroencephalogram changes systematically in the course of the night, within-subject variation no longer differed from between-subject variation. In conclusion, our data provide evidence for trait-like characteristics in the sleep electroencephalogram. Further studies may help to identify distinct phenotypes to search for genes underlying functional aspects of undisturbed human sleep.
Sexual motivation and copulation in male rats are associated with dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. Demasculinized copulatory behavior has been demonstrated in prenatally stressed adult male rats. We have previously reported that approximately 80% of prenatally stressed male rats do not exhibit copulation and that no significant changes in nucleus accumbens dopamine release are seen during exposure to estrous females. In the present study, we investigated whether prenatal stress affects sexual motivation in these animals as adults. Pregnant Wistar rats were subjected to immobilization stress for two hours daily from day 15-19 of gestation. The prenatally stressed male offspring at the age of 3 months were allowed contact with receptive female rats for a 30 min period per week for 10 weeks; then, between the age of 5 and 6 months, their sexual motivation and copulatory activity were measured. Sexual motivation was measured in terms of sexual partner preference. The number of visits and the duration of each visit to an estrous female (stimulus female) or to a sexually active male rat (stimulus male) were recorded. Compared with control males, prenatally stressed male rats showed a significantly lower number of visits and a shorter duration of each visit to stimulus females. Prenatally stressed males showed no preference for male or female stimulus rats in terms of the number of visits and the duration of each visit, whereas control rats showed a significantly higher number of visits and duration of visits to female stimulus rats than male stimulus rats. A significant decrease in copulatory activity was observed in the prenatally stressed male offspring compared with control male rats, with most of the prenatally stressed males failing to show copulation. In vivo microdialysis experiments were performed on the nucleus accumbens with concurrent observation of sexual behavior. The prenatally stressed rats that did not exhibit copulation showed no significant changes in nucleus accumbens dopamine release during exposure to a stimulus male behind a wire-mesh barrier and the amount of dopamine release remained at the basal levels during actual physical contact. These results, combined with those of our previous report, indicate that sexual motivation in prenatally stressed male rats is demasculinized, but not feminized.
Synaptic plasticity is associated with morphological changes in dendritic spines. The actin-based cytoskeleton plays a key role in regulating spine structure, and actin reorganization in spines is critical for the maintenance of long term potentiation. To test the hypothesis that a stable pool of F-actin rests in the spine &quot;core,&quot; while a dynamic pool lies peripherally in its &quot;shell,&quot; we performed immunoelectron microscopy in the stratum radiatum of rat hippocampus to elucidate the subcellular distribution of cofilin, an actin-depolymerizing protein that mediates reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. We provide direct evidence that cofilin in spines avoids the core, and instead concentrates in the shell and within the postsynaptic density. These data suggest that cofilin may link synaptic plasticity to the actin remodeling that underlies changes in spine morphology.
We have analyzed early expression of bone morphogenetic protein-6 in rat brains subjected to traumatic brain injury. Bone morphogenetic protein-6 was expressed in neurons of the hippocampus and cortex in normal adult rat brains. A pronounced expression of bone morphogenetic protein-6 in astroglia located to the lesion became obvious 48 h postinjury. Bone morphogenetic protein-6(+) glia were distributed around the lesion, thus demarcating the injured tissue from normal brain. Double labeling by immunohistochemistry revealed that the major glial sources for bone morphogenetic protein-6 were reactive astrocytes and few ED1(+) or W3/13(+) cells co-expressed bone morphogenetic protein-6. Furthermore, bone morphogenetic protein-6 expression in neurons located to hippocampus and cortex of the lesioned hemisphere was up-regulated 3 days postinjury. In conclusion, this is the first description of bone morphogenetic protein-6 expression in traumatic brains. Our data suggest that bone morphogenetic protein-6 might be involved in astrogliosis and neuron protection following traumatic brain injury.
The limbic system plays an important role in the regulation of sexual motivation and reward. At the core of this system is an interconnected mesocorticolimbic circuit, comprised of the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex. Previously, our laboratory showed that sexual behavior causes neural activation in the ventral tegmental area of male rats. The main goal of this study is to identify afferent inputs to ventral tegmental area neurons that may contribute to their activation during sexual behavior. Hence, the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine was injected into subregions of the rat medial prefrontal cortex, which is known to project to the ventral tegmental area. Visualization of biotinylated dextran amine-labeled axons was combined with immunostaining for sex-induced Fos expression. Quantitative analysis showed that the majority of sex-activated ventral tegmental area neurons receive putative contacts from the infralimbic and prelimbic--but not the anterior cingulate--subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex. Thus, inputs from infralimbic area and prelimbic are in an anatomical position to provide a major source of input during sexual behavior. A second goal of this study was to determine if the medial prefrontal cortex projects to sex-activated neurons in other brain regions important for sexual behavior and motivation. Infralimbic area and prelimbic area sent projections to nucleus accumbens, medial preoptic area, principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, basolateral amygdala, and parvocellular subparafasicular thalamic nucleus. Thus, the infralimbic and prelimbic subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex may also influence sexual behavior and motivation via brain regions other than the ventral tegmental area.
Pain from pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer can be both chronic and severe although little is known about the mechanisms that generate and maintain this pain. To define the peripheral sensory and sympathetic fibers involved in transmitting and modulating pancreatic pain, immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to examine the sensory and sympathetic innervation of the head, body and tail of the normal mouse pancreas. Myelinated sensory fibers were labeled with an antibody raised against 200 kD neurofilament H (clone RT97), thinly myelinated and unmyelinated peptidergic sensory fibers were labeled with antibodies raised against calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and post-ganglionic sympathetic fibers were labeled with an antibody raised against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). RT97, CGRP, and TH immunoreactive fibers were present in parenchyma of the head, body and tail of the pancreas with the relative density of both RT97 and CGRP expressing fibers being head&gt;body&gt;tail, whereas for TH, a relatively even distribution was observed. In all three regions of the pancreas, RT97 fibers were associated mainly with large blood vessels, the CGRP fibers were associated with the large- and medium-sized blood vessels and the TH were associated with the large- and medium-sized blood vessels as well as capillaries. In addition to this extensive set of sensory and sympathetic nerve fibers that terminate in the pancreas, there were large bundles of en passant nerve fibers in the dorsal region of the pancreas that expressed RT97 or CGRP and were associated with the superior mesenteric plexus. These data suggest the pancreas receives a significant sensory and sympathetic innervation. Understanding the factors and disease states that sensitize and/or directly excite the nerve fibers that terminate in the pancreas as well as those that are en passant may aid in the development of therapies that more effectively modulate the pain that frequently accompanies diseases of the pancreas, such as pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer.
In the enteric nervous system, acetylcholine is the most common neurotransmitter to induce gastrointestinal smooth muscle contractions. Cholinergic signaling is mediated by muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on the surface of smooth muscle cells. Five different muscarinic receptor subtypes (M(1)-M(5)) have been identified and characterized, all of which belong to the superfamily of the G-protein-coupled receptor. The muscarinic M(2) acetylcholine receptor is the major muscarinic receptor subtype expressed by smooth muscle tissues in the gastrointestinal tract, where it is coexpressed with a smaller population of M(3) receptor. In this study, we examined the immunohistochemical distribution of the M(2) receptor using a specific antibody in the guinea-pig gastrointestinal tract. M(2) receptor-like immunoreactivity was mainly observed as associated with smooth muscle cells in the gastrointestinal tract. M(2) receptor-like immunoreactivity in smooth muscle cells was distributed throughout the cell membrane associated with caveolae. In the proximal colon, M(2) receptor-like immunoreactivity in the smooth muscle cells was weak. In the small intestine, interstitial cells of Cajal that possessed neurokinin 1 receptor-like immunoreactivity had intense M(2) receptor-like immunoreactivity. In the proximal colon, intramuscular and myenteric interstitial cells of Cajal exhibited M(2) receptor-like immunoreactivity. These findings indicate that, in the gastrointestinal musculature, M(2) receptors are distributed both in the smooth muscle cells and interstitial cells of Cajal, suggesting that the M(2) receptor elicits smooth muscle cell contraction and the interstitial cells of Cajal are the sites of innervation by enteric cholinergic neurons.
Although the olfactory bulb contains one of the highest concentrations of neuropeptide Y in the CNS, its function in the bulb remains unclear. In this study, we used whole-cell electrophysiological, molecular, and primary culture techniques to investigate neuropeptide Y gene expression and neuromodulatory actions of neuropeptide Y on rat olfactory bulb neurons. Northern analysis showed that neuropeptide Y mRNA increases with animal age or time in culture, in a parallel manner. In electrophysiology experiments, agonists that activate neuropeptide Y receptors (whole neuropeptide Y) and the Y2 receptor subtype (neuropeptide Y 13-36) reduced spontaneous excitatory activity in bulb interneurons. In investigating potential presynaptic effects, both agonists reduced the amplitude of calcium channel currents in the presynaptic (mitral/tufted) cell. Also consistent with a presynaptic effect, both agonists reduced the frequency but not the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (or &quot;minis&quot;) in interneurons. In examining potential postsynaptic effects, both agonists slightly increased membrane resistance but had no effect on currents evoked by glutamate. Together, these data suggest that neuropeptide Y inhibits excitatory neurotransmission between olfactory bulb neurons via a presynaptic effect on transmitter (glutamate) release.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of temporomandibular joint inflammation on the excitability of trigeminal root ganglion neurons innervating the temporomandibular joint using a perforated patch-clamp technique. Inflammation was induced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into the rat temporomandibular joint. The threshold for escape from mechanical stimulation in the temporomandibular joint-inflamed rats was significantly lower than that in control rats. Fluorogold labeling was used to identify the trigeminal root ganglion neurons innervating the site of inflammation. When voltage-clamp (V(h)=-60 mV) conditions were applied to these Fluorogold-labeled small diameter trigeminal root ganglion neurons (&lt;30 mum), voltage-dependent transient K(+) current densities were significantly reduced in the inflamed rats compared with controls. In addition, the voltage-dependence of inactivation of the voltage-dependent transient K(+) current was negatively shifted in the labeled temporomandibular joint-inflamed trigeminal root ganglion neurons. Furthermore, temporomandibular joint inflammation significantly reduced the threshold current and significantly increased action potential firings evoked at two-fold threshold in the Fluorogold-labeled small trigeminal root ganglion neurons. Application of 4-aminopyridine (0.5mM) to control trigeminal root ganglion neurons mimicked the changes in the firing properties observed after complete Freund's adjuvant treatment. Together, these results suggest that temporomandibular joint inflammation increases the excitability of trigeminal root ganglion neurons innervating temporomandibular joint by suppressing voltage-dependent transient K(+) current via a leftward shift in the inactivation curve. These changes may contribute to trigeminal inflammatory allodynia in temporomandibular joint disorder.
Uncoupling proteins in the inner mitochondrial membrane uncouples oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis. It has been suggested that these proteins are involved in thermogenesis as well as in the regulation of reactive oxygen species production in the mitochondria. The present work was conducted to investigate the localization of the uncoupling protein 2-like immunoreactivity (uncoupling protein 2/3 immunoreactivity) in the main catecholaminergic projection fields in the rat brain as well as in the areas of the dopaminergic and noradrenergic nerve cell groups. In particular, the relationships of tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and uncoupling protein 2/3 immunoreactivity were assessed by double immunolabeling and confocal laser microscopy analysis associated with computer-assisted image analysis. Uncoupling protein 2/3 immunoreactivity was observed in discrete dopaminergic terminals in the nucleus accumbens and in the cerebral cortex whereas it was found in scattered noradrenergic terminals in the caudate putamen and Islands of Calleja Magna. One interesting finding was that uncoupling protein 2/3 immunoreactivity together with tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the shell of nucleus accumbens was observed surrounding the previously characterized D1 receptor rich nerve cell column system characterized by a relative lack of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Moreover, in animal models of dopaminergic pathway degeneration, plastic changes in uncoupling protein 2/3 terminals have been shown in the cerebral cortex and striatum as seen from the increased size and intensity of uncoupling protein 2/3 immunoreactivity of their varicosities. Taken together, these findings open up the possibility that uncoupling protein 2/3 could play an important role modulating the dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission within discrete brain regions.
Input from the three gustatory nerves of vertebrates is used to evaluate the nutritional quality of food. In some species, these cranial nerves are modified to accomplish additional specific functions. For example, the facial nerve innervated taste buds distributed over the body surface of catfish aid food search. Physiological studies indicate that this extra-oral taste pathway is more sensitive to amino acids than either the glossopharyngeal or vagal systems of the oral cavity. The current investigation seeks to determine if differences in taste cell subtypes might contribute to the observed differences in sensitivity. The distributions of five low molecular weight metabolites, L-alanine, L-aspartate, L-glutamate, GABA, taurine and the tripeptide glutathione, were examined in 2118 individual taste cells innervated by either the facial or vagal nerve of the channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus. The metabolite profiles of these cells were determined immunocytochemically and subjected to a k-means clustering algorithm. Fifteen cell classes with quantitatively different patterns of metabolite co-localization were identified. All but one small class of two cells were found in both facial and vagal nerve-innervated taste buds. Four classes (9% of the total cells) had high, two classes (17%) had intermediate and the remaining nine classes (74%) had low levels of GABA immunoreactivity. While the functional significance of differences in metabolite profile remains to be determined, taste cell classes were not uniformly distributed across vagal and facial nerve innervated taste buds and may provide an anatomical basis for previously reported differences in gustatory sensitivity.
Multiple changes occur in the aging brain, leading to age-related emotional disorders. A growing body of recent evidence suggests that the cortical delta-opioid receptor system plays a critical role in anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors in the rodent. In this study, we show that aging mice promoted anxiety-like behaviors as characterized by both the light-dark and elevated plus-maze tests, and they exhibit an increase in astrocytes in the cingulate cortex due to the dysfunction of cortical delta-opioid receptor systems. As well as aging mice, mice with a dysfunction of the delta-opioid receptor system induced by chronic treatment with the selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole, revealed astrogliosis in the cingulate cortex, which was associated with anxiety. We also found that the microinjection of cultured astrocytes into the cingulate cortex of young mice enhanced the expression of anxiety-like behavior. Our results indicate that the aging process promotes astrogliosis in the cingulate cortex through the dysfunction of cortical delta-opioid receptors. This phenomenon may lead to emotional disorders including aggravated anxiety during normal aging.
Mossy fiber-derived giant spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents have been suggested to be large enough to generate action potentials in postsynaptic CA3 pyramidal neurons. Here we report on the functional roles of presynaptic GABA(A) receptors on excitatory terminals in contributing to spontaneous glutamatergic transmission to CA3 neurons. In mechanically dissociated rat hippocampal CA3 neurons with adherent presynaptic nerve terminals, spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents were recorded using conventional whole-cell patch clamp recordings. In most recordings, unusually large spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents up to 500 pA were observed. These large spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents were highly sensitive to group II metabotropic glutamate receptor activation, and were still observed even after the blockade of voltage-dependent Na(+) or Ca(2+) channels. Exogenously applied muscimol (0.1-3 microM) significantly increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents including the large ones. This facilitatory effect of muscimol was completely inhibited in the presence of 10 microM 6-imino-3-(4-methoxyphenyl)-1(6H)-pyridazinebutanoic acid HBr, a specific GABA(A) receptor antagonist. Pharmacological data suggest that activation of presynaptic GABA(A) receptors directly depolarizes glutamatergic terminals resulting in the facilitation of spontaneous glutamate release. In the current-clamp condition, a subset of large spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials triggered action potentials, and muscimol greatly increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potential-triggered action potentials in postsynaptic CA3 pyramidal neurons. The results suggest that presynaptic GABA(A) receptors on glutamatergic terminals play an important role in the excitability of CA3 neurons as well as in the presynaptic modulation of glutamatergic transmission onto hippocampal CA3 neurons.
Auditory stream segregation is the perceptual grouping of the acoustic mixture reaching the ear into coherent representations of sound sources. It has been described in a variety of vertebrates and underlies auditory scene analysis or auditory image formation. Here we describe a phenomenon in an invertebrate that bears an intriguing resemblance to auditory stream segregation observed in vertebrates: in Neoconocephalus retusus (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae) an auditory interneuron segregates information about bat echolocation calls from background male advertisement songs. This process utilizes differences between the temporal and spectral characteristics of the two stimuli, a mechanism which is similar to those of auditory stream segregation in vertebrates. This similarity suggests that auditory stream segregation is a fundamental feature of auditory perception, widespread from invertebrates to humans.
The effects of cocaine were studied in an identifiable RP4 neuron of the African snail, Achatina fulica Ferussac, using the two-electrode voltage-clamp method. The RP4 neuron generated spontaneous action potentials and bath application of cocaine (0.3-1 mM) reversibly elicited action potential bursts of the central RP4 neuron in a concentration-dependent manner. The action potential bursts were not blocked when neurons were immersed in high-Mg(2+)solution, Ca(2+)-free solution, nor after continuous perfusion with atropine, d-tubocurarine, propranolol, prazosin, haloperidol, or sulpiride. Similarly, the action potential bursts were not abolished by pretreatment with N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride, (9S,10S,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-hydroxy-9-methyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg:3',2',1'-kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid hexyl ester or anisomycin. Injection of hyperpolarizing current at an intensity of greater than 2 nA effectively suppressed the cocaine-elicited action potential bursts and no postsynaptic potentials were observed under these conditions. These results suggest that the generation of action potential bursts elicited by cocaine was not due to (1) the synaptic effects of neurotransmitters, (2) the cholinergic, adrenergic or dopaminergic receptors of the excitable membrane, or (3) the cAMP second messengers and new protein synthesis of the RP4 neuron. Notably, the induction of action potential bursts was blocked by pretreatment with 1-[6-[((17beta)-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5[10]-trien-17-yl)amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione. Voltage-clamp studies conducted on the RP4 neuron revealed that cocaine at 0.3 mM decreased (1) the Ca(2+) current, (2) the delayed rectifying K(+) current, (3) the fast-inactivating K(+) current and (4) the Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current, but had no remarkable effects on the Na(+) current. Perfusion with Ca(2+)-free solution, which may abolish the Ca(2+) current and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current, did not cause any bursts of action potentials in control RP4 neurons. Application of 4-aminopyridine, an inhibitor of fast-inactivating K(+) current, and paxilline, an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current, failed to elicit action potential bursts, whereas tetraethylammonium chloride, a blocker of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current and delayed rectifying K(+) current, and tacrine, an inhibitor of delayed rectifying K(+) current, successfully elicited action potential bursts. Further, while 1-[6-[((17beta)-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5[10]-trien-17-yl)amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione did not affect the delayed rectifying K(+) current of the RP4 neuron, 1-[6-[((17beta)-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5[10]-trien-17-yl)amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione decreased the inhibitory effect of cocaine on the delayed rectifying K(+) current. It is concluded that cocaine elicits action potential bursts in the central snail RP4 neuron and that the effect is closely related to the inhibitory effects on the delayed rectifying K(+) current.
The orbitofrontal cortex is involved in the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse. However, how the dynamic activity in OFC changes during opiate administration and withdrawal period has not been investigated. We first tested the effects of opiates and drug craving with the conditioned place preference paradigm, using manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging and traditional electroencephalograph recording techniques in rats. T1-weighted 2D MRI (4.7 T) was used after unilateral injection of MnCl(2) (200 nL, 80 mM) into the right orbitofrontal cortex. The manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging data suggested that the OFC activity decreased during the opiate administration period but recovered increasingly during the withdrawal period. Also, we found decreases and increases in gamma-band (20-100 Hz) activity during the opiate administration and withdrawal period, respectively. Our results showed that orbitofrontal cortex activity decreased during morphine administration and then went up progressively over several days during withdrawal. The time course of the recovery of orbitofrontal activity from inhibition during the withdrawal period may be related to the experience of drug craving.
During development of the neuromuscular junction, high densities of acetylcholine receptors accumulate beneath the overlying nerve terminal. A defining feature of mature synapses is the sharp demarcation of acetylcholine receptor density, which is approximately 1000-fold higher in the postsynaptic as compared with the contiguous extrasynaptic muscle membrane. These high densities of receptors accumulate by at least four mechanisms, re-distribution of existing surface receptors, local synthesis of new receptors, decreased turnover of synaptic receptors, and limitation of diffusion of sub-neural, aggregated receptors. The limitation of receptor diffusion within the membrane is likely in part due to the anchoring of acetylcholine receptor complexes to components of the cytoskeleton. Here we have tested the idea that lipid rafts--mobile, cholesterol enriched microdomains within the lipid bilayer--are another mechanism by which acetylcholine receptors are clustered in the postsynaptic apparatus. Using mouse C2C12 cells, a muscle cell line, we show that a carboxy terminal 95 amino acid fragment [C95 (4,8)] of the extracellular matrix molecule agrin that is essential for nerve-induced postsynaptic differentiation, promotes the redistribution of acetylcholine receptors into lipid rafts. Disruption of lipid rafts before agrin treatment largely inhibits de novo agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor clustering. Moreover, mature acetylcholine receptor clusters are destabilized if lipid rafts are disrupted. These results show that lipid rafts are important in both the initial clustering and later stabilization of agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor clusters and also suggest that lipid rafts may contribute to the postsynaptic localization of acetylcholine receptors in vivo.
Nitric oxide released from the cholinergic neurons in the pons may play important roles in sleep-wake regulation. However, there are few reports demonstrating the mechanisms of nitric oxide release in the cholinergic neurons in the pons. The present study investigated the effects of drug delivery of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid on nitric oxide and the neurotransmitters released in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT), one of the major cholinergic cell groups in the pons, in rats by in vivo microdialysis with a view to clarifying nitric oxide functions in the cholinergic system. The application of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (1 mM) into the LDT induced a significant increase in NO(2)and NO(3) for 40 min (P&lt;0.001). Furthermore the same dose of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid induced a significant increase in cyclic GMP for 30 min (P&lt;0.05), as well as in acetylcholine (P&lt;0.001) and norepinephrine for 15 min (P&lt;0.001). 3-(4-Morpholinyl)-sydonone imine hydrochloride (a nitric oxide donor, 5 mM) also induced significant increase in norepinephrine (P&lt;0.05). Pretreatment with 1 mM 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor) prevented the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-induced increase in cyclic GMP (P&lt;0.01), acetylcholine and norepinephrine (P&lt;0.01), while that with 1 mM N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase) prevented the increase in cyclic GMP (P&lt;0.01) and norepinephrine (P&lt;0.01) but not in acetylcholine. These results suggested that nitric oxide release in the LDT induced by activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor on the cholinergic neurons of the LDT, then through the cyclic GMP system, facilitates norepinephrine release from the terminals of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus. Based on these findings, we propose a possible role of nitric oxide in the LDT is as a retrograde regulator of norepinephrine release from the locus coeruleus.
The cannabinoid receptor 1 (Cb1) mediates the psychoactive effect of marijuana. In mammals, there is abundant evidence advocating the importance of cannabinoid signaling; activation of Cb1 exerts diverse functions, chiefly by its ability to modulate neurotransmission. Thus, much attention has been devoted to understand its role in health and disease and to evaluate its therapeutic potential. Here, we have cloned zebrafish cb1 and investigated its expression in developing and adult zebrafish brain. Sequence analysis showed that there is a high degree of conservation, especially in residues demonstrated to be critical for function in mammals. In situ hybridization revealed that zebrafish cb1 appears first in the preoptic area at 24 hours post-fertilization. Subsequently, transcripts are detected in the dorsal telencephalon, hypothalamus, pretectum and torus longitudinalis. A similar pattern of expression is recapitulated in the adult brain. While cb1 is intensively stained in the medial zone of the dorsal telencephalon, expression elsewhere is weak by comparison. In particular, localization of cb1 in the telencephalic periventricular matrix is suggestive of the involvement of Cb1 in neurogenesis, bearing strong resemblance in terms of expression and function to the proliferative mammalian hippocampal formation. In addition, a gradient-like expression of cb1 is detected in the torus longitudinalis, a teleost specific neural tissue. In relation to dopaminergic neurons in the diencephalic posterior tuberculum (considered to be the teleostean homologue of the mammalian midbrain dopaminergic system), both cb1 and tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing cells occupy non-overlapping domains. However there is evidence that they are co-localized in the caudal zone of the hypothalamus, implying a direct modulation of dopamine release in this particular region. Collectively, our data indicate the propensity of zebrafish cb1 to participate in multiple neurological processes.
Lumbar spinothalamic neurons in the lamina X of the L3-L4 spinal cord segment have been proposed to constitute the spinal ejaculation generator in male rats. Lumbar spinothalamic cells are immunoreactive for galanin and neurokinin-1 receptors. We previously showed that after injection of pseudorabies virus either in the bulbospongiosus muscle or in the prostate, retrogradely labeled cells in the L3-L4 segment also displayed galanin or neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivities, demonstrating a direct link between lumbar spinothalamic cells and two anatomical structures involved in the two phases of ejaculation i.e. the emission and the expulsion phases. In order to provide with a more precise anatomical support for the role of lumbar spinothalamic cells in controlling ejaculation, we injected simultaneously in male adult rats two strains of recombinant pseudorabies virus, expressing either beta-galactosidase (PRV-BaBlu) or green fluorescent protein (PRV-152) in the prostate and in the bulbospongiosus muscle, respectively. After 5 days, we performed multiple immunofluorescence experiments to detect PRV-BaBlu, PRV-152 and galanin or neurokinin-1 receptors in transverse sections of the L1-S1 segment. Double- and triple-labeled cells were counted using confocal laser scanning microscope. Double-labeled neurons with the two strains of pseudorabies virus were mainly found at the L3-L4 segment lateral to the central canal in lamina X and represented about 60% of the total number of pseudorabies virus-labeled neurons. All the double pseudorabies virus-labeled neurons also expressed lumbar spinothalamic and most of them neurokinin-1 receptor, identifying them as lumbar spinothalamic neurons. The convergence of retrograde labeling from prostate and bulbospongiosus muscle on the same lumbar spinothalamic cells strongly reinforce their role in the spinal control and coordination of the emission and expulsion of sperm.
Dopaminergic neurons exhibit a short-latency, phasic response to unexpected, biologically salient stimuli. The midbrain superior colliculus also is sensitive to such stimuli, exhibits sensory responses with latencies reliably less than those of dopaminergic neurons, and, in rat, has been shown to send direct projections to regions of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area containing dopaminergic neurons (e.g. pars compacta). Recent electrophysiological and electrochemical evidence also suggests that tectonigral connections may be critical for relaying short-latency (&lt;100 ms) visual information to midbrain dopaminergic neurons. By investigating the tectonigral projection in the cat, the present study sought to establish whether this pathway is a specialization of the rodent, or whether it may be a more general feature of mammalian neuroanatomy. Anterogradely and retrogradely transported anatomical tracers were injected into the superior colliculus and substantia nigra pars compacta, respectively, of adult cats. In the anterograde experiments, abundant fibers and terminals labeled with either biotinylated dextran amine or Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin were seen in close association with tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (dopaminergic) somata and processes in substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area. In the retrograde experiments, injections of biotinylated dextran amine into substantia nigra produced significant retrograde labeling of tectonigral neurons of origin in the intermediate and deep layers of the ipsilateral superior colliculus. Approximately half of these biotinylated dextran amine-labeled neurons were, in each case, shown to be immunopositive for the calcium binding proteins, parvalbumin or calbindin. Significantly, virtually no retrogradely labeled neurons were found either in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus or among the large tecto-reticulospinal output neurons. Taken in conjunction with recent data in the rat, the results of this study suggest that the tectonigral projection may be a common feature of mammalian midbrain architecture. As such, it may represent an additional route by which short-latency sensory information can influence basal ganglia function.
Individual mouse strains may differ significantly in terms of behavior and cognitive function. Hippocampal gene expression profiling on several mouse strains has been carried out and points toward substantial strain-specific variation of more than 200 genes including components of major signaling pathways involved in neuronal information storage. Strain-specific hippocampal protein expression, however, has not been investigated yet. A proteomic approach based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry has been chosen to address this question by determining strain-dependent expression of signaling proteins in hippocampi of four inbred and one outbred mouse strain. Forty-six spots corresponding to 37 different signaling proteins have been analyzed and quantified. Statistical analysis revealed strain-dependent expression of serine/threonine protein phosphatase 1, serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A, large GTP binding protein OPA1, guanine nucleotide-binding protein beta, putative GTP-binding protein Ran, receptor of activated protein kinase C1, WASP-family protein member 1, voltage-dependent anion channel 2 and 14-3-3 protein gamma. Differential expression of signaling proteins in the hippocampus may contribute to the molecular understanding of strain-dependent behavioral and cognitive performance. Moreover, these data highlight the importance of the genetic background for the analysis of signaling pathways in the hippocampus in wild-type mice as well as in gene-targeting experiments.
The subparafascicular nucleus and the subparafascicular area are the major sites of synthesis of the recently discovered neuropeptide, tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39). Better knowledge of the neuronal inputs to the subparafascicular area and nucleus will facilitate investigation of the functions of TIP39. Thus, we have injected the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit into the rostral, middle, and caudal parts of the rat subparafascicular nucleus. We report that the afferent projections to the subparafascicular nucleus and area include the medial prefrontal, insular, and ectorhinal cortex, the subiculum, the lateral septum, the anterior amygdaloid area, the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the caudal paralaminar area of the thalamus, the lateral preoptic area, the anterior, ventromedial, and posterior hypothalamic nuclei, the dorsal premamillary nucleus, the zona incerta and Forel's fields, the periaqueductal gray, the deep layers of the superior colliculus, cortical layers of the inferior colliculus, the cuneiform nucleus, the medial paralemniscal nucleus, and the parabrachial nuclei. Most of these regions project to all parts of the subparafascicular nucleus. However, the magnocellular subparafascicular neurons, which occupy the middle part of the subparafascicular nucleus, may not receive projections from the medial prefrontal and insular cortex, the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the lateral preoptic area, and the parabrachial nuclei. In addition, double labeling of cholera toxin B subunit and TIP39 revealed a remarkable similarity between input regions of the subparafascicular area and the brain TIP39 system. Neurons within regions that contain TIP39 cell bodies as well as regions that contain TIP39 fibers project to the subparafascicular area. Overall, the afferent connections of the subparafascicular nucleus and area suggest its involvement in central reproductive, visceral, nociceptive, and auditory regulation.
Changes in the signaling of wide dynamic range neurons and the expression of glutamate transporters in the lumbar spinal dorsal horn of rats with Taxol-induced hyperalgesia are detailed in this report. Deep spinal lamina neurons have significantly increased spontaneous activity and after-discharges to noxious mechanical stimuli, increased responses to both skin heating and cooling, and increased after-discharges and abnormal windup to transcutaneous electrical stimuli. The expression of glutamate transporter proteins in the dorsal horn is decreased at the time point corresponding to the physiological changes. These results suggest a state of increased excitability develops in spinal pain-signaling neurons as a consequence of decreased glutamate clearance. These changes in dorsal horn neurobiology likely in turn contribute to the hyper-responsiveness to sensory stimuli seen in animals treated with Taxol and may play a role in the pain seen in cancer patients receiving Taxol.
Multidrug transporters of the ATP-binding cassette family play an important role in regulating drug distribution and efflux in the brain, owing to their selective distribution in microvessels and choroid plexus. Their expression pattern and cellular distribution remain controversial, in part due to technical difficulties in localizing these membrane proteins in closely associated cells, such as endothelial cells and astrocytic end-feet at the blood-brain barrier. Here, we used high-resolution immunofluorescence staining with cell-type specific markers to investigate the distribution of major ATP-binding cassette transporters in mouse brain. We report that four ATP-binding cassette transporters, Mdr1, Mrp1, Mrp2 and Mrp5 can be detected in brain endothelial cells, forming three distinct layers, with Mdr1 and Mrp5 being located on the luminal side, Mrp1 on the abluminal (basal) side, and Mrp2 in between. Mrp3 and Mdr3 were undetectable. In choroid plexus, only Mrp1, Mrp2 and Mrp3 were detected, again with a differential distribution. Mrp1 was targeted basolaterally in epithelial cells, Mrp2 was restricted to endothelial cells, and Mrp3 was co-localized with zonula occludens-1 at tight junctions. Analysis of Mdr1a(0/0) and Mrp1(0/0) mice, generated in the FVB strain, revealed no major alteration in expression of the remaining transporters. An unexpected strain difference was unraveled, with wildtype FVB mice selectively lacking Mrp2 protein in brain, but not liver. In conclusion, these results indicate that ATP-binding cassette transporters provide multiple penetration barriers in the blood-brain barrier and choroid plexus, with a selective cellular and subcellular distribution, emphasizing their potential role for drug resistance in neurological disorders, such as epilepsy.
Unfailing respiration depends on neural mechanisms already present in mammals before birth. Experiments were made to determine how inspiratory and expiratory neurons are grouped in the brainstem of fetal mice. A further aim was to assess whether rhythmicity arises from a single pacemaker or is generated by multiple sites in the brainstem. To measure neuronal firing, a fluorescent calcium indicator dye was applied to embryonic central nervous systems isolated from mice. While respiratory commands were monitored electrically from third to fifth cervical ventral roots, activity was measured optically over areas containing groups of respiratory neurones, or single neurones, along the medulla from the facial nucleus to the pre-Btzinger complex. Large optical signals allowed recordings to be made during individual respiratory cycles. Inspiratory and expiratory neurones were intermingled. A novel finding was that bursts of activity arose in a discrete area intermittently, occurring during some breaths, but failing in others. Raised CO2 partial pressure or lowered pH increased the frequency of respiration; neurons then fired reliably with every cycle. Movies of activity revealed patterns of activation of inspiratory and expiratory neurones during successive respiratory cycles; there was no evidence for waves spreading systematically from region to region. Our results suggest that firing of neurons in immature respiratory circuits is a stochastic process, and that the rhythm does not depend on a single pacemaker. Respiratory circuits in fetal mouse brainstem appear to possess a high safety factor for generating rhythmicity, which may or may not persist as development proceeds.
In the CNS, endomorphin 1- and endomorphin 2-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies have been principally found both in the hypothalamus and nucleus tractus solitarii. Functionally, the hypothalamus and nucleus tractus solitarii are closely related in many aspects, especially in visceral functions. On the other hand, there are also many endomorphin-immunoreactive fibers and terminals in the two regions. In the present study, to investigate whether endomorphin 1-immunoreactive and endomorphin 2-immunoreactive neurons in the hypothalamus and nucleus tractus solitarii project reciprocally between these two regions, fluorescent retrograde labeling combined with immunofluorescence histochemical staining for endomorphin 1 and endomorphin 2 was used. After injection of Fluoro-Gold into the nucleus tractus solitarii of rats, endomorphin 1/Fluoro-Gold or endomorphin 2/Fluoro-Gold double-labeled neuronal cell bodies were predominantly observed in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, a few of which were also observed in the posterior hypothalamic area and periventricular hypothalamic nucleus. After injection of Fluoro-Gold into the medial zone of hypothalamic tuberal region and the lateral hypothalamic area, respectively, endomorphin 1/Fluoro-Gold or endomorphin 2/Fluoro-Gold double-labeled neuronal cell bodies were found chiefly in the medial, commissural, lateral and gelatinous parts of the nucleus tractus solitarii. These results provide morphological evidence that there exist reciprocal endomorphinergic connections between the hypothalamus and nucleus tractus solitarii.
The effects of melanotan-II, a non-specific agonist of melanocortin receptors, on erection and its possible sites of action were investigated in anesthetized rats. Delivered i.v. (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg) or within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (0.1 and 1 microg), melanotan-II exerted a dose-dependent inducer activity on erection by eliciting erectile events and shortening latency of the first erectile event to occur. Erectile events were of higher amplitude in rats treated with melanotan-II i.t. (0.2 microg) delivered at the L6-S1 level than in animals treated with the vehicle i.t. delivered. Erectile responses elicited by cavernous nerve stimulation were increased after i.v. melanotan-II (1 mg/kg), thereby exerting facilitator effect on erection. In contrast, melanotan-II injected within the corpus cavernosum (1 microg) did not display any facilitator activity. To investigate the neural pathways involved in the facilitator effect of melanotan-II, we performed acute spinalization (T8 level) and differential selective nerve transections. Neither spinalization nor bilateral transection of pelvic nerves or dorsal penile nerves impaired facilitator activity of i.v. melanotan-II (1 mg/kg). Conversely, the facilitator effect of melanotan-II was abolished after acute removal of the lumbar paravertebral sympathetic chain. These results lead to the conclusion that central and peripheral melanocortin pathways are recruited by melanotan-II, depending on its route of delivery, to exert both inducer and facilitator activities on erection.
Zinc ions (Zn(2+)) are known to modulate the functions of a variety of channels, receptors and transporters. We examined the effects of Zn(2+) on the reflex potentials evoked by electrical stimulation and responses to depolarizing agents in the isolated spinal cord of the neonatal rat in vitro. Zn(2+) at low concentrations (0.5-2 microM) inhibited, but at high concentrations (5 and 10 microM) augmented, a slow depolarizing component (slow ventral root potential). Zn(2+) had no effect on fast components (monosynaptic reflex potential; fast polysynaptic reflex potential). Unlike Zn(2+), strychnine (5 microM), a glycine receptor antagonist, and (S),9(R)-(-)-bicuculline methobromide (10 microM), a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, potentiated both fast polysynaptic reflex potential and slow ventral root potential. Zn(2+) (5 microM) did not affect depolarizing responses to glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate. Zn(2+) enhanced the substance P-evoked depolarization in the absence of tetrodotoxin (0.3 microM) but not in its presence. The dorsal root potential was inhibited by (S),9(R)-(-)-bicuculline methobromide (10 microM) but not by Zn(2+) (5 microM). The Zn(2+)-potentiated slow ventral root potential was inhibited by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, ketamine (10 microM) and DL-2-amino-5-phosphaonovaleric acid (50 microM) but not by P2X receptor antagonists, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (30 microM) and 2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl)ATP (10 microM). Ketamine (10 microM) and DL-2-amino-5-phosphaonovaleric acid (50 microM) almost abolished spontaneous activities increased by Zn(2+). It is concluded that Zn(2+) potentiated slow ventral root potential induced by primary afferent stimulation, which was mediated by the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors but not by activation of P2X receptors or blockade of glycinergic and GABAergic inhibition. Zn(2+) does not seem to directly affect N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The release of glutamate from interneurons may play an important role in Zn(2+)-induced potentiation of slow ventral root potential in the spinal cord of the neonatal rat.
Hyperalgesia following unilateral complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation was characterized by paw withdrawal latency to thermal stimulus. Paw withdrawal latencies were significantly shorter on the complete Freund's adjuvant-treated paw than on the contralateral paw of the complete Freund's adjuvant- and the sham-treated rats. Total cytosolic protein kinase C activity in the lumbar enlargement was unchanged on the sides of the spinal cord ipsi- and contra-lateral to the inflamed paw. Membrane-associated activities of protein kinase Calpha, protein kinase CbetaI and protein kinase Cgamma did not change significantly on the sides of the cord ipsi- and contra-lateral to the inflammation. However, membrane-associated activity of protein kinase CbetaII was increased in the cord section ipsilateral to the inflammation, suggesting that increased translocation/activation of protein kinase CbetaII is related to thermal hyperalgesia. Dextrorphan (an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist), L-703,606 (an NK-1 receptor antagonist) and an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for a selective knockdown of protein kinase Cbeta, reduced complete Freund's adjuvant-induced hyperalgesia, and reversed significant changes in the membrane activity of protein kinase CbetaII on the spinal cord section ipsilateral to the inflamed paw. Dextrorphan and protein kinase Cbeta antisense oligodeoxynucleotide were effective in reversing complete Freund's adjuvant-induced increase in the activity of protein kinase CbetaII ipsilateral to the inflammation at all the doses tested, but L-703,606 was effective only at the highest dose. Furthermore, in the presence of inflammatory stimulus, dextrorphan and L-703,606 did not alter the activities of membrane-associated protein kinase Calpha, protein kinase CbetaI, and protein kinase Cgamma in the section of the spinal cord ipsi- and contra-lateral to the inflammation. Protein kinase Cbeta antisense oligodeoxynucleotide had no significant effect on the membrane-associated activities of protein kinase Calpha and protein kinase Cgamma, but decreased the activities of both protein kinase CbetaI and protein kinase CbetaII and the expression of protein kinase Cbeta isozyme in the spinal cord. The data provide evidence that a common molecular event that converges to initiate and maintain hyperalgesia may include the translocation and activation of protein kinase CbetaII in the spinal dorsal horn.
I.c.v. injection of interleukin-1beta induces infiltration of leukocytes into the brain. I.p. injection of bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide induces the expression of interleukin-1 in the CNS without causing the entry of leukocytes into the brain. This suggests that during systemic inflammation trafficking of potentially damaging leukocytes into the CNS is inhibited. In this study, we investigated the effects of peripheral injection of lipopolysaccharide on brain leukocyte recruitment induced by i.c.v.-interleukin-1 in mice. I.c.v.-interleukin-1 induced widespread infiltration of leukocytes into the brain 16 h after the injection. Pretreatment with i.p.-lipopolysaccharide 2 h before the i.c.v. interleukin-1 injection completely blocked interleukin-1-induced leukocyte infiltration, whereas i.p.-LPS only attenuated the effect of interleukin-1 if it was given 12 h before i.c.v. interleukin-1 injection. I.p.-lipopolysaccharide given 24 h before i.c.v. interleukin-1 injection did not alter interleukin-1 induced leukocyte infiltration. I.c.v.-interleukin-1 induced expression of p- and e-selectins in brain vasculatures prior to the appearance of leukocytes in the brain parenchyma. Induction of p- and e-selectin was inhibited by the pretreatment of i.p.-lipopolysaccharide 2 h, but not 24 h, before i.c.v.-interleukin-1 injection. I.c.v.-interleukin-1-induced leukocyte infiltration was diminished in both e- and p- selectin knockout animals. These results suggest that systemic inflammation actively inhibits recruitment of leukocytes by CNS. Inhibition of the expression of p- and e-selectins is a mechanism by which peripheral inflammation regulate CNS leukocyte recruitment.
The corticothalamic feedback pathway provides excitatory synaptic input to both the thalamic reticular nucleus and the lateral geniculate nucleus. We studied excitatory postsynaptic currents elicited from corticothalamic stimulation in the visual sector of the thalamic reticular nucleus and the lateral geniculate nucleus to compare the response of these neurons to stimulation of their common input pathway. Using whole cell patch clamp recordings in ferret thalamic slices, we compared single excitatory postsynaptic current decay kinetics, presynaptic glutamate release dynamics through paired pulse facilitation and responses to corticothalamic train stimulation. We found that single thalamic reticular nucleus excitatory postsynaptic currents were significantly sharper than lateral geniculate nucleus responses. The mean thalamic reticular nucleus excitatory postsynaptic current decay constant (tau) was 4.9+/-0.5 ms, while the mean lateral geniculate nucleus excitatory postsynaptic current tau value was 11.8+/-0.8 ms. Presynaptic release dynamics as measured by responses to paired stimuli were conserved between the thalamic reticular nucleus and lateral geniculate nucleus. However, facilitating responses to train stimulation were markedly different between nuclei. Lateral geniculate nucleus responses showed proportionately larger facilitation (reaching 842.9 +/- 76.4% of excitatory postsynaptic current 1 amplitude) than thalamic reticular nucleus responses (reaching 223.1 +/- 44.0% of excitatory postsynaptic current 1 amplitude). These data indicate that while the corticothalamic pathway produces excitatory postsynaptic currents in both the thalamic reticular nucleus and lateral geniculate nucleus, other factors uniquely affect the functional integration of the inputs in each nucleus.
Gastrin-releasing peptide-preferring and neuromedin B-preferring receptors, members of the bombesin-like peptide receptor subfamily, are reported to regulate proliferation, migration and differentiation. Since they are expressed in developing brain, we postulated that the gastrin-releasing peptide-preferring and neuromedin B-preferring receptors might be involved in normal brain development. Here we examined the effects of the overexpressions of the gastrin-releasing peptide-preferring and neuromedin B-preferring receptors on chick brain development in vivo using a retrovirus. In the overexpressed exogenous gastrin-releasing peptide-preferring receptor brain, we found laminar disorganization in the telencephalon, tectum and particularly in the cerebellum with severe atrophy. Processes of the radial glial cells in the telencephalon and optic tectum, as well as the projections of the Bergmann glia in the cerebellum were distorted, which might disturb normal cell migration. Despite the atrophy of the cerebellum, densely-stained proliferating cell nuclear antigen- and phospho-histone H3-positive cells increased in number. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling-positive cells also increased in the cerebellum, suggesting that the ectopically proliferating cells were subjected to apoptosis. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells also increased in the hyperpallium accessorium and in the outer layers of the tectum. We also found smaller and spindle-shaped cells which resembled undifferentiated embryonic tumor cells. On the other hand, the layer structures of the neuromedin B-preferring receptors overexpressed brain were well organized and developed, and the size of brain was generally enlarged. These results indicated that although the gastrin-releasing peptide-preferring and neuromedin B-preferring receptors are involved in normal brain development, both receptors contribute and exert their effects differently.
We explored the contribution of inhibitory peanut-binding extracellular matrix glycoproteins to the regeneration of characteristic outgrowth patterns by different types of identified neurons. Adult leech neurons were isolated one by one and plated in culture on a substrate that consisted of the capsules that encase the CNS ganglia. On the inside surface of this substrate, a combination of growth-promoting and -inhibiting extracellular matrix glycoproteins regulates the regeneration of distinctive outgrowth patterns by different neuron types. The role of inhibitory glycoproteins that bind to peanut lectin was studied by perturbation experiments in which peanut lectin was added to the culture medium. The effects of peanut lectin on the outgrowth patterns depended on the specific cell type that was tested. Anterior pagoda neurons, which on capsules produce a bipolar outgrowth pattern, in the presence of the lectin multiplied the number of primary neurites and the total neurite length and also lost their bipolarity. Annulus erector motoneurons, which on capsules grow poorly, in the presence of peanut lectin sprouted 70% more neurites and duplicated their total neurite length. By contrast, Retzius neurons which grow profusely on ganglion capsules, in the presence of peanut lectin increased the number of primary neurites without increasing their total neurite length or branch points. When neurons were plated on plastic, peanut lectin added to the culture medium did not affect the growth of neurons, thus showing that the effects of peanut lectin were induced by blocking the binding of neurons to inhibitory glycoproteins on the capsules. These results show that regeneration of different neuron types has different regulation by inhibitory extracellular matrix molecules.
Food intake is regulated by signals from the gastrointestinal tract. Both stimulation and inhibition of food intake may be mediated by upper gastrointestinal tract hormones, e.g. ghrelin and cholecystokinin that act at least partly via vagal afferent neurones. We now report that vagal afferent neurones in both rat and man express melanin-concentrating hormone and its receptor, melanin-concentrating hormone-1R. In nodose ganglia from rats fasted for 24 h, RT-PCR revealed the expression of both melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R, whereas in ganglia from animals fed ad libitum expression was virtually undetectable. Immunohistochemical studies also revealed expression of melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R in nodose ganglion neurones of fasted rats, but signals were weak in rats fed ad libitum. Melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R were expressed in the same neurones, a high proportion of which also expressed the cholecystokinin-1 receptor. When fasted rats were refed, there was down-regulation of melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R expression over a period of 5 h. Similar effects were produced by administration of cholecystokinin to fasted rats. The cholecystokinin-1 receptor antagonist lorglumide inhibited food-induced down-regulation of melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R. We conclude that the satiety hormone cholecystokinin acts on vagal afferent neurones to inhibit expression of melanin-concentrating hormone and its receptor. Since the melanin-concentrating hormone system is associated with stimulation of food intake this effect of cholecystokinin may contribute to its action as a satiety hormone.
The objective of this investigation was to compare the effects of decreased vs. increased activity on the neuromuscular system. Twenty-four young adult (7 weeks old) Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to three treatment groups (N=8/group). Increased activity was achieved by treadmill running for up to 1 h/day. Decreased activity was induced by muscle unloading via the hindlimb suspension model. Control animals engaged in normal weight bearing and ambulatory activity. At the end of the 10 week intervention period, animals were killed and soleus muscles were removed, quickly frozen, and examined using cytofluorescent (neuromuscular junctions) and histochemical (myofibers) procedures. Pre-synaptic morphology was quantified by measuring nerve terminal branching, and post-synaptic assessment was conducted by staining acetylcholine receptors at the endplate. Myofiber profiles of solei were compiled by determining fiber size (cross-sectional area) and fiber type composition. Results show that exercise training significantly (P&lt;or=0.05) enhanced nerve terminal branching without modifying endplate size. In contrast, muscle unloading failed to influence nerve terminal branching, but significantly reduced endplate dimensions. Likely, the diminution of endplate size among unloaded myofibers was caused by the dramatic loss of size (approximately 60%) observed among those fibers. Both increased and decreased activity evoked reductions in the ratio of endplate area to length of nerve terminal branches, thus altering the pre- to post-synaptic relationship of neuromuscular junctions. In conclusion, the present data demonstrate that both increased and decreased activity significantly remodels the neuromuscular junction, but the locus (pre- vs. post-synaptic) and nature (expansion vs. reduction) of that remodeling are specific to the form of the alteration in activity.
Previous studies using c-Fos immunohistochemistry suggest that a sub-population of neurons in the midbrain periaqueductal gray region is activated during opioid withdrawal. The neurochemical identity of these cells is unknown but cellular physiological studies have implicated GABAergic neurons. The present study investigated whether GABAergic neurons are activated in the mouse periaqueductal gray during opioid withdrawal using dual-antibody immunohistochemistry for Fos and glutamic acid decarboxylase. Both chronic opioid treatment and naloxone-precipitated opioid withdrawal increased Fos expression in the periaqueductal gray, with the greatest increase being four-fold in the caudal ventrolateral subdivision following withdrawal. Neurons stained for both Fos and glutamic acid decarboxylase were greatly enhanced in all subdivisions of the periaqueductal gray following withdrawal, particularly in the lateral and ventrolateral divisions where the increase was up to 70-fold. These results suggest that activation of a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons in the periaqueductal gray plays a role in opioid withdrawal.
Ligand-gated ion channels (ionotropic receptors) link to the cortical cytoskeleton via specialized scaffold proteins and thereby to appropriate signal transduction pathways in the cell. We studied the role of filamentous actin in the regulation of Ca influx through glutamate receptor-activated channels in third-order neurons of salamander retina. Staining by Alexa-Fluor 488-phalloidin, to visualize polymerized actin, we show localization of filamentous actin in neurites, and the membrane surrounding the cell soma. With Ca(2+) imaging we found that in dissociated neurons, depolymerization of filamentous actin by latrunculin A, or cytochalasin D significantly reduced glutamate-induced intracellular Ca(2+) accumulation to 53+/-7% of control value. Jasplakinolide, a stabilizer of filamentous actin, by itself slightly increased the glutamate-induced Ca(2+) signal and completely attenuated the inhibitory effect when applied in combination with actin depolymerizing agents. These results indicate that in salamander retinal neurons the actin cytoskeleton regulates Ca(2+) influx through ionotropic glutamate receptor-activated channels, suggesting regulatory roles for filamentous actin in a number of Ca(2+)-dependent physiological and pathological processes.
The spatial and temporal visual sensitivity to drifting sinusoidal gratings was studied in 105 neurons of the suprageniculate nucleus of the feline thalamus. Extracellular single-unit recordings were performed in halothane-anesthetized, immobilized, artificially ventilated cats. Most suprageniculate nucleus cells were strongly sensitive to the direction of drifting gratings. The suprageniculate nucleus units had a clear preference for very low spatial frequencies with a mean of 0.05 cycle/deg. The spatial resolution was also very low with a mean of 0.16 cycle/deg. Most of the cells displayed low-pass spatial tuning characteristics, while the remainder of the units were band-pass tuned. The suprageniculate nucleus units were extremely narrowly tuned, to spatial frequencies with a mean spatial bandwidth of 1.07 octaves. A majority of the units responded optimally to high temporal frequencies, with a mean of 8.53 Hz. The temporal frequency tuning functions predominantly revealed a band-pass character, with a mean temporal bandwidth of 1.66 octaves. These results demonstrate that the neurons in the suprageniculate nucleus display particular spatial and temporal characteristics. The spatial and temporal tuning properties of the suprageniculate nucleus neurons are very similar to those of the superior colliculus and the anterior ectosylvian cortex, structures that provide the main visual afferentation toward the suprageniculate nucleus. This suggests their common function in motion perception, and especially in the recording of movements of the visual environment relative to the body, and the related behavioral action.
Virtually nothing is known about the ontogeny of substantia nigra, pars reticulata projections to the midbrain superior colliculus, even though this pathway is critical for the basal ganglia modulation of midbrain-mediated visuomotor behaviors. The present studies used the lipophilic carbocyanine dyes 1,1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate and 1,1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindodi, 4-chlorobenzenesulfonate salt to examine the crossed and uncrossed nigrotectal projections in neonatal cats, from parturition to 14 days postnatal (the technical limits of the tracing technique). In retrograde experiments, paired placement of the dyes in each superior colliculus produced numerous retrogradely-labeled nigrotectal neurons, with the uncrossed neurons far out numbering their crossed counterparts. No double-labeled neurons were observed, indicating that crossed and uncrossed nigrotectal neurons are segregated at birth. In anterograde experiments, dye placements into each substantia nigra, pars reticulata resulted in an iterative series of labeled patches, aligned medial-to-lateral across the intermediate and deep superior colliculus, a pattern reminiscent of the adult. Uncrossed neonatal axons had simple linear morphologies with few branch points; by contrast, crossed axons displayed more extensive terminal arbors that were distributed diffusely throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the contralateral superior colliculus In the final series of experiments, one dye was placed unilaterally in the substantia nigra, pars reticulata, while the second dye was positioned in the predorsal bundle, in order to bilaterally label superior colliculus output neurons. Although both crossed and uncrossed axons appeared to have contacted superior colliculus output neurons, crossed axons preferentially targeted the soma and proximal dendrites, whereas uncrossed terminals were distributed more distally. Throughout this early postnatal period, no significant changes in cellular morphologies or gross modification of terminal projection patterns were observed; however, the presence of growth cones in even the oldest animals studied suggests that the refinement of the nigrotectal projections extends well into postnatal life. Nevertheless, the segregation of crossed and uncrossed nigrotectal neurons into a highly organized afferent mosaic that has established synaptic contacts with superior colliculus output neurons indicates that many of the salient features characterizing nigrotectal projections are established prior to the onset of visual experience.
Dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate and other neurosteroids are synthesized in the CNS and peripheral nervous system where they may modulate neuronal excitability by interacting with ligand-gated ion channels. For this modulatory activity, neurosteroids have to be locally released from either neurons or glial cells. We here identify the integral membrane protein ABCC11 (multidrug resistance protein 8) as an ATP-dependent efflux pump for steroid sulfates, including dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate, and localize it to axons of the human CNS and peripheral nervous system. ABCC11 mRNA was detected in human brain by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Antibodies raised against ABCC11 served to detect the protein in brain by immunoblotting and immunofluorescence microscopy. ABCC11 was preferentially found in the white matter of the brain and co-localized with neurofilaments indicating that it is an axonal protein. Additionally, ABCC11 was localized to axons of the peripheral nervous system. For functional studies, ABCC11 was expressed in polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney cells where it was sorted to the apical membrane. This apical sorting is in accordance with the localization of ABCC11 to the axonal membrane of neurons. Inside-out plasma membrane vesicles containing recombinant ABCC11 mediated ATP-dependent transport of dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate with a Km value of 21 microM. This transport function together with the localization of the ABCC11 protein in vicinity to GABAA receptors is consistent with a role of ABCC11 in dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate release from neurons to sites of dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate-mediated receptor modulation. Our findings may provide a basis for the characterization of mutations in the human ABCC11 gene and their linkage with neurological disorders.
Effects of tacrolimus, a protein phosphatase 2B inhibitor, on the reflex plasticity between the pelvic afferent nerve fibers and the urethra were examined in urethane-anesthetized rats. Repetitive stimulation (1 Hz) induced a potentiation (0.9+/-0.2 and 10.5+/-1.6 spikes in control and repetitive stimulation groups, respectively, P&lt;0.01, N=10) in the activities of the pelvic-urethral reflex. Intrathecal tacrolimus (0.1 mM, 10 microl, bolus) blocked repetitive stimulation-induced potentiation in pelvic-urethral reflex activities (3.2+/-0.9 spikes in tacrolimus group versus 10.5+/-1.6 spikes in repetitive stimulation group, P&lt;0.01, N=10). Glutamate (intrathecal, 0.1 mM, 10 microl, bolus) and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (intrathecal, 0.1 mM, 10 microl, bolus) both reversed the blocking effects exerted by tacrolimus on repetitive stimulation-induced pelvic-urethral reflex potentiation (15.0+/-1.4 spikes in glutamate group and 11.4+/-1.4 spikes in N-methyl-D-aspartic acid group versus 3.2+/-0.9 spikes in tacrolimus-treated repetitive stimulation group, P&lt;0.01, N=7). In addition, the reversal effect elicited by these two agonists of glutamate receptors showed no statistical difference (P=NS, N=7). All these results demonstrated that tacrolimus could block glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-mediated potentiation in pelvic-urethral reflex activities. This finding may be pathologically relevant in patients who take tacrolimus as immunosuppressant therapy. Whether tacrolimus will induce urine incontinence in such patients or not needs further investigation.
Repeated cocaine exposure up-regulates cyclic AMP signaling and increases the transcriptional activity of cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) in the nucleus accumbens. To study the possibility that nucleus accumbens CREB activity regulates self-administration behavior, we tested the effects of a single, bilateral infusion of CREB antisense oligonucleotide into nucleus accumbens core and shell sub-regions on cocaine self-administration in rats. Nucleus accumbens core infusions of CREB antisense reduced CREB and the CREB-regulated immediate early gene brain-derived neurotrophic factor by 31 and 27%, respectively, but failed to alter levels of the homologous CREB family proteins cyclic AMP response element modulator and activating transcription factor 1, and had no effect on CREB levels in adjacent nucleus accumbens shell tissue. Similar infusions of CREB antisense in either core or shell produced a transient downward shift in cocaine self-administration dose-response curves on a fixed ratio 5 (five responses/injection) reinforcement schedule, indicating a reduction in cocaine reinforcement that fully recovered 3 days after treatment. CREB antisense also increased the threshold dose of cocaine required for reinstating cocaine self-administration, indicating that nucleus accumbens CREB levels regulate the incentive properties of cocaine. When access to cocaine was less restricted on a fixed ratio 1 schedule, infusion of CREB antisense in the core, but not shell, caused a transient (1-2 days) reduction in stabilized cocaine self-administration, but had no effect on responding maintained by sucrose pellets, indicating that basal CREB levels in the nucleus accumbens core regulate drug intake. None of these effects were produced by nucleus accumbens infusions of complementary sense oligonucleotide. These results suggest a necessary role for nucleus accumbens CREB activity in cocaine reinforcement, and, by converse analogy, up-regulation in CREB activity after chronic cocaine use could contribute to addiction-related increases in cocaine self-administration.
Brain inflammation is a common event in the pathogenesis of several neurological diseases. It is unknown whether leukocyte/endothelium interactions are sufficient to promote homing of blood-borne cells into the brain compartment. The role of mononuclear cells and endothelium was analyzed in a new experimental model, the isolated guinea-pig brain maintained in vitro by arterial perfusion. This preparation allows one to investigate early steps of brain inflammation that are impracticable in vivo. We demonstrate by confocal microscopy analysis that in vitro co-perfusion of pro-inflammatory agents and pre-activated fluorescent mononuclear cells induced endothelial expression of selectins and intracellular adhesion molecule-1 in correspondence of arrested mononuclear cells, and correlates with a moderate increase in blood-brain barrier permeability. Separate perfusion of pro-inflammatory agents and mononuclear cells induced neither mononuclear cell adhesion nor adhesion molecule expression. We demonstrate that co-activation of mononuclear cells and cerebral endothelium is an essential requirement for cell arrest and adhesion in the early stages of experimental cerebral inflammation.
We have observed marked heterogeneity among different stressors in their ability to reinstate alcohol seeking in rats. Of the stressors we have tested, only the environmental stressor footshock and the pharmacological stressor yohimbine induce reinstatement. The reasons for such differences among stressors are not known. The purpose of the experiments presented here is to determine the neuroanatomical substrates that underlie these behavioral differences. To this end, we assessed whether stressors effective in inducing reinstatement of alcohol seeking activate a different set of neuronal pathways than do those that are ineffective, using the technique of in situ hybridization of the mRNAs for c-fos, a marker of neuronal activation, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), a stress-related peptide we have shown to be critical to footshock-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking. Exposure of rats to the environmental stressors footshock, restraint or social defeat, or the pharmacological stressors yohimbine or FG-7142 increased levels of the mRNAs for c-fos and CRF in the brain in a number of areas previously shown to be responsive to stressors. We found regionally specific effects of the stressors on c-fos and CRF mRNA in brain regions associated with the rewarding effects of alcohol and other abused drugs. The two stressors we have previously shown to be effective in inducing reinstatement of alcohol seeking, footshock and yohimbine, induced c-fos mRNA in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, and the basolateral and central amygdalar nuclei. These two stressors also induced CRF mRNA in the dorsal region of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Taken together, these results provide evidence that activity in these regions may be involved in the reinstatement of alcohol seeking induced by these stressors. These results are also in keeping with the previously demonstrated role of CRF neurons in the dorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in the reinstatement of alcohol seeking induced by stress.
It is well established that sex steroid hormones bind to nuclear receptors, which then act as transcription factors to control brain sexual differentiation and the activation of sexual behaviors. Estrogens locally produced in the brain exert their behavioral effects in this way but mounting evidence indicates that estrogens also can influence brain functioning more rapidly via non-genomic mechanisms. We recently reported that, in Japanese quail, the activity of preoptic estrogen synthase (aromatase) can be modulated quite rapidly (within minutes) by non-genomic mechanisms, including calcium-dependent phosphorylations. Behavioral studies further demonstrated that rapid changes in estrogen bioavailability, resulting either from a single injection of a high dose of estradiol or from the acute inhibition of aromatase activity, significantly affect the expression of both appetitive and consummatory aspects of male sexual behavior with latencies ranging between 15 and 30 min. Together these data indicate that the bioavailability of estrogens in the brain can change on different time-scales (long- and short-term) that match well with the genomic and non-genomic actions of this steroid and underlie two complementary mechanisms through which estrogens modulate behavior. Estrogens produced locally in the brain should therefore be considered not only as neuroactive steroids but they also display many (if not all) functional characteristics of neuromodulators and perhaps neurotransmitters.
That rats reach for and grasp a food item using a single paw has prompted their use in neurobiological studies of skilled movements and modeling neural injury including middle cerebral artery stroke. Although motor system lesions have been shown to disrupt various qualitative aspects of the transport of a limb to a food target and withdrawal of the limb with the food, no lesion has been found to abolish digit flexion for grasping. Here, rats received unilateral transient middle cerebral artery ischemia that was restricted mainly to subcortical tissue of the forebrain (caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, and associated fibers) or a sham operation. Both paws were later trained and evaluated on skilled reaching using a rating scale for digit use. Middle cerebral artery rats did not flex and close their digits to grasp food when using their contralateral-to-lesion limb. The grasp impairment was not due to a failure to learn the task as middle cerebral artery rats used the ipsilateral limb as successfully as control rats and they were reinforced for reaching by raking food into the reaching box using an open paw. The impairment was also not due to an inability to move the digits, as they were flexed and closed in other phases of the reach. The paradigm should prove useful for further studies of rehabilitation in relation to the idea that digit closure may be controlled by the joint action of a number of neural systems that converge in the basal ganglia.
Striatal dopamine receptors become supersensitive when dopaminergic input is removed through either surgical denervation or pharmacological depletion. Although alterations such as increased D2 receptor binding and increased receptor-G protein coupling have been described in supersensitive striatal tissue, their roles in the mechanism of supersensitivity remain uncertain. The Ras Homolog Enriched in Striatum (Rhes) is expressed in brain areas that receive dopaminergic input, and here we test whether alterations in its expression accompany treatments that promote dopamine receptor supersensitivity in rats. Removal of dopamine input to the striatum by surgical denervation with 6-hydroxydopamine resulted in a decrease in rhes mRNA expression throughout striatum, as measured with quantitative in situ hybridization. The decrease was detected as early as two weeks and as late as seven months after surgery. Furthermore, a decrease in rhes mRNA was evident after repeated or acute reserpine treatment. Chronic daily injection of rats with the D2 antagonist eticlopride, which is known to up-regulate D2 receptors without inducing profound receptor supersensitivity, did not alter the expression of rhes mRNA in striatum. Thus, changes in rhes mRNA expression are strictly correlated with receptor supersensitivity, perhaps as a result of continuous removal of dopaminergic input. These findings suggest that rhes mRNA expression is maintained by dopamine and may play a role in determining normal dopamine receptor sensitivity.
In a previous work performed on cerebral cortex and hippocampus we reported that tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein (TonEBP), originally identified as a transactivator of osmoprotective genes involved in osmoadaptation of renal cells, was induced in neurons only, but to varying levels, following acute systemic hypertonicity. Whether or not this cellular specificity reflected a unique ability of neurons or a differential time course among brain cells for tonicity-induction of TonEBP was investigated throughout the brain in this study by subjecting the animals to prolonged systemic hypertonicity. In normal rats, TonEBP immunolabeling and TonEBP-mRNA in situ hybridization labeling showed a widespread, uneven and parallel distribution. TonEBP was expressed primarily in the cell nuclei of neurons, where it was heterogeneously distributed in a nucleoplasmic and a granular pool. In rats subjected to prolonged systemic hypertonicity, TonEBP labeling increased in the cell nuclei of neurons only. The tonicity-induced expression of TonEBP for a given cell group of neurons was rather uniform but varied greatly among neuronal cell groups and was positively correlated with the average size of the cell nuclei, as determined by quantitative analysis of digitized images. The detailed distribution of tonicity-induced expression of TonEBP is reported throughout the brain. In normal rats, a very minor proportion of non-neuronal cells, identified as a subset of astrocytes and possibly oligodendrocytes, showed faint nuclear immunolabeling, which however did not increase in hypertonic animals. Ependymocytes, capillary endothelial cells, and microglial cells showed no TonEBP labeling, even in hypertonic animals. Altogether our data indicate that neurons, albeit possibly to a varying extent, are the only brain cells able to use TonEBP-mediated processes for adaptation to a systemic hyperosmotic unbalance.
Different brain rhythms, with both low-frequency and fast-frequency, are grouped within complex wave-sequences. Instead of dissecting various frequency bands of the major oscillations that characterize the brain electrical activity during states of vigilance, it is conceptually more rewarding to analyze their coalescence, which is due to neuronal interactions in corticothalamic systems. This concept of unified brain rhythms does not only include low-frequency sleep oscillations but also fast (beta and gamma) activities that are not exclusively confined to brain-activated states, since they also occur during slow-wave sleep. The major factor behind this coalescence is the cortically generated slow oscillation that, through corticocortical and corticothalamic drives, is effective in grouping other brain rhythms. The experimental evidence for unified oscillations derived from simultaneous intracellular recordings of cortical and thalamic neurons in vivo, while recent studies in humans using global methods provided congruent results of grouping different types of slow and fast oscillatory activities. Far from being epiphenomena, spontaneous brain rhythms have an important role in synaptic plasticity. The role of slow-wave sleep oscillation in consolidating memory traces acquired during wakefulness is being explored in both experimental animals and human subjects. Highly synchronized sleep oscillations may develop into seizures that are generated intracortically and lead to inhibition of thalamocortical neurons, via activation of thalamic reticular neurons, which may explain the obliteration of signals from the external world and unconsciousness during some paroxysmal states.
The aging process is known to coincide with a decline in circulating sex hormone levels in both men and women. Due to an increase in the average lifespan, a growing number of post-menopausal women are now receiving hormone therapy for extended periods of time. Recent findings of the Women's Health Initiative, however, have called into question the benefits of long-term hormone therapy for treating symptoms of menopause. The results of this study are still being evaluated, but it is clear that a better understanding of the molecular effects of estradiol is needed in order to develop new estrogenic compounds that activate specific mechanisms but lack adverse side effects. Traditionally, the effects of estradiol treatment have been ascribed to changes in gene expression, namely transcription at estrogen response elements. This review focuses on emerging information that estradiol can also activate a repertoire of membrane-initiated signaling pathways and that these rapid signaling events lead to functional changes at the cellular level. The various types of cells in the brain can respond differently to estradiol treatment based on the signaling properties of the cell, as well as which receptor, estrogen receptor alpha and/or estrogen receptor beta, is expressed. Taken together, these findings suggest that the estradiol-induced activation of membrane-initiated signaling pathways occurs in a cell-type specific manner and can differentially influence how the cells respond to various insults.
The co-culture of bovine brain capillary endothelial cells and rat primary glial cells was established as an in vitro blood-brain barrier model to investigate the mechanisms by which the Gram-positive bacterial cell wall components lipoteichoic acid and muramyl dipeptide induced injury of blood-brain barrier structure and function. We found that highly purified lipoteichoic acid disrupted blood-brain barrier integrity in a concentration- and time-dependent manner indirectly, through glia activation. Low trans-endothelial electrical resistance and high permeability to fluorescein isothiocyanate-inulin observed in the presence of lipoteichoic acid-activated glial cells were potentiated by muramyl dipeptide and could be reversed only when glial cells were activated by lipoteichoic acid at 10 microg/ml but not with a higher lipoteichoic acid concentration (30 microg/ml). Immunocytochemistry analysis revealed no evident changes in the distribution of the cytoskeleton protein F-actin and tight junction proteins occludin and claudin after lipoteichoic acid treatment. However, the tight junction associated protein AHNAK clearly revealed the morphological alteration of the endothelial cells induced by lipoteichoic acid. Lipoteichoic acid-activated glial cells produced nitric oxide and pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta) that contributed to lipoteichoic acid-induced blood-brain barrier disruption, since the direct treatment of the endothelial monolayer with tumor necrosis factor-alpha or interleukin-1beta increased blood-brain barrier permeability, whereas the pre-treatment of lipoteichoic acid-activated glial cells with antibodies against these two cytokines blocked lipoteichoic acid effects. Additionally, nitric oxide was also involved in blood-brain barrier damage, since the nitric oxide donor itself (diethylenetriamine-nitric oxide adduct) increased blood-brain barrier permeability and inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor (1400W) partially reversed lipoteichoic acid-induced trans-endothelial electrical resistance decrease.
Caffeine is consumed worldwide to enhance wakefulness, but the cellular mechanisms are poorly understood. Caffeine blocks adenosine receptors suggesting that adenosine decreases cortical arousal. Given the widespread innervation of the cerebral cortex by thalamic fibers, adenosine receptors on thalamocortical terminals could provide an efficient method of limiting thalamic activation of the cortex. Using a mouse thalamocortical slice preparation and whole-cell patch clamp recordings, we examined whether thalamocortical terminals are modulated by adenosine receptors. Bath application of adenosine decreased excitatory postsynaptic currents elicited by stimulation of the ventrobasal thalamus. Thalamocortical synapses onto inhibitory and excitatory neurons were equally affected by adenosine. Adenosine also increased the paired pulse ratio and the coefficient of variation of the excitatory postsynaptic currents, suggesting that adenosine decreased glutamate release. The inhibition produced by adenosine was reversed by a selective antagonist of adenosine A1 receptors (8-cyclopentyltheophylline) and mimicked by a selective A1 receptor agonist (N6-cyclopentyladenosine). Our results indicate that thalamocortical excitation is regulated by presynaptic adenosine A1 receptors and provide a mechanism by which increased adenosine levels can directly reduce cortical excitability.
It is now clear that the study of the effects exerted by steroids on the nervous system may be considered as one of the most interesting and promising topics for biomedical research. Indeed, new effects, mechanisms of action and targets are becoming more and more evident suggesting that steroids are not only important key regulators of nervous system function but they may also represent a new therapeutic tool to combat certain diseases of the nervous system. The present review summarizes recent observations on this topic indicating that while the concept of the nervous system as a target for steroid hormones has been appreciated for decades, a promising new era for the study of these molecules and their actions in the nervous system has been initiated in the last few years.
Nestin is a putative neural stem cell marker that is expressed in different areas of the adult mammalian brain that are known to support mitotic activity. Recently the neocortex has been proposed to support neurogenesis, however little is known of the expression pattern of nestin in neocortex. In the present study, we demonstrate that cells that express nestin can be found throughout the neocortex, and that these cells are morphologically heterogeneous. Some nestin-expressing cells had one extension arising from the cell body, reminiscent of the nestin-expressing cells that are thought to be young neurons in the hippocampus. The frequency of single extension cells in the neocortex was approximately one cell per 50,000 microm(2). Other cells had numerous extensions arising from the cell body. In all cases, cells that expressed nestin were also found to co-label with the glial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. In addition, nestin-expressing cells in the neocortex did not express the cell cycle marker, Ki-67, indicating they were not actively engaged in mitotic activity. When small lesions were made in cortex, nestin could also be observed in reactive astrocytes as part of the inflammatory response. Approximately 94% of reactive astrocytes expressed Ki-67. These results demonstrate that there are different populations of cells in the neocortex that can express nestin, but that only reactive astrocytes in this region are mitotically active.
Estrogens are neuromodulatory and neuroprotective hormones. Chemically, estrogens are steroid compounds and unfold most of their activities through the activation of nuclear receptors that bind to specific target genes and control their transcription. Two subtypes of estrogen receptors are known (estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta) and they are expressed throughout the body including the CNS and in particular the brain. We employed large scale DNA-chip-analysis to display the gene expression pattern differentially regulated by both estrogen receptor subtypes in human neuronal cells. We identified different gene families regulated by estrogen receptors that complement the knowledge about the estrogen receptor target genes. Some of these genes may serve neuroprotective functions and may therefore mediate the overall neuroprotective activities of estrogens. In addition to estrogen receptor-dependent neuroprotective effects, estrogen (17beta-estradiol) itself is a compound with a phenolic structure that may display also direct and estrogen receptor-independent antioxidant activities which may be important for the defense against oxidative stress. In summary estrogen can display a wide range of neuroprotective activities through different types of mechanisms and we are only understanding part of the molecular control of these activities which may help to develop neuropreventive strategies against neurodegenerative diseases in the future.
Both serotonin and noradrenaline affect synapse formation and maintenance in the CNS. Although we previously demonstrated that serotonin regulates synaptic density via activation of serotonin(2A) receptor, it was still unclear which receptor subtype mediates the function of noradrenaline. In the present study we tried to identify the noradrenaline receptor (adrenoceptor) subtype, which could regulate the density of synapses in the rat visual cortex. Selective antagonists and/or agonists of adrenoceptor subtypes were administered to six weeks old rats. Changes in the density of axodendritic synapses were quantitatively examined in lamina I, where noradrenaline rather than serotonin is known to regulate the density of synapses. The alpha1 adrenoceptor antagonists (prazosin and 2-{[b-(4-hydroxyphenyl)ethyl]aminomethyl}-1-tetralone) decreased the number of synapses in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, administrations of the alpha1-agonist (methoxamine) increased the density of synapses. The beta1 adrenoceptor antagonist (atenolol) had no effect on the density of synapses. The alpha2-antagonist (rauwolscine) increased synaptic density, whereas the beta2-antagonist (ICI-118,551) decreased synaptic density. Simultaneous treatments with the alpha1-antagonist and alpha1-agonist caused the alpha1-agonist to competitively block the effect of the alpha1-antagonist and recover the density of synapses to the control values. In addition, the alpha1-antagonist/agonist appeared to show a reverse effect on the changes in synaptic density following alpha2- or beta2-antagonist treatment by acting via the alpha1 receptor. Moreover, decreased synaptic density when a selective noradrenergic neurotoxin (N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine) was counterbalanced by the alpha1-agonist. These data suggest that noradrenaline regulates the density of synapses in the rat visual cortex primarily via the alpha1 receptor subtype. Both serotonin(2A) and alpha1 receptors are known to couple with phospholipase C, which has been shown to increase intracellular calcium. It may help us to understand the underlying mechanisms for synaptic plasticity in the CNS.
The GABAB receptors are generally considered to be classical Gi-coupled receptors that lack the ability to mobilize intracellular Ca2+ without the aid of promiscuous G proteins. Here, we report the ability of GABAB receptors to promote calcium influx into primary cultures of rat cortical neurons and transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells. Chinese hamster ovary cells were transfected with GABAB1(a) or GABAB1(b) subunits along with GABAB2 subunits. In experiments using the fluorometric imaging plate reader platform, GABA and selective agonists promoted increases in intracellular Ca2+ levels in transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells and cortical neurons with the expected order of potency. These effects were fully antagonized by selective GABAB receptor antagonists. To investigate the intracellular pathways responsible for mediating these effects we employed several pharmacological inhibitors. Pertussis toxin abolished GABAB mediated Ca2+ increases, as did the phospholipase Cbeta inhibitor U73122. Inhibitor 2-aminethoxydiphenyl borane acts as an antagonist at inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors and at store-operated channels. In all cell types, 2-aminethoxydiphenyl borane prevented Ca2+ mobilization. The selective store-operated channel inhibitor 1-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-[3-(4-methoxyphenyl)propoxy]ethyl-1H-imidazole hydrochloride prevented increases in intracellular Ca2+ levels as did performing the assays in Ca2+ free buffers. In conclusion, GABAB receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells and endogenously expressed in rat cortical neurons promote Ca2+ entry into the cell via the activation of store-operated channels, using a mechanism that is dependent on Gi/o heterotrimeric proteins and phospholipase Cbeta. These findings suggest that the neuronal effects mediated by GABAB receptors may, in part, rely on the receptor's ability to promote Ca2+ influx.
Latent inhibition is a form of negative priming in which repeated non-reinforced pre-exposures to a stimulus retard subsequent learning about the predictive significance of that stimulus. The nucleus accumbens shell and the anatomical projection it receives from the hippocampal formation have been attributed a pivotal role in the control or regulation of latent inhibition expression. A number of studies in rats have demonstrated the efficacy of selective shell lesions to disrupt latent inhibition in different associative learning paradigms, including conditioned active avoidance and conditioned emotional response. Here, we extended the test to the conditioned taste aversion paradigm, in which the effect of direct hippocampal damage on latent inhibition remains controversial. We demonstrated the expected effect of selective shell lesions on latent inhibition of conditioned emotional response and of conditioned active avoidance, before evaluating in a separate cohort of rats the effect of comparable selective lesions on latent inhibition of conditioned taste aversion: a null effect of the lesions was first obtained using parameters known to be sensitive to amphetamine treatment, then an enhancement of latent inhibition was revealed with a modified conditioned taste aversion procedure. Our results show that depending on the associative learning paradigm chosen, shell lesions can disrupt or enhance the expression of latent inhibition; and the pattern is reminiscent of that seen following hippocampal damage.
Human goal-directed behavior depends on multiple neural systems that monitor and correct for different types of errors. For example, tracking errors in continuous motor tasks appear to be processed by a system involving posterior parietal cortex, whereas errors in speeded response and trial-and-error learning tasks appear to be processed by a system involving frontal-medial cortex. To date, it is unknown whether there is a functional relationship between the posterior and frontal error systems. We recorded the event-related brain potential from participants engaged in a tracking task to investigate the role of the frontal system in continuous motor control. Our results demonstrate that tracking errors elicit temporally distinct error-related event-related brain potentials over frontal and posterior regions of the scalp, suggesting an interaction between the subcomponents of a hierarchically organized system for error processing. Specifically, we propose that the frontal error system assesses high-level errors (i.e. goal attainment) whereas the posterior error system is responsible for evaluating low-level errors (i.e. trajectory deviations during motor control).
The angiotensin 4 receptor (AT4) subtype is heavily distributed in the dentate gyrus and CA1-CA3 subfields of the hippocampus. Neuronal pathways connecting these subfields are believed to be activated during learning and memory processing. ur laboratory previously demonstrated that application of the AT4 agonist, Norleucine1-angiotensin IV, enhanced baseline synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation, whereas perfusion with the AT4 antagonist, Norleucine1-Leu3-psi(CH2-NH2)3-4-angiotensin IV disrupted long-term potentiation stabilization in area CA1. The objective of the present study was to identify the mechanism(s) responsible for Norleucine1-angiotensin IV-induced increase in hippocampal long-term potentiation. Hippocampal slices perfused with Norleucine1-angiotensin IV for 20 min revealed a notable increase in baseline responses in a non-reversible manner and were blocked by the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium salt. Infusions of Norleucine1-angiotensin IV prior to, but not after theta burst stimulation, significantly enhanced long-term potentiation compared with control slices. Further, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term potentiation could be induced by tetanization during the perfusion of Norleucine1-angiotensin IV in the presence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Blockade of select voltage dependent calcium channels significantly reduced Norleucine1-angiotensin IV-induced increase in baseline responses and subsequent long-term potentiation suggesting that AT4 receptor activation increases intracellular calcium levels via altering voltage dependent calcium channels and triggers an N-methyl-D-aspartate-independent form of long-term potentiation. In support of this notion the application of Nle1-angiotensin IV to cultured rat hippocampal neurons resulted in increased intracellular calcium derived exclusively from extracellular sources. Consistent with these observations Nle1-angiotensin IV was capable of augmenting the uptake of 45Ca2+ into rat hippocampal slices. Taken together, these data indicate that increased calcium influx through postsynaptic calcium channels contribute to Norleucine1-angiotensin IV-induced enhancement of long-term potentiation.
Coordination of neuronal oscillations generated at different frequencies has been hypothesized to be an important feature of integrative brain functions. The present study aimed at the evaluation of the cross-frequency phase synchronization between electroencephalographic alpha and beta oscillations. The amplitude and phase information were extracted from electroencephalograms recorded in 176 healthy human subjects using an analytic signal approach based on the Hilbert transform. The results reliably demonstrated the presence of phase synchronization between alpha and beta oscillations, with a maximum in the occipito-parietal areas. The phase difference between alpha and beta oscillations showed characteristic peaks at about 2 and -1 radians, which were common for many subjects and electrodes. A specific phase difference might reflect similarity in the organization and interconnections of the networks generating alpha and beta oscillations across the entire cortex. Beta oscillations, which are phase-locked to alpha oscillations--alpha-synchronous beta oscillations--were largest in the occipito-parietal area with a second smaller maximum in the frontal area, thus demonstrating a topography, which was different from the conventional alpha and beta oscillations. The strength of the alpha-synchronous beta oscillations was not exclusively defined by the amplitude of the alpha rhythm indicating that they represent a distinct feature of the spontaneous electroencephalogram, which allows for a refined discrimination of the dynamics of beta oscillations.
It has been reported recently that mice lacking both alleles of the LIM-homeobox gene Lhx7, display dramatically reduced number of forebrain cholinergic neurons. In the present study, we investigated whether the Lhx7 mutation affects male and female mice differently, given the fact that gender differences are consistently observed in forebrain cholinergic function. Our results show that in adult male as well as female Lhx7 homozygous mutants there is a dramatic loss of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive forebrain neurons, both projection and interneurons. The reduction of forebrain choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive neurons in Lhx7 homozygous mutants is accompanied by a decrease of acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining in all forebrain cholinergic neuron target areas of both male and female homozygous mutants. Furthermore, there was an increase of M1-, but not M2-, muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding site density in the somatosensory cortex and basal ganglia of only the female homozygous mutant mice. Such an increase can be regarded as a mechanism acting to compensate for the dramatically reduced cholinergic input, raising the possibility that the forebrain cholinergic system in female mice may be more plastic and responsive to situations of limited neurotransmitter availability. Finally, our study provides additional data for the sexual dimorphism of the forebrain cholinergic system, as female mice appear to have a lower density of M1-muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the striatal areas of the basal ganglia and a higher density of M2-muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, in a number of cortical areas, as well as the striatal areas of the basal ganglia.
The midbrain-localized Edinger-Westphal nucleus is a major site of production of urocortin 1. Urocortin 1 is a neuropeptide related to corticotropin-releasing factor that has high affinity for corticotropin-releasing factor type-1 and corticotropin-releasing factor type-2 receptors. In several mouse models, the amount of urocortin 1 neurons within the Edinger-Westphal nucleus is positively associated with ethanol preference. Central administration of urocortin 1 exerts potent anorectic actions, and implicates endogenous urocortin 1 in the regulation of food intake. It is possible that brain areas such as the dorsal raphe, which receives urocortin 1 from the Edinger-Westphal nucleus and highly expresses corticotropin-releasing factor type-2 receptors, mediate the actions of urocortin 1 on feeding and ethanol preference. In this study the amount of food, water and ethanol consumed over the dark cycle by ethanol-preferring C57BL/6J mice was measured after injection of artificial cerebrospinal fluid vehicle, urocortin 1, corticotropin-releasing factor and the corticotropin-releasing factor type-2 receptor-selective antagonist antisauvagine-30 onto the dorsal raphe. Compared with vehicle, corticotropin-releasing factor and antisauvagine-30, urocortin 1 induced a significant reduction in the amount of food consumed overnight. Also, compared with antisauvagine-30 treatment, urocortin 1 significantly reduced the amount of weight gained during this time. Urocortin 1 also significantly reduced the total amount of fluid consumed, but did not alter ethanol preference, which was high during all treatments. These results suggest that the dorsal raphe is a neuroanatomical substrate of urocortin 1-induced reductions in feeding, possibly through modulation of serotonergic activity from this nucleus. In addition, it is suggested that endogenous urocortin 1 in this area, such as from the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, does not regulate ethanol preference in C57BL/6J mice.
The nervous system synthesizes steroids that regulate the development and function of neurons and glia, and have neuroprotective properties. The first step in steroidogenesis involves the delivery of free cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it can be converted into pregnenolone by the enzyme cytochrome P450side chain cleavage. The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor and the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein are involved in this process and appear to function in a coordinated manner. Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein mRNA and protein are widely expressed throughout the adult brain. Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein expression has been detected in many neuronal populations, in ependymocytes, in some astroglial cells, in Schwann cells from peripheral nerves and in proliferating cells of the developing and adult brain. Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein is colocalized in the same neural cells with P450side chain cleavage and with other steroidogenic enzymes. Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein expression in the brain shows marked changes with development, aging and injury. The steroidogenic acute regulatory protein gene may be under the control of diverse mechanisms in different neural cell types, since its expression is upregulated by cyclic AMP (cAMP) in gliomas and astrocytes in culture and downregulated by cyclic AMP (cAMP) in Schwann cells. In addition, activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and the consequent rise in intracellular calcium levels, activates steroidogenic acute regulatory protein and steroidogenesis in hippocampal neurons. In conclusion, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein is regulated in the nervous system by different physiological and pathological conditions and may play an important role during brain development, aging and after injury.
The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor is a mitochondrial protein expressed at high levels in steroid synthesizing tissues, including the glial cells of the brain. Peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor binds cholesterol with high affinity and is a key element of the cholesterol mitochondrial import machinery responsible for supplying the substrate cholesterol to the first steroidogenic enzyme, thus initiating and maintaining neurosteroid biosynthesis. Neurosteroid formation and metabolism of steroid intermediates are critical components of normal brain function. Peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor also binds with high affinity various classes of compounds. Upon ligand activation peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor-dependent cholesterol transport into mitochondria is accelerated leading in increased formation of neuroactive steroids. These steroids, such as allopregnanolone, have been shown to be involved in various neurological disorders, such as anxiety and mood disorders. Thus, peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor drug ligand-induced neuroactive steroid formation offers a means to regulate brain dysfunction. Peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor basal expression is upregulated in a number of neuropathologies, including gliomas and neurodegenerative disorders, as well as in various forms of brain injury and inflammation. In Alzheimer's disease pathology neurosteroid biosynthesis is altered and a decrease in the intermediate 22R-hydroxycholesterol levels is observed. This steroid was found to exert neuroprotective properties against beta-amyloid neurotoxicity. Based on this observation, a stable spirostenol derivative showing to display neuroprotective properties was identified, suggesting that compounds developed based on critical intermediates of neurosteroid biosynthesis could offer novel means for neuroprotection. In conclusion, changes in peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor and neurosteroid levels are part of the phenotype seen in neuropathology and neurological disorders and offer potential targets for new therapies.
The dorsal vagal complex, located in the brainstem, is the major integrative center of the autonomic nervous system. By combining in vivo bromodeoxyuridine incorporation and phenotypic immunolabeling, we have previously reported that neurogenesis occurs in the adult rat dorsal vagal complex [Bauer S, Hay M, Amilhon B, Jean A, Moyse E (2005) In vivo neurogenesis in the dorsal vagal complex of the adult rat brainstem. Neuroscience 130:75-90.]. In the present study we asked whether adult dorsal vagal complex contains proliferative and/or neural stem cells. Using Ki-67 immunolabeling and cyclin D1 Western blot, we showed intrinsic cell proliferation in the dorsal vagal complex and its stimulation by vagotomy. Detailed time-course analysis revealed that vagotomy-induced proliferation in the dorsal vagal complex peaked three days after lesion. In order to directly assess the presence of intrinsic stem cells, primary cell cultures from adult rat dorsal vagal complex were performed in the presence of epidermal growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor (neurosphere assay). A discrete subpopulation of dorsal vagal complex cells proliferated as neurospheres, self-renewed when passaged, and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Proliferation and neuron-differentiating potentials of dorsal vagal complex neurospheres were both lower than those of subventricular zone neurospheres from the same rats. The relationship between in vitro neurosphere-forming cells of dorsal vagal complex and in vivo dorsal vagal complex neurogenesis is discussed and remains to be directly addressed. The present data demonstrate the occurrence of neural stem cells in the dorsal vagal complex of adult rat brain.

Since stress plays a role in the onset and physiopathology of psychiatric diseases, animal models of chronic stress may offer insights into pathways operating in mood disorders. The aim of this study was to identify the molecular changes induced in rat hippocampus by repeated exposure to psychosocial stress with a proteomic technique. In the social defeat model, the experimental animal was defeated by a dominant male eight times. Additional groups of rats were submitted to a single defeat or placed in an empty cage (controls). The open field test was carried out on parallel animal groups. The day after the last exposure, levels of hippocampal proteins were compared between groups after separation by 2-D gel electrophoresis and image analysis. Spots showing significantly altered levels were submitted to peptide fingerprinting mass spectrometry for protein identification. The intensity of 69 spots was significantly modified by repeated stress and 21 proteins were unambiguously identified, belonging to different cellular functions, including protein folding, signal transduction, synaptic plasticity, cytoskeleton regulation and energy metabolism. This work identified molecular changes in protein levels caused by exposure to repeated psychosocial stress. The pattern of changes induced by repeated stress was quantitatively and qualitatively different from that observed after a single exposure. Several changed proteins have already been associated with stress-related responses; some of them are here described for the first time in relation to stress.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus, site of the dominant mammalian circadian clock, contains a variety of different neurons that tend to form groups within the nucleus. The present investigation used single and multiple label tract tracing and immunofluorescence methods to evaluate the relative locations of the neuron groups and to compare them with the distributions of the three major afferent projections, the retinohypothalamic tract, geniculohypothalamic tract and the serotonergic pathway from the median raphe nucleus. The suprachiasmatic nucleus has a complex order characterized by peptidergic cell groups (vasopressin, gastrin releasing peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, calbindin, calretinin, corticotrophin releasing factor and enkephalin) that, in most cases, substantially overlap. The retinohypothalamic tract projects bilaterally to virtually all the suprachiasmatic nucleus in both rat (predominantly contralateral) and mouse (symmetric) and its terminal field overlaps that for the geniculohypothalamic tract, but with distinctions visible according to density criteria; neither provides more than sparse innervation of the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus. In the mouse, the serotonergic terminal field is densest medially and ventrally, but is also distributed elsewhere with varying density. The serotonergic terminal plexus in the rat is densest centromedially and largely, but not completely, overlaps the complete distribution of retinal terminals with density much reduced in the lateral suprachiasmatic nucleus. The locations of vasopressin neurons, retinohypothalamic tract terminals and serotonergic (mouse, rat) or geniculohypothalamic tract (rat) provide evidence for three clear, but not exclusionary, sectors of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The data, in conjunction with emerging knowledge concerning rhythmically dynamic changes in the size of regions of neuropeptide gene expression in suprachiasmatic nucleus cells, support the view that suprachiasmatic nucleus organization is more complex than a simple &quot;core&quot; and &quot;shell&quot; arrangement. While generalizations about suprachiasmatic nucleus organization can be made with respect to location of cell phenotypes or terminal fields, oversimplification may hinder, rather than facilitate, understanding of suprachiasmatic nucleus structure-function relationships.
Three anti-peptide antisera were raised against three distinct amino acid sequences of ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 3 (NTPDase3), characterized by Western blot analyses, and used to determine the distribution of NTPDase3 protein in adult rat brain. The three antisera all yielded similar immunolocalization data, leading to increased reliability of the results obtained. Unlike NTPDase1 and NTPDase2, NTPDase3 immunoreactivity was detected exclusively in neurons. Immunoreactivity was localized primarily to axon-like structures with prominent staining of presynaptic elements. Specific perikaryal immunostaining was detected primarily in scattered neurons near the lateral hypothalamic area and the perifornical nucleus. High densities of immunoreactive axon-like fibers were present in midline regions of the forebrain and midbrain. Highly scattered NTPDase3 positive fibers were observed in the cerebral cortex, the hippocampal formation, and the basal ganglia. Moreover, very high densities of immunostained fibers were detected in the mediobasal hypothalamus, with the overall mesencephalic pattern of staining associated closely with hormone responsive nuclei. High densities of NTPDase3 positive terminals were also associated with noradrenergic neurons. However, co-immunolocalization studies revealed clearly that NTPDase3 immunoreactivity was not localized within the noradrenaline cells or terminals. In contrast, nearly all of the NTPDase3 immunopositive hypothalamic cells, and most fibers in the mid- and hindbrain, also expressed hypocretin-1/orexin-A. The overall pattern of expression and co-localization with hypocretin-1/orexin-A suggests that NTPDase3, by regulating the extracellular turnover of ATP, may modulate feeding, sleep-wake, and other behaviors through diverse homeostatic systems.
Sex differences in brain and behavior are ubiquitous in sexually reproducing species. Developmental differences in circulating concentrations of gonadal steroids underlie many sexual dimorphisms. During the late embryonic and early perinatal periods, the testes produce androgens, thus, male brains are exposed to testosterone, and in situ testosterone is aromatized to estradiol. In contrast, females are not exposed to high concentrations of testosterone or estradiol until puberty. In many species, neural sex differences and sexually dimorphic behaviors in adults are initiated primarily by estradiol exposure during early development. In brain, estradiol activates two independent processes: masculinization of neural circuits and networks that are essential for expression of male-typical adult behaviors, and defeminization, the loss of the ability to display adult female-typical behaviors. Here, data for the roles of each of the known estrogen receptors (estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta) in these two processes are reviewed. Based on work done primarily in knockout mouse models, separate roles for the two estrogen receptors are suggested. Estrogen receptor alpha is primarily involved in masculinization, while estrogen receptor beta has a major role in defeminization of sexual behaviors. In sum, estradiol can have selective effects on distinct behavioral processes via selective interactions with its two receptors, estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta.
Neurogenesis is a constitutive activity in the adult dentate gyrus whereby new cells are created in the subgranular zone, before becoming neurons in the dentate gyrus granule cell layer. New granule cells are thought to migrate from the subgranular zone outwards to the edge of the cell layer as they mature. In these experiments we examined the dendritic morphology of granule cells in the subgranular zone, and the inner and outer regions of the granule cell zone in Sprague-Dawley rats with low and high rates of neurogenesis. In animals with lower rates of neurogenesis, the number of primary dendrites, degree of dendritic complexity and total dendritic length was lowest in cells located in the subgranular zone, higher in inner granule cell zone neurons, and highest in outer granule cell zone granule cells. Subgranular zone granule cells typically extended one primary dendrite and had a simple, immature dendritic tree, while granule cells in the outer granule cell zone had an increased number of primary dendrites, greater dendritic complexity, and greater total dendritic length. Animals that engaged in voluntary exercise showed increased neurogenesis, and the proportion of cells with one or two primary dendrites was increased in all of the granule cell zones. Despite having fewer primary processes, these cells showed enhanced dendritic complexity and an overall increase in their total dendritic length. These results indicate that granule cell dendritic morphology may be indicative of the age and position of a cell in the granule cell layer, but that in animals with increased rates of neurogenesis, the proportion of cells exhibiting what is considered an immature phenotype is increased throughout the all regions of the dentate gyrus cell layer.
Institution of a low-NaCl diet beginning at embryonic day 3 and continued throughout pre- and postnatal development has widespread effects on the neuroanatomical organization of the first gustatory relay in the nucleus of the solitary tract. To determine when these effects are expressed postnatally, the terminal field of the chorda tympani nerve was compared between sodium-restricted and sodium-replete rats at postnatal days 15-17, postnatal days 25-27, postnatal days 35-37, and adults. Total terminal fields were significantly larger in postnatal days 35-37 and adult sodium-restricted rats compared with aged-matched controls. The group-related differences appear related more to a remodeling of the terminal field in the dorsal zone of the terminal field in controls. Specifically, the terminal field volume in the dorsal zone in controls decreased dramatically from postnatal days 25-27 to postnatal days 35-37 and then again from postnatal days 35-37 to adulthood. In contrast, the fields did not change during development in sodium-restricted rats. These findings suggest that remodeling of the chorda tympani field occurs in controls at about the developmental period of taste response maturation. The lack of remodeling in sodium-restricted rats may be explained by a corresponding lack of functional response development to sodium salts. These results also illustrate the specificity and extent of how early dietary manipulations shape the developing brainstem.

Post-menopausal estrogen deficiency is recognized to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of a number of age-related diseases in women, such as osteoporosis, coronary heart disease and Alzheimer's disease. There are also sexual differences in the progression of diseases associated with the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, such as Parkinson's disease, a chronic progressive degenerative disorder characterized by the selective degeneration of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in the substancia nigra pars compacta. The mechanism(s) responsible for dopaminergic neuron degeneration in Parkinson's disease are still unknown, but oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are believed to play a key role in nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuron demise. Estrogen neuroprotective effects have been widely reported in a number of neuronal cell systems including the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, via both genomic and non-genomic effects, however, little is known on estrogen modulation of astrocyte and microglia function in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine model of Parkinson's disease. We here highlight estrogen modulation of glial neuroinflammatory reaction in the protection of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and emphasize the cardinal role of glia-neuron crosstalk in directing neuroprotection vs neurodegeneration. In particular, the specific role of astroglia and its pro-/anti-inflammatory mechanisms in estrogen neuroprotection are presented. This study shows that astrocyte and microglia response to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine injury vary according to the estrogenic status with direct consequences for dopaminergic neuron survival, recovery and repair. These findings provide a new insight into the protective action of estrogen that may possibly contribute to the development of novel therapeutic treatment strategies for Parkinson's disease.
Behavioral sex differences have traditionally been thought to arise from gonadal steroids during a neonatal sensitive period. However, it is possible to sex-reverse certain behaviors by reversing the levels of circulating androgen in adult males and females. These results suggest that the sexually dimorphic substrates of sex behavior are subject to a high degree of plasticity, even in adulthood. I have found that circulating androgen exerts a trophic effect on the Nissl-stained morphology of an important nucleus in the control of sex behavior, namely, the posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala. First, sex-reversing the level of circulating androgen reversed the sex difference in soma size and regional volume of the posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala in adult rats. Interestingly, activation of both androgen and estrogen receptors was necessary for the post-castration maintenance of a masculine phenotype in terms of posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala cell size, whereas only estrogen receptor activity was necessary to maintain a masculine posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala volume. Then, we showed that seasonal variation in androgen was correlated with morphologic plasticity in the posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala of the Siberian hamster. However, if the experimental males were housed with females, their posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdalas failed to regress in response to winter-like short daylengths. Furthermore, when male hamsters were castrated and treated with testosterone, the posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala responded to the hormone only if the animals were in summer-like photoperiods. Overall, these findings indicate that circulating androgens are critical for the maintenance of greater posterodorsal subnucleus of the medial amygdala regional volumes and soma sizes, and that environmental variables can regulate testosterone secretion and responsiveness.
Understanding cognitive aging is becoming more important as the elderly population grows. Here, the effects of age and sex on learning and memory performance were compared in female and male young (3-4 months old) middle-aged (10-12 months old) and old (18-20 months old) wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Old males and females performed worse than young or middle-aged mice in novel location, but not novel object recognition tasks. Old mice, of both sexes, also showed impaired spatial water maze performance during training compared with young or middle-aged mice, however only old females failed to show robust spatial bias during probe trials. While there was no age-difference in passive avoidance performance for males, females showed an age-related decline. There was no difference in cognitive performance between young and middle-age mice of either sex on any task. Cognitive performance was associated with alterations in immunoreactivity of microtubule-associated protein 2-positive dendrites and synaptophysin-positive pre-synaptic terminals in hippocampal CA1, CA3, and dentate, entorhinal cortex, and central nucleus of amygdala. Overall, microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity was increased in old females compared with both young and middle-age females with no significant difference in males. In contrast, synaptophysin immunoreactivity increased from young to middle-age in females, and from middle-age to old in males; females had higher levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity than males in middle-age only. Elevated levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 and synaptophysin may constitute a compensatory response to age-related functional decline in mice.
The brain is an important target organ for peripherally synthesized estrogen but it also has its own steroid biosynthesis producing estrogen from testosterone catalyzed by the aromatase enzyme. This study examined the effects of estrogen treatment in two spatial memory tasks, one-arm-baited radial arm maze and a position discrimination task in the T-maze in ovariectomized female mice. Hippocampal cytochrome P450 19 (encoding aromatase), and estrogen receptor alpha and beta gene expressions were also measured using real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. Estrogen (17beta-estradiol) was administered either tonically via s.c. minipellets or phasically via daily i.p. injections. In ovariectomized mice, the tonic estrogen decreased the number of reference memory errors in radial arm maze. Tonic estrogen treatment also up-regulated the expression of cytochrome P450 19 and estrogen receptors. In contrast, estrogen injections decreased the expression of cytochrome P450 19 and estrogen receptor alpha genes. The number of reference memory errors correlated negatively with estrogen receptor alpha expression. These findings indicate that peripheral estrogen levels affect neuronal estrogen synthesis by regulating the cytochrome P450 19 gene expression and also influence estrogen receptor alpha expression. The results also suggest that tonic rather than cyclic estrogen treatment might be more beneficial for cognitive functions.
There is a growing appreciation for the importance of glial cells to overall brain function. For decades, glial cells have been considered relatively passive supporters of nerve cell function, providing only structural and metabolic support to the communicating neurons. Now, rapidly emerging evidence demonstrates that glial cells are active participants in the processes of synaptic patterning and synaptic transmission. Like their neuronal neighbors residing in steroid sensitive brain regions, glial cells demonstrate a responsiveness to gonadal steroids that has been best characterized by physical changes in their morphology. However, because of their intimate relationship, the nature of neuronal-glial interactions has been challenging to study in vivo and until recently, the functional relevance of steroid-induced changes in glial morphology to neuroendocrine functions could only be implied from anatomical and in vitro studies. The advent of microarray technology offers the potential to uncover steroid regulation of glial-specific genes that may play a role in hormone-dependent neuronal-glial interactions. Our microarray analysis of the rodent hypothalamus has revealed that estradiol increases the expression of a number of glial-specific genes, including glutamine synthetase, an enzyme that inactivates glutamate through its conversion to glutamine. Given that glutamine is the predominant precursor for releasable pools of glutamate, our observation that estradiol increases glutamine synthetase gene and protein expression suggests that hormonal regulation of glutamate neurotransmission involves hormonally responsive glia. Thus, hormonally responsive glia may play a pivotal role in estradiol-mediated synaptic transmission underlying neuroendocrine function.
Activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 has been shown to be required for neural plasticity and memory. Previous pharmacological studies have demonstrated that inhibition of extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 blocks inhibitory avoidance retention. The aim of the present study was to investigate the different neural substrates underlying short- and long-term inhibitory avoidance learning and memory in rats using phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 labeling as an index of plasticity. Short- and long-term retention tests were given 10 min or 24 h after inhibitory avoidance training. A significant elevation in the number of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2-immunoreactive neurons was observed in area 1 of anterior cingulate cortex, the secondary motor cortex, lateral orbital cortex, claustrum, and the medial amygdala nucleus after the short-term inhibitory avoidance test. After the long-term retention test, phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2-immunoreactive neurons were localized in area 1 of anterior cingulate cortex, prelimbic cortex, and the central nucleus of amygdala. This suggests that phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2-immunoreactivity may reveal different brain regions involved in the storage of short- and long-term aversive memories.
Glial cells in both central and peripheral nervous systems are connected by gap junctions, which allow electrical and metabolic coupling between them. In spite of the great current interest in aging of the nervous system, the effect of aging on glial cell coupling received little attention. We examined coupling between satellite glial cells in murine dorsal root ganglia using the dye coupling technique and electron microscopy. We studied mice at ages of postnatal 90-730 days. Dye coupling incidence between satellite glial cells associated with a single neuron increased from 24.2% at postnatal day 90 to 50.5% at postnatal day 730. Dye coupling between satellite glial cells that are in contact with two or more neurons increased from 2.7% at postnatal day 90 to 18.6% at postnatal day 730 (P&lt;0.05). Examination of the ganglia with the electron microscope showed that the number of gap junctions per 100 microm2 of surface area of satellite glial cells increased from 0.22 at postnatal day 90 to 1.56 at postnatal day 730 (P&lt;0.01). The mean length of individual gap junctions did not change with age. These results provide strong evidence for an increase of functional coupling between satellite glial cells during life. This increase is apparently due to an increase in the total area of the system of gap junctions connecting these cells.
The rodent olfactory bulb sends direct projections to the piriform cortex and to two structures intimately implicated in memory processes, the entorhinal cortex and the amygdala. The piriform cortex has monosynaptic projections with the amygdala and the piriform cortex and is therefore in a position to modulate olfactory input either directly in the piriform cortex, or via the amygdala. In order to investigate this hypothesis, field potential signals induced in anesthetized rats by electrical stimulation of the olfactory bulb or the entorhinal cortex were recorded simultaneously in the piriform cortex (anterior part and posterior part) and the amygdala (basolateral nucleus and cortical nucleus). Single-site paired-pulse stimulation was used to assess the time courses of short-term inhibition and facilitation in each recording site in response to electrical stimulation of the olfactory bulb and entorhinal cortex. Paired-pulse stimulation of the olfactory bulb induced homosynaptic inhibition for short interpulse interpulse intervals (20-30 ms) in all the recording sites, with a significantly lower degree of inhibition in the anterior piriform cortex than in the other structures. At longer intervals (40-80 ms), paired-pulse facilitation was observed in all the structures. Paired-pulse stimulation of the entorhinal cortex mainly resulted in inhibition for the shortest interval duration (20 ms) in anterior piriform cortex, posterior piriform cortex and amygdala basolateral but not cortical nucleus. Double-site paired-pulse stimulation was then applied to determine if stimulation of the entorhinal cortex can modulate responses to olfactory bulb stimulation. For short interpulse intervals (20 ms) heterosynaptic inhibition was observed in anterior piriform cortex, posterior piriform cortex and amygdala basolateral but not cortical nucleus. The level of inhibition was greater in the basolateral nucleus than in the other structures. Taken together these data suggest that the entorhinal cortex exerts a main inhibitory effect on the olfactory input via the amygdala basolateral nucleus and to a lesser extent the piriform cortex. The potential role of these effects on the processing of olfactory information is discussed.
Stress increases plasma and brain concentrations of corticosteroids and neuroactive steroids. Cortisol is the most important stress hormone in the hypothalamic pituitary adrenocortical system. However, significant amounts of the mineralocorticoid deoxycorticosterone are also released during stress. Deoxycorticosterone undergoes biotransformation to allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, a neuroactive steroid with anxiolytic and anticonvulsant properties. Our studies indicate that the anticonvulsant activity of deoxycorticosterone is mediated by its conversion to allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, which is a potent positive allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors. Although the role of allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone within the brain is undefined, recent studies indicate that stress induces increases in allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone to levels that can activate GABA(A) receptors. These results might have significant implications for human stress-sensitive conditions such as epilepsy, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and major depression. In epilepsy, a role for adrenal allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone in seizure susceptibility has been suggested. Recent preclinical studies indicate a role of neuroactive steroids in ethanol actions. Although these studies provide a better understanding of the role of allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone and related neuroactive steroids in acute stress, further studies are clearly warranted to ascertain the specific role of neuroactive steroids in the pathophysiology of chronic stress and related brain conditions.
Estrogen-induced synaptic plasticity was frequently shown by an increase of spines at apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons after systemic application of estradiol to ovariectomized rats. Recent findings question this direct endocrine regulation of synaptogenesis by estradiol. We have shown, for the first time, that estrogens are synthesized de novo in rat hippocampal neurons. By using letrozole, an inhibitor of aromatase, estradiol levels in hippocampal dispersion cultures as well as in hippocampal slice cultures were significantly suppressed. Letrozole treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the density of spines and spine synapses and in the number of presynaptic boutons. Quantitative immunohistochemistry revealed a dose-dependent downregulation of spinophilin, a spine marker, and of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, in the hippocampus. Surprisingly, exogenous application of estradiol to the cultures had no effect. Indirect effects of estrogens, mediated via subcortical nuclei, may help to explain this phenomenon. Implantation of estrogen-filled cannulae into the median raphe, which projects to the hippocampus, resulted in a significant increase in spine density in the hippocampus after seven days of treatment. This increase was paralleled by a decrease in the density of serotonergic innervation of the strata lacunosum moleculare and radiatum of the CA1 region. Apart from direct endocrine mechanisms our findings suggest that estradiol-induced spinogenesis in the hippocampus is also mediated by indirect mechanisms and is furthermore regulated endogenously, in a paracrine manner.
Progestins mediate the onset and duration of lordosis, the mating posture of female rodents, through actions in the hypothalamus and ventral tegmental area. In the hypothalamus, progesterone has traditional, &quot;genomic&quot; actions via intracellular progestin receptors. In the ventral tegmental area, 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one has &quot;non-genomic&quot; actions independent of progestin receptors to facilitate lordosis that involve GABA(A)/benzodiazepine receptors, NMDA type glutamate receptors, and/or dopamine receptors. 3alpha-Hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one levels also change with behavioral and/or environmental stimuli and may have a role in other reproductively-relevant behaviors, such as affiliation, exploration, and anxiety (socio-sexual behaviors). Data are reviewed that support the notion that: 1) effects of 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one in the midbrain ventral tegmental area facilitate lordosis and other reproductively-relevant behaviors. 2) 3alpha-Hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one, formed in the ventral tegmental area from metabolism of progestins, produced peripherally by endocrine glands, or centrally from biosynthesis in glial cells mediates socio-sexual behaviors. 3) 3alpha-Hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one's actions at GABA(A)/benzodiazepine receptors, NMDA type glutamate receptors, and dopamine receptors in the ventral tegmental area are important for lordosis; however, effects at these substrates on socio-sexual behaviors have not been elucidated. Given 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one's involvement in stress responses, its putative role as a homeostatic regulator and in the pathophysiology and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders is discussed.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus is the master circadian clock in mammals. Phase shifts in circadian locomotor activity occur when an animal is exposed to light during the subjective night. An endogenous ligand of opioid receptor like 1, nociceptin is reported to inhibit light-induced phase shifts in locomotor activity rhythm. However, little is known about the role of opioid receptor like 1 receptors in the entrainment. Therefore, we investigated the involvement opioid receptor like 1 and its endogenous ligand, intnociceptin, in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and in the entrainment of circadian rhythms in rats. In an in vitro experiment, glutamate (1 microM) -induced phase delay of suprachiasmatic nucleus neuronal activity rhythms was inhibited by nociceptin during the early subjective night. An opioid receptor like 1 antagonist, compound B (10 microM), induced a phase delay, and this effect was blocked by nociceptin (10 microM). Moreover, compound B (10 microM) potentiated the glutamate (1 microM) -induced phase delay. Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of rats induced by photic stimulation (50 lux, 30 min) during the early subjective night was inhibited by treatment with nociceptin (0.5-10 nM, i.c.v.). The effect of nociceptin (10nM, i.c.v.) was blocked by pretreatment with compound B (30 mg/kg, i.p). In an in vivo experiment, nociceptin significantly inhibited a light-induced (300 lux, 1 h) phase delay of locomotor activity rhythms, and this effect was inhibited by Compound B. Compound B (30 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly potentiated the light-induced phase delay. Nociceptin induced a neuronal firing phase advance (in vitro) and locomotor activity rhythms (in vivo) in the daytime and this effect was blocked by Compound B. These results suggest that opioid receptor like 1 receptors have an inhibitory effect at night, and a facilitative effect in the day, on phase changes.
Historically, morphological studies of the distribution of androgen receptors in the brain led to conclusions that the major regional targets of androgen action are involved in reproduction, that the primary cellular targets are neurons, and that functional androgen receptors are exclusively nuclear, consistent with the classical view of steroid receptors as ligand-dependent transcription factors. In this review, we discuss three separate but interrelated recent studies highlighting observations made with newer methodologies while assessing the regional, cellular or subcellular distribution of androgen receptors containing cells in the forebrain. Regional studies demonstrated that the largest forebrain target for androgen action in terms of the number of androgen receptor expressing cells is the cerebral cortex, rather than the main hypothalamic and limbic centers for reproductive function. Cellular studies to determine the phenotype of androgen receptor expressing cells confirmed that most of these cells are neurons but also revealed that small subpopulations are astrocytes. The expression of androgen receptors in astrocytes is both region and age dependent. In contrast, reactive astrocytes in the lesioned adult rat brain do not express androgen receptors whereas reactive microglia do. Finally, androgen receptor immunoreactive axons were identified in the cerebral cortex of the rat and human. These observations do not overturn classical views of the cellular and subcellular locus of steroid action in the nervous system, but rather broaden our view of the potential direct impact of gonadal steroid hormones on cellular function and emphasize the regional and developmental specificity of these effects on the nervous system.
Early exposure to adverse experiences may lead to specific changes in hippocampal glucocorticoid function resulting in abnormalities within the hypothalamic-adrenal axis. Given interactions between the neuroendocrine and central serotonergic systems, we hypothesized that exposure to early trauma would lead to abnormal hypothalamic-adrenal axis activity that would be normalized by pretreatment with a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor. Hypothalamic-adrenal axis function was assessed by determining basal corticosterone levels and hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity. Rats were subjected to a triple stressor on postnatal day 28, and again to a single swim re-stress session on postnatal day 35 and postnatal day 60. On postnatal day 61 i.e. 24 h after the last re-stress, trunk blood was collected for serum corticosterone determinations and hippocampal tissue was collected for immunohistochemistry of glucocorticoid receptors. Escitalopram (5mg/kg) or saline vehicle was administered from postnatal day 47-postnatal day 60 via osmotic mini-pumps. Animals exposed to early life trauma showed an increase in basal corticosterone levels, and a significant decrease in the ratio of glucocorticoid receptor positive cells to total cells in the hilus, granule cell layer and the dentate gyrus. Both the increase in basal corticosterone and decrease in glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity were reversed by escitalopram pretreatment. These data confirm alterations in hypothalamic-adrenalaxis function that may stem from decreases in glucocorticoid receptor levels, in response to early adverse experiences, and demonstrate that these alterations are reversed by serotonin re-uptake inhibitor pretreatment.
Dysfunction of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition is implicated in a number of neurological and psychiatric conditions including epilepsy and affective disorders. Some of these conditions have been associated with abnormal levels of certain endogenously occurring neurosteroids, which potently and selectively enhance the function of the brain's major inhibitory receptor, the GABA(A) receptor. Consistent with their ability to enhance neuronal inhibition, such steroids exhibit in animals and humans anxiolytic, anticonvulsant and anesthetic actions. Neurosteroids, exemplified by the potent progesterone metabolite, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one can be synthesized de novo in the CNS both in neurones and glia in levels sufficient to modulate GABA(A) receptor function. Neurosteroid levels are not static, but are subject to dynamic fluctuations, for example during stress, or the later stages of pregnancy. These observations suggest that these endogenous modulators may refine the function of the brain's major inhibitory receptor and thus, play an important physiological and pathophysiological role. However, given the ubiquitous expression of GABA(A) receptors throughout the mammalian CNS, changes in neurosteroid levels should be widely experienced, causing a generalized enhancement of neuronal inhibition. Such a non-specific action would seem incompatible with a physiological role. However, neurosteroid action is both brain region and neurone selective. This specificity results from a variety of molecular mechanisms including receptor subunit composition, local steroid metabolism and phosphorylation. This paper will evaluate the relative contribution these mechanisms play in defining the interaction of neurosteroids with synaptic and extra-synaptic GABA(A) receptors.
Although several randomized controlled trials of surgically menopausal women have provided evidence that estrogen protects aspects of memory, many cross-sectional and longitudinal studies, including those from the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study, have failed to confirm these findings. One critical difference between studies that found a protective effect of estrogen on memory and those that did not is that, in the former studies, treatment with estrogen began at the time of menopause and in the latter studies, it was first administered many years after the menopause had occurred. Recent evidence from rodent, nonhuman primate, and human studies consistently suggests that the timing of the initiation of estrogen treatment with regard to the menopause may be critical to our understanding of the estrogenic effect on memory. Results of these animal and human studies indicate that the initiation of estrogen treatment at the time of menopause, or soon after ovariectomy, provides a window of opportunity for the protection of memory in females whereas the administration of the hormone following a considerable delay in time after ovariectomy or following a natural menopause has little or no beneficial effect on cognition.
Estrogen has the potential to influence brain processes implicated in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. With the loss of ovarian estrogen production after menopause, estrogen-containing hormone therapy might be expected to influence the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Observational data link use of hormone therapy to reductions in Alzheimer risk, but experimental evidence from the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study trial demonstrates that oral estrogen, with or without a progestin, increases the incidence of dementia for postmenopausal women age 65 years or older. Mechanisms of harm in this setting are unknown. Bias and unrecognized confounding in observational research are leading candidates for discrepant results between observational studies and the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study trial. Studies are also distinguished by differences in outcome measures, hormone therapy formulations, prevalence of menopausal symptoms among study participants, and participant age. Finally, Women's Health Initiative Memory Study findings may not generalize to estrogen use by relatively young women during the menopausal transition or early postmenopause, a class of women who were ineligible for the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study trial. In observational studies, hormone therapy exposure often included use by younger women for menopausal vasomotor symptoms. Although there is no clinical trial evidence that hormone therapy at any age protects against Alzheimer's disease, it remains to be determined whether the age at which hormone exposure occurs or the timing of hormone therapy initiation in relation to the menopause (the critical window hypothesis) modifies treatment outcomes on dementia risk.
Ovarian steroid hormones, estradiol and progesterone, modulate neuroendocrine functions in the CNS resulting in alterations in physiology in female mammals. Classical model of steroid hormone action assumes that these neural effects are predominantly mediated via their intracellular receptors functioning as &quot;ligand-dependent&quot; transcription factors in the steroid-sensitive neurons regulating genes and genomic networks with profound behavioral consequences. Steroid receptors are phosphoproteins and steroid hormone-dependent, receptor-mediated transcription is dependent on the state of phosphorylation of the cognate receptors and/or their co-regulator proteins. Studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that in addition to the steroid hormones, intracellular steroid receptors can be activated in a &quot;ligand-independent&quot; manner by neurotransmitters that can alter the dynamic equilibrium between neuronal phosphatases and kinases. Using biochemical and molecular approaches we have elucidated that the signaling cascade initiated by neurotransmitter, dopamine, converges with steroid hormone-initiated pathway to regulate neuroendocrine pathways associated with reproductive behavior. Signal transduction via protein phosphorylation is common to the molecular pathways through which steroid hormones and neurotransmitters mediate their physiological effects in the CNS involving a high degree of cross-talk and reinforcement among rapid, membrane-initiated pathways at the G-protein level and the classical intracellular signaling pathways at the transcriptional level in mammals. The molecular mechanisms, by which a multitude of signals converge with steroid receptors to delineate a genomic level of cross-talk, provide new avenues for understanding the role of steroid hormones in brain and behavior.
During recent decades, it has become a generally accepted view that structural neuroplasticity is remarkably involved in the functional adaptation of the CNS. Thus, cellular morphology in the brain is in continuous transition throughout the life span, as a response to environmental stimuli. The effects of the environment on neuroplasticity are mediated by, to some extent, the changing levels of circulating gonadal steroid hormones. Today, it is clear that the function of gonadal steroids in the brain extends beyond simply regulating reproductive and/or neuroendocrine events. In addition, or even more importantly, gonadal steroids participate in the shaping of the developing brain, while their actions during adult life are implicated in higher brain functions such as cognition, mood and memory. A large body of evidence indicates that gonadal steroid-induced functional changes are accompanied by alterations in neuron and synapse numbers, as well as in dendritic and synaptic morphology. These structural modifications are believed to serve as a morphological basis for changes in behavior and cellular activity. Due to their growing functional and clinical significance, the specificity, timeframe, as well as the molecular and cellular mechanisms of hormone-induced neuroplasticity have become the focus of many studies. In this review, we briefly summarize current knowledge and the most significant recent discoveries from our laboratories on estrogen- and dehydroepiandrosterone-induced synaptic remodeling in the hypothalamus and hippocampus, two important brain areas heavily involved in autonomic and cognitive operations, respectively.
Estrogens influence neuronal activity and are important for normal brain functions. Effects of estrogens on seizures are contradictory. It is commonly accepted that estrogens may increase neuronal excitability and thus mediate proconvulsant effects. However, clinical and animal data show that estrogen may also have no effect or anticonvulsant effects. The action of estrogens on seizures depends on various factors, such as treatment duration and latency prior to the seizure testing, estrogen dose, hormonal status (nave vs gonadectomized animals), estrogenic substance, the region/neurotransmitter system involved, the seizure type/model used, and sex. Besides the effects on seizure susceptibility, estrogens may also play an important role in seizure-induced damage. Pretreatment with beta-estradiol in ovariectomized female rats has neuroprotective effects on status epilepticus-induced hippocampal damage and prevents the loss of inhibition in the dentate gyrus during the early post-status epilepticus period determined by the in vitro paired pulse paradigm. Several signaling pathways may be involved in the neuroprotective effects of beta-estradiol on status epilepticus-induced hippocampal damage but at least one of these pathways involves interactions with neuropeptide Y.
Certain neuroactive steroids modulate ligand-gated ion channels via non-genomic mechanisms. Especially 3alpha-reduced pregnane steroids are potent positive allosteric modulators of the GABA type A-receptor. During major depression there is a dysequilibrium of 3alpha-reduced neuroactive steroids, which is corrected by clinically effective pharmacological treatment. To investigate whether these alterations are a general principle of successful antidepressant treatment we studied the impact of non-pharmacological treatment options on neuroactive steroid concentrations during major depression. Neither partial sleep deprivation, transcranial magnetic stimulation nor electroconvulsive therapy affected neuroactive steroid levels irrespectively of the response to these treatments. These studies suggest that the changes in neuroactive steroids observed after antidepressant pharmacotherapy more likely reflect distinct pharmacological properties of antidepressants rather than the clinical response. In patients with panic disorder changes in neuroactive steroid composition have been observed opposite of those seen in depression. These changes may represent counterregulatory mechanisms against the occurrence of spontaneous panic attacks. However, during experimental panic induction with either cholecystokinin-tetrapeptide or sodium lactate there was a pronounced decline in the concentrations of 3alpha-reduced neuroactive steroids in patients with panic disorder, which might result in a decreased GABAergic tone. In contrast, no changes in neuroactive steroid concentrations could be observed in healthy controls with the exception of 3alpha, 5alpha-tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone. The modulation of GABA type A-receptors by neuroactive steroids might contribute to the pathophysiology of depression and anxiety disorders and might offer new targets for the development of novel anxiolytic compounds.
Extensive evidence from rat and human studies indicates that glucocorticoid hormones influence cognitive performance. Posttraining activation of glucocorticoid-sensitive pathways dose-dependently enhances the consolidation of long-term memory. Glucocorticoid effects on memory consolidation rely on noradrenergic activation of the basolateral amygdala and interactions of the basolateral amygdala with other brain regions. Glucocorticoids interact with the noradrenergic system both at a postsynaptic level, increasing the efficacy of the beta-adrenoceptor-cyclic AMP/protein kinase A system, as well as presynaptically in brainstem noradrenergic cell groups that project to the basolateral amygdala. In contrast, memory retrieval and working memory performance are impaired with high circulating levels of glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoid-induced impairment of these two memory functions also requires the integrity of the basolateral amygdala and the noradrenergic system. Such critical interactions between glucocorticoids and noradrenergic activation of the basolateral amygdala have important consequences for the role of emotional arousal in enabling glucocorticoid effects on these different memory functions.
Vasopressin neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and amygdala and vasotocin neurons in homologous areas in non-mammalian vertebrates show some of the most consistently found neural sex differences, with males having more cells and denser projections than females. These projections have been implicated in social and reproductive behaviors but also in autonomic functions. The sex differences in these projections may cause as well as prevent sex differences in these functions. This paper discusses the anatomy, steroid dependency, and sexual differentiation of these neurons. Although the final steps in sexual differentiation of vasopressin/vasotocin expression may be similar across vertebrate species, what triggers differentiation may vary dramatically. For example, during development, estrogen masculinizes vasopressin expression in rats but feminizes its counterpart in Japanese quail. Apparently, nature consistently finds a way of maintaining sex differences in vasopressin and vasotocin pathways, suggesting that the function of these differences is important enough that it was conserved during evolution.
Hormone therapy and estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women have been thought to ameliorate cognitive dysfunction and decrease the risk and/or progress of neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and stroke. Furthermore, estrogens have been shown to exert neuroprotective actions in a variety of in vitro and in vivo models of brain injury. However, the findings of the Women's Health Initiative have made us re-evaluate these assumptions. Our laboratory has shown that physiological levels of estradiol attenuate ischemic brain injury in young and middle-aged female rats. We have begun to probe the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie these novel non-reproductive actions of this steroid. Our findings demonstrate that in both young and aging rats, treatment with physiological concentrations of estradiol decreases ischemic injury by almost 50%, compared with oil-treated controls. Additionally, our data suggest that estradiol acts by altering the expression of genes that suppress apoptosis and enhance survival in the penumbral region of the infarct. These observations demonstrate that estrogen therapy protects against stroke-related injury in young and aging female rats and strongly suggest that middle-aged animals remain responsive to the protective actions of estradiol. Furthermore, they suggest that estrogen therapy protects against cell death by influencing the expression of genes that suppress apoptotic cell death pathways.
Nitric oxide-containing neurons are widely distributed within the CNS, including regions involved in the control of reproduction and sexual behavior. The expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase is influenced by testosterone in male rat, and by estrogens in female. Moreover, nitric oxide synthase may co-localize with gonadal hormones' receptors. Gonadal hormones may influence nitric oxide synthase expression in adulthood as well as during the development. In fact, in mice knockout for estrogen receptor alpha, the nitric oxide synthase-expressing population is deeply reduced in specific regions. In physiological conditions, the female in mammalian species is exposed to short-term changes of gonadal hormones levels (estrous cycle). Our recent studies, performed in the rat vomeronasal system and in mouse hypothalamic and limbic systems reveal that, in rodents, the expression of nitric oxide synthase-producing elements within regions relevant for the control of sexual behavior is under the control of gonadal hormones. The expression of nitric oxide synthase may vary according to the rapid variations of hormonal levels that take place during the estrous cycle. This seems in accordance with the hypothesis that gonadal hormone activation of nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine-monophosphate pathway is important for lordosis behavior, as well as that this system is activated during mating behavior. Finally, comparative data available for other vertebrates suggest that class-specific and species-specific differences occur in the nitric oxide synthase system of hypothalamus and limbic structures. Therefore, particular caution is needed to generalize data obtained from studies in rodents.
Losses of working and long-term memory are hallmarks of human aging and may signal impending neurodegenerative disease. The maintenance of neural elements in brain systems that support memory, such as synapse formation in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, are critical for cognitive health in aging. This paper reviews the biological basis for androgens as neuroprotectants or neuromodulators in aging and the importance of androgens on the brain systems important for memory. We relate biological effects to cognitive outcomes in elderly men under a variety of androgen conditions. In brief, androgen deprivation causes significant loss of synapses in the hippocampus in rodent and nonhuman primates, increases amyloid deposition in human and rodent models and causes changes in neurotransmission in prefrontal cortex in rodent models. Recent work suggests that these changes modify age-related cognitive loss, particularly to memory in men. In addition, the conversion of testosterone to its androgen metabolites or to estradiol may play a special role in the preservation of memory in aging. This paper reviews discrepancies between studies using animal models and studies of human cognition, and suggests new directions that are likely to be fruitful in the future for understanding the role of androgens in brain aging. This review suggests that studies of low androgen levels in older men may not index the same biological mechanisms and behavioral effects as the studies of gonadectomy in animal models.
Anabolic androgenic steroids are synthetic derivatives of testosterone designed for therapeutic purposes, but now taken predominantly as drugs of abuse. The most common behavioral effects associated with anabolic androgenic steroid use are changes in anxiety, aggression and reproductive behaviors, including the onset of puberty and sexual receptivity. GABAergic circuits in the forebrain underlie these behaviors and are regulated by gonadal steroids. Work from our laboratories has shown that the expression and function of GABA(A) receptors in the rat and mouse forebrain varies between the sexes and across the estrous cycle. We have also shown that there are significant changes in GABA(A) receptor expression that occur with the progression through puberty to adulthood. Because GABAergic systems are both steroid-sensitive and critical for the expression of behaviors altered with anabolic androgenic steroid use, forebrain GABA(A) receptors are an attractive candidate to assess how molecular actions of anabolic androgenic steroids may be translated to known behavioral outcomes. Our studies demonstrate that anabolic androgenic steroids elicit both acute modulation of GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents, as well as chronic regulation of GABA(A) receptor expression and forebrain GABAergic transmission. Because anabolic androgenic steroid use has now become prevalent not only among adolescent boys, but in an increasing number of adolescent girls, we have also been particularly interested in determining age- and sex-specific effects of anabolic androgenic steroids. Our data show that the effects of chronic anabolic androgenic steroid exposure can be greater for adolescent than adult animals and are more marked in females than in males. These data have particularly important implications with respect to studies we have done demonstrating that chronic anabolic androgenic steroid exposure alters the onset of puberty, estrous cyclicity and sexual receptivity.
Sex differences in nuclear volume or neuron number often are attributed to the hormonal control of cell death. In the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus, the central portion of the medial preoptic nucleus, and the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis testicular hormones decrease cell death during perinatal life, resulting in a male advantage in neuron number in adulthood. Conversely, males have more dying cells during development and fewer neurons in adulthood than do females in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. This review discusses several limitations and unresolved issues in the literature on sexually dimorphic cell death, and identifies molecular mechanisms by which gonadal steroids may control cell survival. In particular, evidence is presented for the hormonal regulation of neurotrophic factors and involvement of Bcl-2 family proteins in the determination of sex differences in neuron number.
Hippocampal pyramidal neurons and granule neurons of adult male rats are equipped with a complete machinery for the synthesis of pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and 17beta-estradiol. Both estrogens and androgens are synthesized in male hippocampus. These brain steroids are synthesized by cytochrome P450s (P450scc, P45017alpha and P450arom), hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases and reductases from endogenous cholesterol. The expression levels of enzymes are as low as 1/300-1/1000 of those in endocrine organs. Synthesis is dependent on the acute Ca(2+) influx upon neuron-neuron communication via NMDA receptors. Estradiol is particularly important because estradiol rapidly modulates neuronal synaptic transmission such as long-term potentiation via synaptic estrogen receptors. Xenoestrogens may also act via estrogen-driven signaling pathways.
The development of song in songbirds is a complex phenomenon that involves memory and learning, sensorimotor integration, and neural and muscular maturation. Gonadal hormones are involved in each of these steps, as they influence the differentiation of the neural song system, the incorporation and survival of neurones, and the development of muscles used for song production. In young males the development of song, therefore, is closely linked to the secretion of testosterone by the testicles. Castration results in the development of incomplete or unstable songs, and hormone replacement leads to the development of crystallized or stable song. However, testosterone does not act solely as an androgen. The brain of songbirds contains high concentrations of the enzyme aromatase, which converts testosterone into estradiol. Estradiol then binds to estrogen receptors, which in the song system are found only in the nucleus HVC. This forebrain nucleus, also called the &quot;master nucleus,&quot; codes for the syntactic structure of song, i.e. for the particular combination of simple elements-syllables-that characterize the song of an individual. In this paper, we will review our studies on the role of estrogen in guiding the organization of song in canaries.
Glucocorticoid hormones modulate brain function and as such are crucial for responding and adjusting to physical and psychological stressors. Their effects are mediated via mineralo- and glucocorticoid receptors, which in large measure act as transcription factors to modulate transcription of target genes, in a receptor-, cell-, and state-specific manner. The nature and magnitude of these transcriptional effects depend on the presence and activity of downstream proteins, such as steroid receptor coactivators and corepressors (together: coregulators), many of which are expressed in the brain. We address the role of coregulators for mineralo- and glucocorticoid receptor-mediated modulation of gene transcription. We first address evidence from cell lines for the importance of coregulator stoichiometry for steroid signaling. The in vivo importance of coregulators-when possible specifically for glucocorticoid signaling in the brain-is discussed based on knockout mice, transient knockdown of steroid receptor coactivators, and distribution and regulation of coactivator expression in the brain. We conclude that for a better understanding of modulation of brain function by glucocorticoids, it is necessary to take into account the role of coregulators, and to assess their importance relative to changes in hormone levels and receptor expression.
In late pregnant rats neuroendocrine stress responses, expressed as increased oxytocin secretion and activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, are attenuated. These adaptations preserve the oxytocin store for parturition and prevent pre-term birth, and protect the fetuses from adverse programming by exposure to excess glucocorticoid. Mechanisms of adaptations for oxytocin neurones are reviewed, using challenge with systemic interleukin-1beta, simulating activation of immune signaling by infection, as a stressor of special relevance in pregnancy. In virgin rats, systemic interleukin-1beta stimulates the firing of oxytocin neurones, and hence oxytocin secretion, but interleukin-1beta has no effects in late pregnant rats. This lack of response is reversed by naloxone treatment just before interleukin-1beta administration, indicating endogenous opioid suppression of oxytocin responses in late pregnancy. This opioid presynaptically inhibits noradrenergic terminals impinging on oxytocin neurones. Finasteride pretreatment, inhibiting progesterone conversion to allopregnanolone, a positive GABA(A) receptor allosteric modifier, also restores an oxytocin response to interleukin-1beta. This finasteride effect is reversed by allopregnanolone treatment. In virgin rats allopregnanolone attenuates the oxytocin response to interleukin-1beta, which is exaggerated by naloxone. The effects of naloxone and finasteride in late pregnant rats in restoring an oxytocin response to interleukin-1beta are not additive. Accordingly, allopregnanolone may both enhance GABA inhibition of oxytocin neurone responses to interleukin-1beta, and induce opioid suppression of noradrenaline release onto oxytocin neurones.
Several studies have suggested that estrogen benefits verbal memory and lowers the risk of Alzheimer's disease in women, and improves cognitive function in animal models. However, the negative outcome of the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study has challenged the rationale for using estrogen as a protective agent against age-related cognitive decline. In view of the limitations of the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study, it is clear that our understanding of estrogen effects would greatly benefit from further interactions between clinical and basic science. Animal models of menopause can provide crucial information regarding the consequences of estrogen loss and replacement on several systems, including cognition. In this paper, I review the evidence that nonhuman primates, who share numerous cognitive and physiological characteristics with humans, can substantially contribute to our understanding of estrogen influences on the brain and cognition. Studies in young adult females suggest that some aspects of cognition fluctuate with the menstrual cycle, but that ovariectomy and estrogen replacement have only modest effects on cognitive function. In contrast, data in aged, naturally or surgically menopausal monkeys indicate that estrogen modulates a broad range of cognitive domains. Neurobiological data are consistent with the cognitive findings and demonstrate an array of morphological and physiological changes in brain areas important for cognition following ovariectomy and/or estrogen replacement. It is concluded that nonhuman primates, by providing a bridge between rodent and human data, constitute invaluable models to further our understanding of hormonal actions on the brain and cognition and to develop effective hormonal interventions against brain and cognitive aging.
There has been increasing interest in functional heterogeneity along the septotemporal, dorsal-ventral (D-V) axis of the hippocampus. Although anatomical connectivity and lesion studies point to discrete roles for these sub-regions, the contribution of differential gene expression across this axis has not been systematically studied. Here we present findings from an Affymetrix microarray screen aimed at identifying genes in the CA1 region of the adult murine hippocampus that show significant differential expression along the D-V axis. Our results indicate that the vast majority of monitored genes (&gt;90%) had tissue expression levels that differed by less than 20% between regions, while less than 0.1% of genes had expression levels that varied more than three-fold by sub-region. Only 23 probes showed a CA1 dorsoventral signal intensity ratio greater than three: 18 enriched dorsally and five enriched ventrally. Probes with the greatest difference in expression levels represent a range of genes with known functions in patterning and signaling, as well as genes without known function. Selective screening with digoxigenin-labeled in situ hybridization confirms the existence of CA1 sub-regionalized expression, with some genes exhibiting a graded expression pattern across the D-V axis, and others restricted to a discrete region. Our findings demonstrate that there are gene expression differences across the D-V axis of the adult murine hippocampus within traditionally recognized cytoarchitecturally defined boundaries. Combined with the previously recognized differences in connectivity and results from lesion studies, our data further confirm the existence of functional heterogeneity along the D-V axis.
Bilobalide was found to be a moderately potent antagonist with a weak use-dependent effect at recombinant human rho(1) GABA(C) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes using two-electrode voltage clamp methodology. Antagonism of bilobalide at homomeric rho(1) GABA(C) receptors appeared to be mixed. At low concentration, bilobalide (3 microM) caused a parallel right shift and surmountable GABA maximal response of the GABA dose-response curve characteristic of a competitive antagonist. At high concentrations, bilobalide (10-100 microM) caused nonparallel right shifts and reduced maximal GABA responses of GABA dose-response curves characteristic of a noncompetitive antagonist. The potency of bilobalide appears to be dependent on the concentrations of GABA and was more potent at lower GABA concentrations. The mechanism of action of bilobalide at rho(1) GABA(C) receptors appears to be similar to that of the chloride channel blocker picrotoxinin.
Hyaluronic acid hydrogels modified with polyclonal anti-Nogo-66 receptor antibody were developed in order to promote regeneration in the injured CNS. These modified hydrogels were intended not only to deliver antibodies, but also to serve as a scaffold for neural regeneration following their implantation into injured tissue. Since unmodified hyaluronic acid-hydrogels do not support cell attachment, the gels were modified with polyclonal anti-Nogo-66 receptor with the aim of altering the surface properties of the gels in such a way as to improve neuronal adherence and survival. After evaluating the immobilization efficiency of the system, chicken dorsal root ganglia and dorsal root ganglia cells were planted on the surface of the modified gels to determine cell viability. Dorsal root ganglia were also cultured close to the gels in order to assay the inducement of neurite outgrowth. In dorsal root ganglia and cell viability assay, dorsal root ganglia and neuron cells could adhere to the modified hydrogels and survive well, but it did not happen to unmodified hydrogels. After 72 h, these attached cells were stained positively with immuno-staining for neurofilament. Neurite outgrowth inducement assay showed that the number and length of dorsal root ganglia neurites on the side toward modified hydrogels were significantly more than that on the opposite side (both P&lt;0.01). The results reveal that hyaluronic acid-hydrogels modified with anti-Nogo-66 receptor can support neural cell attachment and survival in vitro. Furthermore, this system can greatly induce neurite outgrowth. The results also indicate that this modified hydrogels have potential to repair injury in the CNS.
Neurofibromatosis type I is a common autosomal dominant disease characterized by formation of multiple benign and malignant tumors. People with this disorder also experience chronic pain, which can be disabling. Neurofibrinomin, the protein product of the NF1 gene (neurofibromin gene (human)), is a guanosine triphosphate activating protein for p21(ras). Loss of NF1 results in an increase in activity of the p21(ras) transduction cascade. Because of the growing evidence suggesting involvement of downstream components of the p21(ras) transduction cascade in the sensitization of nociceptive sensory neurons, we examined the stimulus-evoked release of the neuropeptides, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, from primary sensory neurons of mice with a mutation of the Nf1 gene (neurofibromin gene (mouse)) (Nf1+/-). Measuring immunoreactive substance P and immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide by radioimmunoassay, we demonstrated that capsaicin-stimulated release of neuropeptides is three to five-fold higher in spinal cord slices from Nf1+/- mice than from wildtype mouse tissue. In addition, the potassium and capsaicin-stimulated release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide from cultures of sensory neurons isolated from Nf1+/- mice was more than double that from cultures of wildtype neurons. Treatment of wildtype sensory neurons with nerve growth factor for 5-7 days mimicked the enhanced stimulus-evoked release observed from the Nf1+/- neurons. When nerve growth factor was removed 48 h before conducting release experiments, nerve growth factor-induced augmentation of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide release from Nf1+/- neurons was more pronounced than in Nf1+/- sensory neurons that were treated with nerve growth factor continuously for 5-7 days. Thus, sensory neurons from mice with a heterozygous mutation of the Nf1 gene that is analogous to the human disease neurofibromatosis type I, exhibit increased sensitivity to chemical stimulation. This augmented responsiveness may explain the abnormal pain sensations experienced by people with neurofibromatosis type I and suggests an important role for guanosine triphosphate activating proteins, in the regulation of nociceptive sensory neuron sensitization.
The hypothesis that damage to mitochondrial DNA by reactive oxygen species increases the activity of nuclear and mitochondrial transcription factors for mitochondrial DNA replication was tested in the in vivo rat brain. Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species generation was stimulated using pre-convulsive doses of hyperbaric oxygen and hippocampal mitochondrial DNA content and neuronal and mitochondrial morphology and cell proliferation were evaluated at 1, 5 and 10 days. Gene expression was subsequently evaluated to assess nuclear and mitochondrial-encoded respiratory genes, mitochondrial transcription factor A, and nuclear respiratory transcription factors-1 and -2. After 1 day, a mitochondrial DNA deletion emerged involving Complex I and IV subunit-encoding regions that was independent of overt neurological or cytological O(2) toxicity, and resolved before the onset of cell proliferation. This damage was attenuated by blockade of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Compensatory responses were found in nuclear gene expression for manganese superoxide dismutase, mitochondrial transcription factor A, and nuclear respiratory transcription factor-2. Enhanced nuclear respiratory transcription factor-2 binding activity in hippocampus was accompanied by a nearly three-fold boost in mitochondrial DNA content over 5 days. The finding that O(2) activates regional mitochondrial DNA transcription, replication, and mitochondrial biogenesis in the hippocampus may have important implications for maintaining neuronal viability after brain injury.
The present study investigates the induction of axon and myelin remodeling as a possible mechanism by which treatment of stroke with bone marrow stromal cells improves neurological functional recovery. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by an injection of 2 x 10(6) rat bone marrow stromal cells or phosphate-buffered saline into the internal carotid artery 24 h later. Animals were killed at 28 days after stroke. Functional tests, histo- and immunohistochemical staining were performed. Significant functional recovery was found after bone marrow stromal cell administration in all the three tests performed (modified neurological severity score, adhesive-removal and corner tests). Bone marrow stromal cell treatment markedly increased vessel sprouting, synaptophysin expression and NG2 positive cell numbers and density in the cortical peri-infarct area. In bone marrow stromal cell-treated rats, the number of Ki-67 positive proliferating cells and oligodendrocyte precursor cells in the corpus callosum increased significantly in concert with the enhancement of the areas of the corpus callosum in both hemispheres. These results suggest that bone marrow stromal cells facilitate axonal sprouting and remyelination in the cortical ischemic boundary zone and corpus callosum, which may underlie neurological functional improvement caused by bone marrow stromal cell treatment.
Sodium-potassium ATPase (Na+,K+-ATPase) regulates the electrochemical gradient in cells, thereby providing fluid and ionic homeostasis. Additionally, interaction of the Na+,K+ pump with cardiac glycosides can activate intracellular signaling cascades (resulting in cell growth) and up-regulate transcription factors that promote cell survival. We used an in vivo excitotoxicity model to assess if Na+,K+-ATPase plays a role in neuronal apoptosis. After unilateral, intrastriatal injection of the glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid into postnatal day 7 rats, Na+,K+ pump function was increased at 12 h after excitotoxic challenge, and levels of neuron-specific enzyme subunits were preserved (up to 24 h after injection) in membrane-enriched striatal fractions. In addition, co-injection of kainic acid with a low-dose (0.01 nmol) of the cardiac glycoside ouabain significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced striatal apoptosis (at 24 h post-injection) without diminishing Na+,K+-ATPase activity. To evaluate the possible mechanisms for this neuroprotection, we examined the levels of nuclear factor kappa B and Bcl-2 after cardiac glycoside exposure. Low-dose ouabain increased nuclear Bcl-2 (but not nuclear factor kappa B) protein levels at 6 h post injection. Our results suggest that Na+,K+-ATPase allows for progression of apoptosis in excitotoxically-injured neurons, and that sublethal concentrations of ouabain provide neuroprotection against excitotoxicity. The mechanism for this ouabain neuroprotection could be intracellular cascades linked to the Na+,K+-ATPase-ouabain interaction that modulate subcellular Bcl-2 levels. Targeted, therapeutic inhibition of apoptosis through cardiac glycosides may represent an effective strategy against excitotoxicity-mediated neuronal injury.
The hippocampal formation is suggested to be crucial in unambiguous representation of overlapping temporal sequences in episodic memory. We hypothesized that, if this was true, the hippocampal formation neurons would differentially respond to the same elements even in different temporal sequences. The present study was designed to investigate hippocampal formation CA1 neuronal activity of rats during performance of a conditional delayed stimulus-response association task in which three stimuli were conditionally and serially presented with a delay. In the task, the pairs of the second and third stimuli were overlapped across the trials, but separated by the preceding first stimuli. Conditioned tones coming from one of three possible directions were followed, after a short delay, by one of three pairs of reinforcement series. The pairs consisted of air puff (aversive sensory stimuli) and tube protrusion (which allowed licking sucrose behavior) in the following combinations: air puff-tube protrusion, tube protrusion-tube protrusion and tube protrusion-air puff. The pairs were interposed by a 2 s delay. The three conditioned tone directions were associated with these three pairs in a one-to-one correspondence, and its association was conditional to three possible conditioned tone frequencies (300, 530, and 1,200 Hz). The responses of 107 neurons to the air puff and tube protrusion were analyzed by two-way ANOVA (task condition x reinforcement situation). Of 42 air puff-responsive and 64 tube protrusion-responsive neurons, 36 and 53 displayed significant main effects and/or significant interaction, respectively. Furthermore, neural responses during the delay periods were dependent on the task conditions. The results indicated that the majority of the hippocampal formation neurons showed task condition- and/or reinforcement situation-dependent responses, suggesting a crucial role of the hippocampal formation in representation of overlapping serial events in episodic memory.
2-Chloro-N-S-phenyl 2S-piperidin-2-yl methyl]-3-trifluoromethyl benzamide, monohydrochloride (SSR504734) is a potent and selective inhibitor of the glycine transporter type 1, which increases central N-methyl-D aspartate glutamatergic tone. Since glutamate has been shown to play a role in the regulation of the dopaminergic system in dopamine-related disorders, such as schizophrenia, we investigated the possibility that SSR504734 may modify the basolateral amygdala-elicited stimulation of dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens via an augmentation of glutamate receptor-mediated neurotransmission. First, our data confirmed that SSR504734 is an inhibitor of GlytT1. In the nucleus accumbens of anesthetized rat, SSR504734 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) induced an increase of extracellular levels of glycine as measured by microdialysis coupled with capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection. Second, the data demonstrated that SSR504734 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) enhanced the facilitatory influence of glutamatergic afferents on dopamine neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens. Using an electrochemical technique, we measured dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens evoked by an electrical stimulation of the basolateral amygdala. SSR504734 facilitated dopamine release evoked by a 20 or a 40 Hz frequency basolateral amygdala stimulation. This facilitatory effect was dependent on glutamatergic tone, as intra-nucleus accumbens application of 6-7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10(-3) M) or DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (10(-3) M), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and N-methyl-D aspartate receptors antagonists, respectively, inhibited dopamine release evoked by basolateral amygdala stimulation. Furthermore DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid co-administrated with SSR504734 hampered the dopamine-evoked release facilitation. These data underline the in vivo implication of the glycine uptake mechanism in the control of subcortical glutamate/dopamine interactions.
We investigated here the effects of alpha-linolenic acid and riluzole, both activators of the 2P-domain K+ channel family TREK/TRAAK, in a model of focal ischemia clinically relevant to stroke, not only assessing neuronal protection, but also long term survival. Moreover, all the drug treatments were initiated post-ischemia. Mice were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (1 h) and reperfusion according to the intraluminal filament model. Drugs were injected into the jugular vein according to three protocols: (i) a single dose of 4 mg/kg riluzole or 500 nmol/kg alpha-linolenic acid at different reperfusion time; (ii) a three-day therapy (a single dose of 2 mg/kg riluzole and 250 nmol/kg alpha-linolenic acid given 1-2, 48 and 72 h after reperfusion); (iii) a three-week therapy (a single dose of 2 mg/kg riluzole and 250 nmol/kg alpha-linolenic acid given once a week during three weeks after reperfusion. A combined treatment with 2mg/kg riluzole+250 nmol/kg alpha-linolenic acid injected 2 h after reperfusion was also tested. A single dose of riluzole (4 mg/kg) or alpha-linolenic acid (500 nmol/kg) injected up to 3 h after reperfusion reduced drastically the stroke volume by 75% and 86%, respectively. Neurological deficits 24 h after ischemia were significantly improved by alpha-linolenic acid500 or riluzole4 with a neurological score of 1.8 as compared with 2.5 observed in vehicle-treated mice. Alpha-linolenic acid- and riluzole treatment were associated with a reduction in cytopathological features of cell injury, including DNA fragmentation and Bax expression in the cortex and the caudate putamen. With regard to the survival rate at 30 days, the best protections were obtained with the alpha-linolenic acid-injection in the three-week therapy as well as with a single dose of the combined treatment (2 mg/kg riluzole+250 nmol/kg alpha-linolenic acid). Palmitic acid, a saturated fatty acid that does not activate the 2P-domain K-channel TREK/TRAAK family, did not provide any neuroprotection. Taken together, these data suggest that the TREK/TRAAK K-channel family may be a promising target for neuroprotection, and that riluzole and alpha-linolenic acid could be of therapeutic value against focal ischemia/reperfusion injury to the brain.
Diverse excitatory and inhibitory neuronal responses are mediated via Gq-coupled receptors, but the lack of a systematic comparison of different receptors or neurons has hindered a better understanding of these responses. Such a comparison may be provided by an exogenous receptor that is activated by compounds that have no effect on endogenous receptors. We therefore expressed an invertebrate biogenic amine receptor, the Drosophila octopamine receptor, in rat cortical neurons and compared octopamine receptor-mediated responses with those mediated by the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor, the endogenous Gq-coupled receptor in rat cortical neurons. Stimulation of either receptor did not result in a calcium response in octopamine receptor-expressing neurons, although octopamine preferentially elicited a calcium increase in octopamine receptor-expressing PC12h cells, while enhancing the neuronal depolarization-induced calcium increase and the electrical excitability. The increased excitability was caused by inward currents resulting from a reduction in the leak current, which was voltage-independent and blocked by genistein, a non-selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor. These results show that, in cortical neurons, exogenous octopamine receptor in mushroom bodies activated the same cell signaling pathway as endogenous metabotropic glutamate receptor, suggesting that the diverse neuronal responses mediated by Gq-coupled receptors are due to the properties of different neurons, rather than to the properties of the receptors.
Adolescence is a period of progressive changes in brain that likely contribute to the maturation of behavior. Human adolescents consume large amounts of ethanol. To investigate the effects of ethanol on adolescent neural progenitor cells, male rats (35-40 days old) were treated with an acute dose of ethanol (1.0, 2.5 or 5.0 g/kg, i.g.) or vehicle that resulted in peak blood levels of 33, 72, and 131 mg/dl, respectively. Bromodeoxyuridine (300 mg/kg i.p.) was administered to label dividing cells and rats were killed at 5 h to assess proliferation or at 28 days to assess cell survival and differentiation. After 5 h, bromodeoxyuridine-immunoreactivity was reduced by 63, 97 and 99% in the rostral migratory stream and 34, 71 and 99% in the subventricular zone by 1.0, 2.5 and 5.0 g/kg of ethanol respectively. In the dentate gyrus, ethanol reduced bromodeoxyuridine-immunoreactivity by 29, 40, and 78% at the three doses respectively. The density of doublecortin immunoreactivity was decreased after 3 days and the number of bromodeoxyuridine+ cells remained decreased at 28 days when most hippocampal bromodeoxyuridine+ cells coexpressed neuronal nuclei, a neuronal marker. These studies indicate that the adolescent brain is very sensitive to acute ethanol inhibition of neurogenesis.
We studied the kinematics of shoulder displacement during sit-to-stand and back-to-sit in 6 healthy elderly subjects and six elderly subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease in order to elucidate the impact of Alzheimer's disease on motor planning and control processes. During sit-to-stand, Alzheimer's disease subjects reduced their forward displacement and started their upward displacement earlier than healthy elderly subjects. Furthermore, shoulder path curvatures were more pronounced for upward compared with downward displacement in healthy elderly group, in contrast with Alzheimer's disease group. Temporal analysis found that: 1) for both groups, profiles of velocity of sit-to-stand and back-to-sit showed two peaks corresponding respectively to forward/upward and to downward/backward displacements, 2) peaks of velocity were almost comparable between the two groups, 3) duration of sit-to-stand was shorter than duration of back-to-sit in the two groups and 4) duration of sit-to-stand and back-to-sit was shorter in Alzheimer's disease group than in healthy elderly group. However, dissimilarities were observed for transition and deceleration phases during sit-to-stand, and for acceleration and transition phases during back-to-sit, between the two groups. Interestingly, while sit-to-stand and back-to-sit differed in healthy elderly subjects during transition and deceleration phases, such a difference was not observed for Alzheimer's disease subjects. So, our study showed that invariant spatio-temporal movement parameters in the two groups differed, while non-invariant parameters did not, and suggests that higher level motor process of whole body motions are affected by Alzheimer's disease, while lower level motor features remain intact.
The retina serves as an excellent model in which to study vertebrate CNS development. We have discovered a spontaneous mutation in the Sprague-Dawley rat that results in a novel and unusual ocular phenotype, including retinal abnormalities, that we have named Nuc1. We have previously shown that the Nuc1 mutation appears to suppress programmed cell death in the developing retina. Here we report that maturation of both the retinal neurons and the retinal vessels is abnormal in Nuc1 homozygous rats. The developmental changes in the retinal neurons and vasculature are correlated with regard to degree of abnormality. As Nuc1 homozygotes mature, focal retinal detachment begins at approximately 3 months after birth, and near total traction retinal detachment, associated with pre-retinal fibrosis and neovascularization, is evident by 18 months. Electroretinographic studies at 2.5 months of age indicate that functional retinal degeneration precedes retinal detachment. The functional abnormality is most evident in rods and the inner retina, and is present in homozygous but not heterozygous mutants. Immunocytochemical studies of rod and cone photoreceptors indicate abnormalities in rod, but not cone, photoreceptors in Nuc1 homozygotes, consistent with the electroretinographic findings. In Nuc1 animals, the Muller cells are activated. Although such activation may result from inflammation, Muller cells in Nuc1 may be reacting to a neuronal influence. It appears that the Nuc1 mutation plays a regulatory role in both developing and maturing ocular tissues. The Nuc1 mutation may also serve as an important genetic tool to explore the relationships that may exist among gliosis, normal neuronal development, and normal vascular development and how abnormalities in these associations lead to common retinal diseases.
Administration of ABT-594, a potent agonist for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with selectivity for the alpha4beta2 receptor subtype, is known to modulate a diverse array of behaviors including those associated with nociception, anxiety and motor function. In this study, we sought to gain insight into the neural actions of ABT-594, in vivo, by conducting functional magnetic resonance imaging in awake and anesthetized rats. Using T(2)*-weighted gradient echo imaging and an ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide contrast agent, functional imaging was conducted on a 4.7 T magnet to measure changes in relative cerebral blood volume. In awake, restrained, male Sprague-Dawley rats that were acclimated to the imaging environment, injection of ABT-594 (0.03-0.3 micromol/kg, i.v.) evoked changes to relative cerebral blood volume in several neural regions including the cingulate, somatosensory, motor, auditory, and pre-frontal cortices as well as the thalamus and the periaqueductal gray/dorsal raphe. These effects were typically bimodal with significant decreases in relative cerebral blood volume at the 0.03 micromol/kg dose and increases at the higher doses (0.1 and 0.3 micromol/kg). The decreases and increases in relative cerebral blood volume were often observed within the same region, but triggered by different doses. Both increases and decreases in relative cerebral blood volume were blocked by pretreatment with the noncompetitive nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (5 micromol/kg, i.p.) in awake rats. Administration of ABT-594 (0.1 micromol/kg, i.v.) to alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rats did not significantly alter relative cerebral blood volume in any brain region suggesting an anesthetic-related interference with the effects of ABT-594. The neural regions affected by administration of ABT-594 corresponded well to the known pre-clinical behavioral profile for this compound, and demonstrate the utility of using functional magnetic resonance imaging in awake animals to study pharmacological action.
The vagal and glossopharyngeal sensory ganglia and their peripheral tissues were examined in wild type and dystonia musculorum mice to assess the effect of dystonin loss of function on chemoreceptive neurons. In the mutant mouse, the number of vagal and glossopharyngeal sensory neurons was severely decreased (70% reduction) when compared with wild type littermates. The mutation also reduced the size of the circumvallate papilla (45% reduction) and the number of taste buds (89% reduction). In addition, immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that the dystonin mutation reduced the number of PGP 9.5-, calcitonin gene-related peptide-, P2X3 receptor- and tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons. Their peripheral endings also decreased in the taste bud and epithelium of circumvallate papillae. These data together suggest that the survival of vagal and glossopharyngeal sensory neurons is dependent upon dystonin.
Prolonged exposure to nicotine, as occurs in smokers, results in up-regulation of all the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes studied so far, the only differences residing in the extent and time course of the up-regulation. alpha6beta2*-Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are selectively enriched in the mesostriatal dopaminergic system and may play a crucial role in nicotine dependence. Here we show that chronic nicotine treatment (3mg/kg/day for two weeks, via s.c. osmotic minipumps) caused a significant decrease (36% on average) in the binding of [(125)I]Y(0)-alpha-conotoxin MII (a selective ligand for alpha6beta2*-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in this system) to all the five regions of the rat dopaminergic pathway analyzed in this study. After one week of withdrawal, binding was still lower than control in striatal terminal regions (namely the caudate putamen and the accumbens shell and core). In somatodendritic regions (the ventral tegmental area and the substantia nigra) the decrease was significant at the end of the treatment and recovered within one day of withdrawal. This effect was not due to displacement of [(125)I]Y(0)-alpha-conotoxin MII binding by residual nicotine. In fact the binding was not changed by 565 ng/g nicotine (obtained with a single injection of nicotine), a concentration much higher than that found in the brain of rats chronically treated with nicotine (240 ng/g). In addition, consistent with previous studies reporting an up-regulation of other subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, we found that nicotine exposure significantly increased (40% on average) the binding of [(125)I]epibatidine (a non-selective agonist at most neuronal heteromeric nicotinic acetylcholine receptors) in three up to five regions containing only alpha-conotoxin MII-insensitive [(125)I]epibatidine binding sites, namely the primary motor, somatosensory and auditory cortices. In conclusion, this work is the first to demonstrate that alpha6beta2*-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, unique within the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor family, are down-regulated following chronic nicotine treatment in rat dopaminergic mesostriatal pathway, a finding that may shed new light in the complex mechanisms of nicotine dependence.
ATP-sensitive K channels are widely expressed in cytoplasmic membranes of neurons, and they couple cell metabolism to excitability. They are thought to be involved in neuroprotection against cell damage during hypoxia, ischemia and excitotoxicity by hyperpolarizing neurons and reducing excitability. Although barbiturates are often used in patients with brain ischemia, the effects of these agents on neuronal ATP-sensitive K channels have not been clarified. We studied the effects of thiopental and pentobarbital on surface ATP-sensitive K channels in principal neurons of rat substantia nigra pars compacta. Whole cell voltage- and current-clamp recordings were made using rat midbrain slices. ATP-sensitive K channels were activated by intracellular dialysis with an ATP-free pipette solution during perfusion with a glucose-free solution. When the pipette solution contained 4mM ATP and the perfusing solution contained 25 mM glucose, the membrane current at -60 mV remained stable. When intracellular ATP was depleted, hyperpolarization and an outward current developed slowly. Although thiopental did not affect the membrane current in the presence of ATP and glucose, it reversibly inhibited the hyperpolarization and outward current induced by intracellular ATP depletion at 100 and 300 microM. Thiopental reduced the ATP depletion-induced outward current by 4.7%, 36.7% and 87% at 30, 100 and 300 microM, respectively. The high dose of pentobarbital also exhibited similar effects on ATP-sensitive K channels. These results suggest that barbiturates at high concentrations but not at clinically relevant concentrations inhibit ATP-sensitive K channels activated by intracellular ATP depletion in rat substantia nigra.
The basolateral amygdala complex has been implicated in the formation and utilization of cocaine-cue associations in rat models of cue-induced reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior. We have previously demonstrated the importance of dopamine inputs to the basolateral amygdala complex in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior following chronic cocaine self-administration. Here we show that selective blockade of amygdalar dopamine D1 and D2 receptors during acquisition of cocaine-cue associations has distinctive effects on subsequent conditioned-cued cocaine-seeking behavior. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats were first trained to self-administer i.v. cocaine on a fixed ratio 1 schedule for 5 days. Subjects then received bilateral, intra-basolateral amygdala complex infusions of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist (SCH23390, 0.25-2.0 microg/side; experiment 1), a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (raclopride, 0.625-5.0 microg/side; experiment 2), or vehicle just prior to a single classical conditioning session, during which a light+tone cue was discretely paired with passive infusions of cocaine in the absence of lever responding. Following five additional days of cocaine self-administration and 7-10 days of extinction training, animals underwent multiple tests for cue-induced reinstatement. SCH23390 (2.0 microg/side), administered at the time of cocaine-cue association only, produced an attenuation of reinstatement to cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior. In contrast, low doses of raclopride potentiated, while a higher dose of raclopride attenuated cue-induced reinstatement. These results demonstrate unique contributions of D1 vs. D2 receptors in mediating dopamine inputs within the basolateral amygdala complex during the formation of cocaine-stimulus associations that are critical for cue-induced reinstatement.
Intrinsic spinal networks generate a locomotor rhythm characterized by alternating electrical discharges from flexor and extensor motor pools. Because this process is preserved in the rat isolated spinal cord, this preparation in vitro may be a useful model to explore methods to reactivate locomotor networks damaged by spinal injury. The present electrophysiological investigation examined whether the broad spectrum potassium channel blocker tetraethylammonium could generate locomotor-like patterns. Low (50-500 microM) concentrations of tetraethylammonium induced irregular, synchronous discharges incompatible with locomotion. Higher concentrations (1-10 mM) evoked alternating discharges between flexor and extensor motor pools, plus large depolarization of motoneurons with spike broadening. The alternating discharges were superimposed on slow, shallow waves of synchronous depolarization. Rhythmic alternating patterns were suppressed by blockers of glutamate, GABA(A) and glycine receptors, disclosing a background of depolarizing bursts inhibited by antagonism of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. Furthermore, tetraethylammonium also evoked irregular discharges on dorsal roots. Rhythmic alternating patterns elicited by tetraethylammonium on ventral roots were relatively stereotypic, had limited synergy with fictive locomotion induced by dorsal root stimuli, and were not accelerated by 4-aminopyridine. Horizontal section of the spinal cord preserved irregular ventral root discharges and dorsal root discharges, demonstrating that the action of tetraethylammonium on spinal networks was fundamentally different from that of 4-aminopyridine. These results show that a potassium channel blocker such as tetraethylammonium could activate fictive locomotion in the rat isolated spinal cord, although the pattern quality lacked certain features like frequency modulation and strong synergy with other inputs to locomotor networks.
GABA(B) receptors inhibit mechanosensitivity of visceral afferents. This is associated with reduced triggering of events that lead to gastro-esophageal reflux, with important therapeutic consequences. In other neuronal systems, GABA(B) receptor activation may be linked via G-proteins to reduced N-type Ca(2+) channel opening, increased inward rectifier K(+) channel opening, plus effects on a number of intracellular messengers. Here we aimed to determine the role of Ca(2+) and K(+) channels in the inhibition of vagal afferent mechanoreceptor function by the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen. The responses of three types of ferret gastro-esophageal vagal afferents (mucosal, tension and tension mucosal receptors) to graded mechanical stimuli were investigated in vitro. The effects of baclofen (200 microM) alone on these responses were quantified, and the effects of baclofen in the presence of the G-protein-coupled inward rectifier potassium channel blocker Rb(+) (4.7 mM) and/or the N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (0.1 microM). Baclofen inhibition of mucosal receptor mechanosensitivity was abolished by both blockers. Its inhibitory effect on tension mucosal receptors was partly reduced by both. The inhibitory effect of baclofen on tension receptors was unaffected. The data indicate that the inhibitory action of GABA(B) receptors is mediated via different pathways in mucosal, tension and tension mucosal receptors via mechanisms involving both N-type Ca(2+) channels and inwardly rectifying K(+) channels and others.
The role of minocycline in preventing white matter injury, in particular the injury to developing oligodendrocytes was examined in a neonatal rat model of hypoxia-ischemia. Hypoxia-ischemia was achieved through bilateral carotid artery occlusion followed by exposure to hypoxia (8% oxygen) for 15 min in postnatal day 4 Sprague-Dawley rats. A sham operation was performed in control rats. Minocycline (45 mg/kg) or normal phosphate-buffered saline was administered intraperitoneally 12 h before and immediately after bilateral carotid artery occlusion+hypoxia and then every 24 h for 3 days. Nissl staining revealed pyknotic cells in the white matter area of the rat brain 1 and 5 days after hypoxia-ischemia. Hypoxia-ischemia insult also resulted in apoptotic oligodendrocyte cell death, loss of O4+ and O1+ oligodendrocyte immunoreactivity, and hypomyelination as indicated by decreased myelin basic protein immunostaining and by loss of mature oligodendrocytes in the rat brain. Minocycline significantly attenuated hypoxia-ischemia-induced brain injury. The protective effect of minocycline was associated with suppression of hypoxia-ischemia-induced microglial activation as indicated by the decreased number of activated microglia, which were also interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase expressing cells. The protective effect of minocycline was also linked with reduction in hypoxia-ischemia-induced oxidative and nitrosative stress as indicated by 4-hydroxynonenal and nitrotyrosine positive oligodendrocytes, respectively. The reduction in hypoxia-ischemia-induced oxidative stress was also evidenced by the decreases in the content of 8-isoprostane in the minocycline-treated hypoxia-ischemia rat brain as compared with that in the vehicle-treated hypoxia-ischemia rat brain. The overall results suggest that reduction in microglial activation may protect developing oligodendrocytes in the neonatal brain from hypoxia-ischemia injury.
Regionalization of the neural tube is a fundamental event in the development of the CNS. The isthmic organizer controls the development of the mesencephalic-rhombencephalic junction by means of fibroblast growth factor 8 (Fgf8) expression. The transcription factor paired box 2 (Pax2) is expressed early in the midbrain and is later progressively restricted to the mid-hindbrain region, playing an important role in the development of the mesencephalon and the cerebellum. In this study, by implanting Fgf8-beads in the chick neural tube, we show that Fgf8 induces a heterogeneous pattern of Pax2 expression in the diencephalon. To explore the mechanisms controlling this asymmetric induction and the down-regulation of Pax2 in the anterior mesencephalon we performed antero-posterior inversions of diencephalic and/or mesencephalic neuroepithelium, with or without Fgf8-bead implantation. We show that anterior factors do not play a role in Pax2 regionalization, while posterior factors could explain these expression patterns. We conclude that the anterior mesencephalon and the diencephalon are able to retain or activate Pax2 expression under caudal influences, and to develop as a tectal structure at later developmental stages.
Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune disease of the CNS that results in the death of oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the CNS. Previous studies have indicated that the cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor prevents the cytotoxic effects of interferon-gamma on oligodendrocytes in vitro, and the death of oligodendrocytes in an animal model of multiple sclerosis. Members of a recently characterized family of proteins, the suppressors of cytokine signaling, have been demonstrated to mediate negative cross-talk between cytokines, with induction of suppressors of cytokine signaling proteins by one cytokine inhibiting the activity of a second. Here, we assess whether induction of members of the suppressors of cytokine signaling family could explain the antagonistic biological effects of leukemia inhibitory factor and interferon-gamma upon oligodendrocytes. It is found that leukemia inhibitory factor rapidly and strongly induces the expression of suppressors of cytokine signaling-3 in cultured rat oligodendrocytes, whereas interferon-gamma weakly induces the expression of both suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 and 3. Pre-treatment of oligodendrocytes with leukemia inhibitory factor does not prevent the subsequent phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 by interferon-gamma indicating that the leukemia inhibitory factor inhibition of interferon-gamma toxicity in oligodendrocytes is mediated by a suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 independent mechanism.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy), a widely used recreational drug with psychoactive properties, induces both serotonin and dopamine release in the brain. However, little is known about its intracellular effects. We previously showed that 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine rewarding effects in mice were dependent upon extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation and that dorsal striatum was a critical region for mediating extracellular signal-regulated kinase-dependent Egr1 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced transcription. Here, we extend these findings by showing that 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine is indeed able to activate extracellular signal-regulated kinase within this structure. To identify genes regulated by acute 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in the mice dorsal striatum, and selectively controlled by this kinase, we performed microarray experiments by using a selective inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation, SL327. Of the approximately 24,000 genes from the microarray, 27 showed altered expression after exposure to 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, and among these, 59% were partially or totally inhibited by SL327 pretreatment. Our results showed that the genes regulated by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine encode proteins that belong to transcription factors family, signaling pathways (phosphatases, cytoskeleton regulation), and synaptic functions. These early changes, and especially those controlled by extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation might play significant roles in the expression of many of the behaviors that occur following 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine taking.
The gating properties of thalamic relay neurons are influenced by the actions of a variety of neuromodulators in concert with the intrinsic properties of these relay neurons. In this study, we have investigated the consequences of synaptically released catecholamines on the excitability of neurons in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Tetanic stimulation of the optic tract, in which catecholamine fibers also course near or through, produced a strong depolarization that consisted of a fast and slow component. The fast excitatory postsynaptic potential was attenuated by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists and further unmasked the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. The amplitude of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was dependent on the frequency and intensity of the tetanic stimulation. The alpha1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin, and the D1-like dopamine receptor antagonist, SCH23390, attenuated the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential; however, the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was unaltered by metabotropic glutamate, cholinergic, alpha2-adrenergic, and beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists. On the other hand, tetanic stimulation of the optic radiations (corticothalamic axons) evoked a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential that was completely attenuated by metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. Our results suggest that tetanic stimulation of catecholamine fibers within the optic tract produces synaptic release of norepinephrine and dopamine that in turn activates both alpha(1)-adrenergic and D1-like dopamine receptors leading to a robust membrane depolarization. By altering the excitability of relay neurons, ascending activating systems may modulate the efficacy of information transfer through the thalamus.
Thyroid hormones induced rapid changes in phosphorylation in a membrane-containing lysate of synaptosomes purified from adult rat cerebral cortex. The in vitro addition of 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine or L-thyroxine strongly influenced incorporation of label from [gamma-32P]-ATP into proteins in a cerebrocortical synaptosomal lysate. Incubation with 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine or L-thyroxine had strong biphasic dose-dependent effects on the phosphorylation of 38+/-1, 53+/-1, 62+/-1, and 113+/-1 kDa proteins (which we termed alpha, beta, gamma, and delta, respectively) and several others. Although we observed differing levels of phosphorylation among the four proteins, doses of 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine or L-thyroxine ranging from 1 to 30 nM caused significant dose-dependent stimulation of the phosphorylation of all of them, an effect which occurred within three minutes. In each case, the enhancement of phosphorylation diminished with higher concentrations (100 nM-1 microM) of 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine. In contrast, incubations with similar doses of 3,3',5'-L-triiodothyronine (reverse L-triiodothyronine) were without significant effect, indicating a specificity for 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine and L-thyroxine. Western blots of synaptosomal lysates incubated with 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine (1 nM-1 microM) demonstrated phosphorylation at the serine residues of a 112 kDa protein (matching delta) and phosphorylation at tyrosyl residues of a distinct 95 kDa protein. These data support the contention that thyroid hormones have a variety of rapid nongenomic pathways for regulation of protein phosphorylation in mature mammalian brain.
Laminar organization is a fundamental cytoarchitecture in mammalian CNS and a striking feature of the neocortex. ER81, a transcription factor, has recently been utilized as a marker of cells in the layer 5 of the neocortex. We further pursued the distribution of ER81 to investigate the identity of the ER81-expressing cells in the brain. Er81 transcript was expressed in a subset of pyramidal cells that were scattered throughout the entire width of layer 5. In the rat cortex, Er81 transcripts were first detected in the ventricular zone at E15, remained expressed in putative prospective layer 5 neurons during infant and juvenile stages. The ER81-expressing subpopulation in adult layer 5 neurons did not segregate with the phenotypes of the projection targets. By retrograde labeling combined with immunohistochemistry or reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis, we found ER81 expression in nearly all of the layer 5 neurons projecting to the spinal cord or to the superior colliculus, while in only one-third of the layer 5 neurons projecting to the contralateral cortex. Er81 was also detected in layer 5 neurons in a P2 Japanese macaque monkey but not in adult monkey cortices. These findings suggest that a neuron class defined by a molecular criterion does not necessarily segregate with that defined by an anatomical criterion, that ER81 is involved in cell differentiation of a subset of layer 5 projection neurons and that this mechanism is conserved among rodents and primates.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonism exerts suppressive influences over dopamine D1 receptor-mediated striatal gene expression and locomotor behavior in the intact rat. The present study examined the effects of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 on locomotor activity and striatal preprotachykinin mRNA expression stimulated by the D1 agonist (+/-)6-chloro-7, 8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide in rats with bilateral dopamine lesions. Two months after neonatal dopamine lesions with 6-hydroxydopamine, rats were challenged with (+/-)6-chloro-7, 8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (1.0 mg/kg) 15 min after administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg). In the intact rat, MK-801 prevented the induction of striatal preprotachykinin mRNA by D1 agonism. Similarly, direct infusion of (+/-)6-chloro-7, 8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (3.0 microg) into the intact striatum produced an increase in locomotor activity that was suppressed by MK-801 (1.0 microg) co-infusion. In the dopamine-depleted rat, MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) administered prior to (+/-)6-chloro-7, 8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (1.0 mg/kg) increased, rather than suppressed, striatal preprotachykinin mRNA levels. Intrastriatal infusion of MK-801 (1.0 microg) failed to inhibit D1-mediated induction of motor activity in dopamine-depleted animals. Together, these data provide further support that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists lose their ability to block D1-mediated behavioral activation following dopamine depletion. The activation, rather than suppression, of tachykinin neurons of the direct striatonigral pathway may play a facilitatory role in this mechanism.
Neuropeptide W-23 and neuropeptide B are each an endogenous ligand of GPR7. GPR7 mRNA has been detected in regions of the cortex, the hippocampus, the hypothalamus and the spinal cord in the rat. GPR7 receptor has structural features in common with both opioid and somatostatin receptors. In the present study, the effects of intrathecal and i.c.v. application of neuropeptide W-23 and neuropeptide B on the level of mechanical allodynia induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation were tested in rats. The level of mechanical allodynia was measured using von Frey filaments. Intrathecal injection of either neuropeptide W-23 or neuropeptide B attenuated the level of mechanical allodynia in a dose dependent manner at a dose between 0.1 and 10 microg, but i.c.v. injection of either neuropeptide W-23 or neuropeptide B had no effect on the level of mechanical allodynia at a dose between 3 and 30 microg. The effect of intrathecal administration of either 10 microg of neuropeptide W-23 or 10 microg of neuropeptide B was not antagonized by i.p. injection of 1 mg/kg of naloxone. Immunohistochemical examination revealed that neuropeptide W-23 was expressed mainly in the small- to medium-sized neuronal profiles in the dorsal root ganglion and that partial sciatic nerve injury decreased the percentage of neuropeptide W-23-like immunoreactivity positive neuronal profiles that were labeled by IB4. These data suggest that neuropeptide W-23 is involved in the nociceptive transmission in spinal cord and that both spinally-applied neuropeptide W-23 and spinally-applied neuropeptide B produce anti-allodynic effects in the partial sciatic nerve ligation model in rat.
Interleukin-1beta is rapidly synthesized by glia after the induction of seizures. Recent evidence shows that endogenous IL-1beta has proconvulsant actions mediated by interleukin-1 receptor type I. This receptor also mediates interleukin-1beta effects on neuronal susceptibility to neurotoxic insults. In this study, we investigated the basal and seizure-induced expression of interleukin-1 receptor type I in rat forebrain to identify the cells targeted by interleukin-1beta during epileptic activity. Self-sustained limbic status epilepticus was induced in rats by electrical stimulation of the ventral hippocampus. Interleukin-1 receptor type I immunoreactivity was barely detectable in neurons in control brain tissue. During status epilepticus, interleukin-1 receptor type I was induced in the hippocampal neurons firstly, and several hours later in astrocytes localized in limbic and extralimbic areas. Neuronal interleukin-1 receptor type I expression in the hippocampus outlasted the duration of spontaneous electroencephalographic seizure and was not observed in degenerating neurons. Astrocytic expression occurred transiently, between six and 18 h after the induction of status epilepticus and was invariably found in regions of neuronal damage. These time-dependent, cell- and region-specific changes in interleukin-1 receptor type I expression during status epilepticus suggest that interleukin-1 receptor type I in neurons mediates interleukin-1beta-induced fast changes in hippocampal excitability while interleukin-1 receptor type I receptors in astrocytes may mediate interleukin-1beta effects on neuronal survival in hostile conditions.
Gene expression profiles in the cortex of adult Long-Evans rats as a function of a stressful social loss and victory in inter-male fighting encounters were examined. This social dominance and subordination model has been postulated to simulate early changes in the onset of depression in the losers. Microarrays were fabricated containing 45mer oligonucleotides spotted in quadruplicate and representing 1178 brain-associated genes. Dynamic range, discrimination power, accuracy and reproducibility were determined with standard mRNA &quot;spiking&quot; studies. Gene expression profiles in dominant and subordinate animals were compared using a &quot;universal&quot; reference design [Churchill GA (2002) Fundamentals of experimental design for cDNA microarrays. Nat Genet 32 (Suppl):490-495]. Data were analyzed by significance analysis of microarrays using rank scores [Tusher VG, Tibshirani R, Chu G (2001) Significance analysis of microarrays applied to the ionizing radiation response. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:5116-5121; van de Wiel MA (2004) Significance analysis of microarrays using rank scores. Kwantitatieve Methoden 71:25-37]. Ontological analyses were then performed using the GOMiner algorithm [Zeeberg BR, Feng W, Wang G, Wang MD, Fojo AT, Sunshine M, Narasimhan S, Kane DW, Reinhold WC, Lababidi S, Bussey KJ, Riss J, Barrett JC, Weinstein JN (2003) GoMiner: a resource for biological interpretation of genomic and proteomic data. Genome Biol 4(4):R28]. And finally, genes of special interest were further studied using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Twenty-two transcripts were statistically significantly differentially expressed in the neocortex between dominant and subordinate animals. Ontological analyses revealed that significant gene changes were clustered primarily into functional neurochemical pathways associated with protein biosynthesis and cytoskeletal dynamics. The most robust of these were the increased expression of interleukin-18, heat shock protein 27, beta3-tubulin, ribosome-associated membrane protein 4 in subordinate animals. Interleukin-18 has been found to be over-expressed in human depression and panic disorder as well as other physiological stress paradigms [Takeuchi M, Okura T, Mori T, Akita K, Ohta T, Ikeda M, Ikegami H, Kurimoto M (1999) Intracellular production of interleukin-18 in human epithelial-like cell lines is enhanced by hyperosmotic stress in vitro. Cell Tissue Res 297(3):467-473] and heat shock proteins have been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders [Iwamoto K, Kakiuchi C, Bundo M, Ikeda K, Kato T (2004) Molecular characterization of bipolar disorder by comparing gene expression profiles of postmortem brains of major mental disorders. Mol Psychiatry 9(4):406-416; Pongrac JL, Middleton FA, Peng L, Lewis DA, Levitt P, Mirnics K (2004) Heat shock protein 12A shows reduced expression in the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. Biol Psychiatry 56(12):943-950]. Thus, the gene expression changes that we have observed here are consistent with and extend the observations found in the clinical literature and link them to the animal model used here thereby reinforcing its use to better understand the genesis of depression and identify novel therapeutic targets for its treatment.
Estrogen-mediated neuroprotection is well established; however, no single mechanism of action for this effect has yet been established. As glial cells are integral for both the intact and injured nervous system, we hypothesized that estrogen-mediated neuroprotection may partly be attributed to attenuation of glial cell apoptosis, allowing them to protect neurons following injury. To assess the protective effects of estrogen on glia, C6 rat glioma cells were treated for 24 h with 500 microM glutamate. Cell viability was determined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, and apoptosis was confirmed by cell morphology and DNA fragmentation. Pretreatment with 10 nM 17beta-estradiol (estrogen) increased cell viability and attenuated apoptosis. Treatment with the stereoisomer 17alpha-estradiol, or estrogen plus estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780, was significantly less effective, indicating that cytoprotection was receptor-mediated. Estrogen treatment upregulated expression of estrogen receptor alpha. Cell impermeable bovine serum albumin-conjugated estrogen was also protective, indicating activation of estrogen receptors on the cell membrane. Intracellular free [Ca2+] was increased after glutamate treatment. This increase was attenuated in cells pretreated with estrogen. Glutamate increased the activity of pro-apoptotic proteases, such as calpain and caspase-3, and these protease activities were significantly attenuated by estrogen. The mechanism by which estrogen decreased intracellular Ca2+ was examined by assaying cell viability after using inhibitors that either blocked extracellular Ca2+ influx or prevented the release of intracellular Ca2+ stores. While several inhibitors increased cell viability in glutamate-treated cells, none were as protective as estrogen, and estrogen co-treatment significantly increased cell viability. These findings indicate that estrogen-mediated cytoprotection may be related to effects on Ca2+ entry but that these effects are not limited to any one of these Ca2+ entry points alone.
The carboxy-terminal side arm of the neurofilament high subunit consists of a highly phosphorylated domain and a negatively charged region. Multiple evidences suggested that these domains are essential for the axonal phosphorylation and transport of neurofilaments and play a role in their abnormal accumulation following chemical intoxication or during neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In order to investigate the consequences of altering this side arm of neurofilament high subunit we used a fusion protein (neurofilament high subunit-green fluorescent protein) between the mouse neurofilament high subunit missing a major part of the C-terminal domain and the reporter green fluorescent protein. In cell culture and in transgenic mice this fusion protein co-assembles and co-distributes with the endogenous intermediate filament network. Conditions known to disturb the cytoskeleton were also found to alter the distribution of the fusion protein in cell cultures. In transgenic mice the expression of the transgene evaluated by its fluorescent properties was found to be restricted to neurons, where the neurofilament high subunit-green fluorescent protein fusion protein is axonally transported. Biochemical approaches showed that the fusion protein is phosphorylated and co-purified with neurofilaments. Despite the presence of such an neurofilament high subunit-green fluorescent protein fusion protein, the axonal cytoskeletal density and the axonal caliber were not altered. Together these data show that removal of this portion of neurofilament high subunit does not affect the capacity of neurofilament high subunit to assemble and to be transported into axons, suggesting that this sequence is involved in another function. Moreover, the fluorescent properties of this fusion protein represent a useful marker.
The neuropeptide hypocretin, also known as orexin, has been implicated in waking since its deletion leads to the sleep disorder narcolepsy. Hypocretin neurons project to major arousal areas, and in an effort to determine which region is responsible for the changes in sleep-wake architecture we have developed the neurotoxin hypocretin2-saporin, which lesions hypocretin receptor bearing neurons. Here, in rats, we investigate the effects of hypocretin2-saporin lesions of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. Bilateral injection of hypocretin2-sap into both the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra (92 and 184 ng/microl, 0.25 microl in the ventral tegmental area and 0.5 microl in the substantia nigra) or into the substantia nigra alone (184 ng/microl, 0.5 microl) produced insomnia. The insomnia seemed to be associated with a large increase in locomotion on days 4 and 6 postinjection, as hyperactivity and stereotypic movements were consistently observed on the video recordings in all lesioned rats. In these rats, a nearly complete loss of both tyrosine hydroxylase and neuron-specific nuclear protein (neuronal nuclei) immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra as well as diminution of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers in the caudate putamen was found. Following bilateral injection of hypocretin2-sap at a lower concentration (46 ng/microl, 0.25 microl in the ventral tegmental area and 0.5 microl in the substantia nigra), very little reduction in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase- and neuronal nuclei-immunoreactive neurons and only a temporary increase in wakefulness (17.4% increase during light-off period on day 6 postinjection) were observed. Ventral tegmental area lesions (184 ng/mul of hypocretin2-sap, 0.25 microl, bilateral injections) did not produce significant changes in sleep, although most of the tyrosine hydroxylase- and neuronal nuclei-immunoreactive neurons in the ventral tegmental area were destroyed. Insomnia following hypocretin2-sap lesions of the substantia nigra could be secondary to increased motor activity resulting from reduction of tonic inhibitory control by the substantia nigra.
In Pavlovian conditioning the fear-evoking properties of the aversive unconditioned stimulus are represented by the conditioned stimulus. A major challenge for theories of classical fear conditioning has been to understand how associations are formed between a conditioned stimulus and unconditioned stimulus. Although the cellular mechanisms in the amygdala that underlie fear learning have received considerable attention relatively little is known about the neural substrates underlying unconditioned stimulus-associated fear. In the present study we examined the role of GABA(A), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors, and protein synthesis inhibition on the immediate fear arousal produced by footshock as measured by the shock sensitization of acoustic startle. Laboratory rats showed shock-enhanced startle after infusion into the basolateral amygdala of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (5.0 microg), the non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium (5.0 microg) and the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin (80.0 microg). We concluded that fear arousal provoked by footshock is not mediated by glutamate neurotransmission in the amygdala and does not involve de novo protein synthesis. Bilateral infusion into the basolateral amygdala of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol in doses ranging from 0.001-0.5 microg reliably blocked the shock sensitization of acoustic startle responding. None of the muscimol doses altered shock reactivity amplitudes indicating the normal perception of footshock. The muscimol results were interpreted to suggest that decreased GABA neurotransmission in the amygdala may be essential for the neural causation of fear that is acquired and expressed by conditioned stimuli.
Neurons are added throughout life to the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of the mammalian brain. Progenitors residing in the dentate gyrus progress through three distinct stages of adult neurogenesis: proliferation, survival and differentiation. One of the most potent factors which regulates adult neurogenesis is adrenal-derived glucocorticoids. Raised levels of glucocorticoids suppress progenitor division, while removal of glucocorticoids by adrenalectomy stimulates proliferation of these cells in the dentate gyrus. We have recently reported that both pre- and post-mitotic corticoid environments powerfully regulate survival of progenitor cells in a time-dependent manner. However, it is unknown if glucocorticoids alter the process of neuronal differentiation, since not all of the newly-formed cells acquire a neuronal fate during development. Here we employ triple immuno-fluorescence staining techniques to phenotype surviving progenitor cells 28 days after labeling. Results show that high levels of corticosterone (the major glucocorticoid in rodents) either before or after progenitor labeling discouraged the acquisition of neuronal fate. Similar to its effect on survival, post-mitotic corticosterone also regulates neuronal differentiation in a time-dependent fashion, but this action is most prominent from around 19-27 days after the cells were born. In contrast, a corticoid-free environment either before or after progenitor proliferation did not affect neuronal differentiation. Combining these data with previous survival data obtained from the same animals allowed us to estimate the total number of neurons formed resulting from different corticoid treatments. Raised corticosterone significantly reduced neuronal production while adrenalectomy resulted in significantly higher number of neurons in the adult male rat hippocampus.

The prodynorphin system is implicated in the neurochemical mechanism of psychostimulants. Exposure to different drugs of abuse can induce neuroadaptations in the brain and affect opioid gene expression. The present study aims to examine the possibility of a common neurobiological substrate in drug addiction processes. We studied the effects of single and repeated 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine ('Ecstasy') on the gene expression of the opioid precursor prodynorphin, and on the levels of peptide dynorphin A in the rat brain. Acute (8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine markedly raised, two hours later, prodynorphin mRNA levels in the prefrontal cortex, and in the caudate putamen, whereas it decreased gene expression in the ventral tegmental area. Chronic (8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, twice a day for 7 days) 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine increased prodynorphin mRNA in the nucleus accumbens, hypothalamus and caudate putamen and decreased it in the ventral tegmental area. Dynorphin A levels increased after chronic treatment in the ventral tegmental area and decreased after acute treatment in the nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex and hypothalamus. These findings confirm the role of the dynorphinergic system in mediating the effects of drugs of abuse, such as 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine, in various regions of the rat brain, which may be important sites for the opioidergic mechanisms activated by addictive drugs.
Mammalian circadian activity rhythms are generated by pacemaker cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). As revealed by the actions of diverse agonists, serotonergic input from raphe nuclei generally inhibits photic signaling in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In contrast, the serotonin (5HT)1A partial agonist, 4-(benzodioxan-5-yl)1-(indan2-yl)piperazine (S 15535), was found to enhance the phase-shifting influence of light on hamster circadian rhythms [Gannon, Neuroscience 119 (2003) 567]. Herein, we extend this observation in showing that S 15535 (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) markedly (275%) enhanced the light-induced phase shift in circadian activity rhythms: further, this action was dose-dependently abolished by the highly-selective 5HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY 100,635 (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexane-carboxamide maleate) (0.1-0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). WAY 100,635, which was inactive alone, shares the antagonist actions of S 15535 at postsynaptic 5HT1A sites, yet blocks its effects at their presynaptic counterparts. Thus, 5HT1A autoreceptor activation must be involved in this effect of S 15535 which contrasts with the opposite, inhibitory influence upon phase shifts of the &quot;full&quot; agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, which acts by stimulation of postsynaptic 5HT1A receptors [Rea et al., J Neurosci 14 (1994) 3635]. Despite the occurrence of 5HT2A and 5HT2C receptors in the (rat) suprachiasmatic nucleus, their influence on circadian rhythms is unknown since actions of selective ligands have never been evaluated. This issue was investigated with the most selective agents currently available. However, the 5HT2A agonist, 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg), and the 5HT2C agonist, alphaS-6-chloro-5-fluoro-a-methyl-1H-indole-1-ethanamine fumarate (Ro-60-0175) (1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg), failed to affect light-induced phase shifts in hamsters. Moreover, even over broad dose-ranges, the 5HT2A antagonist, (+)-(2,3-dimethoxy-phenyl)-[1-[2-(4-fluoro-phenyl)-ethyl]-piperidin-4-yl]methanol (MDL 100,907) (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), and the 5HT2C antagonist, 6-chloro-5-methyl-1-[6-(2-methylpyridin-3-yloxy)pyridin-3-yl carbamoyl]indoline (SB 242,084) (1.0-10.0 mg/kg), were likewise inactive. In view of evidence that 5HT2A and 5HT2C sites functionally interact with 5HT1A receptors, we also examined the influence of these agents upon the actions of S 15535, but no significant alteration was seen in its enhancement of rhythms. In conclusion, S 15535 elicits a striking enhancement of light-induced phase shifts in circadian rhythms by specifically recruiting 5HT1A autoreceptors, which leads to suppression of serotonergic input to the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Surprisingly, no evidence for a role of 5HT2A or 5HT2C sites was found, though comparable functional studies remain to be undertaken in rats. Indeed, the present work underlines the importance of comparative studies of circadian rhythms in various species, as well as the need for further study of potential interactions among 5HT receptor subtypes in their control.
This study examined the localization and functional expression of ryanodine receptors (RyR) within the cochlea using a combination of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunolabeling techniques, and confocal Ca2+ imaging. All three RyR isoform mRNA transcripts were detected in the adult rat cochlea. Immunoperoxidase and immunofluorescence labeling showed that the three isoforms were differentially expressed. The most pronounced RyR protein expression, involving all three isoforms, occurred in the cell bodies of the spiral ganglion neurons. RyR3 labeling extended to the synaptic terminals innervating the inner and outer hair cells. RyR2 expression also occurred in the inner hair cells and supporting cells of the organ of Corti, while cells associated with ion homeostasis in the cochlea, such as the interdental cells of the spiral limbus (RyR1), and the epithelial cells of the spiral prominence and basal cells of the stria vascularis (RyR2 and RyR3), were also immunopositive. The functionality of RyR-gated Ca2+ stores in the spiral ganglion neurons was shown by confocal calcium imaging of fluo-4 fluorescence in rat cochlear slices. Caffeine (5 mM) evoked an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration in the cell bodies of the spiral ganglion neurons which occurred inthe absence of external Ca2+. Ryanodine (50 nm-1 microM) evoked comparable increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration. These findings suggest that RyR-mediated Ca2+ release may be involved in auditory neurotransmission, sound transduction, and cochlear electrochemical homeostasis.
Memory consolidation is the process where labile memory traces become long-lasting, stable memories. Previous work has demonstrated that spatial memory consolidation, several days after training in a water maze had ceased, can be disrupted by a temporary intra hippocampal infusion of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate antagonist LY326325 (Riedel et al., 1999). Such reversible pharmacological techniques offer advantages over the permanent lesion studies that had first suggested a role for the hippocampus in memory consolidation. However, to date the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in such systems level processes remains controversial with evidence for impairments and augmentation of performance. Here we investigate the role of post-training hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade in rats and mice on the consolidation of weak and strong memory traces using an Atlantis water maze protocol. A hidden Atlantis platform was employed and rats (experiments 1 and 2) and mice (experiment 3) were required to dwell within 20 cm of the trained location to activate and subsequently reveal the escape platform. In experiments 1 and 3 a strong memory trace was established by training rats or mice for several days in the water maze. In experiment 2 a significantly weaker trace was instituted by reducing the training period. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade was induced after the last training trial and continued for seven days. Reliable memory for the trained platform location in a retention test 15 days after the last training day demonstrated that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade did not affect memory consolidation in rats or mice. Our results also show that post-training N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade can lead to better performance in further retention tests conducted after the consolidation and drug administration period. Those data suggest that specific post-training N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade does not impair memory consolidation and it may also offer a memory trace mild protection from retrograde interference.
Endocannabinoids, acting via type 1 cannabinoid receptors (CB1), are known to be involved in short-term synaptic plasticity via retrograde signaling. Strong depolarization of the postsynaptic neurons is followed by the endocannabinoid-mediated activation of presynaptic CB1 receptors, which suppresses GABA and/or glutamate release. This phenomenon is termed depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) or excitation (DSE), respectively. Although both phenomena have been reported to be present in the basal ganglia, the anatomical substrate for these actions has not been clearly identified. Here we investigate the high-resolution subcellular localization of CB1 receptors in the nucleus accumbens, striatum, globus pallidus and substantia nigra, as well as in the internal capsule, where the striato-nigral and pallido-nigral pathways are located. In all examined nuclei of the basal ganglia, we found that CB1 receptors were located on the membrane of axon terminals and preterminal axons. Electron microscopic examination revealed that the majority of these axon terminals were GABAergic, giving rise to mostly symmetrical synapses. Interestingly, preterminal axons showed far more intense staining for CB1, especially in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, whereas their terminals were only faintly stained. Non-varicose, thin unmyelinated fibers in the internal capsule also showed strong CB1-labeling, and were embedded in bundles of myelinated CB1-negative axons. The majority of CB1 receptors labeled by immunogold particles were located in the axonal plasma membrane (92.3%), apparently capable of signaling cannabinoid actions. CB1 receptors in this location cannot directly modulate transmitter release, because the release sites are several hundred micrometers away. Interestingly, both the CB1 agonist, WIN55,212-2, as well as its antagonist, AM251, were able to block action potential generation, but via a CB1 independent mechanism, since the effects remained intact in CB1 knockout animals. Thus, our electrophysiological data suggest that these receptors are unable to influence action potential propagation, thus they may not be functional at these sites, but are likely being transported to the terminal fields. The present data are consistent with a role of endocannabinoids in the control of GABA, but not glutamate, release in the basal ganglia via presynaptic CB1 receptors, but also call the attention to possible non-CB1-mediated effects of widely used cannabinoid ligands on action potential generation.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinases and activator protein 1 transcription factor have been functionally linked to addiction. It has also been shown that extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation can regulate cocaine-induced expression of c-Fos and FosB, two possible components of activator protein 1. A direct link between extracellular signal-regulated kinases and activator protein 1 activation has, however, remained unexplored. In this study, we investigated the role of extracellular signal-regulated kinases in the regulation of DNA-binding activity and composition of activator protein 1 induced in the mouse caudate putamen by cocaine treatment. We have found that pre-treatment with SL327, a selective inhibitor the extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway, has no influence on cocaine-induced DNA-binding activity of activator protein 1, when examined one hour after an acute cocaine treatment. This phenomenon results from simultaneous decrease of c-Fos protein level and increases in JunB and deltaFosB protein levels. SL327 pre-treatment, however, reduces the DNA-binding activity of the activator protein 1 complex induced six hours after an acute cocaine treatment as well as one hour after the last of the chronic cocaine injections, a phenomenon that results from the concomitant reduction of all cocaine-induced proteins (c-Fos, FosB, deltaFosB, JunB). In conclusion, we have found that extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibition may not only interfere with cocaine-induced gene expression and activator protein 1 complex activation, but may also disturb the time-course of gene expression and composition of activator protein 1 complex. Our results support the notion that inhibitors of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway could be valuable tools to obliterate cocaine-induced molecular changes and the development of addiction.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play a critical role in synaptogenesis, synaptic plasticity, and excitotoxicity. They are heteromeric complexes of NR1 combined with NR2A-D and/or NR3A-B subunits. The subunit composition determines the biophysical and pharmacological properties of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel complex. In this study, we report that responses mediated by recombinant rat N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors expressed in human embryonic kidney HEK293 cells are differentially affected by naturally occurring neurosteroid pregnenolone sulfate. We show that responses induced by 1mM glutamate in NR1-1a/NR2A and NR1-1a/NR2B receptors are potentiated five- to eight-fold more by pregnenolone sulfate than responses of NR1-1a/NR2C and NR1-1a/NR2D receptors with no differences in the concentration of pregnenolone sulfate that produced 50% potentiation. In addition to potentiation, pregnenolone sulfate also has an inhibitory effect at recombinant N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, with values of the concentration of pregnenolone sulfate that produces 50% inhibition of NR1/NR2D=NR1/NR2C&lt;NR1/NR2B&lt;NR1/NR2A. In addition, we show that the structure of the extracellular loop between the third and fourth transmembrane domains of the NR2 subunit is critical for both the potentiating and inhibitory effects of pregnenolone sulfate. The modulatory effects of pregnenolone sulfate are consistent with a model in which this neurosteroid acts at two distinct binding sites on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. These data provide insight into the mechanisms by which pregnenolone sulfate and related sulfated neurosteroids modulate activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels.
Aquaporin-4 water channels and the inwardly rectifying potassium channels Kir4.1 are coexpressed in a highly polarized manner at the perivascular and subvitreal endfeet of retinal Mller cells and astrocytes. The present study was aimed at resolving the anchoring mechanisms responsible for the coexpression of these molecules. Both aquaporin-4 and Kir4.1 contain PDZ-domain binding motifs at their C-termini and it was recently shown that mice with targeted disruption of the dystrophin gene display altered distribution of aquaporin-4 and Kir4.1 in the retina. To test our hypothesis that alpha-syntrophin (a PDZ-domain containing protein of the dystrophin associated protein complex) is involved in aquaporin-4 and Kir4.1 anchoring in retinal cells, we studied the expression pattern of these molecules in alpha-syntrophin null mice. Judged by quantitative immunogold cytochemistry, deletion of the alpha-syntrophin gene causes a partial loss (by 70%) of aquaporin-4 labeling at astrocyte and Mller cell endfeet but no decrease in Kir4.1 labeling at these sites. These findings suggest that alpha-syntrophin is not involved in the anchoring of Kir4.1 and only partly responsible for the anchoring of aquaporin-4 in retinal endfeet membranes. Furthermore we show that wild type and alpha-syntrophin null mice exhibit strong beta1 syntrophin labeling at perivascular and subvitreal Mller cell endfeet, raising the possibility that beta1 syntrophin might be involved in the anchoring of Kir4.1 and the alpha-syntrophin independent pool of aquaporin-4.
Membrane and morphological abnormalities occur in the striatum of R6/2 transgenics, a widely used mouse model of Huntington's disease. To assess changes in behavior-related neuronal activity, we implanted micro-wire bundles in the striatum of symptomatic R6/2 mice and wild-type controls. Unit activity was recorded in an open-field arena once weekly for the next several weeks. For each recording session, firing rate was monitored before, during, and after a period of light anesthesia to assess the influence of behavioral arousal. Because low ascorbate in striatal extracellular fluid may contribute to Huntington's disease symptoms, all animals received an injection of either 300 mg/kg sodium ascorbate or vehicle for three consecutive days prior to each recording session. In R6/2 mice, regardless of treatment, striatal unit activity was significantly faster than in wild-type controls. The difference in mean (+/-S.E.M.) firing was most apparent during wakefulness (6.4+/-0.8 vs. 3.5+/-0.3 spikes/s) but also persisted during anesthesia (2.0+/-0.3 vs. 0.7+/-0.1 spikes/s). Assessment of treatment duration indicated that R6/2 mean waking discharge rate was significantly slower after three weeks than after one week of ascorbate treatment (3.1+/-0.6 vs. 10.2+/-2.7 spikes/s). Vehicle-treated R6/2s showed no such decline in striatal activity ruling out an age- or injection-related effect. Slow-scan voltammetry in separate animals confirmed that ascorbate-injections returned the level of striatal extracellular ascorbate in R6/2 mice to that of wild-type controls. Our results indicate that although striatal neurons modulate firing in relation to behavioral state, impulse activity is consistently elevated in transgenic relative to wild-type mice. Restoring extracellular ascorbate to the wild-type level reverses this effect suggesting a role for ascorbate in normalizing neuronal function in Huntington's disease striatum.
Previous studies have demonstrated that macromolecular synthesis in the brain is modulated in association with the occurrence of sleep and wakefulness. Similarly, the spectral composition of electroencephalographic activity that occurs during sleep is dependent on the duration of prior wakefulness. Since this homeostatic relationship between wake and sleep is highly conserved across mammalian species, genes that are truly involved in the electroencephalographic response to sleep deprivation might be expected to be conserved across mammalian species. Therefore, in the rat cerebral cortex, we have studied the effects of sleep deprivation on the expression of immediate early gene and heat shock protein mRNAs previously shown to be upregulated in the mouse brain in sleep deprivation and in recovery sleep after sleep deprivation. We find that the molecular response to sleep deprivation and recovery sleep in the brain is highly conserved between these two mammalian species, at least in terms of expression of immediate early gene and heat shock protein family members. Using Affymetrix Neurobiology U34 GeneChips , we also screened the rat cerebral cortex, basal forebrain, and hypothalamus for other genes whose expression may be modulated by sleep deprivation or recovery sleep. We find that the response of the basal forebrain to sleep deprivation is more similar to that of the cerebral cortex than to the hypothalamus. Together, these results suggest that sleep-dependent changes in gene expression in the cerebral cortex are similar across rodent species and therefore may underlie sleep history-dependent changes in sleep electroencephalographic activity.
In adult females many of the effects of the neuropeptide oxytocin are steroid, and especially estrogen dependent. Here we demonstrate for the first time that neonatal manipulation of oxytocin can affect the expression of estrogen receptor alpha. On the first day of postnatal life male and female prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) were randomly assigned to receive one of four treatments; (a) 50 microl i.p. injection of 3 microg oxytocin (approximately 1 microg/g), (b) 0.3 microg of an oxytocin antagonist (approximately 0.1 microg/g), or (c) isotonic saline. A fourth group was handled, but not injected. On postnatal day 8 or 21, brain tissue was collected, fixed and sectioned. Free-floating sections were stained for estrogen receptor alpha using immunocytochemistry, and estrogen receptor alpha immunoreactive neurons were compared by age, treatment, and sex. To compare the temporal expression of estrogen receptor alpha an additional set of brains was collected from untreated males and females on the day of birth. The effects of oxytocin manipulations were age dependent, sexually dimorphic, and site-specific. While there were no significant treatment effects on postnatal day 8, by postnatal day 21 females that received oxytocin showed a significant increase in the number of cells expressing estrogen receptor alpha-immunoreactivity in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Treatment with oxytocin antagonist resulted in a significant decrease in estrogen receptor alpha-immunoreactivity in the medial preoptic area in postnatal day 21 females. While there were no significant effects in males, males treated with oxytocin antagonist trended toward a reduction in estrogen receptor alpha-immunoreactivity in the medial amygdala. The results indicate that oxytocin can have organizational effects on the expression of estrogen receptor alpha, that these effects are sexually dimorphic, and finally that during the preweaning period the development of estrogen receptor alpha is sexually dimorphic.
The phenomenon of synesthesia has received a great deal of interest recently in the scientific literature. Many previous studies stressed the unidirectional nature of this phenomenon. For example, color-grapheme synesthetes automatically perceive achromatic numbers as colored (e.g. 7 is turquoise). Conversely, colors do not automatically give rise to any sort of number experience (e.g. turquoise is 7). In contrast to the common view, we report on a digit-color synesthete in whom colors can evoke numerical representations in the absence of any digit presentation. It is concluded that in synesthesia there is a reciprocal rather than unidirectional flow of information between dimensions.
Galantamine is a third generation cholinesterase inhibitor and an allosteric potentiating ligand of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. It enhances learning in aging rabbits and alleviates cognitive deficits observed in patients with Alzheimer's disease. We examined galantamine's effect on CA1 neurons from hippocampal slices of young and aging rabbits using current-clamp, intracellular recording techniques. Galantamine (10-200 microM) dose-dependently reduced the postburst afterhyperpolarization and the spike-frequency accommodation of CA1 neurons from both young and aging animals. These reductions were partially, but significantly, reversed by the addition of the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine (1 microM), to the perfusate. In contrast, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, alpha-bungarotoxin (10 nM), had no effect; i.e. alpha-bungarotoxin did not reverse the afterhyperpolarization and accommodation reductions. The allosteric potentiating ligand effect was examined by stimulating the Schaffer collateral and measuring the excitatory postsynaptic potentials for 30 min during bath application of galantamine. Galantamine (200 microM) significantly enhanced the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude and area over time. These effects were blocked by 10 nM alpha-bungarotoxin, supporting a role for galantamine as an allosteric potentiating ligand. We did not observe a facilitation of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials with 1 microM galantamine. However, when the excitatory postsynaptic potential was pharmacologically isolated by adding 10 microM gabazine (GABA(A) receptor antagonist) to the perfusate, 1 microM galantamine potentiated the subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials into action potentials. We propose that the learning enhancement observed in aging animals and the alleviation of cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease after galantamine treatment may in part be due to the enhanced function of both nicotinic and muscarinic excitatory transmission on hippocampal pyramidal neurons.
Overactivation of excitatory amino acid receptors has been involved in several neurodegenerative diseases. The present study aims at investigating the potential neuroprotective action of 2-methyl-6-(phenylethylnyl)-pyridine (MPEP), a selective non-competitive antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5, and 2-amino-6-trifluoro methoxy-benzothiole (riluzole), a Na+ channel blocker exhibiting anti-glutamatergic properties, on the ibotenate-induced damage to the rat medial prefrontal cortex. The neuroprotective efficacy of these compounds was assessed on the recovery from behavioral deficits induced by prefrontal cortical excitotoxic lesions in a reaction time task. MPEP (3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) or riluzole (2, 4 or 8 mg/kg) was administered i.p. 30 min before and after medial prefrontal cortex lesions. As previously found, lesions to the medial prefrontal cortex significantly altered the motor preparatory processes involved in the reaction time task. These deficits were prevented by MPEP 3 mg/kg and riluzole 2 mg/kg while higher doses of either compound were ineffective. Furthermore, the neuron-specific nuclear protein immunostaining of the lesioned cortical area in animals treated with the efficient dose of either compound revealed that MPEP reduced the volume of the lesion whereas riluzole reversed the decrease of neuronal density within the lesioned area. Altogether, these results suggest a neuroprotective action of MPEP as well as riluzole at both behavioral and cellular levels on excitatory amino acid-induced toxicity.
Chronic or repeated stress during human fetal brain development has been associated with various learning, behavioral, and/or mood disorders, including depression in later life. The mechanisms accounting for these effects of prenatal stress are not fully understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of prenatal stress on early postnatal brain development, a disturbance of which may contribute to this increased vulnerability to psychopathology. We studied the effects of prenatal stress on fetal growth, stress-induced corticosterone secretion, brain cell proliferation, caspase-3-like activity and brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein content in newborn Fischer 344 rats. In addition to a slight reduction in birth weight, prenatal stress was associated with elevated corticosterone levels (33.8%) after 1 h of maternal deprivation on postnatal day 1, whereas by postnatal day 8 this pattern was reversed (-46.5%). Further, prenatal stress resulted in an approximately 50% decrease in brain cell proliferation just after birth in both genders with a concomitant increase in caspase-3-like activity within the hippocampus at postnatal day 1 (36.1%) and at postnatal day 5 (females only; 20.1%). Finally, brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein content was reduced in both the olfactory bulbs (-24.6%) and hippocampus (-28.2%) of prenatally stressed male offspring at postnatal days 1 and 5, respectively. These detrimental central changes observed may partly explain the increased susceptibility of prenatally stressed subjects to mood disorders including depression in later life.
Calcium-binding proteins (CBPs), such as parvalbumin and calbindin D-28k, are useful markers of specific neuronal types in the CNS. In recent studies, expression of CBPs may be indicative of a deactivated neuronal state, particularly epilepsy. However, it is controversial whether altered expression of CBPs in the hippocampus practically indicate neuronal activity. Therefore, the present study was performed to investigate the extent of profiles of expression of CBPs in the rat hippocampus affected by several episodes induced by electroconvulsive shock. In the present study, following electroconvulsive shock expression of CBPs were reduced in the hippocampus in a stimulus-dependent manner, and recovered to the control level at 6 h after electroconvulsive shock. However, paired-pulse responses of the dentate gyrus were transiently impaired by electroconvulsive shock, and immediately normalized to baseline value. In addition, effects of electroconvulsive shock on expression of CBPs and paired-pulse responses were prevented by pretreatment of vigabatrin. These findings suggest that reduced expression of CBPs induced by seizure activity may be indicative of hyperactivity of CBP positive neurons, which is a practical consequence of the abnormal discharge, and that they may play an important role in regulating seizure activity.
The rewarding properties of cocaine were assessed in adult rats submitted to a protein malnutrition schedule from the 14th day of gestation up to 40 days of age (deprived rats), as compared with well-nourished animals (control rats) using the conditioned place preference paradigm. Dose-response curves to cocaine (3, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45 or 60 mg/kg i.p.) revealed in deprived rats a conditioning effect with doses of 5 and 10mg/kg; doses of 15 and 30 mg/kg did not show any conditioning place preference and doses of 45 and 60 mg/kg revealed a significant aversive effect. In control rats, cocaine elicited place preference with doses of 10, 15 and 30 mg/kg, whereas 45 and 60 mg/kg did not show either conditioning or aversive effects. Furthermore, sensitization to the conditioning effect of cocaine was obtained in deprived animals with a low dosage of cocaine, that was ineffective in controls (5 mg/kg/day for 10 days). Related to the higher rewarding effects, sensitized deprived rats showed a selective and significant increase in FosB expression in nucleus accumbens (core and shell) and basolateral amygdala, brain areas related to the rewarding neuronal circuits. These results suggest that a deficient nutritional status during early life may induce in adult subjects an increased responsiveness to behavioral effects of cocaine and/or enhanced its reinforcement properties.
Under conditions of strong secretion of neurohypophysial hormone, such as during parturition, lactation and dehydration, the hypothalamic oxytocin-system displays a remarkable morphological plasticity such that astrocytic coverage of its neurones diminishes, their surfaces become directly juxtaposed and contacted by an increased number of synapses. A growing body of evidence indicates that these anatomical changes have an impact on glutamatergic neurotransmission in the supraoptic nucleus, and may be therefore of physiological consequence. We here evaluated the consequences of the inhibition of such plasticity on the overall activity of the oxytocin system during lactation. Remodeling was prevented by performing hypothalamic microinjections in gestating rats of endoneuraminidase, an enzyme that removes polysialic acid from the neural cell adhesion molecule. Our earlier studies established that the presence of polysialic acid is a prerequisite for remodeling of the oxytocin system in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. In dams in which polysialic acid was absent in all magnocellular nuclei after bilateral endoneuraminidase injections, parturition was normal and neither the frequency nor the amplitude of suckling-induced reflex milk ejections was different from vehicle-treated dams. The weight gain of pups was also normal as was water intake by the dams. We then assessed the electrical activity of antidromically identified magnocellular neurones in the polysialic acid-free supraoptic nucleus of isoflurane-anesthetized lactating rats. Basal and bursting activity characteristic of oxytocin neurones before each reflex milk ejection was not significantly different from that recorded in the supraoptic nucleus of rats with normal levels of polysialic acid. Our results indicate that neuro-glial remodeling, despite its role on fine modulation of oxytocin neuronal activity, is not essential to parturition and lactation.
The nucleus of the solitary tract is the site of termination of primary afferent fibers running in the facial, glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves. The present study was performed to map the distribution of glutamatergic axons terminals in the rat nucleus of the solitary tract using immunodetection of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and vesicular glutamate transporter 2. The two vesicular glutamate transporters were differentially distributed among nucleus of the solitary tract subdivisions. Vesicular glutamate transporter 1 immunoreactivity was mostly found in the lateral part of the nucleus (ventrolateral, interstitial and intermediate subdivisions) whereas vesicular glutamate transporter 2 labeling was distributed throughout the nucleus of the solitary tract. Electron microscope examination indicated that vesicular glutamate transporter immunoreactivity was localized in axon terminals filled with round synaptic vesicles. After injection of cholera toxin B subunit in sensory ganglia, anterograde labeling was found in vesicular glutamate transporter 1, as well as vesicular glutamate transporter 2-immunoreactive boutons. Double immunolabeling experiments allowed distinctions between terminals expressing either vesicular glutamate transporter 1 or vesicular glutamate transporter 2 or both vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 immunoreactivities. The latter population, expressing both transporters immunolabeling, completely disappeared after deafferentation induced by removal of sensory ganglia. This study indicates that vesicular glutamate transporter content identifies three different subpopulations of glutamatergic boutons in the nucleus of the solitary tract and provides definitive evidence that primary afferent neurons contribute glutamatergic terminals to the nucleus of the solitary tract.



We present a case of neurofibroma in the floor of the mouth. A 74-year-old female complained of painless swelling in the right side of the floor of the mouth for 3 months. Clinical examination and CT revealed a tumor involving the right side of the floor of the mouth. Histological features were characteristic of a neurofibroma. Such a tumor arising in the area of the mouth is very rare. We review the clinical and pathological features of a neurofibroma arising in the mouth.
Oral anticoagulants are associated with several adverse skin manifestations ranging from ecchymosis, purpura, and hemorrhagic necrosis to maculopapular rash, vesicular urticarial eruptions and purple toes. Skin necrosis is a rare but serious side effect of warfarin therapy, associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The prevalence of warfarin induced skin necrosis (WISN) is 0.01-0.1%. We report a 20-year-old female patient of craniopharyngioma who developed WISN following postoperative femoropopliteal deep vein thrombosis.
We present a case of solitary eosinophilic granuloma in the skull of a 6-year-old Saudi boy. This osteolytic lesion has fluid-fluid level on CT and MRI. We are presenting a rare radiological finding of eosinophilic granuloma.







In this article, we review the recent research evidence of genetic risks in the relatives of patients with schizophrenia, with particular focus on family, twin, adoptive, and gene studies. All current evidence supports a greater role for genetic transmission of vulnerability in the etiology of schizophrenia. Environmental factors appear to play an important role in the timing of expression, the severity and the clinical evolution of the illness.
The treatment strategy for increased intracranial pressure (ICP) management includes decisions on head and body position, hypothermia, ventilation, anesthetics, osmotic drugs and surgical procedures. We can treat sudden increases in ICP using osmotic agents, some anesthetics and short episodes of mild hyperventilation. Propofol seems to be suitable for sedation of the increased ICP patients. Surgical decompression of the cranium seems to improve the outcome of the younger patients (below 50 years old), especially children.

Tuberin, a tumor suppressor protein, is involved in various cellular functions including survival, proliferation, and growth. It has emerged as an important effector regulated by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Regulation of tuberin by RTKs and GPCRs is highly complex and dependent on the type of receptors and their associated signaling molecules. Apart from Akt, the first kinase recognized to phosphorylate and inactivate tuberin upon growth factor stimulation, an increasing number of kinases upstream of tuberin have been identified. Furthermore, recruitment of different scaffolding adaptor components to the activated receptors appears to play an important role in the regulation of tuberin activity. More recently, the differential regulation of tuberin by various G protein family members have also been intensively studied, it appears that G proteins can both facilitate (e.g., G(i/o)) as well as inhibit (e.g., G(q)) tuberin phosphorylation. In the present review, we attempt to summarize our emerging understandings of the roles of RTKs, GPCRs, and their cross-talk on the regulation of tuberin.

Short-term plasticity (STP) is an important element of information processing in neuronal networks. As the first synaptic relay between primary afferent fibers (PAFs) and central neurons, primary afferent synapses in spinal dorsal horn (DH) are essential to the initial processing of somatosensory information. In this research, we examined the STP between Adelta-PAFs and spinal DH neurons by patch-clamp recording. Our results showed that depression dominated the STP at primary afferent synapses. The curves of STP had no significant changes in the presence of bicuculline, CTZ or AP-5. Lowering extracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](o)) from 2.4 to 0.8 mM reduced the depression of synaptic responses at all stimulus rates, while raising [Ca(2+)](o) from 2.4 to 4.0 mM increased the synaptic depression. Increasing the bath temperature from 24 to 32 degrees C clearly reduced the depression of all responses. These results indicate that the observed STP is of presynaptic origin and depends on transmitter release. By fitting the experimental data recorded under different conditions, a model of STP was used to quantitatively characterize the observed STP and to analyze the possible mechanisms underlying the effects of [Ca(2+)](o) and temperature. Furthermore, using a model neuron receiving synaptic inputs, we found that with this form of STP, postsynaptic DH neurons could detect rate changes in both rapidly- and slowly-firing afferents with equal sensitivity. The present study links the intrinsic STP properties of primary afferent synapses with their role in processing neural information, and provides a basis for further research on the STP in spinal DH and its biological function under in vivo conditions.
Neurotrophins (NTs) induce gene transcription by binding their high-affinity tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) receptors and initiating intracellular signal transduction cascades. In particular, activation of the cyclic AMP response element (CRE) in the promoters of target genes serves as surrogate markers for Trk receptor activation as demonstrated in both in vivo and in vitro systems. We used a HEK293 cell line stably expressing a CRE-luciferase reporter gene to develop an assay for monitoring Trk activation in response to their cognate ligands. Using TrkB, we showed that the assay was sensitive to physiological concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and that the signal was sufficiently robust to be suitable for implementation in high-throughput format. Further characterization of the TrkB expressing stable cell lines showed high-affinity binding for BDNF, a high density of receptor expression, and supported BDNF-mediated phosphorylation signaling. Consistent with this, inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and the phospholipase C-gamma pathways led to reduction of BDNF-mediated luciferase responses. In contrast, inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways further potentiated BDNF responses. This assay was NT-Trk receptor pair-selective and shown to be further applicable to other Trk family members. This assay may be useful in screening compound libraries to identify Trk agonists, which may be applied towards discriminating between the activities of the different Trk receptor family members and the development of pharmacological drugs.
An experimental optic neuropathy model was used to test the hypothesis that methylene blue may protect the retinal ganglion cell layer from neurodegeneration caused by rotenone. Rotenone is a widely used pesticide that inhibits complex I, the first enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Complex I dysfunction is linked to the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells in Leber's optic neuropathy. Methylene blue is a reduction-oxidation agent that can act as a powerful antioxidant and also as an enhancer of the electron transport chain, preventing formation of mitochondrial oxygen free radicals and promoting oxygen consumption. The neurodegeneration of the retina was studied in mice with intravitreal microinjection of rotenone alone, or in combination with increasing doses of methylene blue, in one eye, and the vehicle in the contralateral control eye. The effect of rotenone and rotenone plus methylene blue was investigated using two histological stains, complex I and Nissl, and two measurements, morphometric layer thickness and non-biased stereological cell counts. Rotenone induced neurodegeneration in the retinal ganglion cell layer 24 h after injection, as indicated by significant reductions in both the thickness and cell numbers of the retinal ganglion cell layer of eyes microinjected with rotenone as compared to the control eyes. This neurodegeneration was prevented in a dose dependent manner by the injection of methylene blue along with rotenone. It was concluded that rotenone-induced degeneration in the ganglion cell layer can be prevented by intravitreal injection of methylene blue. In vitro experiments showed that methylene blue is both a powerful antioxidant as well as an enhancer of cellular oxygen consumption and is able to reverse the oxidative stress and decrease in oxygen consumption induced by rotenone in brain homogenates. The findings suggest that methylene blue may be a promising neuroprotective agent in optic neuropathy and perhaps other neurodegenerative diseases caused by mitochondrial dysfunction.
Curcumin, a natural polyphenolic compound, has long been known as an anti-tumour and anti-inflammatory compound; although, the common mechanism through which it exhibits such properties are remains unclear. Recently, we reported that the curcumin-induced apoptosis is mediated through the impairment of ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS). Here, we show that curcumin disrupts UPS function by directly inhibiting the enzyme activity of the proteasome's 20S core catalytic component. Like other proteasome inhibitors, curcumin exposure induces neurite outgrowth and the stress response, as evident from the induction of various cytosolic and endoplasmic reticulum chaperones as well as induction of transcription factor CHOP/GADD153. The direct inhibition of proteasome activity also causes an increase in half-life of IkappaB-alpha that ultimately leads to the down-regulation of NF-kappaB activation. These results suggest that curcumin-induced proteasomal malfunction might be linked with both anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory activities.
MDMA [(+/-)3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, also known as ecstasy] is a popular recreational drug among women of reproductive age. The objective of this study was to investigate the long-term neurobehavioral consequences of early developmental MDMA exposure. On postnatal days (PD) 1-4, Sprague-Dawley rats received two 10 mg/kg injections of MDMA with an inter-dose interval of 4 h. Male subjects were tested in adulthood for their performance in an object-recognition memory task and for their thermal and behavioral responses to an acute MDMA challenge (10 mg/kg i.p.). Neonatal MDMA administration did not alter working memory in the object-recognition test in young adulthood (PD 68-73) and there were no differences in radiolabeled citalopram binding to the serotonin transporter at this age. However, the pretreated animals showed increased thermal dysregulation and serotonin syndrome responses (particularly headweaving stereotypy) following the MDMA challenge. These results add to the growing literature demonstrating that developmental MDMA administration can lead to long-lasting functional abnormalities, and they further suggest that the offspring of ecstasy-using women may be at risk for enhanced sensitivity to this drug due to their earlier exposure.


The objective of the study was to describe changes in self-reported personality in anxiety patients undergoing capsulotomy. Sixteen patients with anxiety diagnoses undergoing capsulotomy were included. Ratings of personality characteristics with the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP), anxiety symptoms and adverse effects such as apathy and dysexecution were performed at baseline, at 1 year and 8-18 years post-operatively. Twelve patients had an anxiety reduction of at least 50%. Patients were significantly less anxiety prone at long-term follow-up as measured by KSP. Four patients suffered from adverse effects indicating frontal lobe dysfunction. There was no significant correlation between the reduction in BSA score and the KSP change from pre-operatively to long term in any of the KSP scales. In line with previous studies, high anxiety proneness normalizes after capsulotomy in anxiety patients. Adverse effects were more frequent than expected. The conclusion based on previous KSP findings that the incidence of adverse personality changes following capsulotomy is low and does not increase with time is challenged by the present study.
Even though much is known about individual risk factors for institutional violence, large variations in frequency between institutions still remain unexplained. Staff attitudes have been pointed out as a possible important and explaining factor. The Perception of Aggression Scale (POAS) is a newly developed attitude inventory assessing nurses' attitudes toward aggressive patients. The aims of this study are to evaluate the factor structure of the Swedish version of the POAS and to evaluate its discriminatory capacity in different groups of nurses. The shortened POAS was handed out to 357 nurses at 12 different psychiatric wards in Sweden. Responses were analysed with exploratory principal component factor analysis. The emerging factors were correlated in a rank-transformed multiple regression analysis to individual characteristics of each nurse. The factor analyses revealed exactly the same factor structure in this Swedish sample of nurses as in previous German and Dutch studies. When expanding the factor analysis, a three-factor solution emerged. It was also found that the factor &quot;Aggression as a protective measure&quot; was correlated to age and experience of aggression management training while the factor &quot;Aggression as dysfunctional/undesirable phenomenon&quot; was sensitive for gender. The shortened 12-item POAS contains three discrete dimensions and thus seems to be a solid tool for evaluating attitudes towards violence. Of special interest is the possibility that the factor &quot;Aggression as a protective measure&quot; could be sensitive to training. Further studies should correlate dimensions of staff attitudes to the occurrence of inpatient violence.

This paper is the third in a series of three, intended as a tutorial in the use of PubMed/Medline for an inexperienced user. The papers have the following contents: I--a description of NLM, Medline, PubMed and the system of Medical Subject Headings (MeSH), which form the basis for the indexing of scientific articles, books and other items at NLM. II--A description and a tutorial of the PubMed search window. III--The present article deals mainly with the searching for references in PubMed. Ways of restricting and concentrating the search are presented, and exercises are proposed. A reader may also find guidance for a search for medical books in the NLM Catalog, and in the use of tools like Related Articles, Bookshelf, and Index. With eating disorders as an example, more information is presented on the use of MeSH terms.
A previous paper, in a series of three, presented the National Library of Medicine, Medline, PubMed and the MeSH system. Connection to PubMed via the Internet opens the PubMed search window that is the tool for retrieving references to scientific medical literature. This paper is intended as a tutorial for an inexperienced visitor to PubMed, and describes the search window in some detail. Several proposals for exercises in its use are given in the text, while explanations and comments to the exercises are presented in an appendix. The following procedures are described: retrieving references, ways to see the abstract, ways of displaying, sorting and showing the references, together with how to produce lists, import references to your own computer, and ways to get the full text of a paper.
A comprehensive view of the available literature on a psychiatric problem can be found in the large electronic databases. Medline at the National Library of Medicine (NLM) in USA is the largest medical database. PubMed is the searchable database at the NLM, having Medline as its major content. PubMed is free of charge, barrier-free and always accessible via the Internet. This paper describes the NLM, Medline and PubMed. The indexing of scientific papers in Medline is based on Medical Subject Headings, the MeSH terms. The hierarchic tree structure of MeSH is the basis of the search and retrieval system. The present paper is the first in a series of three, intended as a tutorial on the use of PubMed for inexperienced users. Information and examples on the MeSH system, together with exercises in its use, are presented in an appendix.
Glutamatergic and purinergic signalling play key roles in synaptic transmission and modulation in the CNS. Here, we review recent evidence showing that glial cells, and in particular astrocytes, are active players in ATP and glutamate signalling in the brain. ATP and glutamate coordinately activate astrocytes, through the mobilization of their internal Ca2+, which in turn triggers the release from astrocytes of several neuroactive molecules including ATP and glutamate themselves. These 'gliotransmitters' signal either to astrocytes, where they generate Ca2+ waves, or to neurons, where they modulate synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability. By using microfabricated lanes of adhesive substrate, we provide further evidence for a diffusible factor-mediated propagation of Ca2+ waves and, through flash photolysis experiments in hippocampal slices, we show that glutamate and ATP cooperate in the generation of the astrocytic Ca2+ signal. Once astrocytes are activated they provide both excitatory and inhibitory effects on neighbouring neurons. Through the Ca2+-dependent release of glutamate, which acts on extrasynaptic neuronal NMDA receptors, astrocytes excite neurons while, in contrast, ATP released from astrocytes, after the delayed conversion to adenosine, causes neuronal suppression.
Our laboratory has characterized bidirectional signalling between neurons and glial cells in the mammalian retina. We find that light-evoked neuronal activity elicits Ca2+ increases in Mller cells, specialized glial cells of the retina. A flickering light stimulus evokes an increase in the occurrence of Ca2+ transients in Mller cells. Addition of adenosine greatly potentiates this light-evoked Ca2+ response. The purinergic antagonist suramin and the ATP hydrolysing enzyme apyrase block the glial Ca2+ response, indicating that neuron to glia signalling in the retina is mediated by ATP release from neurons and activation of glial purinergic receptors. Glia to neuron signalling has also been observed. Mller cell stimulation can evoke a hyperpolarization in neighbouring ganglion cells lasting tens of seconds. The hyperpolarization is blocked by the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist DPCPX and is reduced by ecto-ATPase and ectonucleotidase inhibitors, indicating that the hyperpolarization is mediated by glial release of ATP which is converted to adenosine by ecto-enzymes, leading to the activation of neuronal adenosine receptors. The existence of bidirectional purinergic signalling between neurons and glia suggests that glial cells participate in information processing in the retina.
A brief account of the early history of extracellular signalling by ATP will be followed by a summary of the current subclassification of receptors for purines and pyrimidines. On the basis of cloning, transduction mechanisms and pharmacology, the P1 (adenosine) receptor family has 4 subtypes, while the P2 (ATP, ADP and UTP) receptor family has been divided into P2X ionotropic receptors (7 subtypes) and P2Y metabotropic G protein-coupled receptors (8 subtypes). The distribution of purinoceptors in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells and the physiology and pathophysiology of purinergic signalling will be reviewed. Examples of fast purinergic signalling include cotransmission and neuromodulation, exocrine and endocrine secretion, platelet aggregation, vascular endothelial cell-mediated vasodilatation and nociceptive mechanosensory transduction. Examples of slow (trophic) purinergic signalling include cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis in embryological development, neural regeneration, bone resorption, cell turnover of epithelial cells in skin and visceral organs, inflammation, wound healing and cancer. Finally the purinoceptor subtypes expressed on astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, Schwann cells, microglia, Mller cells and enteric glial cells will be summarized as well as evidence for non-lytic release of ATP from glial cells.
Cognitive neuroscience has focused on language acquisition as one of the main domains to test the respective roles of statistical vs. rule-like computation. Recent studies have uncovered that the brain of human neconates displays a typical signature in response to speech sounds even a few hours after birth. This suggests that neuroscience and linguistics converge on the view that, to a large extent, language acquisition arises due to our genetic endowment. Our research has also shown how statistical dependencies and the ability to draw structural generalizations are basic processes that interact intimately. First, we explore how the rhythmic properties of language bias word segmentation. Second, we demonstrate that natural speech categories play specific roles during language acquisition: some categories are optimally suited to compute statistical dependencies while other categories are optimally suited for the extraction of structural generalizations.
Uncertainty constitutes a fundamental constraint on human sensorimotor control. Our sensors are noisy and do not provide perfect information about all the properties of the world. Moreover, our muscles generate noisy outputs and many tasks we perform vary in an unpredictable way. Here we review the computations that the CNS uses in the face of such sensory, motor and task uncertainty. We show that the CNS reduces the uncertainty in estimates about the state of the world by using a Bayesian combination of prior knowledge and sensory feedback. It is shown that these mechanisms generalize to state estimation of ones own body during movement. We review how the CNS optimizes decisions based on these estimates, examining the error criterion that people optimize when performing targeted movements. Finally, we describe how signal-dependent noise on the motor output places constraints on performance. Goal-directed movement arises from a model in which the statistics of our actions are optimized. Together these studies provide a probabilistic framework for sensorimotor control.
Computational models based on diffusion processes have been proposed to account for human decision making behaviour in a variety of tasks. This study explores whether such models account for the speed and accuracy of perceptual decisions in a reaction-time random dot motion direction-discrimination task and whether they explain the decision-related activity of neurons recorded from the parietal cortex (area LIP) of monkeys performing the task. While a relatively simple diffusion model can explain the psychometric function and the mean response times, it fails to account for the response time distributions. By adding an 'urgency mechanism' to the diffusion model the psychometric function, the mean response times, and the shape of the response time distributions can be explained. Such an urgency mechanism could be implemented in different ways, but the best match between the physiological data and model predictions is provided by a diffusion process with a time-variant gain of the sensory signals. It can be shown that such a time-variant decision process allows the monkey to perform optimally (in the sense of maximizing reward rate) given the risk of aborting a trial by breaking fixation before a choice can be reported.
Experience and perception are deeply intertwined. Experience, particularly early in life, shapes how sensory information is represented in the brain. Experience also establishes associations and can affect how sensory information guides behaviour. Central to these kinds of perceptual abilities are neural mechanisms that interpret, or decode, the brain's sensory representation, but little is known about how these decoding mechanisms depend on experience. Here I discuss several critical roles that experience might play in shaping these mechanisms. First, experience is likely to drive changes in neural connectivity to select the spatially and temporally distributed sensory signals that provide relevant information about a stimulus. Second, even the most relevant sensory signals provide incomplete information about the presence of a stimulus; also necessary is knowledge of the a priori probability of the stimulus, which must be learned from experience. Third, decoding noisy information is necessarily imperfect and therefore involves trade-offs like speed versus accuracy and false alarms versus misses. Experience is likely to provide ongoing feedback about the value of these trade-offs so that they might be adjusted appropriately. Each of these mechanisms appear to be capable of causing dramatic changes in sensitivity, response bias, response times and other manifestations of perceptual ability.
We examined the trial-by-trial relationship between the metrics of saccadic eye movements and the activity of individual putative premotor neurons in the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) of rhesus monkeys. The region of the pons containing these excitatory burst neurons (EBNs) extends for several millimetres. Motoneurons innervating extraocular muscles integrate the output of hundreds or even thousands of these neurons. Accordingly, there was no reason to expect that relatively small variations in the activity of a single pontine neuron would be related to variations in saccade amplitude or speed observed during repetitive eye movements to the same target. Nonetheless, we observed consistent relationships between variations in the number of spikes in the burst of pontine neurons and the amplitude of the saccade. Trial-to-trial variations in the instantaneous spike frequency during a burst are associated with variations in the velocity profile of the movement. Based on these data, we conclude that the activity of pontine burst neurons is not statistically independent and that simultaneous recordings from multiple cells will reveal a high degree of correlated activity.
The neocortex is an enormous network of extensively interconnected neurons. It has become clear that the computations performed by individual cortical neurons will critically depend on the quantitative composition of cortical activity. Here we discuss quantitative aspects of cortical activity and modes of cortical processing in the context of rodent active touch. Through in vivo whole-cell recordings one observes widespread subthreshold and very sparse evoked action potential (AP) activity in the somatosensory cortex both for passive whisker deflection in anaesthetized animals and during active whisker movements in awake animals. Neurons of the somatosensory cortex become either suppressed during whisking or activated by an efference copy of whisker movement signal that depolarize cells at certain phases of the whisking cycle. To probe the read out of cortical motor commands we applied intracellular stimulation in rat whisker motor cortex. We find that APs in individual cortical neurons can evoke long sequences of small whisker movements. The capacity of an individual neuron to evoke movements is most astonishing given the large number of neurons in whisker motor cortex. Thus, few cortical APs may suffice to control motor behaviour and such APs can be translated into action with the utmost precision. We conclude that there is very widespread subthreshold cortical activity and very sparse, highly specific cortical AP activity.
A major challenge of sensory systems neuroscience is to quantify the brain activity underlying perceptual experiences and to explain this activity as the outcome of elemental neuronal response properties. One strategy is to measure variations in neuronal response in relation to controlled variations in an artificial stimulus. The limitation is that the stimuli scarcely resemble those which the sensory system has evolved to process-natural, behaviourally relevant stimuli. A more recent strategy is to measure neuronal responses during presentation of natural stimuli, but such experiments have failed to predict the observed responses according to the fundamental properties of neurons. In the work described here, we focus on tactile sensation in rats, and try to bridge the gap between neurons' responses to natural stimuli and their responses to controlled, artificial stimuli. We focus on texture, a submodality in which the rat whisker sensory system excels. Because the physical characteristics of texture stimuli have not yet been studied, the first set of experiments measures textures from the whiskers' point of view. The second set of experiments describes neurons' responses to textures. The third set of experiments computes kernels (estimates of the extracted stimulus features) of sensory neurons using white noise and then tries to account for natural texture responses according to these kernels. These investigations suggest ways of using natural stimuli to assemble a more complete picture of the neuronal basis of tactile sensation.
Exportin-5, an evolutionarily conserved nuclear export factor belonging to the importin-beta family of proteins, is known to play a role in the nuclear export of small noncoding RNAs such as precursors of microRNA, viral minihelix RNA and a subset of tRNAs in mammalian cells. In this study, we show that the exportin-5 orthologues from different species such as human, fruit fly and yeast exhibit diverged functions. We found that Msn5p, a yeast exportin-5 orthologue, binds double-stranded RNAs and that it prefers a shorter 22 nt, double-stranded RNA to approximately 80 nt pre-miRNA, even though both of these RNAs share a similar terminal structure. Furthermore, we found that Drosophila exportin-5 binds pre-miRNAs and that amongst the exportin-5 orthologues tested, it shows the highest affinity for tRNAs. The knockdown of Drosophila exportin-5 in cultured cells decreased the amounts of tRNA as well as miRNA, whereas the knock down of human exportin-5 in cultured cells affected only miRNA but not tRNA levels. These results indicate that double-stranded RNA binding ability is an inherited functional characteristic of the exportin-5 orthologues and that Drosophila exportin-5 functions as an exporter of tRNAs as well as pre-miRNAs in the fruit fly that lacks the orthologous gene for exportin-t.
The DExD/H box family of proteins includes a large number of proteins that play important roles in RNA metabolism. Members of this family have been shown to act as RNA helicases or unwindases, using the energy from ATP hydrolysis to unwind RNA structures or dissociate RNA-protein complexes in cellular processes that require modulation of RNA structures. However, it is clear that several members of this family are multifunctional and, in addition to acting as RNA helicases in processes such as pre-mRNA processing, play important roles in transcriptional regulation. In this review I shall concentrate on RNA helicase A (Dhx9), DP103 (Ddx20), p68 (Ddx5) and p72 (Ddx17), proteins for which there is a strong body of evidence showing that they play important roles in transcription, often as coactivators or corepressors through their interaction with key components of the transcriptional machinery, such as CREB-binding protein, p300, RNA polymerase II and histone deacetylases.
Low serum zinc levels have been linked to major depression. Furthermore, zinc treatment has been shown to have an antidepressant effect. With the hope of understanding the role of zinc in mood disorders, recent work has begun to explore possible mechanisms of zinc action on serotonin uptake in the brain.
This article expands an earlier model of the tasks of grieving (1990, [1995], [2001]) by building on science based findings derived from research in attachment theory, neuroscience, interpersonal neurobiology, and childhood traumatic grief (CTG). The proposed treatment model is a prescriptive approach that spells out specific tasks to be undertaken by children suffering traumatic grief under the direction of a therapist who is trained in trauma-informed therapy approaches and draws heavily on the empirically derived childhood traumatic grief treatment model developed by Cohen and Mannarino (2004; Cohen, Mannarino, &amp; Deblinger, 2006). This model expands on their work by proposing specific tasks that are informed by attachment theory research and the interpersonal neurobiological research (Schore, 2003a, 2003b; Siegel, 1999). Particular emphasis is placed on developing a coherent and meaningful narrative since this has been found as a crucial factor in recovery from trauma in attachment research (Siegel, 1999; Siegel &amp; Hartzell, 2003).


Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) provide relatively easily accessible external information about internal properties of the inner ear. A primary result is that the detection of normal DPOAE components is a strong indicator of normal functioning of the cochlear mechanics. The details of amplitude and phase behavior of the DPOAEs, and the development over time (DPOAE delay) are not fully understood and subject of some debate. In this paper, I would like to emphasize the view that precise time domain experiments and time domain model analysis provide a superb tool, the power of which is generally underestimated. Results are presented from a model analysis in which the primary-tone phase variation technique introduced by Whitehead et al. was employed successfully.
We propose a Bayesian approach to identify protein complexes and their constituents from high-throughput protein-protein interaction screens. An infinite latent feature model that allows for multi-complex membership by individual proteins is coupled with a graph diffusion kernel that evaluates the likelihood of two proteins belonging to the same complex. Gibbs sampling is then used to infer a catalog of protein complexes from the interaction screen data. An advantage of this model is that it places no prior constraints on the number of complexes and automatically infers the number of significant complexes from the data. Validation results using affinity purification/mass spectrometry experimental data from yeast RNA-processing complexes indicate that our method is capable of partitioning the data in a biologically meaningful way. A supplementary web site containing larger versions of the figures is available at http://public.kgi.edu/wild/PSBO6/index.html.
Placebo analgesia is one of the most striking examples of the cognitive modulation of pain perception and the underlying mechanisms are finally beginning to be understood. According to pharmacological studies, the endogenous opioid system is essential for placebo analgesia. Recent functional imaging data provides evidence that the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) represents a crucial cortical area for this type of endogenous pain control. We therefore hypothesized that placebo analgesia recruits other brain areas outside the rACC and that interactions of the rACC with these brain areas mediate opioid-dependent endogenous antinociception as part of a top-down mechanism. Nineteen healthy subjects received and rated painful laser stimuli to the dorsum of both hands, one of them treated with a fake analgesic cream (placebo). Painful stimulation was preceded by an auditory cue, indicating the side of the next laser stimulation. BOLD-responses to the painful laser-stimulation during the placebo and no-placebo condition were assessed using event-related fMRI. After having confirmed placebo related activity in the rACC, a connectivity analysis identified placebo dependent contributions of rACC activity with bilateral amygdalae and the periaqueductal gray (PAG). This finding supports the view that placebo analgesia depends on the enhanced functional connectivity of the rACC with subcortical brain structures that are crucial for conditioned learning and descending inhibition of nociception.
We investigated the involvement of the protein kinase B/Akt (PKB/Akt) signaling pathway in the mechanical hypersensitivity induced in rats by capsaicin. Intradermal injection of capsaicin results in activation of PKB/Akt in the lumbar spinal cord, most prominently in the dorsal horn, starting by 5 min after capsaicin injection and lasting at least 1h. The activated PKB/Akt in the spinal cord is in neurons, since phospho-PKB/Akt (p-PKB/Akt) colocalizes with the neuronal marker, neuronal-specific nuclear protein (NeuN). The mechanical hypersensitivity is shown by the enhanced paw withdrawal frequency to applications of von Frey filaments with different bending forces (30, 100, 200 mN) on the rat paw. Pre-treatment with several different PKB/Akt inhibitors, including SH-6, Akt inhibitor IV, and Akt inhibitor V, blocked the mechanical hypersensitivity induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin, a measure of spinal cord central sensitization. Two structurally unrelated phosphoinositide 3-Kinase (PI3K, upstream of PKB/Akt) inhibitors, Wortmannin and LY294002, also prevented the mechanical hypersensitivity induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin. Furthermore, post-treatment with the PI3K inhibitor, Wortmannin, or PKB/Akt inhibitors, such as NL-71-101, SH-6, Akt inhibitor IV, and inhibitor V significantly reduced the established mechanical hypersensitivity induced by capsaicin. The PKB/Akt signaling pathway in the spinal cord is therefore involved in pain hypersensitivity.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common disorder, although under-diagnosed, with a prevalence of up to 15% depending on the population sampled. Familial aggregation has been widely shown since Ekbom formerly described the condition in 1960; twin studies support a genetic contribution in the development of this disorder. Molecular genetic approaches have identified three genomic regions in RLS susceptibility, however no specific mutations have yet been identified. Herein, we review the current status of genetics in RLS, providing some methodological guidelines to help future research.
We describe a patient with a 5-month history of gradually progressive painless flexion of the left ring finger associated with cramps in both thighs. She has severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and was on salbutamol. Serum anti-voltage-gated potassium channel antibodies was positive. Electromyography showed generalized neuromyotonia and myokymic discharges. The cramps were partially relieved by phenytoin. We would like to highlight that finger flexion resembling dystonia can be a presenting sign of Isaacs' syndrome.
Myelomeningocele with Chiari II malformation and hydrocephalus is a common association seen in infants with a congenital failure of neurulation. Here we report two cases of such an association presenting with different sets of problems. The first patient presented with severe inspiratory stridor due to bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis, which was relieved completely within 24 h of definitive surgery. The second patient experienced intraoperative cardiac arrest. Definitive surgery was followed after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The cause of the perioperative sequence of events in both cases is attributed to the associated pathologies of Chiari II malformation.
Intracranial aneurysms in early childhood are rare. Mycotic aneurysms as a cause of pyrexia of unknown origin has never been reported. We present a 9-month-old immunodeficient boy who had a long history of irregular fever from neonatal period and presented to us with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Investigation revealed a basilar top aneurysm. We present the clinicoradiological profile and discuss the management strategies.

Beacon is a novel peptide isolated from the hypothalamus of Israeli sand rat. In the present study, we determined the distribution of beacon in the rat brain using immunohistochemical approach with a polyclonal antiserum directed against the synthetic C-terminal peptide fragment (47-73). The hypothalamus represented the major site of beacon-immunoreactive (IR) cell bodies that were concentrated in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON). Additional immunostained cells were found in the septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, subfornical organ and subcommissural organ. Beacon-IR fibers were seen with high density in the internal layer of the median eminence and low to moderate density in the external layer. Significant beacon-IR fibers were also seen in the nucleus of the solitary tract and lateral reticular formation. The beacon neurons found in the PVN were further characterized by double label immunohistochemistry. Several beacon-IR neurons that resided in the medial PVN were shown to coexpress corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and most labeled beacon fibers in the external layer of median eminence coexist with CRH. The topographical distribution of beacon-IR in the brain suggests multiple biological activities for beacon in addition to its proposed roles in modulating feeding behaviors and pituitary hormone release.
Brain cholecystokinin (CCK) levels have been shown to be elevated in animals defeated during adult social aggression. The present experiment evaluated whether similar effects are evident in prolonged bouts of juvenile social-play fighting, which tend to switch from largely positive to some negative affect after approximately 15 min into a half-hour play session, as indexed by a gradual shift from positively valenced 50 kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) to negatively valenced 20 kHz USVs. Given the role of CCK in both positive and negative emotional events, we examined levels of CCK-8 in tissue homogenates from 14 brain areas in animals 6h after a 30 min play bout compared to no-play control animals tested similarly in isolation for 30 min. As with patterns observed following adult defeat, significantly higher CCK levels were evident after play in the posterior neo-cortex compared to no-play control animals (+26%). Levels of CCK were also elevated in the midbrain (+35%). However, unlike in adult aggression, CCK levels were reduced in the hypothalamus (-40%) and basal forebrain (-24%) as compared to no-play animals. Posterior cortex CCK levels were positively correlated to the duration that each animal was pinned (r = +.50) which suggests that elevated CCK in the posterior cortex may be related to the negative aspects of play. Hypothalamic CCK levels were negatively related to dorsal contacts and pins (r's = -.57), and suggest that the lower CCK levels may reflect the more positive valenced aspects of play. The data indicate that CCK utilization in the brain is dynamically responsive to rough-and-tumble play.
We tested the ability of the mature visual system for discrimination between types of elliptic biological motion on the basis of event kinematics. Healthy adult volunteers were presented with point-light displays depicting elliptic motion when only a single dot, a moving point-light arm, or a whole point-light human figure was visible. The displays were created in accordance with the two-thirds power kinematic law (natural motion), whereas the control displays violated this principle (unnatural motion). On each trial, participants judged whether the display represented natural or unnatural motion. The findings indicate that adults are highly sensitive to violation of the two-thirds power kinematic law. Notably, participants can easily discriminate between natural and unnatural motions without recognising the stimuli, which suggests that people implicitly use kinematic information. Most intriguing, event recognition seems to diminish the capacity to judge whether event kinematics is unnatural. We discuss possible ways for a cross-talk between perception and production of biological movement, and the brain mechanisms involved in biological motion processing.
We investigated the influence of viewing angle on performance in recognising the identity of one's own person and familiar individuals such as friends or colleagues from walking patterns. Viewpoint-dependent recognition performance was tested in two groups of twelve persons who knew each other very well. Participants' motion data were acquired by recording their walking patterns in three-dimensional space with the use of a motion capture system. Size-normalised point-light displays of biological motion of these walking patterns, including one's own, were presented to the same group members on a computer screen in frontal view, half-profile view, and profile view. Observers were requested to assign the person's name to the individual gait pattern. No feedback was given. Whereas recognition performance of one's own walking patterns was viewpoint independent, recognition rate for other familiar individuals was better for frontal and half-profile view than for profile view. These findings are discussed in the context of the theory of common coding of motor and visual body representations.
Ambiguous figures are a special class of images that can give rise to multiple interpretations. Traditionally, switching between the possible interpretations of an ambiguous figure, or reversing one's interpretation, has been attributed either to top-down or to bottom-up processes (e.g. attributed to having knowledge of the nature of the ambiguity, or to a form of neuronal fatigue). Here we present evidence that is incompatible with both forms of explanations. Observers aged 5-9 years can reverse ambiguous figures when uninformed about the ambiguity, negating purely top-down explanations. Further, those children who make these 'spontaneous' reversals are more likely to succeed on a high-order theory-of-mind task, negating purely bottom-up explanations.
We investigated developmental changes in sensitivity to biological motion by asking 6-year-olds, 9-year-olds, and adults (twenty-four in each group) to discriminate point-light biological motion displays depicting one of a variety of human movements from scrambled versions of the same displays. When tested without noise dots, participants at all ages performed near ceiling levels and no differences in accuracy were found among the three age groups. Age differences emerged in the second task, in which we used a staircase procedure to determine threshold values of the number of noise dots that could be tolerated in producing a percentage correct value corresponding to a d' value of 1.4. Sensitivity to biological motion improved linearly with age (p &lt; 0.01), with 6-year-olds performing significantly more poorly than adults. This immature performance contrasts with adult-like accuracy by 4 years of age for sensitivity to global motion (Parrish et al, 2005 Vision Research 45 827-837). The comparison implies an immaturity at 6 years of age in the neural networks involved specifically in the processing of biological motion, networks that may include the superior temporal sulcus (STS).
How do humans combine the velocity information from two moving gratings (plaids) to detect pattern motion direction?-We are still unable to answer this question. The 'intersection of constraints' rule (IOC-Adelson and Movshon, 1982 Nature 300 523-525), and the 'vector average' rule (VA-Wilson et al, 1992 Visual Neuroscience 9 79-97) have both been supported by results in the plaid literature, but could these results be predicted by a 'squaring' nonlinearity that now forms part of several influential spatiotemporal energy models (Wilson et al 1992, loco cit.; Lu and Sperling, 1995 Vision Research 35 2697-2722; Simoncelli and Heeger, 1998 Vision Research 38 743-761)? Spatiotemporal energy in these models predicts directions other than those predicted by standard spatiotemporal energy models and may underlie the results that support the combination rules. The two combination rules and predictions from 'squaring' were tested under identical conditions. In the first three experiments a plaid was randomly presented in one of 45 different orientations, and observers were asked to remember the direction. The stimulus was then replaced by an oriented line indicating the direction predicted by one of the hypotheses. The observer was unaware which hypothesis had generated the line and was asked to make a same/different judgment. Results showed that the 'squaring' hypothesis was better at predicting perceived direction than either the IOC or VA.
When holding a small-scale model of Ames's trapezoidal window with the arms fully extended, several observers experience a striking proprioceptive distortion (eg one hand appears farther from the other, or one arm appears longer than the other). However, data from a matching experiment suggest that the proprioceptive misalignment of the hands is, in fact, rather less than the apparent slant of the window when this is not held. This finding argues against a 'visual-capture' account, supports an explanation in terms of bimodal integrative processes, and underscores the importance of supplementing phenomenological observations with objective measures.
Few studies have examined the effects of 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine (5-MeO-DIPT) in vivo. In these studies, 5-MeO-DIPT was tested in a drug-elicited head twitch assay in mice where it was compared to the structurally similar hallucinogen N,N-dimethyltryptamine (N,N-DMT) and challenged with the selective serotonin (5-HT)2A antagonist M100907, and in a lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) discrimination assay in rats where its subjective effects were challenged with M100907 or the 5-HT 1A selective antagonist WAY-100635. Finally, the affinity of 5-MeO-DIPT for three distinct 5-HT receptors was determined in rat brain. 5-MeO-DIPT, but not N,N-DMT, induced the head twitch responses in the mouse, and this effect was potently antagonized by prior administration of M100907. In rats trained with LSD as a discriminative stimulus, there was an intermediate degree (75%) of generalization to 5-MeO-DIPT and a dose-dependent suppression of response rates. These interoceptive effects were abolished by M100907, but were not significantly attenuated by WAY-100635. Finally, 5-MeO-DIPT had micromolar affinity for 5-HT 2A and 5-HT 2C receptors, but much higher affinity for 5-HT 1A receptors. 5-MeO-DIPT is thus effective in two rodent models of 5-HT2 agonist activity, and has affinity at receptors relevant to hallucinogen effects. The effectiveness with which M100907 antagonizes the behavioral actions of this compound, coupled with the lack of significant antagonist effects of WAY-100635, strongly suggests that the 5-HT 2A receptor is an important site of action for 5-MeO-DIPT, despite its apparent in vitro selectivity for the 5-HT 1A receptor.
In this study, we have used the selective A 2A adenosine receptor antagonist KW6002 to investigate the function of A 2A receptors in the Lister hooded rat nucleus accumbens in vitro and in vivo. Radioligand binding studies confirmed a greater than 50-fold selectivity of KW6002 for A 2A receptors compared to A1 receptors. Release of [3H]-dopamine from nucleus accumbens slices in vitro was almost doubled in the presence of 300 nM KW6002, while GABA release was inhibited by approximately one third. In vivo, intraperitoneal administration of KW6002 (4 mg kg(-1)) increased dopamine overflow almost 4-fold in the nucleus accumbens. In behavioural testing, KW6002 elicited place preference and increased locomotor activity at 1, 2 and 4 mg kg(-1). Taken together, these results suggest a role for tonic activation of A 2A adenosine receptors in reward-related phenomena.
Many known painkillers are not always effective in the therapy of chronic neuropathic pain manifested by hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia. The mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain appear to be complicated and to differ from acute and inflammatory pain. Recent advances in pain research provide us with a clear picture for the molecular mechanisms of acute pain, and substantial information is available concerning the plasticity that occurs under conditions of neuropathic pain. The most important changes responsible for the mechanisms of neuropathic pain are found in the altered gene/protein expression in primary sensory neurons. After damage to peripheral sensory fibers, up-regulated expression of the Ca(v)alpha(2)delta-(1) channel subunit, the Na(v)1.3 sodium channel, and bradykinin (BK) B1 and capsaicin TRPV1 receptors in myelinated neurons contribute to hyperalgesia; while the down-regulation of the Na(v)1.8 sodium channel, B2 receptor, substance P (SP), and even mu-opioid receptors in unmyelinated neurons is responsible for the phenotypic switch in pain transmission. Clarification of the molecular mechanisms for such complicated plasticity would be extremely valuable when considering the therapeutic design of pain relieving drugs. Although many reports deal with the changes in expression of key molecules related to neuropathic pain, the initiation and the mechanisms that follow remain to be determined. The current study using lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) receptor knockout mice revealed that LPA produced by nerve injury initiates neuropathic pain and demyelination following partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL). A single injection of LPA was found to mimic PSNL in terms of neuropathic pain and its underlying mechanisms. This discovery may lead to the subsequent discovery of LPA-induced secondary genes, which would be therapeutic targets for neuropathic pain.


According to recent findings activation of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is related to detecting cognitive conflict. This conflict related activation elicits autonomic responses which can be assessed by psychophysiological measures such as heart rate variability calculated as beat to beat R-R intervals (RRI). Recent findings in neuroscience also suggest that cognitive conflict is related to specific nonlinear chaotic changes of the signal generated by neural systems. The present study used Stroop word-color test as an experimental approach to psychophysiological study of cognitive conflict in connection with RRI measurement, psychometric measurement of limbic irritability (LSCL-33), depression (BDI-II) and calculation of largest Lyapunov exponents in nonlinear data analysis of RRI time series. Significant correlation 0.61 between largest Lyapunov exponents and LSCL-33 found in this study indicate that a defect of neural inhibition during conflicting Stroop task is closely related to limbic irritability. Because limbic irritability is probably closely related to epileptiform abnormalities in the temporolimbic structures, this result might represent useful instrument for indication of anticonvulsant treatment in depressive patients who are resistant to antidepressant medication.
The historiography of psychology has highlighted how in Italy experts both from the field of philosophy and above all from that of medicine have contributed to the foundation of scientific psychology. The &quot;project of experimental psychology&quot; took shape in the second half of the nineteenth century, thanks especially to the work of physiologists, neurophysiologists, neurohistologists, psychiatrists, and anthropologists, such as Tamburini, Seppilli, Luciani, Golgi, Buccola, Ferrari, Morselli, Mosso, Kiesow, etc. These experts in their various fields were all involved in the attempt to redefine psychology as a natural science on a par with the other scientific disciplines and, therefore, to identify and delimit its proper object of study, while consequently developing its relative &quot;quantitative&quot; methods with reference to those of psychophysics, psychophysiology, and psycochronometry. This attempt developed particularly in Reggio Emilia and in Turin. In the San Lazzaro Mental Hospital of Reggio Emilia directed by Augusto Tamburini, there was an important cultural movement regarding research and training, which culminated in Gabriele Buccola's systematic experimental research on reaction times. In Turin, instead, the presence of the psychiatrist Enrico Morselli and the physiologist Angelo Mosso favoured the development of a Wundtian-style experimental psychology. The type of investigations conducted in these research centres reflects the interests of their authors, but it also reveals their common objective of founding a new psychological discipline that would have &quot;scientific&quot; characteristics.
The pituitary is the central endocrine gland that regulates the functions of various target organs in the human body. Because of the pivotal regulatory role of the pituitary, it is essential to define on a global scale the components of the pituitary protein machinery, including a comprehensive characterization of the post-translational modifications of the pituitary proteins. Of particular interest is the examination of the phosphorylation status of the pituitary in health and disease. Towards the goal of global profiling of pituitary protein phosphorylation, we report here the application of the in-gel IEF-LC-MS/MS approach to the study of the pituitary phosphoproteome. The analytical strategy combined isoelectric focusing in immobilized pH gradient strips with immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry. With this method, a total of 50 phosphorylation sites were characterized in 26 proteins. Because the investigation involved primary tissue, the findings provide a direct glimpse into the phosphoprotein machinery operating within the human pituitary tissue microenvironment.
Cell migration in the adult brain is discussed. We compared our studies on cell densities after cortical injury with our study on hippocampal proliferation and neurogenesis. We have shown that postnatal hypoxia increases cell density in cortical layer II of the somatosensory, motor and auditory cortices and in layer V of the motor cortex. Moreover, we have shown that a photochemical lesion through the entire cortical thickness increases the number of newly generated cells. The number of newly generated cells was enhanced by beam walking pre-treatment and substantially enhanced by fluoxetine pre-treatment; following fluoxetine pre-treatment, a large number of newly generated cells were observed in the auditory cortex. Subsequently, we studied the generation of new cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. After Morris water maze training, in comparison with an untrained group, proliferation in the granular cell layer was suppressed. That suppression was compensated for by fluoxetine administration during the period of learning. We observed different results in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, where suppression was observed after combined Morris water maze and fluoxetine treatment. We hypothesize that cell migration in the brain cortex persists in adulthood and that this migration is stimulated by both physiological and pathological conditions. Appropriate stimulation of the neurogenetic system is a possible promising therapy for brain diseases.
Brain processing of pain in humans is based on multiple ascending pathways and brain regions that are involved in several pain components, such as sensory, immediate affective, and secondary affective dimensions. These dimensions are processed both serially and in parallel. They include spinal ascending pathways that directly target limbic and brainstem structures involved in pain-related emotions as well as a pathway proceeding from the somatosensory cortices to limbic cortical areas. Superimposed on this neural organization is the capacity to process the dimensions of pain in multiple ways, as in patients who lack one cerebral hemisphere but can nevertheless locate and rate pain intensity and pain unpleasantness on both sides of the body. The dimensions of pain also can be psychologically modulated in multiple ways and these changes are accompanied by corresponding changes in relevant brain structures. Finally, understanding psychological modulation of pain and pain-related brain activity is optimized by a scientific framework that integrates principles of contemporary physics, neuroscience, and human experiential science.
Congenital auditory deprivation (deafness) leads to a dysfunctional intrinsic cortical microcircuitry. This chapter reviews these deficits with a particular emphasis on layer-specific activity within the primary auditory cortex. Evidence for a delay in activation of supragranular layers and reduction in activity in infragranular layers is discussed. Such deficits indicate the incompetence of the primary auditory cortex to not only properly process thalamic input and generate output within the infragranular layers, but also incorporate top-down modulations from higher order auditory cortex into the processing within primary auditory cortex. Such deficits are the consequence of a misguided postnatal development. Maturation of primary auditory cortex in deaf animals shows evidence of a developmental delay and further alterations in gross synaptic currents, spread of activation, and morphology of local field potentials recorded at the cortical surface. Additionally, degenerative changes can be observed. When hearing is initiated early in life (e.g., by chronic cochlear-implant stimulation), many of these deficits are counterbalanced. However, plasticity of the auditory cortex decreases with increasing age, so that a sensitive period for plastic adaptation can be demonstrated within the second to sixth months of life in the deaf cat. Potential molecular mechanisms of the existence of sensitive period are discussed. Data from animal research may be compared to electroencephalographic data obtained from cochlear-implanted congenitally deaf children. After cochlear implantation in humans, three phases of plastic adaptation can be observed: a fast one, taking place within the first few weeks after implantation, showing no sensitive period; a slower one, taking place within the first months after implantation (a sensitive period up to 4 years of age); and possibly a third, and the longest one, related to increasing activation of higher order cortical areas.
Understanding the role of the frontal lobes in cognition remains a challenge for neurologists and neuroscientists. It is proposed that goal-directed behavior, at the core of what we consider human, depends critically on the function of the frontal lobes, and, specifically, the prefrontal cortex (PFC). In this chapter, we put forth the hypothesis that further insight into the neural mechanisms underlying normal PFC function may ultimately help us understand the frontal-lobe syndrome, and importantly, potentially lead to effective therapeutic interventions for frontal-lobe dysfunction. Thus, the aim of this chapter is to review current hypotheses and knowledge about the neural mechanisms underlying the normal function of the PFC in cognition that could guide the development of therapeutic interventions.
The brain is constantly adapting to environmental and endogenous changes (including injury) that occur at every stage of life. The mechanisms that regulate neural plasticity have been refined over millions of years. Motivation and sensory experience directly shape the rewiring that makes learning and neurological recovery possible. Guiding neural reorganization in a manner that facilitates recovery of function is a primary goal of neurological rehabilitation. As the rules that govern neural plasticity become better understood, it will be possible to manipulate the sensory and motor experience of patients to induce specific forms of plasticity. This review summarizes our current knowledge regarding factors that regulate cortical plasticity, illustrates specific forms of reorganization induced by control of each factor, and suggests how to exploit these factors for clinical benefit.
This chapter explores some of the molecular events contributing to memory formation and how, when these events malfunction, disturbances in memory occur. After a brief discussion of signaling in the hippocampus, we will explore the topics of human mental retardation syndromes that involve disruption of these processes, including Angelman syndrome (AS), Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1)-associated learning disorders, Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS), Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS), and Rett syndrome (RTT).
The receptor tyrosine kinase B, TrkB, is the high-affinity receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Much evidence supports a role for TrkB signaling in excitatory synapse formation. There have been a number of recent advances in understanding the cell biology of TrkB-mediated excitatory synaptogenesis. The predominant mechanism by which TrkB supports excitatory synaptogenesis appears to be due to cell-autonomous signaling in both pre- and postsynaptic cells. This signaling appears to contribute to the growth and stabilization processes necessary for the net formation of synapses during development. Further, the molecular mechanisms by which TrkB contributes to these growth and stabilization processes are beginning to be elucidated.
We discuss the theory and practice of applying independent component analysis (ICA) to electroencephalographic (EEG) data. ICA blindly decomposes multi-channel EEG data into maximally independent component processes (ICs) that typically express either particularly brain generated EEG activities or some type of non-brain artifacts (line or other environmental noise, eye blinks and other eye movements, or scalp or heart muscle activity). Each brain and non-brain IC is identified with an activity time course (its 'activation') and a set of relative strengths of its projections (by volume conduction) to the recording electrodes (its 'scalp map'). Many non-articraft IC scalp maps strongly resemble the projection of a single dipole, allowing the location and orientation of the best-fitting equivalent dipole (or other source model) to be easily determined. In favorable circumstances, ICA decomposition of high-density scalp EEG data appears to allow concurrent monitoring, with high time resolution, of separate EEG activities in twenty or more separate cortical EEG source areas. We illustrate the differences between ICA and traditional approaches to EEG analysis by comparing time courses and mean event related spectral perturbations (ERSPs) of scalp channel and IC data. Comparing IC activities across subjects necessitates clustering of similar Ics based on common dynamic and/or spatial features. We discuss and illustrate such a component clustering strategy. In sum, continued application of ICA methods in EEG research should continue to yield new insights into the nature and role of the complex macroscopic cortical dynamics captured by scalp electrode recordings.
The research of event-related oscillations is one of fast-growing fields in neuroscience. In this study, a theory of the &quot;whole-brain-work,&quot; which can be useful for functional interpretation of brain oscillations, is presented together with its application to recognition of faces and facial expressions. Following results are summarized: (1) Mechanisms leading to the perception of the grandmother picture are manifested with parallel activations of neural assemblies in different cortical locations and as superposition of delta, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma oscillations. Known and anonymous faces can be differentiated by means of oscillatory brain dynamics. Percepts cannot be localized in a given specific region. The differentiation of facial expression induces significant change in alpha and theta oscillation. (2) While the importance of fMRI in object recognition is clear, this method has low temporal resolution. Our results shows that multiple brain oscillations clearly differentiate the known and unknown faces with varied degrees of selective-responsiveness in a short time window between 0 and 800 ms, thus completing and implementing the analysis of percepts in the dynamic window and indicating a broader distribution at the cortex. (3) The presented evidence of selectively distributed multiple oscillations for differentiation of facial percepts is in conceptual accordance with the &quot;selectively distributed processing&quot; in neurocognitive networks of Goldman-Rakic, Fuster, and of Mesulam. The large-scale approach of several investigators is also confirmed with the new results. On facial stimuli, a given location can show a considerable selected activation, but the formation of percepts is manifested by multiple oscillations with differentiated weight in large neural populations. (4) The most important feature of the comparison of percepts of grandmother and anonymous faces is the existence of a variety of significant differences in delta, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma responses between the anonymous and grandmother faces in frontal, central, parietal, temporal, and occipital sites. (5) The brain response is a construct in a multi-dimensional state manifested by amplitudes of oscillatory responses, topological coordinates, and changes in the time axis following presentation of the percepts including delays and prolongations, coherence between locations. Only a new metrics embracing all these parameters can be representative for dynamics of functionality in the brain. The conceptual aspects of this new scope are explained in the presented theory.
The main topic of this overview is an analysis of the concepts of phase and synchrony, as used in neurophysiology, in their various meanings. A number of notions related to the concepts of phase and synchrony, which are incorporated in contemporary neurophysiology, particularly in the domain of neuro-cognitive physiology are discussed. These notions need a critical examination, since their use sometimes is not clear, or it may even be ambiguous. We present some of these concepts, namely (a) (des)synchronization, (b) phase resetting, (c) phase synchrony and phase/time delays, and (d) phase clustering within one signal, while discussing what type of neuronal activities may underlie these EEG phenomena.
Aging is associated with progressive losses in function across multiple systems, including sensation, cognition, memory, motor control, and affect. The traditional view has been that functional decline in aging is unavoidable because it is a direct consequence of brain machinery wearing down over time. In recent years, an alternative perspective has emerged, which elaborates on this traditional view of age-related functional decline. This new viewpoint--based upon decades of research in neuroscience, experimental psychology, and other related fields--argues that as people age, brain plasticity processes with negative consequences begin to dominate brain functioning. Four core factors--reduced schedules of brain activity, noisy processing, weakened neuromodulatory control, and negative learning--interact to create a self-reinforcing downward spiral of degraded brain function in older adults. This downward spiral might begin from reduced brain activity due to behavioral change, from a loss in brain function driven by aging brain machinery, or more likely from both. In aggregate, these interrelated factors promote plastic changes in the brain that result in age-related functional decline. This new viewpoint on the root causes of functional decline immediately suggests a remedial approach. Studies of adult brain plasticity have shown that substantial improvement in function and/or recovery from losses in sensation, cognition, memory, motor control, and affect should be possible, using appropriately designed behavioral training paradigms. Driving brain plasticity with positive outcomes requires engaging older adults in demanding sensory, cognitive, and motor activities on an intensive basis, in a behavioral context designed to re-engage and strengthen the neuromodulatory systems that control learning in adults, with the goal of increasing the fidelity, reliability, and power of cortical representations. Such a training program would serve a substantial unmet need in aging adults. Current treatments directed at age-related functional losses are limited in important ways. Pharmacological therapies can target only a limited number of the many changes believed to underlie functional decline. Behavioral approaches focus on teaching specific strategies to aid higher order cognitive functions, and do not usually aspire to fundamentally change brain function. A brain-plasticity-based training program would potentially be applicable to all aging adults with the promise of improving their operational capabilities. We have constructed such a brain-plasticity-based training program and conducted an initial randomized controlled pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of its use by older adults. A main objective of this initial study was to estimate the effect size on standardized neuropsychological measures of memory. We found that older adults could learn the training program quickly, and could use it entirely unsupervised for the majority of the time required. Pre- and posttesting documented a significant improvement in memory within the training group (effect size 0.41, p&lt;0.0005), with no significant within-group changes in a time-matched computer using active control group, or in a no-contact control group. Thus, a brain-plasticity-based intervention targeting normal age-related cognitive decline may potentially offer benefit to a broad population of older adults.

The availability of methods for quantifying tissue concentrations of messenger RNAs in the postmortem of the human brain has provided a number of new findings in schizophrenia. However, understanding how these findings actually relate to the disease process of schizophrenia requires knowledge both of the factors that might give rise to such changes in gene expression and of the impact of these changes on the function of the affected neural circuits. Consequently, this chapter provides a review of the potential causes and consequences of some of the schizophrenia-related transcriptome changes in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, a brain region implicated in the pathophysiology of certain core cognitive deficits in this illness.
The goal of this chapter is to introduce some of the available computational methods for expression analysis. Genomic and proteomic experimental techniques are briefly discussed to help the reader understand these methods and results better in context with the biological significance. Furthermore, a case study is presented that will illustrate the use of these analytical methods to extract significant biomarkers from high-throughput microarray data. Genomic and proteomic data analysis is essential for understanding the underlying factors that are involved in human disease. Currently, such experimental data are generally obtained by high-throughput microarray or mass spectrometry technologies among others. The sheer amount of raw data obtained using these methods warrants specialized computational methods for data analysis. Biomarker discovery for neurological diagnosis and prognosis is one such example. By extracting significant genomic and proteomic biomarkers in controlled experiments, we come closer to understanding how biological mechanisms contribute to neural degenerative diseases such as Alzheimers' and how drug treatments interact with the nervous system. In the biomarker discovery process, there are several computational methods that must be carefully considered to accurately analyze genomic or proteomic data. These methods include quality control, clustering, classification, feature ranking, and validation. Data quality control and normalization methods reduce technical variability and ensure that discovered biomarkers are statistically significant. Preprocessing steps must be carefully selected since they may adversely affect the results of the following expression analysis steps, which generally fall into two categories: unsupervised and supervised. Unsupervised or clustering methods can be used to group similar genomic or proteomic profiles and therefore can elucidate relationships within sample groups. These methods can also assign biomarkers to sub-groups based on their expression profiles across patient samples. Although clustering is useful for exploratory analysis, it is limited due to its inability to incorporate expert knowledge. On the other hand, classification and feature ranking are supervised, knowledge-based machine learning methods that estimate the distribution of biological expression data and, in doing so, can extract important information about these experiments. Classification is closely coupled with feature ranking, which is essentially a data reduction method that uses classification error estimation or other statistical tests to score features. Biomarkers can subsequently be extracted by eliminating insignificantly ranked features. These analytical methods may be equally applied to genetic and proteomic data. However, because of both biological differences between the data sources and technical differences between the experimental methods used to obtain these data, it is important to have a firm understanding of the data sources and experimental methods. At the same time, regardless of the data quality, it is inevitable that some discovered biomarkers are false positives. Thus, it is important to validate discovered biomarkers. The validation process may be slow; yet, the overall biomarker discovery process is significantly accelerated due to initial feature ranking and data reduction steps. Information obtained from the validation process may also be used to refine data analysis procedures for future iteration. Biomarker validation may be performed in a number of ways - bench-side in traditional labs, web-based electronic resources such as gene ontology and literature databases, and clinical trials.
Proteomics reveals complex protein expression, function, interactions and localization in different phenotypes of neuron. As proteomics, regarded as a highly complex screening technology, moves from a theoretical approach to practical reality, neuroscientists have to determine the most-appropriate applications for this technology. Even though proteomics compliments genomics, it is in sheer contrast to the basically constant genome due to its dynamic nature. Neuroscientists have to surmount difficulties particular to the research in neuroscience; such as limited sample amounts, heterogeneous cellular compositions in samples and the fact that many proteins of interest are hydrophobic proteins. The necessity of exclusive technology, sophisticated software and skilled manpower tops the challenge. This review examines subcellular organelle isolation, protein fractionation and separation using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) as well as multi-dimensional liquid chromatography (LC) followed by mass spectrometry (MS). The methods for quantifying relative gene product expression between samples (e.g., two-dimensional difference in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), isotope-coded affinity tag (ICAT) and iTRAQ) are elaborated. An overview of the techniques used currently to assign post-translational modification status on a proteomics scale is also evaluated. The feasible coverage of the proteome, ability to detect unique cell components such as post-synaptic densities and membrane proteins, resource requirements and quantitative as well as qualitative reliability of different approaches is also discussed. While there are many challenges in neuroproteomics, this field promises many returns in the future.
Visual perception is defined by the unique spatial interactions that distinguish it from the point-to-point precision of a photometer. Over several decades, Lothar Spillmann has made key observations about the nature of these interactions and the role of context in perception. Our lab has explored the perceptual properties of spatial interactions and more generally the importance of visual context for neuronal responses and perception. Our investigations into the spatiotemporal dynamics of lightness provide insight into underlying mechanisms. For example, backward masking and luminance modulation experiments suggest that the representation of a uniformly luminous object develops first at the borders and, in some manner, the center fills in. The temporal dynamics of lightness induction are also consistent with a filling-in process. There is a slow cutoff temporal frequency above which surround luminance modulation will not elicit perceptual induction of a central area. The larger the central area, the lower the cutoff frequency for induction, perhaps indicating that an edge-based process requires more time to &quot;complete&quot; the larger area. In recordings from primary visual cortex we find that neurons respond in a manner surprisingly consistent with lightness perception and the spatial and temporal properties of induction. For example, the activity of V1 neurons can be modulated by light outside the receptive field and as the modulation rate is increased response modulation falls off more rapidly for large uniform areas than smaller areas. The conclusion we draw from these experiments is that lightness appears to be computed slowly on the basis of edge and context information. A possible role for the spatial interactions is lightness constancy, which is thought to depend on extensive spatial integration. We find not only that V1 responses are strongly context dependent, but that this dependence makes V1 lightness constant on average. The dependence of constancy on surround interactions underscores the fundamental role that context plays in perception. In more recent studies, further support has been found for the importance of context in experiments using natural scene stimuli.
Studies on visual psychophysics and perception conducted in the Freiburg psychophysics laboratory during the last 35 years are reviewed. Many of these were inspired by single-cell neurophysiology in cat and monkey. The aim was to correlate perceptual phenomena and their effects to possible neuronal mechanisms from retina to visual cortex and beyond. Topics discussed include perceptive field organization, figure-ground segregation and grouping, fading and filling-in, and long-range color interaction. While some of these studies succeeded in linking perception to neuronal response patterns, others require further investigation. The task of probing the human brain with perceptual phenomena continues to be a challenge for the future.
Humans optimize behavior by deriving context-based expectations. Contextual data that are important for survival are extracted rapidly, using coarse information, adaptive decision strategies, and dedicated neural infrastructure. In the field of object perception, the influence of a surrounding context has been a major research theme, and it has generated a large literature. That visual context, as typically provided by natural scenes, facilitates object recognition as has been convincingly demonstrated (Bar, M. (2004) Nat. Rev. Neurosci., 5: 617-629). Just like objects, faces are generally encountered as part of a natural scene. Thus far, the facial expression literature has neglected such context and treats facial expressions as if they stand on their own. This constitutes a major gap in our knowledge. Facial expressions tend to appear in a context of head and body orientations, body movements, posture changes, and other object-related actions with a similar or at least a closely related meaning. For instance, one would expect a frightened face when confronted to an external danger to be at least accompanied by withdrawal movements of head and shoulders. Furthermore, some cues provided by the environment or the context in which a facial expression appears may have a direct relation with the emotion displayed by the face. The brain may even fill in the natural scene context typically associated with the facial expression. Recognition of the facial expression may also profit from processing the vocal emotion as well as the emotional body language that normally accompany it. Here we review the emerging evidence on how the immediate visual and auditory contexts influence the recognition of facial expressions.
A deeper understanding of how the brain processes visual information can be obtained by comparing results from complementary fields such as psychophysics, physiology, and computer science. In this chapter, empirical findings are reviewed with regard to the proposed mechanisms and representations for processing identity and emotion in faces. Results from psychophysics clearly show that faces are processed by analyzing component information (eyes, nose, mouth, etc.) and their spatial relationship (configural information). Results from neuroscience indicate separate neural systems for recognition of identity and facial expression. Computer science offers a deeper understanding of the required algorithms and representations, and provides computational modeling of psychological and physiological accounts. An interdisciplinary approach taking these different perspectives into account provides a promising basis for better understanding and modeling of how the human brain processes visual information for recognition of identity and emotion in faces.
A current goal of affective neuroscience is to reveal the relationship between emotion and dynamic brain activity in specific neural circuits. In humans, noninvasive neuroimaging measures are of primary interest in this endeavor. However, methodological issues, unique to each neuroimaging method, have important implications for the design of studies, interpretation of findings, and comparison across studies. With regard to event-related brain potentials, we discuss the need for dense sensor arrays to achieve reference-independent characterization of field potentials and improved estimate of cortical brain sources. Furthermore, limitations and caveats regarding sparse sensor sampling are discussed. With regard to event-related magnetic field (ERF) recordings, we outline a method to achieve magnetoencephalography (MEG) sensor standardization, which improves effects' sizes in typical neuroscientific investigations, avoids the finding of ghost effects, and facilitates comparison of MEG waveforms across studies. Focusing on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we question the unjustified application of proportional global signal scaling in emotion research, which can greatly distort statistical findings in key structures implicated in emotional processing and possibly contributing to conflicting results in affective neuroscience fMRI studies, in particular with respect to limbic and paralimbic structures. Finally, a distributed EEG/MEG source analysis with statistical parametric mapping is outlined providing a common software platform for hemodynamic and electromagnetic neuroimaging measures. Taken together, to achieve consistent and replicable patterns of the relationship between emotion and neuroimaging measures, methodological aspects associated with the various neuroimaging techniques may be of similar importance as the definition of emotional cues and task context used to study emotion.
An efficient detection of threat is crucial for survival and requires an appropriate allocation of attentional resources toward the location of potential danger. Recent neuroimaging studies have begun to uncover the brain machinery underlying the reflexive prioritization of spatial attention to locations of threat-related stimuli. Here, we review functional brain imaging experiments using event-related potentials (ERPs) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in a dot-probe paradigm with emotional face cues, in which we investigated the spatio-temporal dynamics of attentional orienting to a visual target when the latter is preceded by either a fearful or happy face, at the same (valid) location or at a different (invalid) location in visual periphery. ERP results indicate that fearful faces can bias spatial attention toward threat-related location, and enhance the amplitude of the early exogenous visual P1 activity generated within the extrastriate cortex in response to a target following a valid rather than invalid fearful face. Furthermore, this gain control mechanism in extrastriate cortex (at 130-150 ms) is preceded by an earlier modulation of activity in posterior parietal regions (at 40-80 ms) that may provide a critical source of top-down signals on visual cortex. Happy faces produced no modulation of ERPs in extrastriate and parietal cortex. fMRI data also show increased responses in the occipital visual cortex for valid relative to invalid targets following fearful faces, but in addition reveal significant decreases in intraparietal cortex and increases in orbitofrontal cortex when targets are preceded by an invalid fearful face, suggesting that negative emotional stimuli may not only draw but also hold spatial attention more strongly than neutral or positive stimuli. These data confirm that threat may act as a powerful exogenous cue and trigger reflexive shifts in spatial attention toward its location, through a rapid temporal sequence of neural events in parietal and temporo-occipital areas, with dissociable neural substrates for engagement benefits in attention affecting activity in extrastriate occipital areas and increased disengagement costs affecting intraparietal cortex. These brain-imaging results reveal how emotional signals related to threat can play an important role in modulating spatial attention to afford flexible perception and action.
Visual shape recognition--the ability to recognize a wide variety of shapes regardless of their size, position, view, clutter and ambient lighting--is a remarkable ability essential for complex behavior. In the primate brain, this depends on information processing in a multistage pathway running from primary visual cortex (V1), where cells encode local orientation and spatial frequency information, to the inferotemporal cortex (IT), where cells respond selectively to complex shapes. A fundamental question yet to be answered is how the local orientation signals (in V1) are transformed into selectivity for complex shapes (in IT). To gain insights into the underlying mechanisms we investigated the neural basis of shape representation in area V4, an intermediate stage in this processing hierarchy. Theoretical considerations and psychophysical evidence suggest that contour features, i.e. angles and curves along an object contour, may serve as the basis of representation at intermediate stages of shape processing. To test this hypothesis we studied the response properties of single units in area V4 of primates. We first demonstrated that V4 neurons show strong systematic tuning for the orientation and acuteness of angles and curves when presented in isolation within the cells' receptive field. Next, we found that responses to complex shapes were dictated by the curvature at a specific boundary location within the shape. Finally, using basis function decoding, we demonstrated that an ensemble of V4 neurons could successfully encode complete shapes as aggregates of boundary fragments. These findings identify curvature as a basis of shape representation in area V4 and provide insights into the neurophysiological basis for the salience of convex curves in shape perception.
Miniature eye movements occur involuntarily during visual fixation. The most prominent contribution to these fixational eye movements is generated by microsaccades, which are rapid small-amplitude saccades with a rate of about one per second. Recent work demonstrates that microsaccades are optimized to counteract perceptual fading during perception of a stationary scene. Furthermore, microsaccades are modulated by visual attention and turned out to generate rich spatio-temporal dynamics. We conclude that the investigation of microsaccades will evolve into a new research field contributing to many facets of oculomotor control, visual perception, and the allocation of attention.
A central question in visual neuroscience is what circuits generate the responses of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1). V1 neurons respond best to oriented stimuli of optimal size within their receptive field (RF) center. This size tuning is contrast dependent, i.e. a neuron's optimal stimulus size measured at high contrast (the high-contrast summation RF, or hsRF) is smaller than when measured using low-contrast stimuli (the low-contrast summation RF, or lsRF). Responses to stimuli in the RF center are usually suppressed by iso-oriented stimuli in the extra-classical RF surround. Iso-orientation surround suppression is fast and long range, extending well beyond the size of V1 cells' lsRF. Geniculocortical feedforward (FF), V1 lateral and extrastriate feedback (FB) connections to V1 could all contribute to generating the RF center and surround of V1 neurons. Studies on the spatio-temporal properties and functional organization of these connections can help disclose their specific contributions to the responses of V1 cells. These studies, reviewed in this chapter, have shown that FF afferents to V1 integrate signals within the hsRF of V1 cells; V1 lateral connections are commensurate with the size of the lsRF and may, thus, underlie contrast-dependent changes in spatial summation, and modulatory effects arising from the surround region closer to the RF center (the &quot;near&quot; surround). The spatial and temporal properties of lateral connections cannot account for the dimensions and onset latency of modulation arising from more distant regions of the surround (the &quot;far&quot; surround). Inter-areal FB connections to V1, instead, are commensurate with the full spatial range of center and surround responses, and show fast conduction velocity consistent with the short onset latency of modulation arising from the &quot;far&quot; surround. We review data showing that a subset of FB connections terminate in a patchy fashion in V1, and show modular and orientation specificity, consistent with their proposed role in orientation-specific center-surround interactions. We propose specific mechanisms by which each connection type contributes to the RF center and surround of V1 neurons, and implement these hypotheses into a recurrent network model. We show physiological data in support of the model's predictions, revealing that modulation from the &quot;far&quot; surround is not always suppressive, but can be facilitatory under specific stimulus conditions.
The immune and neuroendocrine systems are closely involved in the regulation of metabolism at peripheral and central hypothalamic levels. In both physiological (meals) and pathological (infections, traumas and tumors) conditions immune cells are activated responding with the release of cytokines and other immune mediators (afferent signals). In the hypothalamus (central integration), cytokines influence metabolism by acting on nucleus involved in feeding and homeostasis regulation leading to the acute phase response (efferent signals) aimed to maintain the body integrity. Peripheral administration of cytokines, inoculation of tumor and induction of infection alter, by means of cytokine action, the normal pattern of food intake affecting meal size and meal number suggesting that cytokines acted differentially on specific hypothalamic neurons. The effect of cytokines-related cancer anorexia is also exerted peripherally. Increase plasma concentrations of insulin and free tryptophan and decrease gastric emptying and d-xylose absorption. In addition, in obesity an increase in interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6 occurs in mesenteric fat tissue, which together with an increase in corticosterone, is associated with hyperglycemia, dyslipidemias and insulin resistance of obesity-related metabolic syndrome. These changes in circulating nutrients and hormones are sensed by hypothalamic neurons that influence food intake and metabolism. In anorectic tumor-bearing rats, we detected upregulation of IL-1beta and IL-1 receptor mRNA levels in the hypothalamus, a negative correlation between IL-1 concentration in cerebro-spinal fluid and food intake and high levels of hypothalamic serotonin, and these differences disappeared after tumor removal. Moreover, there is an interaction between serotonin and IL-1 in the development of cancer anorexia as well as an increase in hypothalamic dopamine and serotonin production. Immunohistochemical studies have shown a decrease in neuropeptide Y (NPY) and dopamine (DA) and an increase in serotonin concentration in tumor-bearing rats, in first- and second-order hypothalamic nuclei, while tumor resection reverted these changes and normalized food intake, suggesting negative regulation of NPY and DA systems by cytokines during anorexia, probably mediated by serotonin that appears to play a pivotal role in the regulation of food intake in cancer. Among the different forms of therapy, nutritional manipulation of diet in tumor-bearing state has been investigated. Supplementation of tumor bearing rats with omega-3 fatty acid vs. control diet delayed the appearance of tumor, reduced tumor-growth rate and volume, negated onset of anorexia, increased body weight, decreased cytokines production and increased expression of NPY and decreased alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) in hypothalamic nuclei. These data suggest that omega-3 fatty acid suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines production and improved food intake by normalizing hypothalamic food intake-related peptides and point to the possibility of a therapeutic use of these fatty acids. The sum of these data support the concept that immune cell-derived cytokines are closely related with the regulation of metabolism and have both central and peripheral actions, inducing anorexia via hypothalamic anorectic factors, including serotonin and dopamine, and inhibiting NPY leading to a reduction in food intake and body weight, emphasizing the interconnection of the immune and neuroendocrine systems in regulating metabolism during infectious process, cachexia and obesity.
Energy metabolism is strongly linked to the circadian rhythms in sleep and body temperature. Both heat production and heat loss show a circadian modulation. Sleep preferably occurs during the circadian phase of decreased heat production and increased heat loss, the latter due to a profound increase in skin blood flow and, consequently, skin warming. The coupling of these rhythms may differ depending on whether they are assessed in experimental laboratory studies or in habitual sleeping conditions. In habitual sleeping conditions, skin blood flow is for a prolonged time increased to a level hardly ever seen during wakefulness. Possible mechanisms linking the rhythms in sleep and core body and skin temperature are discussed, with a focus on causal effects of changes in core and skin temperature on sleep regulation. It is shown that changes in skin temperature rather than in core temperature causally affect sleep propensity. Contrary to earlier suggestions of a functional role of sleep in heat loss, it is argued that sleep facilitates a condition of increased skin blood flow during a prolonged circadian phase, yet limits heat loss and the risk of hypothermia. Sleep-related behavior including the creation of an isolated microclimate of high temperature by means of warm clothing and bedding in humans and the curling up, huddling and cuddling in animals all help limit heat loss The increase in skin blood flow that characterizes the sleeping period may thus not primarily reflect a thermoregulatory drive. There is indirect support for an alternative role of the prolonged period of increased skin blood flow: it may support maintenance of the skin as a primary barrier in host defense.
Daily patterns of sleep and wakefulness are inextricably linked to the regulation of feeding and energy metabolism. Both are affected by homeostatic as well as circadian drives, and both are tightly linked to thermoregulation. In this chapter, we review the basic drain circuitry that regulates sleep and wakefulness, including the flip-flop switch relationship of the arousal system and the ventrolateral preoptic sleep-promoting neurons. We then examine the role of the orexin/hypocretin neurons, which stabilize the switch while driving both wakefulness and foraging for food. We also review the role of the subparaventricular nucleus and the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus in circadian integration and modulation of both feeding and wake-sleep patterns.

The anatomical, physiological, and behavioral evidence for the involvement of three regions of the cerebellum in oculomotor behavior is reviewed here: (1) the oculomotor vermis and paravermis of lobules V, IV, and VII; (2) the uvula and nodulus; (3) flocculus and ventral paraflocculus. No region of the cerebellum controls eye movements exclusively, but each receives sensory information relevant for the control of multiple systems. An analysis of the microcircuitry suggests how sagittal climbing fiber zones bring visual information to the oculomotor vermis; convey vestibular information to the uvula and nodulus, while optokinetic space is represented in the flocculus. The mossy fiber projections are more heterogeneous. The importance of the inferior olive in modulating Purkinje cell responses is discussed.
Spinal cord injury often results in loss of normal eliminative and sexual functions. This chapter is focused on defecatory function, although aspects of micturition and erectile function will be covered as well due to the overlap in anatomical organization and response to injury. These systems have both autonomic and somatic components, and are organized in the thoracolumbar (sympathetic), lumbosacral (somatic), and sacral (parasympathetic) spinal cord. Loss of supraspinal descending control and plasticity-mediated alterations at the level of the spinal cord, result in loss of voluntary control and in abnormal functioning of these systems including the development of dyssynergies and spasticity. There are several useful models of spinal cord injury in rodents that exhibit many of the autonomic dysfunctions observed after spinal cord injury in humans. Numerous studies involving these animal models have demonstrated development of abnormalities in bladder, external anal sphincter, and erectile function, such as detrusor-sphincter-dyssynergia and external anal sphincter hyperreflexia. Here we review many of these studies and show some of the anatomical alterations that develop within the spinal cord during the development of these hyperreflexias. Furthermore, we show that spasticity develops in other pelvic floor musculature as well, such as the bulbospongiosus muscle, which results in increased duration and magnitude of pressures developed during erectile events and increased duration of micturition. Advances and continued improvement in the use of current animal models of spinal cord injury should encourage and increase the laboratory work devoted to this relatively neglected area of experimental spinal cord injury.
Autonomic dysreflexia is a potentially life-threatening condition in which episodic hypertension occurs after injuries above the mid-thoracic segments of the spinal cord. Despite the seriousness of this condition, little is known of the molecular mechanisms that lead to its development. The completed sequencing of the mouse genome, its dense genetic map, and the large repository of engineered and spontaneous mouse mutants, make the mouse an ideal model organism in which to study the molecular mechanisms underlying autonomic dysreflexia. We subjected two wild-type strains of mice, 129Sv and C57BL/6, and one spontaneous mouse mutant, Wallerian degeneration slow (Wld s), to spinal cord transection and clip-compression injury. We found that the incidence of autonomic dysreflexia is greatly reduced, compared to spinal cord-transected wild-type mice, in Wld s mice after both injury paradigms and in 129Sv and C57BL/6 that have undergone the clip-compression injury. We also found that the amplitude of the dysreflexic response was greater in cord-compressed 129Sv than in C57BL/6 mice. These results implicate axonal degeneration as an important source of signals that trigger the development of autonomic dysreflexia and are discussed in the context of mouse genetics, interstrain differences and possible molecular mechanisms underlying autonomic dysreflexia after spinal cord injury.
The management of urinary tract dysfunction is crucial for the health and well-being of people with spinal cord injury. Devices, specifically catheters, play an important role in the daily regime of bladder management for most people with spinal cord injury. However, the high incidence of complications associated with the use of catheters, and the fact that the spinal segments involved in lower urinary tract control remain intact in most cord-injured people, continue to motivate research into devices that could harness the nervous system to provide greater control over lower urinary tract function. Mechanical devices discussed in this review include catheters, artificial urethral sphincters, urethral stents and intraurethral pumps. Additionally, many attempts to restore control of the lower urinary tract with electrical stimulation have been made. Stimulation sites have included: inside the bladder, bladder wall, thigh, pelvic floor, dorsal penile nerve, pelvic nerve, tibial nerve, sacral roots, sacral nerves and spinal cord. Catheters and sacral root stimulators are two techniques whose efficacy is well established. Some approaches have proven less successful and others are still in the development stage. Modifications to sacral root stimulation including posterior root stimulation, anodal blockade and high-frequency blockade as well as new techniques including intraspinal microstimulation, urethral afferent stimulation and injectable microstimulators are also discussed. No single device has yet restored the control and function of the lower urinary tract to the pre-injury state, but new techniques are bringing this possibility closer to reality.
Lower urinary tract dysfunction is a serious burden for patients following spinal cord injury. Patients are usually limited to treatment with urinary drainage catheters, which can lead to repeated urinary tract infections and lower quality of life. Most of the information previously obtained regarding lower urinary tract function after spinal cord injury has been in completely transected animals. After thoracic transection in the rat, plasticity of local lumbosacral spinal circuitry establishes a &quot;reflex bladder,&quot; which results in partial recovery of micturition, albeit with reduced voiding efficiency. Since at least half of cord-injured patients exhibit neurologically incomplete injury, rat models of clinically relevant incomplete contusion injury have been developed. With respect to lower urinary tract function, recent anatomical and physiological studies have been performed after incomplete thoracic contusion injury. The results show greater recovery of lower urinary tract function that varies inversely with the severity of the initial trauma and is positively correlated with time after injury. Recovery, as measured by coordination of the bladder with the external urethral sphincter, occurs between 1 and 4 weeks after spinal cord injury. It is associated with normalization of: serotonin immunoreactivity and glutamate receptor subunit mRNA expression in the dorsolateral nucleus that innervates the external urethral sphincter muscle, the response to glutamatergic pharmacological probes administered at the lumbosacral spinal cord level, and c-Fos activation patterns in the lumbar spinal cord. Understanding the mechanisms involved in this recovery will provide a basis for enhancing lower urinary tract function in patients after incomplete spinal cord injury.
Primary afferent neurons rarely, if ever, synapse on the sympathetic preganglionic neurons that regulate the cardiovascular system, nor do sympathetic preganglionic neurons normally exhibit spontaneous activity in the absence of excitatory inputs. Therefore, after serious spinal cord injury &quot;spinal sympathetic interneurons&quot; provide the sole excitatory and inhibitory inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Few studies have addressed the anatomy and physiology of spinal sympathetic interneurons, to a great extent because they are difficult to identify. Therefore, this chapter begins with descriptions of both neurophysiological and neuroanatomical criteria for identifying spinal sympathetic interneurons, and it discusses the advantages and disadvantages of each. Spinal sympathetic interneurons also have been little studied because their importance in intact animals has been unknown, whereas the roles of direct projections from the brain to sympathetic preganglionic neurons are better known. This chapter presents evidence that spinal sympathetic interneurons play only a minor role in sympathetic regulation when the spinal cord is intact. However, they play an important role after spinal cord injury, both in generating ongoing activity in sympathetic nerves and in mediating segmental and intersegmental sympathetic reflexes. The spinal sympathetic interneurons that most directly influence the activity of sympathetic preganglionic neurons after spinal cord injury are located close to their associated sympathetic preganglionic neurons, and the inputs from distant segments that mediate multisegmental reflexes are relayed to sympathetic preganglionic neurons multisynaptically via spinal sympathetic interneurons. Finally, spinal sympathetic interneurons are more likely to be excited and less likely to be inhibited by both noxious and innocuous somatic stimuli after chronic spinal transection. The onset of this hyperexcitability corresponds to morphological changes in both sympathetic preganglionic neurons and primary afferents, and it may reflect the pathophysiological processes that lead to autonomic dysreflexia and the hypertensive crises that may occur with it in people after chronic spinal injury.
Spinal cord injuries often lead to disorders in the control of autonomic function, including problems with blood pressure regulation, voiding, defecation and reproduction. The root cause of all these problems is the destruction of brain pathways that control spinal autonomic neurons lying caudal to the lesion. Changes induced by spinal cord injuries have been most extensively studied in sympathetic preganglionic neurons, cholinergic autonomic neurons with cell bodies in the lateral horn of thoracic and upper lumbar spinal cord that are the sources of sympathetic outflow. After an injury, sympathetic preganglionic neurons in mid-thoracic cord show plastic changes in their morphology. There is also extensive loss of synaptic input from the brain, leaving these neurons profoundly denervated in the acute phase of injury. Our recent studies on sympathetic preganglionic neurons in lower thoracic and upper lumbar cord that regulate the pelvic viscera suggest that these neurons are not so severely affected by spinal cord injury. Spinal interneurons appear to contribute most of the synaptic input to these neurons so that injury does not result in extensive denervation. Since intraspinal circuitry remains intact after injury, drug treatments targeting these neurons should help to normalize sympathetically mediated pelvic visceral reflexes. Furthermore, sympathetic pelvic visceral control may be more easily restored after an injury because it is less dependent on the re-establishment of direct synaptic input from regrowing brain axons.
Spinal cord injury and especially cervical spinal cord injury implies serious disturbances in autonomic nervous system function. The clinical effects of these disturbances are striking. In the acute phase, the autonomic imbalance and its effect on cardiovascular, respiratory system and temperature regulation may be life threatening. Serious complications such as over-hydration with the risk of pulmonary edema or hyponatremia are seen. The cord-injured person suffers from autonomic nervous system dysfunction also affecting bladder and bowel control, renal and sexual function. Paralytic ileus may cause vomiting and aspiration, which in turn interferes with respiratory function in those with cervical spinal cord injury. The cord-injured person is at risk to develop pressure sores from the moment of the accident. Two to three months post-injury the cord-injured person with a lesion level above the fifth thoracic segment may develop autonomic dysreflexia, characterised by sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction in muscular, skin, renal and presumably gastrointestinal vascular beds induced by an afferent peripheral stimulation below lesion level. The reaction might cause cerebrovascular complications and has effects on metabolism. Some of the autonomic disturbances are transient and a new balance is reached months post-injury, while others persist for life.
Specific vulnerability of substantia nigra compacta neurons as compared to ventral tegmental area neurons, as emphasized in Parkinson's disease, has been studied for many years and is still not well understood. The molecular codes and mechanisms that drive development of these structures have recently been studied through the use of elegant genetic ablation experiments. The data suggested that specific genes at specific anatomical positions in the ventricular zone are crucial to drive development of young neurons into the direction of the dopaminergic phenotype. In addition, it has become clear the these dopaminergic neurons are present in the diencephalon and in the mesencephalon and that they may contain a specific molecular signature that defines specific subsets in terms of position and function. The data indicate that these specific subsets may explain the specific response of these neurons to toxins and genetic ablation.
Cognitive deficit is a significant symptom in schizophrenic patients. Use of atypical antipsychotics has been demonstrated to improve some cognitive functions in schizophrenics, as well as in patients with dementia. However, side effects like sedation and muscarinic antagonism induced by these drugs have detracted from this improvement. We are interested in determining the behavioural effect of acute and chronic treatments with olanzapine and clozapine, two atypical antipsychotics, in a paradigm of working memory, and the influence on behavioural response of possible motor effects during test performance. Unspecific muscarinic antagonist scopolamine has been used for comparison. Male Wistar rats were trained on the 8-arm radial maze up to an accuracy level in choice of 80%. Distance travelled in the maze was also measured during test performance. Acute olanzapine, clozapine and scopolamine caused significant impairment of correct performance. Rats treated with olanzapine and clozapine presented a decrease in motor activity level at the same time. After the test at acute dosage, rats were chronically treated for 14 days with olanzapine, clozapine or scopolamine and 24 h after the last dose were again tested in the 8-arm radial maze. Under this procedure, chronic treatment with olanzapine, clozapine and scopolamine did not impair correct task performance and did not modify distance travelled. We concluded that the sedative effect masked a possible effect on working memory after acute administration of olanzapine and clozapine, whereas chronic treatment with olanzapine, clozapine and scopolamine did not adversely affect working memory performance. In the case of scopolamine, it suggests that chronic muscarinic antagonism does not induce memory impairment and for atypical antipsychotics, it suggests that chronic treatment induced a tolerance to acute motor effects of these drugs.
This study tested the possible functional relationship of two signalling mechanisms shown previously to be involved in human prostate cancer (PCa), Notch and voltage-gated sodium channel. Notch1 and Notch2 were differentially expressed in PCa cell lines of varying metastatic potential (LNCaP, PC-3, PC-3M) in comparison to a normal prostate cell line (PNT2), whereas Notch3 and Notch4 were not expressed. The Notch ligand Jagged1, but not Jagged2, was increased in all cell lines, whereas the Notch downstream target Deltex was not expressed. In comparison to the LNCaP cell line, Hes1, another downstream target, showed elevated expression in the metastatic PC-3 and PC-3M cells and promoted lateral motility. In contrast, the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) levels were higher in LNCaP compared with PC-3 and PC-3M cells. Importantly, decreasing Dll1 expression increased the lateral motility of PC-3 cells, whereas blocking voltage-gated Na(+) channel activity with tetrodotoxin decreased motility. However, the effect of Dll1 was independent of Notch signalling through Hes1 and voltage-gated Na(+) channel expression/activity.
The ORL1 receptors stably expressed in HEK 293 cells can utilize PTX-resistant mutants of Galpha(oA/B) to inhibit adenylyl cyclase (AC) and stimulate extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERKs). However, development of AC superactivation and loss of ERK1/2 responsiveness induced by chronic activation of the ORL1 receptors remained PTX-sensitive.
The glass-like transparency of the human eye lens is achieved by the tight packing of abundant crystallin proteins. However, the precise role of the accessory non-crystallin proteins is not well understood. We have carried out 2-DE mapping of these proteins in rat lens. This showed the presence of the high molecular weight filamentous structural proteins spectrin, filensin, tubulin, vimentin, actin and phakinin as well as several forms of potential crystallin oligomers comprised of alphaA, betaB1, betaA1 and betaA4 chains. Other proteins that were present include, heat shock protein 71, WD repeat protein 1, and several enzymes including alpha-enolase, pyruvate kinase, transketolase and aldose reductase. 2-D-DIGE analysis revealed several expression differences between the lens proteomes of male and female rats. Female rat lenses contained lower levels of aldose reductase, increased proteolyic fragments of the structural proteins filensin, vimentin and phakinin and higher levels of potential alphaA, betaB1 and betaA1 crystallin oligomers. Taken together these findings suggest that there are potential differences in oxidative stress regulation between male and female rat lenses, which may have implications on susceptibility to cataract formation. Future studies aimed at elucidating pre-cataractic changes in the non-crystallin proteins described here may facilitate identification of novel markers involved in cataractogenesis.

Familial neurohypophysial diabetes insipidus (FNDI) is caused by a defect in vasopressin synthesis and release as a result of a heterozygous mutation in the gene for the vasopressin prohormone. The predominant characteristic of FNDI is excessive thirst and urine production. However, vasopressin not only has peripheral endocrine effects, but also regulates numerous brain functions. We investigated whether central functions are affected in FNDI, by studying neuropsychological functioning of 23 affected members (15 males, 8 females) of a large family carrying a T/G transition mutation at nucleotide 2110 (codon 116) of the vasopressin prohormone gene (Cys116Gly). The relatively large number of family members with FNDI made it possible to compare cognitive and other CNS effects in these subjects with those of family members without FNDI. Thirty-seven adult volunteers (20 males, 17 females) from the same family and 11 non-family members (2 males, 9 females) from northern part of The Netherlands were tested. The mean age of the subjects was 35+/-12 years. Of the 63 quantified neuropsychological parameters few were statistically different between the subjects with FDNI and control subjects. Memory retrieval processes and sustained attention were worse in the subjects with FDNI. Moreover, these individuals reported significantly fewer symptoms of agoraphobia and miscellaneous symptoms, and had significantly lower scores on a scale measuring anger. The performance of FNDI subjects on an auditory verbal learning test (the 15-word test learning trial) was worse, but not significantly so, than that of the subjects without FDNI. There were subjective complaints of forgetfulness and slow recalls and those were observed in daily life by non-affected family members. These moderate differences in neuropsychological performance indicate that in human FNDI parvocellular vasopressin systems that supply the brain may be less affected or give no such serious disabilities, than the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system that provides vasopressin for endocrine regulation of water homeostasis.



In this article, it is posited that major depression involves an underfunctioning dopamine system resulting from hypersensitive inhibitory 5-HT2 receptors located on dopaminergic neurons. After a few weeks, treatment with most antidepressant drugs leads to a downregulation of the 5-HT2 receptors that allows for increased dopaminergic firing, which is proposed to be decisive for the antidepressant effect. However, serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) therapeutic mechanisms probably differ between different therapeutic outcomes. It is hypothesized, that in women, the use of female sex steroids leads to a downregulation of 5-HT2C receptors that contributes to atypical depressive symptoms and premenstrual dysphoria. Consequently, these conditions can be assumed to benefit from the acute increase of serotonergic neurotransmission following ingestion of an SRI rather than the secondary receptor changes, which would explain why there is a therapeutic lag time when SRIs are used to treat depression but not premenstrual dysphoric disorder. The clinical predictions derived from this hypothesis are that 5-HT2 antagonists would be an effective treatment in melancholic depression, have a fast onset of action, speed the onset of SRIs, and can be an effective augmentation for SRI-refractory patients. In contrast, in atypical depression and premenstrual dysphoria a 5-HT2 antagonist would counteract the therapeutic effect of an SRI, while 5-HT2 agonists have a therapeutic potential. It is suggested that therapeutic response to 5-HT2 antagonists/agonists may be used as a diagnostic tool to dissect subgroups of depression.
This historical review shows that the early history of cognitive psychopharmacology, originally labelled as &quot;pharmacopsychology&quot;, is closely linked to developments in experimental psychology and academic psychiatry. At the beginning of his scientific career, the German psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin (1856-1926) joined Wilhelm Wundt's laboratory of experimental psychology at the University of Leipzig. Although Kraepelin was fired from his clinical position at the university's psychiatric hospital, he completed his habilitation, the German equivalent of Ph.D., and started a series of pharmacological investigations in healthy volunteers using common recreational drugs (alcohol, coffee, tea) or medicinal products (amyl nitrite, chloral hydrate, chloroform, ethyl ether, morphine, paraldehyde) together with innovative psychological tasks. This paper reviews Kraepelin's pharmacopsychological research and his methodological innovations, providing translations, for the first time, from original papers, his monograph On the Modulation of Simple Psychological Processes by Some Medicines and from other sources. Kraepelin's contributions to psychopharmacology and clinical neuropsychology were far ahead of his time and his conceptual achievements have been largely neglected by modern psychiatry and cognitive neuroscience.
Perinatal asphyxia is a concern for public health and may promote subtle and long-lasting neuropsychiatric disorders. In the present study, newborn Wistar rat pups underwent a repeated 20-min exposure to a 100% N2 atmosphere (or air) on postnatal days (pnd) 1, 3, 5, and 7. Half of the animals were housed during adolescence (pnd 21-35) in an enriched environment. The consequences on behavior were assessed throughout adolescence to adulthood. When scored for social performance, adolescent rats exposed to neonatal asphyxia exhibited exaggerated levels of anogenital sniffing behavior, which was normalized by enriched living. In air-exposed controls, enriched living increased the expression of affiliative and novelty-seeking behaviors, as compared to standard housing. However, this enrichment-induced behavioral plasticity was not found in rats neonatally exposed to asphyxia. At adulthood, levels of impulsivity and 5-HT2A receptors in the striatum were markedly increased in neonatal-asphyxia rats kept in standard-housing conditions. Interestingly, impulsivity and receptor density were normalized by enriched rearing during adolescence. These findings indicate profound long-lasting behavioral alterations as a consequence of repeated neonatal asphyxia in rats. Beneficial effects of stimulation by an enriched environment during the still-plastic window of adolescence are suggested in these animals.


L-Deprenyl (selegiline) is used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and has been proposed as an aid for cigarette smoking cessation and a treatment for psychostimulant abuse. L-Deprenyl is metabolized in the body to L-methamphetamine and L-amphetamine, suggesting that it may have abuse potential. The current study assessed whether L-deprenyl or its isomer would maintain drug-seeking behavior on a second-order schedule and whether L-deprenyl would alter drug-seeking behavior maintained by D-amphetamine if given as a pretreatment. Squirrel monkeys learned to respond on a second-order schedule of reinforcement, where every tenth response was followed by a brief light flash, and the first brief light flash after 30 min was paired with intravenous (i.v.) injection of D-amphetamine (0.56 mg/kg), administered over a 2-min period at the end of the session. When responding was stable, saline or different i.v. doses of D-amphetamine (0.3-1.0 mg/kg), L-deprenyl (0.1-10.0 mg/kg), and D-deprenyl (0.1-3.0 mg/kg) were substituted for 10 days each. Subsequently, monkeys were pretreated with 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg L-deprenyl intramuscularly 30 min prior to D-amphetamine baseline sessions. D-Amphetamine maintained high rates of drug-seeking behavior on the second-order schedule. D-Deprenyl maintained high rates of drug-seeking behavior similar to D-amphetamine. L-Deprenyl maintained lower rates of responding that were not significantly above saline substitution levels. Pretreatment with L-deprenyl failed to alter drug-seeking behavior maintained by D-amphetamine. These results indicate that D-deprenyl, but not L-deprenyl, may have abuse potential. Under conditions where drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors are actively maintained by D-amphetamine, L-deprenyl, at doses that specifically inhibit type B monoamine oxidase, may not be effective as a treatment.



This article focuses on the mission and relevance of articles published in Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics in 2005. Four areas of articles relevant to the mission of Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics are reviewed: (1) new (psycho-)therapies; (2) cognitive-behavioral therapy; (3) new or newly defined psychopathology, and (4) the impact of or impairment due to various illnesses or treatments. In addition, other clinically important and relevant issues, such as the need for new treatments, suicide during psychotherapy, technological innovations used in psychotherapies and methodology of psychotherapy trials are discussed.
About 90% of people in Western countries use alcohol at some time in their lives, and 40% experience temporary or permanent alcohol-related impairment in some area of life as a result of drinking. Multiple sociocultural and environmental factors influence suicide rates, and thus studies conducted in one nation are not always applicable to other nations. Impulsivity and aggression are strongly implicated in suicidal behaviour. Constructs related to aggression and impulsivity confer additional risk for suicidal behaviour in people with alcohol dependence. Lower serotonin activity is tied to increased aggression/impulsivity, which in turn may enhance the probability of suicidal behaviour. Acute alcohol use is associated with suicide. Suicide completers have high rates of positive blood alcohol. Intoxicated people are more likely to attempt suicide using more lethal methods. Alcohol may be important in suicides among individuals with no previous psychiatric history. Alcohol dependence is an important risk factor for suicidal behaviour. Mood disorder is a more powerful risk factor for suicide among problem drinkers as age increases. All individuals with alcohol use disorders should be assessed for suicide, especially at the end of a binge or in the very early phase of withdrawal. Middle-age and older men with alcohol dependence and mood disorders are at particularly high risk.
Radiation safety was determined to maintain quality control in the cyclotron laboratory. Based on the results of 438 runs in the Faraday cup (20 microA for 10 min), 20 runs on 18O-water target (40 microA for 2 h) and 10 runs on 18O-gas targets (30 microA for 45 min), we have established that occupationally exposed workers remain 10 +/- 5 times below federal regulatory limits (FRLs) in the cyclotron vault, 30 +/- 8 times below FRL in the radiochemistry laboratory and 200 +/- 10 times below the FRL outside the cyclotron laboratory during beam operation. (The FRL for unrestricted area are &lt;20 microSv in 1 h.) The non-occupationally exposed workers serving in offices in the vicinity of the cyclotron vault within 100 m distance remained 200 times below the FRL irrespective of beam being on or off, suggesting that routine beam operation of 40 microA for 2 h once a day during office hours is safe provided quality control and system performance measures as discussed in this report are strictly maintained.
The application of ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC/TOFMS) for high-throughput analysis of a 96-well plate based metabolic stability assay has been investigated. Full-scan data were acquired, with run times of 2.5-3.5 min, from which narrow window extracted ion chromatograms were generated, producing quantitative data for the test compound equivalent to that obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection on a triple quadrupole instrument (HPLC/MS/MS). Sensitivity and mass accuracy were maintained over the analysis of &gt;300 samples. Additionally, the UPLC/TOFMS datasets obtained gave access to metabolic route information, at no cost in terms of sensitivity for the test compound.
Multiple lines of evidence suggest that a dysfunction in the glutamatergic neurotransmission via the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors contributes to the pathophysiology of psychiatric diseases including schizophrenia. The potentiation of NMDA receptor function may be a useful approach for the treatment of diseases associated with NMDA receptor hypofunction. One possible strategy is to increase synaptic levels of glycine by blocking the glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) in glia cells, since glycine acts as a co-agonist site on the NMDA receptor. In this article, the author reviews the recent important patents on GlyT-1 inhibitors for treatment of schizophrenia and other psychiatric diseases associated with the NMDA receptor hypofunction.
Evidence for neurogenesis within the adult brain has challenged traditional views that this tissue is devoid of stem cell activity. This raises the possibility of introducing new cells through cell transplantation or stimulating endogenous neurogenesis as routes to treat disease and injury. Fetal and adult neural stem/progenitor cells can be isolated and expanded in vitro and might provide a cell source for such transplantations. Embryonic stem (ES) cells, which can generate any adult tissues, offer an alternative unlimited supply of neural tissue. We recently showed that both mouse and human ES cells can be converted to adherent neural stem (NS) cell lines [1] . Here we discuss the benefits of working with NS cell lines and how they might be exploited for studies of fundamental cellular processes, such as neuronal specification and differentiation. NS cells also serve as versatile models of disease processes, either through genetic manipulations or direct isolation from disease carriers and can be exploited in pharmaceutical drug screening. Longer term, NS cells offer an opportunity to rigorously test the efficacy of cell-based therapies and develop strategies for tissue engineering.
In this review we address the question of whether selective attentional mechanisms within the ipsilesional field are intact in unilateral lesion patients with spatial neglect and extinction. We consider how a lesion-induced bias in the neural representation of salience critically disrupts the integration of goal-driven and stimulus-driven prioritization signals. This has important consequences for selectivity both within the 'impaired' contralesional field within the 'intact' ipsilesional field. Examples are drawn from the neuropsychological literature and recent experiments conducted within our own laboratory. The implications of ipsilesional spatial selection deficits for rehabilitation are discussed.


After cerebral strokes and traumatic brain injuries (TBIs), there is a striking amount of neurological recovery in the following months and years, despite often-permanent structural damage. Though the mechanisms underlying such recovery are not fully understood, properties of plasticity of the central nervous system (CNS), such as the reorganization of the pre-existing network and axonal sprouting have been implicated in the recovery. With the recent evidences that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain, and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult CNS, the involvement of newly generated neuronal cells in the recovery following injury to the CNS remains to be established. Neurogenesis is increased bilaterally in the dentate gyrus (DG) and the subventicular zone (SVZ) after cerebral strokes and TBIs, and new neuronal cells are generated at the sites of injury, where they replace some of the degenerated nerve cells. Newly generated neuronal cells at the sites of injury may represent an attempt by the CNS to regenerate itself after injury, whereas the increased neurogenesis in the DG and SVZ would also contribute to the CNS plasticity. Thus, injury-induced neurogenesis may contribute to the recovery and plasticity of the CNS.
Rapid, faithful, and efficient action potential propagation in mammalian axons is a consequence of myelin and clustered Na+ channels. Both myelination and node of Ranvier formation require complex intercellular interactions between neurons and glia that result in profound molecular, morphological, and functional changes in each cell type. This review will focus on the molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie neuron-glia interactions at the node of Ranvier. In particular, the proteins and protein complexes, and how they participate in node of Ranvier formation and maintenance, will be discussed. Traditionally, myelinating glia have been viewed as merely passive players in neuronal function, conferring on the axons they ensheath various electrical properties that facilitate action potential conduction. However, it is now recognized that this view is incomplete. This review will discuss several examples illustrating how myelinating glia actively regulate the excitable properties of axons including the kinds of channels expressed and their subcellular localization.
Highlights of the 21st Congress of the European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis, September 28-October 1, 2005, Thessaloniki, Greece.
Embodiment, the sense of being localized within one's physical body, is a fundamental aspect of the self. Recent research shows that self and body processing as well as embodiment require distinct brain mechanisms. Here, we review recent clinical and neuroimaging research on multisensory perception and integration as well as mental imagery, pointing out their importance for the coding of embodiment at the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ). Special reference is given to vestibular mechanisms that are relevant for self and embodiment and to methods that interfere experimentally with normal embodiment. We conclude that multisensory and vestibular coding at the TPJ mediates humans' experience as being embodied and spatially situated, and argue that pathologies concerning the disembodied self, such as out-of-body experience or other autoscopic phenomena, are due to deficient multisensory integration at the TPJ.
One of the central goals of neuroscience is to elucidate the link between behavior and neuronal activity at both single neuron level and the level of neuronal ensembles. New analytical approaches and techniques constantly emerge that correlate neural activity with perception and behavior with ever finer temporal and spatial scales. In this article I review some of these approaches employed in studies of visual perception in which perceptual reports were required from subjects. I divide these methods into 'correlational' methods and 'perturbation' methods; the former measures normal neural activity and correlates it with behavior, the latter perturbs normal neural activity to cause behavioral alterations. I compare such approaches applied to primates with those applied to human subjects, and discuss how these approaches could be combined and made more powerful in the future.
Addiction to opiates such as morphine is a major public health concern. A more thorough understanding of the molecular mechanisms of opiate addiction can lead to better treatment options in the future. Many of the changes in neuronal activity that occur upon morphine exposure have been known for some time, but until recently, little was known about the changes in gene expression that underlie these effects. Recent advances in molecular biology such as microarray analysis and quantitative (real time) PCR have allowed us to examine the gene expression changes that occur in response to morphine treatments and during morphine withdrawal. This review summarizes many of the known molecular and cellular actions of morphine, and some of the important gene expression changes that occur in response to morphine treatment. Many of these gene expression changes underlie the alterations in neuronal excitability, cell morphology and cell birth or death responsible for producing morphine's rewarding effects, the development of dependence, and withdrawal symptoms after treatment ends.
The function of sleep is one of the most persistent and perplexing mysteries in biology. Many theories have been proposed to explain why we sleep, but most account for only a portion of sleep behavior and very few enjoy strong experimental support. A critical review of current findings leads to the following conclusions. Sleep is for the brain rather than the body, and the neural process most impacted by sleep is cognition. Sleep may influence cognition in many ways, including the removal of a toxic byproduct of wakefulness, or the restoration of neural substrates needed for mental processes. The evidence for these possibilities, however, is weak or equivocal. On the other hand, converging lines of evidence support the hypothesis that sleep promotes brain plasticity.
The cognitive processes supporting spatial navigation are considered in the context of a patient (CF) with possible very early Alzheimer's disease who presents with topographical disorientation. Her verbal memory and her recognition memory for unknown buildings, landmarks and outdoor scenes was intact, although she showed an impairment in face processing. By contrast, her navigational ability, quantitatively assessed within a small virtual reality (VR) town, was significantly impaired. Interestingly, she showed a selective impairment in a VR object-location memory test whenever her viewpoint was shifted between presentation and test, but not when tested from the same viewpoint. We suggest that a specific impairment in locating objects relative to the environment rather than relative to the perceived viewpoint (i.e. allocentric rather than egocentric spatial memory) underlies her topographical disorientation. We discuss the likely neural bases of this deficit in the light of related studies in humans and animals, focusing on the hippocampus and related areas. The specificity of our test indicates a new way of assessing topographical disorientation, with possible application to the assessment of progressive dementias such as Alzheimer's disease.
Using an object recognition or location memory test employing either small or large sets of training stimuli, we examined the effects of selective damage to the hippocampus after ischemia in Japanese monkeys. Ischemic (ISC) monkeys were significantly impaired in learning a delayed matching-to-sample (DMS) task (10 sec) when the sample and test objects were drawn from a set of 45 possible stimuli, but not in learning a DMS when a set of 300 possible stimuli was used ISC monkeys were also impaired in a delayed matching-to-location (DML) task that employed a 3-well tray but not in one that employed a 10-well tray. After criterion learning was attained, ISC monkeys were impaired significantly only in the 300-stimuli version and at the longest delay tested (10 min). These results suggest that the hippocampus might be involved in processing comparisons and forming relationships between current and recent stimuli, but not in the remembering of familiar objects, and in long-term maintenance (more than 10 min) of stimulus memory.
We review evidence for the boundary vector cell model of the environmental determinants of the firing of hippocampal place cells. Preliminary experimental results are presented concerning the effects of addition or removal of environmental boundaries on place cell firing and evidence that boundary vector cells may exist in the subiculum. We review and update computational simulations predicting the location of human search within a virtual environment of variable geometry, assuming that boundary vector cells provide one of the input representations of location used in mammalian spatial memory. Finally, we extend the model to include experience-dependent modification of connection strengths through a BCM-like learning rule - the size and sign of strength change is influenced by historic activity of the postsynaptic cell. Simulations are compared to experimental data on the firing of place cells under geometrical manipulations to their environment. The relationship between neurophysiological results in rats and spatial behaviour in humans is discussed.
Spatial memory and the hippocampal formation (HF) of food-hoarding birds have been put forward as a prime example of how natural selection has shaped a cognitive system and its neural underpinnings. Here, I review what we know about the HF of hoarding birds and lay out the work that is currently underway to use this system to obtain a better understanding of hippocampal function in general. This interdisciplinary programme includes evolutionary, ecological, psychological, ethological, and neuroscientific approaches to the study of behaviour and cognition. Firstly, we need to understand the behaviour of the birds in their natural environment, and identify the aspects of cognition and behaviour that may be especially valuable for the species under study. Secondly, these cognitive and behavioural traits are compared to closely-related non-hoarding species. Thirdly, we also compare HF anatomy between closely-related hoarding and non-hoarding species, identifying possible neural mechanisms underlying behavioural differences. Finally, behavioural and neuroscientific approaches are combined in experiments directly investigating the involvement of the HF or any of its anatomical and physiological aspects in the behaviours under study. This process loops back upon itself in many different ways, with all the different approaches informing each other. In this way we are making progress in understanding the functioning of the HF, not only in food-hoarding birds, but in all vertebrates.
Brain organization and its relationship to behavior in any extant species is a reflection of a long evolutionary history of adaptive change. Therefore, it follows that the relationship between the hippocampus and spatial cognition in any species or taxonomic group would be characterized by features adapted to its spatial ecology. Birds are the animal world's supreme navigators, and aspects of their navigational ability are dependent on the integrity of the hippocampal formation. Using the homing pigeon as a model species, we review an accumulating body of data indicating that the avian hippocampus is functionally lateralized. The spatial response properties of left hippocampal neurons, as recorded in freely moving pigeons in a laboratory environment, differ from the response properties of right hippocampal neurons. Left hippocampal lesions generally disrupt navigational behavior under field conditions more than right lesions, while right lesions are more likely to disrupt goal localization behavior under laboratory conditions. We propose that the available data are consistent with a hypothesis of a left hippocampus more involved in navigational processes, and a right hippocampus more involved in representing the locations of events. We also discuss the extent to which the observed hippocampal lateralization should be viewed as an intrinsic property of the hippocampus itself or imposed by the lateralized properties of visual inputs originating in other brain regions. Whatever the nature of the observed hippocampal lateralization, it is likely one adaptive variation in hippocampal organization that supports the extraordinary spatial behavior of birds.
We have reported a very rare case of a patient with callosal disconnection syndrome due to acute disseminated enchephalomyelitis (ADEM). A 54-year-old right-handed woman developed sudden consciousness disturbance and fever after 2 weeks when she had common cold. She did not have a history of stuttering. On admission, the neurological finding showed consciousness disturbance, and exaggerated muscle stretch reflex in four extremities without meningeal irritation. The cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed the cell counts of 273/mm3, the protein of 348 mg/dl and the myelin basic protein 18.3 pg/ml. The brain MRI demonstrated a focal high signal intensity in the right cerebellar peduncle, right temporal lobe, left occipital lobe and corpus callosum on the T2-weighted and FLAIR images. The lesion of corpus callosum was the trunk and splenium, sparing the dorsal side of splenium. Her diagnosis was ADEM. The steroid pulse therapy (metylpredinisolone 1 g/day for 3 days) improved the consciousness disturbance. After 6 weeks from the onset, the neuropsycological examination was performed. The remarkable findings included pure alexia without color naming defects, the acquired stuttering and one-way disturbance of somesthetic transfer from the left hand to the right. This patient may contribute to the study of functional localization of the corpus callosum.
The classical authors considered the functional resistance of the neuro-skull to consist of arcs at the arch level, rafters at the base and pillars at the joint of the arcs and rafters, those last also connecting the neuro-skull framework and that of the viscero-skull. The new outlooks replace the term pillar with that of resistance node and assemble the arcs and rafters within common structures, named resistance belts. The belts are: one in transversal, three sagittal, two in frontal plane and two oblique positions. At the intersection of the belts, the resistance nodes are placed.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is common during pregnancy. The symptoms usually disappear after delivery, but how soon has not been established. Thirty pregnant women with the syndrome reported to us the degree of pain in their hands every week before, and daily after, delivery. Pain was graded on a scale from 0 (none) to 10 (worst imaginable). The prevalence of the syndrome during pregnancy was about 2%. The mean pain score was 5.6 (SD 2.0) at referral and this was reduced by 1.2 (SD 2.2) after wearing an orthosis for a week. After this, it stayed almost unchanged until delivery. The score fell by half during the first week after parturition and by half again during the next week. The reduction in score was strongly correlated with loss of the weight gained during pregnancy (r = 0.97; p &lt;0.001). Although symptoms may persist for some weeks after delivery, the severity declines quickly.






Various psychic symptoms as ictal manifestation have been found in epileptic patients. They are classified as psychic seizures within simple partial seizures, and subclassified into affective, cognitive, dysmnesic seizures and so on, although the subclassification is not yet satisfactory and almost nothing is known about their relationships with normal brain functions. In this presentation, the speaker picked ictal fear, dj vu and out-of-body experience (OBE) from them and suggested that studies on these symptoms could uniquely contribute to the progress of cognitive neuroscience, presenting some results from the research and case study that he had been engaged in. Psychic seizures are prone to be missed or misdiagnosed unless psychiatrists with sufficient knowledge and experience on epilepsy care would not treat them, because they are subjective symptoms that are diverse and subtle, while they have some characteristics as ictal symptoms.
Neonatal seizures may increase neuronal vulnerability later in life. Therefore, status epilepticus was induced with kainate (KA) during the first and second postnatal (P) weeks to determine whether early seizures shift the window of neuronal vulnerability to a younger age. KA was injected (i.p.) once (1x KA) on P13, P20 or P30 or three times (3 x KA), once on P6 and P9, and then either on P13, P20 or P30. After 1x KA, onset to behavioral seizures increased with age. Electroencephalography (EEG) showed interictal events appeared with maturation. After 3 x KA, spike number, frequency, spike amplitude, and high-frequency synchronous events and duration were increased at P13 when compared to age-matched controls. In contrast, P20 and P30 rats had decreases in EEG parameters relative to P20 and P30 rats with 1x KA despite that these animals had the same history of perinatal seizures on P6 and P9. In P13 rats with 1x KA, silver impregnation, hematoxylin/eosin and TUNEL methods showed no significant hippocampal injury and damage was minimal with 3 x KA. In contrast, P20 and P30 rats with 1x KA had robust eosinophilic or TUNEL positive labeling and preferential accumulation of silver ions within inner layer CA1 neurons. After 3 x KA, the CA1 but not CA3 of P20 and P30 rats was preferentially protected following 3 or 6 days. Although paradoxical changes occur in the EEG with maturation, the results indicate that early perinatal seizures do not significantly shift the window of hippocampal vulnerability to an earlier age but induce a tolerance that leads to long-term neuroprotection that differentially affects endogenous properties of CA1 versus CA3 neurons.

Hippocampal place cells can process the environmental inputs and make up a cognitive map in the hippocampus, or strengthen the synaptic connections within an association cortical cell assembly,thus creating a permanent engram for a spatial site. Outputs from the hippocampus are then integrated with other inputs within the nucleus accumbens and finally initiate a goal-directed behavior through the motor circuit.
It is vital for steroid hormones synthesized in the gonad gland, adrenal gland and placenta to the development and physiological metabolism of the body. In particular, its regulatory effect on brain functions has attracted more and more attention, as nearly all the steroid hormones can be synthesized de novo in the brain. This means steroids derived from brain and peripheral gland can modulate the physiology and pathology of the brain reciprocally and importantly on many aspects such as learning and memory, synaptic transmission, neuroprotection, neurodegenerative diseases (especially Alzheimer's disease), emotion, stress, and menstrual-cycle-linked disorders. In the present review, some new advances are summarized.


Identifying the causal processes involved in theory of mind (ToM) development during childhood is an important goal for social neuroscience. This study aimed to investigate, for the first time, the extent to which individual differences in ToM are influenced by genes and environment in middle childhood, and to assess how ToM is linked to autistic-like behaviors and verbal ability. Over 600 9-year-old twin pairs from a subsample of the Twins Early Development Study were assessed on an advanced test of ToM and on verbal ability. Parents, teachers, and the children themselves provided ratings of the twins' autistic traits (social impairments, communication impairments, and restricted repetitive behaviors and interests), using an abbreviated version of the Childhood Asperger Syndrome Test. Autistic traits, particularly communication impairments, significantly predicted ToM performance. Verbal ability showed the strongest phenotypic association with ToM. Twin model-fitting was employed to investigate the causes of this association. Much of the variation in ToM ability and in verbal ability was explained by environmental influences, with modest heritabilities for each, but their association was almost fully explained by shared genetic effects. The possible neural basis underlying this association is discussed.
Functional imaging studies have identified a network of brain regions associated with theory of mind (ToM); the attribution of mental states to other people. Similar regions have also been observed in studies where people play games that involve either competing or co-operating with another person. Such games are thought to place implicit demands on ToM processes. Co-operation with others has also been shown to elicit brain responses in areas associated with the processing of reward, suggesting that co-operation is an intrinsically rewarding process. In this study, we used a factorial design to assess the interaction between co-operation and the availability of financial rewards in a guessing game. Twelve subjects were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while they performed a guessing game with and without co-operation, and under both these conditions with and without financial reward. The main effect of co-operation was associated with neural responses in theory of mind regions, while the main effect of financial reward was associated with neural responses in reward regions. Critically the response to reward in medial orbitofrontal cortex was significantly enhanced when subjects were co-operating. This suggests that rewards achieved through co-operation are more valuable than rewards achieved alone.
Social neuroscience has shed light on the underpinnings of understanding other minds. The current study investigated the effect of self-involvement during social interaction on attention, arousal, and facial expression. Specifically, we sought to disentangle the effect of being personally addressed from the effect of decoding the meaning of another person's facial expression. To this end, eye movements, pupil size, and facial electromyographic (EMG) activity were recorded while participants observed virtual characters gazing at them or looking at someone else. In dynamic animations, the virtual characters then displayed either socially relevant facial expressions (similar to those used in everyday life situations to establish interpersonal contact) or arbitrary facial movements. The results show that attention allocation, as assessed by eye-tracking measurements, was specifically related to self-involvement regardless of the social meaning being conveyed. Arousal, as measured by pupil size, was primarily related to perceiving the virtual character's gender. In contrast, facial EMG activity was determined by the perception of socially relevant facial expressions irrespective of whom these were directed towards.


Eye contact is a crucial social cue constituting a frequent preliminary to interaction. Thus, the perception of others' gaze may be associated with specific processes beginning with asymmetries in the detection of direct versus averted gaze. We tested this hypothesis in two behavioural experiments using realistic eye stimuli in a visual search task. We manipulated the head orientation (frontal or deviated) and the visual field (right or left) in which the target appeared at display onset. We found that direct gaze targets presented among averted gaze distractors were detected faster and better than averted gaze targets among direct gaze distractors, but only when the head was deviated. Moreover, direct gaze targets were detected very quickly and efficiently regardless of head orientation and visual field, whereas the detection of averted gaze was strongly modulated by these factors. These results suggest that gaze contact has precedence over contextual information such as head orientation and visual field.
Two phenomena can be observed in the watercolor illusion: illusory color spreading and figure-ground organization. We performed experiments to determine whether the figure-ground effect is a consequence of the color illusion or due to an independent mechanism. Subjects were tested with displays consisting of six adjacent compartments--three that generated the illusion alternating with three that served for comparison. In a first set of experiments, the illusory color was measured by finding the matching physical color in the alternate compartments. Figureness (probability of 'figure' responses, 2AFC) of the watercolor compartments was then determined with and without the matching color in the alternate compartments. The color match reduced figureness, but did not abolish it. There was a range of colors in which the watercolor compartments dominated as figures over the alternate compartments although the latter appeared more saturated in color. In another experiment, the effect of tinting alternate compartments was measured in displays without watercolor illusion. Figureness increased with color contrast, but its value at the equivalent contrast fell short of the figureness value obtained for the watercolor pattern. Thus, in both experiments, figureness produced by the watercolor pattern was stronger than expected from the color effect, suggesting independent mechanisms. Considering the neurophysiology, we propose that the color illusion follows from the principles of representation of surface color in the visual cortex, while the figure-ground effect results from two mechanisms of border ownership assignment, one that is sensitive to asymmetric shape of edge profile, the other to consistency of color borders.

Plantar fasciitis is a musculoskeletal disorder primarily affecting the fascial enthesis. Although poorly understood, the development of plantar fasciitis is thought to have a mechanical origin. In particular, pes planus foot types and lower-limb biomechanics that result in a lowered medial longitudinal arch are thought to create excessive tensile strain within the fascia, producing microscopic tears and chronic inflammation. However, contrary to clinical doctrine, histological evidence does not support this concept, with inflammation rarely observed in chronic plantar fasciitis. Similarly, scientific support for the role of arch mechanics in the development of plantar fasciitis is equivocal, despite an abundance of anecdotal evidence indicating a causal link between arch function and heel pain. This may, in part, reflect the difficulty in measuring arch mechanics in vivo. However, it may also indicate that tensile failure is not a predominant feature in the pathomechanics of plantar fasciitis. Alternative mechanisms including 'stress-shielding', vascular and metabolic disturbances, the formation of free radicals, hyperthermia and genetic factors have also been linked to degenerative change in connective tissues. Further research is needed to ascertain the importance of such factors in the development of plantar fasciitis.
Human therapeutic cloning is a recently emerged application of somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT), which is currently being performed to produce patient-specific stem cell lines for future stem cell therapies. The advantages in producing human nuclear transfer (NT) embryos to derive NT stem cell lines are that these can be tailor-made (i.e., are autologous in nature) for the patient and may overcome the need to administer life-long immunosuppression following stem cell transplantation. Although the rationale for using NT embryos is not for reproductive purposes, human NT remains clouded in ethical, moral, and religious controversies. The recent retraction of high-impact factor publications in the field of human NT from a research group in South Korea has placed stem cell research in a delicate situation. These heavily publicized issues may hinder the progress of this research and may threaten to bring current research to a complete halt. This review outlines the recent status of human NT, its continuing progress and the difficulties the field faces. Of most concern are the ethical issues, which surround obtaining human oocytes for research. Recent evidence suggests that failed-to-fertilize oocytes are poor sources for human SCNT, but obtaining fresh, viable oocytes may be even more problematic. The current status of human SCNT is outlined in this review with particular reference made to, lessons learnt from animal research, the oocyte dilemma and optimization of human NT.
Niches are specialized microenvironments that regulate stem cells activity. In the nervous system, during development, niches control neural stem cells (NSCs) maturation and the formation of the neuronal network. In the adult, neurogenesis occurs in discrete areas of the brain, the subventricular zone and the hippocampus, where neurogenic niches have been identified and characterized. These niches, an angiogenic and an astroglial niche, control NSCs self-renewal and differentiation. Although the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the interactions between NSCs and their environment remain to be elucidated, neurogenic niches share similar developmentally conserved pathways with other niches. It is hypothesized that neurogenic niches underlie the properties and functions of NSCs in the adult central nervous system. Hence, neurogenic niches may not only hold the key to our understanding of neurogenesis in the adult brain, but also of the developmental potential of adult NSCs, and their potential for cellular therapy.
We applied chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the thalamic nucleus ventralis caudalis (Vc) for the treatment of peripheral deafferentation pain. The subjects included 11 cases of phantom limb pain and 7 of root or nerve injury pain without phantom sensation. In the phantom limb pain patients, the spike density markedly increased in the same area of the Vc where microstimulation induced paresthesia in the part with phantom sensation. Reorganization of the receptive field representation within the Vc was also demonstrated by microrecording and microstimulation. In the root or nerve injury pain patients with severe allodynia and without phantom sensation, oscillating neural hyperactivity appeared when the allodynia was induced during single-cell recording in the Vc. In both groups stimulation of these areas with the DBS electrode was useful for achieving pain reduction. Inhibition of spinothalamic tract neurons, restoration of the original receptive field representation and modulation of thalamocortical rhythmic oscillations are proposed to play important roles in a possible mechanism of Vc-DBS for the treatment of deafferentation pain.
We examined the direct effect of deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) on levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesia in 45 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) without reducing the levodopa dosage during the early period after surgery. In 8 patients (18%), the dyskinesia was quickly attenuated by bipolar stimulation in an experimental trial (5 min) with the contacts placed within the area above the STN. In contrast, bipolar stimulation using contacts placed within the STN itself tended to provoke or exacerbate the dyskinesia, indicating that dyskinesia could be inhibited by stimulation of the areas above the STN rather than the STN itself. In an attempt to control the cardinal symptoms of PD and dyskinesia at the same time, we employed bipolar stimulation with a longer interpolar distance as a therapeutic procedure (2 weeks), using contacts within the STN as a cathode and contacts within the area above the STN as an anode. Bilateral STN-DBS significantly attenuated the dyskinesia as evaluated by the dyskinesia severity rating scale (p &lt; 0.05). In 24 patients (53%), almost complete control of the dyskinesia was observed. The contacts used as an anode in these patients were located more dorsally compared to those of the remaining patients, suggesting again that the dyskinesia was inhibited by stimulation of the areas above the STN rather than the STN itself. In the area above the STN, pallidothalamic, pallidosubthalamic and subthalamopallidal fibers are densely distributed. It appears that stimulation of these fibers may cause effects similar to thalamic or pallidal DBS and therefore inhibit peak-dose dyskinesia. Bipolar STN-DBS with contacts placed within the area above the STN as an anode appears to represent a useful option for controlling both the cardinal symptoms of PD and peak-dose dyskinesia at the same time.




The coiled coil is a widespread motif involved in oligomerization and protein-protein interactions, but the structural requirements for binding to target proteins are poorly understood. To address this question, we measured binding of tropomyosin, the prototype coiled coil, to actin as a model system. Tropomyosin binds to the actin filament and cooperatively regulates its function. Our results support the hypothesis that coiled-coil domains that bind to other proteins are flexible. We made mutations that alter interface packing and stability as well as mutations in surface residues in a postulated actin binding site. Actin affinity, measured by cosedimentation, was correlated with coiled-coil stability and local instability and side chain flexibility, analyzed with circular dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopy. The flexibility from interruptions in the stable coiled-coil interface is essential for actin binding. The surface residues in a postulated actin binding site participate in actin binding when the coiled coil within it is poorly packed.
The paper draws on a number of Grid projects, particularly on the experience of NeuroGrid, a UK project in the Neurosciences tasked with developing a Grid-based collaborative research environment to support the sharing of digital images and patient data across multiple distributed sites. It outlines recurrent socio-technical issues, highlighting the challenges of scaling up technological networks in advance of the regulatory networks which normally regulate their use in practice.
Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) is a popular tool used in neuroscience research to study brain activation due to motor or cognitive stimulation. In fMRI studies, large amounts of data are acquired, processed, compared, annotated, shared by many users and archived for future reference. As such, fMRI studies have characteristics of applications that can benefit from grid computation approaches, in which users associated with virtual organizations can share high performance and large capacity computational resources. In the Virtual Laboratory for e-Science (VL-e) Project, initial steps have been taken to build a grid-enabled infrastructure to facilitate data management and analysis for fMRI. This article presents our current efforts for the construction of this infrastructure. We start with a brief overview of fMRI, and proceed with an analysis of the existing problems from a data management perspective. A description of the proposed infrastructure is presented, and the current status of the implementation is described with a few preliminary conclusions.
The NeuroBase project aims at studying the requirements for federating, through the Internet, information sources in neuroimaging. These sources are distributed in different experimental sites, hospitals or research centers in cognitive neurosciences, and contain heterogeneous data and image processing programs. More precisely, this project consists in creating of a shared ontology, suitable for supporting various neuroimaging applications, and a computer architecture for accessing and sharing relevant distributed information. We briefly describe the semantic model and report in more details the architecture we chose, based on a media-tor/wrapper approach. To give a flavor of the future deployment of our architecture, we de-scribe a demonstrator that implements the comparison of distributed image processing tools applied to distributed neuroimaging data.
In this paper we propose a new one-degree-of-freedom haptic device that can be used to simulate ventricular shunt insertion procedures. The device is used together with the BRAINTRAIN training simulator developed for neuroscience education, neurological data visualization and surgical planning. The design of the haptic device is based on a push-pull cable concept. The rendered forces produced by a linear motor connected at one end of the cable are transferred to the user via a sliding mechanism at the end-effector located at the other end of the cable. The end-effector provides the range of movement up to 12 cm. The force is controlled by an open-loop impedance algorithm and can become up to 15 N.
We report on a study that investigates the relationship between visual working memory and verbal working memory and a performance measure in endoscopic instrument navigation in MIST and GI Mentor II (a simulator for gastroendoscopy). Integrated cognitive neuroscience in state-of-the-art simulator training curriculum will take safety science in health care one step ahead. Current simulator validation focuses on how to train. In the light of recent research it is now prime time to ask why in search of mechanisms rather than to repeatedly show that training has effect. This will help tailor training to maximize individual output in procedures that require a high level of dexterity. WM training is a unique learning aid in simulator training and should be used alongside clinical practice in order to improve the quality of complex clinical intervention in the field of image guided surgical simulation.



TMS can be used to study higher cerebral functions by the virtual lesion paradigm. The major advantages of this method are that it could be used to produce a lesion anywhere the researcher wants without confusing cortical reorganization, and that it helps to establish a chain of cause and effect between the activity of the brain and behavior. With elucidation of the mechanism underlying the cortical function blocking, this technique will open up new possibilities for studying higher cerebral functions. In contrast to the online method in which TMS is delivered while subjects perform a certain task, the off-line method uses repetitive TMS to achieve lasting effects even after stimulation has ceased. The application of the offline method will extend from improving cognitive functions by TMS to the treatment of neurological and psychiatric patients.






Galanin is colocalized extensively with norepinephrine in brain. Although this suggests possible activity-dependent neurotransmitter interactions, the functional significance of such colocalization remains elusive. Previously, we showed that enhancing stress-activation of the noradrenergic system by yohimbine pretreatment released galanin in central amygdala, attenuating the anxiety-like behavioral response to stress on the elevated plus-maze. The present study was conducted to determine, in this context, whether galanin was indeed coreleased from noradrenergic terminals, or instead from another galanin afferent or local stress-responsive galanin neurons in the amygdala. In experiment 1, galanin-mediated anxiolytic effects on the plus-maze following yohimbine + stress were unaltered by lesioning the noradrenergic innervation of central amygdala. In experiment 2, combining immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, galanin neurons specifically activated by yohimbine + stress treatment were found only in the locus coeruleus and intraamygdalar bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, adjacent to central amygdala. In experiment 3, retrograde tracing combined with in situ hybridization revealed few if any galanin cells projecting to central amygdala in locus coeruleus or nucleus tractus solitarius, sources of noradrenergic innervation. Indeed, few retrogradely-labeled galanin neurons were observed anywhere in the brain, including a small number in the intraamygdalar bed nucleus. Together, these results suggest that stress following yohimbine may have induced galanin release from an afferent to central amygdala originating in the bed nucleus, or from local neurons in the intraamygdalar bed nucleus, but that anxiolytic effects exerted by galanin in this context of elevated noradrenergic activity were not the result of corelease from noradrenergic terminals innervating central amygdala.
Previous research has shown that seizures kindled in the corpus callosum result in a persistent enhancement of the callosal-neocortical evoked response but only a transient reduction in layer III pyramidal cell morphology. To date, there are no reports on the direct effects of repeated seizures on dendritic morphology in layer V, the pyramidal layer thought to mediate the kindling-induced enhanced evoked response. This experiment examined the effect of repeated seizures elicited from the corpus callosum, at the level of the frontal neocortex, on the morphology of sensorimotor frontal (Fr1) and occipital (OC1) neocortical layer V, as well as striatal and neuronal dendrites, in male rats. After 25 days of electrically elicited seizures or handling control, rats were sacrificed either 2 days or 3 weeks following the last seizure and processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Analysis of the impregnated pyramidal cell dendrites indicated a significant increase in the amount of dendritic length and branching in rats 2 days, but a decrease 3 weeks, following the last seizure. There was no effect at the distant occipital site. The differential effect between layer V pyramidal neurons and layer III pyramidal neurons suggests that these areas play different roles in the expression of seizures and the adaptation of the brain to the persistent effect of kindling.
In his book entitled 'Wahn' (delusion), Binswanger develops a new line of thinking which is important for the neurosciences today. Unlike Jaspers, Binswanger believes that in a delusion normal perceptions do not acquire an abnormal significance. However, a delusion can develop as a result of a disturbance in sensations, perceptions and structure of consciousness. Binswanger was inspired to express these views after studying the philosophy of Heidegger, Aristotle, Kant and Husserl. In Binswanger's opinion, spontaneous mental activity is disturbed in delusion and perceptions are freezed. This can create a situation where the subject is dominated by mental images that can overpower and even destroy his own self-image. As a result the subject no longer has access to the human horizon which he would normally share with others. Consequently, the subject 'is convinced' that he is in the clutches of an alien power. On the basis of a case study, we investigate how a delusion arises and show how by analysing a patient's perceptions and sensations psychiatrists can help a patient to 'repossess his own mind'.
In the present study we investigated the changes in the oxidative phosphorylation system of liver mitochondria, isolated from diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) and Wistar (control) rats with different ages (6, 12, 26, and 52 weeks). We used a kinetic approach known as &quot;top-down&quot; analysis, which conceptually divides the oxidative phosphorylation system into two subsystems: one producing the protonmotive force (Deltap) and another that consumes Deltap. The overall response of the Deltap generators to Deltap was obtained from an uncoupler titration of respiration rate versus Deltap, while the overall response of Deltap consumers to Deltap was obtained from an inhibitor titration of respiration rate versus Deltap. Our results showed that GK liver mitochondrial preparations presented an increase in Deltap production and phosphorylative subsystems (using succinate as respiratory substrate). The alterations observed may suggest the existence of biochemical compensatory mechanisms to type 2 diabetes mellitus in GK rats during their first year of life, in order to reduce the injury associated with the disease. Furthermore, we observed that liver metabolic efficiency of mitochondrial respiration declined with age, this decrease in respiratory activity being visible both in control and diabetic rats.
A network of brain areas collectively represent location, but the underlying nature of this &quot;cognitive map&quot; has remained elusive. A recent study reports that the activity patterns of some entorhinal cortical neurons form a remarkably regular array of evenly spaced peaks across the surface of the environment. These &quot;grid cells&quot; might be the basis of a metric used for calculating position, and their discovery could greatly advance our understanding of how navigational computations are performed.
Members of the picornavirus family, including poliovirus and foot-and-mouth disease virus, are widespread pathogens of humans and domestic animals. Recent global developments in the resurgence of poliovirus infection and in the control of foot-and-mouth disease infection highlight the problems caused by the ability of picornaviruses to alter the apoptotic machinery of host cells and establish persistent infections. Despite the medical, economic and social impact of this family of viruses, little information exists that integrates the mechanisms of cell death and damage induced by related family members. Fortunately, examination of the reported roles and functions of individual viral proteins from multiple picornaviruses makes it possible to surmise canonical functions for these proteins. This review analyzes the canonical function of picornavirus proteins involved in the alteration of apoptotic homeostasis in infected host cells.
Understanding how complex neuronal circuits in the brain perform advanced computations is a central question in neuroscience that can only be addressed using a combination of approaches, including neurophysiology and behavioral analyses. In the olfactory bulb, neurophysiological studies have revealed that neuronal interactions reorganize odor-evoked activity patterns so that their discriminability is enhanced. Recent behavioral studies have examined the role of this computation in odor discrimination tasks and generated working models of behavioral odor discrimination strategies. The results appear consistent with a role of pattern reorganization in odor discrimination behavior but further studies are necessary to resolve this issue. These studies advance the understanding of neuronal circuit function in the olfactory bulb and illustrate benefits and caveats of comparing behavioral and neurophysiological results.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder and is characterized by memory loss and other cognitive disabilities. Mutations in the presenilin genes are the major cause of familial AD. Analysis of conditional knockout mice has shown that inactivation of presenilins results in progressive memory impairment and age-dependent neurodegeneration, suggesting that reduced presenilin activity might represent an important pathogenic mechanism. Presenilins positively regulate the transcription of cAMP response element (CRE)-containing genes, some of which are known to be important for memory formation and neuronal survival. Phosphodiesterase 4 and histone deacetylase inhibitors, which can enhance CRE-dependent gene expression, have been shown to ameliorate memory deficits and neurodegeneration in animal models. Thus, modulation of CRE-dependent transcription might be beneficial for the treatment of dementia in AD.
Chemokines and their receptors have principal roles in leukocyte trafficking under normal physiological and pathological conditions. The differential expression of the chemokine system in different parts of the CNS provides insights into the processes that are required for normal immune surveillance and pathological immune-mediated effector processes. Insights derived from studying multiple sclerosis, an inflammatory disorder of the CNS in humans, and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of this disorder, aid in further understanding the complexities of chemokine-mediated inflammation. Knowledge of the molecular biology of chemokines and their receptors, and the roles of specific chemokine ligands and receptors in the CNS in health and in disease have made these proteins targets for therapeutic intervention in neuroinflammation. We also discuss currently proposed and potentially useful chemokine receptor antagonists.
The neurogliaform cells (NGFC) localized in area 4 of the human motor cortex were found to express choline acetyl transferase (ChAT), GABA, and calbindin. ChAT-positive neurons were located in cortical layer II. Their dendrites lay in a close proximity to those of pyramid cells, neighbouring neurogliaform cells, and bodies and dendrites of other cortical neurons. The NGFCs revealed by Golgi staining fell into two groups. Cells of the first group had locally (within cortical layer II) spreading axons, while those of the second group had axons extending into the adjacent layers. Neurochemical heterogeneity of NGFCs is discussed in the context of information processing in cortical modules and interaction of excitatory and inhibitory interneurons.
The importance of homeostasis of neural tissue to neuron functioning, the synaptic plasticity of the hippocampus, and laboratory animals' behavior was demonstrated by the authors earlier. A range of experimental data evidences that cholinergic neurotransmission, ionotropic and metabotropic receptors, excessive tau phosphorylation, alterations in amyloid-beta biochemistry, oxidative reactions, and other features of neurodegenerative processes depend on the precise regulation of cerebral cholesterol metabolism. Such results suggest that disturbances in cholesterol homeostasis are the common primary cause of the sporadic and familial forms of Alzheimer's disease, Down syndrome, Niemann-Pick disease type C, and explain the similarity of neurodegenerative signs in different degenerative diseases of the nervous system. The present work was introduced at an annual conference of American Society for Neuroscience, and is available as a scientific report at www.neurobiologyoflipids.org/content/3/7/.
Facets of the immune response early after human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection influence the course of disease. In the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-rhesus monkey system, a global dysfunction of CD4(+) T cell cytokine secretion was reported to develop early after infection [McKay PF, Barouch DH, Schmitz JE, Veazey RS, Gorgone DA, Lifton MA, Williams KC, and Letvin NL: J Virol 2003;77:4695-4702]. Because differences have been found in SIV pathogenesis depending on the origin of the monkeys, we investigated the correlation between animal background, defined by country of origin (India or China), and circulating T cell cytokine secretion as well as cycling ability within the first 3 mo of SIV infection. An early loss of CD4(+) T cells that produce interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-2, those that produce IFN-gamma but not tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, as well as those that do not express IFN-gamma but can express IL-2 or TNF-alpha, was observed in animals of Indian, but not of Chinese, origin after SIV infection. After infection CD4(+) T cells in Chinese macaques developed an increased proliferating pool of T cells compared with Indian animals. These data reveal host diversity in the global effects of SIV infection on functional subsets of immune cells, which can add to a better understanding of differences observed in populations from diverse ethnic origins.
Most of the blinding retinopathies are due to progressive photoreceptor degeneration. Treatment paradigms that are currently being investigated include strategies to either halt or slow down photoreceptor cell loss, or to replace useful vision with retinal prosthesis. However, more information is required on the pathophysiological changes of the diseased retina, in particular the inner retina, that occur as a consequence of photoreceptor cell loss. Here we wished to use light damage as a stoppable insult to determine the structural and functional consequences on inner and outer retina, with the overall goal of determining whether survival of a functional inner retina is possible even if the outer retina is damaged. Mice were exposed to a 20-day light-damage period. Electroretinograms (ERG) and morphology were used to assess subsequent recovery. Outer retina was monitored analyzing a-waves, which represent photoreceptor cell responses, and histology. Integrity of the inner retina was monitored, analyzing b-waves and oscillatory potentials (OP1-OP4) and immunohistochemical markers for known proteins of the inner retina. All six ERG components were significantly suppressed with respect to amplitudes and kinetics, but stabilized in a wave-dependent manner within 40-70 days after the end of light exposure. As expected, damage of the outer retina was permanent. However, function of the inner retina was found to recover significantly. While b-wave amplitudes remained suppressed to 60% of their baseline values, OP amplitudes recovered completely, and implicit times of all components of the inner retina (b-wave and OP1-OP4) recovered to a level close to baseline values. Histological analyses confirmed the lack of permanent damage to the inner retina. In summary, these data suggests that the inner retina has the potential for significant recovery as well as plasticity if treatment is available to stop the deterioration of the outer retina.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from 57 cone-driven bipolar cells in the light-adapted retina of the land-phase (adult) tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum). Responses to flashes of negative and positive contrast for centered spots of optimum spatial dimensions were analyzed as a function of contrast magnitude. On average, the contrast/response curves of depolarizing and hyperpolarizing bipolar cells in the land-phase animals were remarkably similar to those of aquatic-phase animals. Thus, the primary retinal mechanisms mediating contrast coding in the outer retina are conserved as the salamander evolves from the aquatic to the land phase. To evaluate contrast encoding in the context of natural environments, the distribution of contrasts in natural images was measured for 65 scenes. The results, in general agreement with other reports, show that the vast majority of contrasts in nature are very small. The efficient coding hypothesis of Laughlin was examined by comparing the average contrast/response curves of bipolar cells with the cumulative probability distribution of contrasts in natural images. Efficient coding was found at 20 cd/m2 but at lower levels of light adaptation, the contrast/response curves were much too shallow. Further experiments show that two fundamental physiological factors-light adaptation and the nonlinear transfer across the cone-bipolar synapse are essential for the emergence of efficient contrast coding. For both land- and aquatic-based animals, the extent and symmetry of the dynamic range of the contrast/response curves of both classes of bipolar cells varied greatly from cell to cell. This apparent substrate for distributed encoding is established at the bipolar cell level, since it is not found in cones. As a result, the dynamic range of the bipolar cell population brackets the distribution of contrasts found in natural images.
The influence of background illumination on saccades towards small target LEDs was examined in three rhesus monkeys. In darkness, fixational saccades and those aimed at horizontal targets had a trajectory that was biased upward. This bias was not observed in the illuminated condition. For horizontal saccades, the magnitude of the vertical final errors depended on target eccentricity relative to starting eye position. Downward saccades undershot the location where eye position landed in the illuminated condition whereas upward saccades overshot less eccentric targets. Background illumination also influenced the latency of saccades. The change in accuracy that affects large saccades is interpreted as resulting from a change in the encoding of the desired displacement signal that feeds the local feedback loop controlling saccade trajectory.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive neurodegenerative form of dementia in the elderly and is characterized neuropathologically by neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), amyloid neuritic plaques (NP), and prominent synaptic and eventually neuronal loss. Although the molecular basis of AD is not clearly understood, a neuroinflammatory process, triggered by Abeta42, plays a central role in the neurodegenerative process. This inflammatory process is driven by activated microglia, astrocytes and the induction of proinflammatory molecules and related signaling pathways, leading to both synaptic and neuronal damage as well as further inflammatory cell activation. Epidemiologic data as well as clinical trial evidence suggest that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use may decrease the incidence of AD, further supporting a role for inflammation in AD pathogenesis. Although the precise molecular and cellular relationship between AD and inflammation remains unclear, interleukins and cytokines might induce activation of signaling pathways leading to futher inflammation and neuronal injury. This chapter will discuss the association between interleukins and neurodegeneration in AD and highlight the significance of genetic and clinical aspects of interleukins in disease expression and progression. As part of an emerging inflammatory signaling network underlying AD pathogenesis, beta-amyloid (Abeta) stimulates the glial and microglial production of interleukins and other cytokines, leading to an ongoing inflammatory cascade and contributing to synaptic dysfunction and loss, and later, neuronal death. Inflammatory pathways involving interleukin and cytokine signaling might suggest potential targets for intervention and influence the development of novel therapies to circumvent synaptic and neuronal dysfunction ultimately leading to AD neurodegeneration.
Adequate work assessments are a matter of importance both for individuals and society [5,29,31,38,40,46,52]. However, there is a lack of adequate and reliable instruments for use in work rehabilitation [14,15,20,21,31,44]. The purpose of this study was to develop and evaluate an observation instrument for assessing work performance, the AWP (Assessment of Work Performance). The purpose of the 14-item instrument is to assess the individual's observable working skills in three different areas: motor skills, process skills, and communication and interaction skills. This article describes the development and results of preliminary testing of the AWP. The testing indicates a satisfactory face validity and utility for the AWP and supports further research and testing of the instrument.
This study compares aspects of the health-related behaviors and working life of first-year university students with those of their working counterparts and assesses the roles of these aspects as predictors of each groups' perceived quality of life (QoL). Subjects were taken from two cross-sectional data sets (a student survey and a population survey) from the Swedish central-western region of Ostergtland. Male and female respondents aged 20-35 years were extracted and comparison were made considering in turn socio-demographic characteristics, health-related behaviors, exposure to abusive events at work and perceived QoL. University students smoked and used oral snuff in smaller proportions, they were not as frequent drinkers as their working counterparts, but they tended to drink more when they did drink. Threats and violence were less prevalent among students, but sexual harassment, were almost as common. The strongest predictors of perceived QoL for both groups are expected and former perceived QoL, followed by current self-rated health.

The modulatory aminergic neurotransmitters are involved in practically all important physiological systems in the brain, and many of them are also involved in human central nervous system diseases, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and depression. The zebrafish brain aminergic systems share many structural properties with the mammalian systems. The noradrenergic, serotonergic, and histaminergic systems are highly similar. The dopaminergic systems also show similarities with the major difference being the lack of dopaminergic neurons in zebrafish mesencephalon. Development of automated quantitative behavioral analysis methods for zebrafish and imaging systems of complete brain neurotransmitter networks have enabled comprehensive studies on these systems in normal and pathological conditions. It is possible to visualize complete neurotransmitter systems in the whole zebrafish brain at an age when the fish already displays all major vital behaviors except reproduction. Alterations of brain dopaminergic systems with MPTP, the neurotoxin that in humans and rodents induces Parkinson's disease, induces both changes in zebrafish dopaminergic system and quantifiable abnormalities in motor behavior. Chemically-induced brain histamine deficiency causes an identifiable alteration in histaminergic neurons and terminal networks, and a clear change in swimming behavior and long-term memory. Combining the imaging techniques and behavioral methods with zebrafish genetics is likely to help reveal how the modulatory transmitter systems interact to produce important behaviors, and how they are regulated in pathophysiological conditions and diseases.
Investigation of chemically synthesized inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] analogs has led to the isolation of a novel binding protein with a molecular size of 130 kDa, characterized as a molecule with similar domain organization to phospholipase C-d1 (PLC-d1) but lacking the enzymatic activity. An isoform of the molecule was subsequently identified, and these molecules have been named PRIP (PLC-related, but catalytically inactive protein), with the two isoforms named PRIP-1 and -2. Regarding its ability to bind Ins(1,4,5)P3 via the pleckstrin homology domain, the involvement of PRIP-1 in Ins(1,4,5)P3-mediated Ca2+ signaling was examined using COS-1 cells overexpressing PRIP-1 and cultured neurons prepared from PRIP-1 knock-out mice. Yeast two hybrid screening of a brain cDNA library using a unique N-terminus as bait identified GABARAP (GABAA receptor associated protein) and PP1 (protein phosphatase 1), which led us to examine the possible involvement of PRIP in GABAA receptor signaling. For this purpose PRIP knock-out mice were analyzed for GABAA receptor function in relation to the action of benzodiazepines from the electrophysiological and behavioral aspects. During the course of these experiments we found that PRIP also binds to the b-subunit of GABAA receptors and PP2A (protein phosphtase 2A). Here, we summarize how PRIP is involved in Ins(1,4,5)P3-mediated Ca2+ signaling and GABAA receptor signaling based on the characteristics of binding molecules.
Cardiopulmonary receptors relay signals to the central nervous system via vagal and spinal visceral afferents. To date there are no detailed topographical studies in mice indicating the distribution of central neurones activated following stimulation of cardiopulmonary afferents. In anaesthetised mice, we injected the 5-HT(3) receptor agonist phenylbiguanide (PBG), a drug that is known to stimulate cardiopulmonary afferent C-fibres, into the right atrium of the heart and mapped c-Fos expression within specific regions of the central nervous system. Intra-atrial injection of PBG produced a reflex cardiorespiratory response including a pronounced bradycardia and a respiratory depression. Using immunohistochemical detection of the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos, we mapped the brain regions affected by cardiopulmonary 5-HT(3) receptor stimulation. Within the nucleus of the solitary tract (nTS) of PBG-injected mice, we detected an increased number of c-Fos-positive nuclei in the dorsolateral and gelatinous parts at the level of the area postrema (-7.48 mm bregma) but not at more rostral or caudal levels (-7.76, -7.20, -6.84 and -6.36 mm bregma) relative to vehicle-injected control mice. In addition, c-Fos expression in the crescent part of the lateral parabrachial nucleus was decreased in PBG-injected mice whereas no significant differences were detected between PBG-injected and control mice in the number of c-Fos-positive nuclei in the dorsal part of the lateral parabrachial nucleus. PBG injections had no significant effects on the number of c-Fos-positive catecholaminergic neurones within the C1/A1, C2/A2, A5, A6 and A7 cell groups. Likewise, PBG injections had no significant effects on c-Fos expression in other central regions involved in cardiorespiratory control or cardiorespiratory reflexes (selected non-catecholaminergic nuclei in the medulla and midbrain periaqueductal gray, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the central nucleus of the amygdala). Identification of specific regions of the nTS complex involved in relaying signals from afferent cardiopulmonary C-fibres to the central nervous system will be useful for future studies aimed at understanding neural mechanisms underlying cardiopulmonary reflexes and physiological responses to cardiopulmonary disease.
Accumulation of the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is a primary event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms by which Abeta mediates neurotoxicity and initiates the degenerative processes of AD are still not clear. Recent evidence shows that voltage-gated K+ channels may be involved in Abeta-induced neurodegenerative processes. In particular, a transient A-type K+ current, with a linear increase in its density with distance from soma to distal dendrites in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, has been shown to contribute to dendritic membrane excitability. Here, I report that Abeta (1-42) inhibits the dendritic A-type K+ current in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, and this inhibition causes increases in back-propagating dendritic action potential amplitude and associated Ca2+ influx. These results suggest that the persistent inhibition of the A-type K+ current resulting from deposition of Abeta in dendritic arborization will induce a sustained increase in dendritic Ca2+ influx and lead to loss of Ca2+ homeostasis. This may be a component of the events that cause synaptic failure and initiate neuronal degenerative processes in the hippocampus.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy or prion diseases are fatal neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the conversion of the cellular prion protein (PrPC) into the infectious scrapie isoform (PrPSc). We have recently demonstrated that anti-prion intrabodies targeted to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum provide a simple and effective means to inhibit the transport of PrPC to the cell surface. Here, we report that they completely block the traffic of mature full-length PrPC molecules, impair prion lysosomal degradation, and interfere with the early phase of scrapie formation. Since anti-prion intrabodies efficiently block PrPSc accumulation in vitro, we investigated whether they could also antagonize scrapie infectivity in vivo. We found that mice intracerebrally injected with KDEL-8H4-NGF-differentiated PC12 cells infected with scrapie neither develop scrapie clinical signs nor brain damage. Furthermore, no protease-resistant PrPSc is detectable in brains of inoculated animals. These results indicate that anti-prion intrabody strategy may be effective against prion infection.
Mouse skeletal myotubes differentiated in vitro exhibited spontaneous contractions associated with electrical activity. The ionic conductances responsible for the origin and modulation of the spontaneous activity were examined using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and measuring [Ca(2+)](i) transients with the Ca(2+) indicator, fura 2-AM. Regular spontaneous activity was characterized by single TTX-sensitive action potentials, followed by transient increases in [Ca(2+)](i). Since the bath-application of Cd(2+) (300 microM) or Ni(2+) (50 muM) abolished the cell firing, T-type (I(Ca,T)) and L-type (I(Ca,L)) Ca(2+) currents were investigated in spontaneously contracting myotubes. The low activation threshold (around -60 mV) and the high density of I(Ca,T) observed in contracting myotubes suggested that I(Ca,T) initiated action potential firing, by bringing cells to the firing threshold. The results also suggested that the activity of I(Ca,L) could sustain the [Ca(2+)](i) transients associated with the action potential, leading to the activation of apamin-sensitive SK-type Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels and the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) following single spikes. In conclusion, an interplay between voltage-dependent inward (Na(+) and Ca(2+)) and outward (SK) conductances is proposed to mediate the spontaneous pacemaker activity in cultured muscle myotubes during the process of myogenesis.
There is evidence that spontaneous blinking correlates with cognitive functions. This arises from the observation that blinking rate (BR) is modulated by arousal levels, basic cognitive processes (e.g., attention, information processing, memory, etc.) and more complex cognitive functions (e.g., reading, speaking, etc.). The aim of this work was to test the role of BR evaluation in the assessment of cognitive network functioning in awake patients with consciousness deficits. Thirteen patients were recruited for the study, and were assessed by the Glasgow coma scale (GCS) and Glasgow outcome scale (GOS) on admittance and discharge, respectively. A level of cognitive functioning scale (LCFS) score was assigned at every change in awareness or at least every 2 weeks. At the same time as the clinical tests, the BR was observed for a 5-min period. Ten healthy subjects, observed throughout three non-consecutive days, formed the control group. The BR underwent a different temporal behaviour in the two diagnostic categories. In the persistent vegetative state (PVS) group it remained stable throughout time and linked with the clinical conditions of the patients; whereas in the non-persistent vegetative state (NPVS) group it decreased over time as the cognitive conditions improved. Moreover, a strong inverse correlation was found between overall BR values and LCFS scores. We have concluded that the blinking behaviour changes manifested in PVS and NPVS patients reflect different evolution phases of a cholinergic-dopaminergic imbalance, and that a reduced BR characterizes the early stages of consciousness recovery.
Rats and mice provide excellent models for normal spinal cord physiology, traumatic spinal cord injury, and various disease states. Alternative and improved methodologies for experimental spinal preparations are desirable, particularly in the wake of expanding neuroscience technology, such as the diverse array of transgenic mice now available, and exciting new therapeutic approaches, including transplantation and gene therapy. This report describes a simple, low-cost instrument for spinal preparations in rodents of different sizes, including rat pups. The device adapts to standard small animal stereotaxic instruments, precluding the need for additional stereotaxic apparatus. Surgical methods utilizing the device are presented demonstrating the instrument's capacity for precise alignment and stabilization of the spinal column that is reproducible from animal to animal. Proof of concept is demonstrated with results from spinal cord injections and electrophysiologic recordings.
Georg N. Koskinas is invariably recognised by neuroanatomists as Constantin von Economo's co-author on the celebrated Die Cytoarchitektonik der Hirnrinde des erwachsenen Menschen, published 80 years ago in Vienna and Berlin. That text and Atlas are generally accepted as a monumental landmark in the evolution of morphological brain research. A number of neuroanatomists and neurophysiologists continue to use to this day the parcellation scheme of the cerebral cortex into 107 areas, proposed by von Economo and Koskinas (and logically denoted by alphabetical characters from the initials of the respective lobes), despite the commoner adoption of Brodmann's scheme of 52, randomly numbered, areas. Several works have been written about the life and work of von Economo; on the other hand, virtually nothing can be found in the biomedical literature about Koskinas. This study aims at posthumously restoring part of the fame due this illustrious man of 20th century science -- and giant figure of brain anatomy -- whom history has not treated in the fairest of ways. We present newly gathered biographical data, as well as lesser known aspects of his scientific productivity. Koskinas' neuropathological studies, in collaboration with Ernst Strussler -- of Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker disease fame -- include findings from patients inoculated with malaria as a form of therapy for progressive general paresis (research related to psychiatrist Wagner von Jauregg's 1927 Nobel Prize), colloid degeneration, and the laminar distribution of status spongiosus lesions. Koskinas' neuropsychiatric activities in Greece upon his return from Vienna in 1927, and until his parting in 1975, are further related, including his successful -- and &quot;Hippocratic&quot; -- practice in the suburbs of Athens, his association with the Vogt Institute for Brain Research at Neustadt, and lesser known neuroanatomical works.
Adipocytes serve as the principal energy reservoir of the body; however, the subcellular organization of the machinery regulating lipid trafficking and metabolism is poorly understood. Mobilization of stored triglyceride is thought be controlled by interactions among intracellular lipases and proteins that coat lipid storage droplets. A major limitation of previous studies of hormone-mediated lipolysis, however, is the use of cultured model adipocytes whose three-dimensional architectures do not resemble those in real adipose tissue. To address this limitation, we investigated the intracellular targeting of perilipin, a major lipid coat protein, and hormone-sensitive lipase in three preparations that exhibit more appropriate morphologies: 3T3-L1 adipocytes grown in three-dimensional matrix, dissociated mature adipocytes from mouse adipose tissue, and adipocytes within intact fat pads. High resolution imaging of native and fluorescently tagged proteins indicate that: 1) perilipin preferentially targets a special class of peripheral lipid storage droplets, but not the major or central lipid storage droplets, 2) the peripheral droplets are the sites of attack by hormone-sensitive lipase, and 3) perilipin and hormone-sensitive lipase are continuously colocalized following lipolytic activation. These results indicate that in white adipose tissue, lipolysis takes place in a specialized subcellular domain that is distinct from the major lipid storage site and is defined by perilipin.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) genotype has a major influence on the risk for Alzheimer disease (AD). Different apoE isoforms may alter AD pathogenesis via their interactions with the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). Mice lacking the lipid transporter ABCA1 were found to have markedly decreased levels and lipidation of apoE in the central nervous system. We hypothesized that if Abca1-/- mice were bred to the PDAPP mouse model of AD, PDAPP Abca1-/ mice would have a phenotype similar to that of PDAPP Apoe+/- and PDAPP Apoe-/- mice, which develop less amyloid deposition than PDAPP Apoe+/+ mice. In contrast to this prediction, 12-month-old PDAPP Abca -/- mice had significantly higher levels of hippocampal Abeta, and cerebral amyloid angiopathy was significantly more common compared with PDAPP Abca1+/+ mice. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) C-terminal fragments were not different between Abca1 genotypes prior to plaque deposition in 3-month-old PDAPP mice, suggesting that deletion of Abca1 did not affect APP processing or Abeta production. As expected, 3-month-old PDAPP Abca1-/- mice had decreased apoE levels, but they also had a higher percentage of carbonate-insoluble apoE, suggesting that poorly lipidated apoE is less soluble in vivo. We also found that 12-month-old PDAPP Abca1-/- mice had a higher percentage of carbonate-insoluble apoE and that apoE deposits co-localize with amyloid plaques, demonstrating that poorly lipidated apoE co-deposits with insoluble Abeta. Together, these data suggest that despite substantially lower apoE levels, poorly lipidated apoE produced in the absence of ABCA1 is strongly amyloidogenic in vivo.
To elucidate the pathomechanisms of relapses of autoimmune disorders and to develop immunotherapy against relapses, we induced acute monophasic and chronic relapsing (CR) experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in DA rats. Immunopathological and cytokine-chemokine analyses demonstrated that the number of infiltrating macrophages was significantly elevated in the CR-EAE than in acute EAE lesions and that IFN-gamma and IP-10 in the spinal cord were significantly upregulated during the first attack and relapse of CR-EAE, respectively, than at the peak of acute EAE. In vivo administration of decoy chemokine receptor plasmid DNAs encoding the binding sites of CXCR3 and CCR2 suppressed the development of relapse of CR-EAE. Importantly, multiple injections of DNAs did not elicit the antibody production against chemokine receptors. Taken together, these findings demonstrated that neutralization therapy with decoy chemokine receptor DNAs is effective to control autoimmune diseases.

Despite reduction in its exposure, lead remains a major health problem. The primary target of lead toxicity is the central nervous system. The cellular, intracellular and molecular mechanisms of lead neurotoxicity are numerous, such as induction of apoptosis and interfering with Ca2+ dependent enzyme like nitric oxide synthase (NOS). To investigate the cytotoxic effect of lead on rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, as a suitable model for neuroscience study, and possible correlation between lead toxicity and nitric oxide (NO) production, this study was performed. The current results showed that lead could induce cytotoxicity as well as NO production in a dose dependent manner in PC12 cells after 24h. The cytotoxicity was positively correlated with increased NOx (nitrite and nitrate) production in these cells. L-NAME, a NOS inhibitor, treatment (2.5 mM) could reverse this cytotoxicity. It can be concluded that lead-induced cytotoxicity in PC12 cells could partly be mediated by higher NO production.
Cortical polarity regulates cell division, migration, and differentiation. Microtubules induce cortical polarity in yeast, but few examples are known in metazoans. We show that astral microtubules, kinesin Khc-73, and Discs large (Dlg) induce cortical polarization of Pins/Galphai in Drosophila neuroblasts; this cortical domain is functional for generating spindle asymmetry, daughter-cell-size asymmetry, and distinct sibling fates. Khc-73 localizes to astral microtubule plus ends, and Dlg/Khc-73 and Dlg/Pins coimmunoprecipitate, suggesting that microtubules induce Pins/Galphai cortical polarity through Dlg/Khc-73 interactions. The microtubule/Khc-73/Dlg pathway acts in parallel to the well-characterized Inscuteable/Par pathway, but each provides unique spatial and temporal information: The Inscuteable/Par pathway initiates at prophase to coordinate neuroblast cortical polarity with CNS tissue polarity, whereas the microtubule/Khc-73/Dlg pathway functions at metaphase to coordinate neuroblast cortical polarity with the mitotic spindle axis. These results identify a role for microtubules in polarizing the neuroblast cortex, a fundamental step for generating cell diversity through asymmetric cell division.

Given previous evidence for CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) signaling in AtT20 cells, the binding of [125I]-CART61-102 was characterized in these cells. The binding was specific, saturable, dependent on time, pH, temperature and protein concentration, with a Bmax of 101.4+/-8.8 fmol/mg protein and a Kd of 21.9+/-8.0 pM. Only active CART55-102, but not other peptides or drugs, inhibited the [125I]-CART61-102 binding. These data are the first demonstration of specific receptor binding for CART peptides.
The effects of dopamine D1 receptor agonists are often presumed to result from an activation of adenylyl cyclase, but dopamine D1 receptors may also be linked to other signal transduction cascades and the relative importance of these various pathways is currently unclear. SKF 83959 is an agonist at dopamine D1 receptors linked to phospholipase C, but has been reported to be an antagonist at receptors linked to adenylyl cyclase. The current report demonstrates that SKF 83959 induces pronounced, nonpatchy, expression of the immediate-early gene product Fos in the striatum of intact rats which can be converted to a patchy pattern by pretreatment with the dopamine D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole. In rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions SKF 83959 induces strong behavioral rotation and a greatly potentiated Fos response. All of the responses to SKF 83959, in both intact and dopamine-depleted animals, can be blocked by pretreatment with the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390. In intact subjects, SKF 83959 induced Fos expression less potently than the standard dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF 82958, but the two drugs were approximately equipotent in deinnervated animals. These results demonstrate for the first time that possession of full efficacy at dopamine D1 receptors linked to adenylyl cyclase is not a necessary requirement for the induction of striatal Fos expression in intact animals and suggest that alternative signal transduction pathways may play a role in dopamine agonist induced Fos expression, especially in dopamine-depleted subjects.

The authors studied four patients with parkinsonism carrying the fragile X premutation using SPECT with ([23)I]FP-CIT. They found evidence of preserved presynaptic nigrostriatal function, suggesting that parkinsonism in the X fragile premutation might be related to postsynaptic dopaminergic changes or different neurotransmitter alterations.

Intracranial self-stimulation (ICS) is a motivated behavior that results from contingent activation of the brain reward system. ICS with stimulating electrodes placed in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) is particularly robust. However, the neurons that course through this pathway use a variety of neurotransmitters including dopamine and GABA. For this reason, the neurotransmitters that are central to this behavior, and the specific roles that they subserve, remain unclear. Here, we used extracellular electrophysiology and cyclic voltammetry at the same electrode in awake rats to simultaneously examine cell firing and dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) during ICS and noncontingent stimulation of the MFB. ICS elicited dopamine release in the NAc and produced coincident time-locked changes (predominantly inhibitions) in the activity of a subset of NAc neurons. Similar responses were elicited with noncontingent stimulations. The changes in firing rate induced by noncontingent stimulations were reversed by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline. Most time-locked unit activity was unaffected by D1 or D2-like dopamine-receptor antagonists, or by inhibition of evoked dopamine release, although, for a minority of units, the D1 dopamine-receptor antagonist SCH23390 attenuated neural activity. Thus, neurons in the NAc are preferentially inhibited by GABA(A) receptors after MFB stimulation, a mechanism that may also be important in ICS.
Little is known about the neural bases of the reduced auditory and cortical processing speeds that have been recorded in language-impaired, autistic, schizophrenic, and other disabled human populations. Although there is strong evidence for genetic contributions to etiologies, epigenetic factors such as perinatal anoxia (PA) have been argued to be contributors, or causal, in a significant proportion of cases. In this article, we explored the consequences of PA on this elementary aspect of auditory behavior and on auditory system function in rats that were briefly perinatally anoxic. PA rats had increased acoustic thresholds and reduced processing efficiencies recorded in an auditory behavioral task. These rats had modestly increased interpeak intervals in their auditory brainstem responses, and substantially longer latencies in poststimulus time histogram responses recorded in the primary auditory cortex. The latter were associated with degraded primary auditory cortex receptive fields and a disrupted tonotopy. These processing deficits are consistent with the parallel behavioral and physiological deficits recorded in children and adults with a history of language-learning impairment and autism.
The adrenal hormone corticosterone transcriptionally regulates responsive genes in the rodent hippocampus through nuclear mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors. Via this genomic pathway the hormone alters properties of hippocampal cells slowly and for a prolonged period. Here we report that corticosterone also rapidly and reversibly changes hippocampal signaling. Stress levels of the hormone enhance the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials in CA1 pyramidal neurons and reduce paired-pulse facilitation, pointing to a hormone-dependent enhancement of glutamate-release probability. The rapid effect by corticosterone is accomplished through a nongenomic pathway involving membrane-located receptors. Unexpectedly, the rapid effect critically depends on the classical mineralocorticoid receptor, as evidenced by the effectiveness of agonists, antagonists, and brain-specific inactivation of the mineralocorticoid but not the glucocorticoid receptor gene. Rapid actions by corticosterone would allow the brain to change its function within minutes after stress-induced elevations of corticosteroid levels, in addition to responding later through gene-mediated signaling pathways.
Hypocretin-1 and -2 (Hcrt-1 and Hcrt-2), also referred to as orexin-A and -B, are neuropeptides synthesized by a few thousand neurons in the lateral hypothalamus. Hypocretin-containing neurons project throughout the brain, with a prominent input to basal forebrain structures involved in motivation, reward, and stress. However, the role of hypocretins in addiction-related behaviors remains largely unexplored. Here we show that intracerebroventricular infusions of Hcrt-1 lead to a dose-related reinstatement of cocaine seeking without altering cocaine intake in rats. Hcrt-1 also dramatically elevates intracranial self-stimulation thresholds, indicating that, unlike treatments with reinforcing properties such as cocaine, Hcrt-1 negatively regulates the activity of brain reward circuitries. Hypocretin-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking was prevented by blockade of noradrenergic and corticotropin-releasing factor systems, suggesting that Hcrt-1 reinstated drug seeking through induction of a stress-like state. Consistent with this interpretation, the selective Hcrt-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 blocked footshock-induced reinstatement of previously extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. These findings reveal a previously unidentified role for hypocretins in driving drug seeking through activation of stress pathways in the brain.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily of cation channels contains four temperature-sensitive channels, named TRPV1-4, that are activated by heat stimuli from warm to that in the noxious range. Recently, two other members of this superfamily, TRPA1 and TRPM8, have been cloned and characterized as possible candidates for cold transducers in primary afferent neurons. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry, we characterized the precise distribution of TRPA1, TRPM8, and TRPV1 mRNAs in the rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons. In the DRG, TRPM8 mRNA was not expressed in the TRPV1-expressing neuronal population, whereas TRPA1 mRNA was only seen in some neurons in this population. Both A-fiber and C-fiber neurons expressed TRPM8, whereas TRPV1 was almost exclusively seen in C-fiber neurons. All TRPM8-expressing neurons also expressed TrkA, whereas the expression of TRPV1 and TRPA1 was independent of TrkA expression. None of these three TRP channels were coexpressed with TrkB or TrkC. The TRPM8-expressing neurons were more abundant in the TG compared with the DRG, especially in the mandibular nerve region innervating the tongue. Our data suggest heterogeneity of TRPM8 and TRPA1 expression by subpopulations of primary afferent neurons, which may result in the difference of cold-sensitive primary afferent neurons in sensitivity to chemicals such as menthol and capsaicin and nerve growth factor.

Recent studies have implicated a role for the trigeminal interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition zone in response to orofacial injury. Using combined neuronal tracing and Fos protein immunocytochemistry, we investigated functional connections between the Vi/Vc transition zone and rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a key structure in descending pain modulation. Rats were injected with a retrograde tracer, FluoroGold, into the RVM 7 days before injection of an inflammatory agent, complete Freund's adjuvant, into the masseter muscle and perfused at 2 hours postinflammation. A population of neurons in the ventral Vi/Vc overlapping with caudal ventrolateral medulla, and lamina V of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc), exhibited FluoroGold/Fos double staining, suggesting the activation of the trigeminal-RVM pathway after inflammation. No double-labeled neurons were found in the dorsal Vi/Vc and laminae I-IV of Vc. Injection of an anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, into the RVM resulted in labeling profiles overlapped with the region that showed FluoroGold/Fos double labeling, suggesting reciprocal connections between RVM and Vi/Vc. Lesions of Vc with a soma-selective neurotoxin, ibotenic acid, significantly reduced inflammation-induced Fos expression as well as the number of FluoroGold/Fos double-labeled neurons in the ventral Vi/Vc (P&lt;0.05). Compared with control rats, lesions of the RVM (n=6) or Vi/Vc (n=6) with ibotenic acid led to the elimination or attenuation of masseter hyperalgesia/allodynia developed after masseter inflammation (P&lt;0.05-0.01). The present study demonstrates reciprocal connections between the ventral Vi/Vc transition zone and RVM. The Vi/Vc-RVM pathway is activated after orofacial deep tissue injury and plays a critical role in facilitating orofacial hyperalgesia.
The volume, total neuron number, and number of GABA- and glycine-expressing neurons in the sensory trigeminal nuclei of the adult rat were estimated by stereological methods. The mean volume is 1.38+/-0.13 mm3 (mean+/-SD) for the principal nucleus (Vp), 1.59+/-0.06 for the n. oralis (Vo), 2.63+/-0.34 for the n. interpolaris (Vip), and 3.73+/-0.11 for the n. caudalis (Vc). The total neuron numbers are 31,900+/-2,200 (Vp), 21,100+/-3,300 (Vo), 61,600+/-8,300 (Vip), and 159,100+/-25,300 (Vc). Immunoreactive (-ir) neurons were classified as strongly stained or weakly stained, depending on qualitative criteria, cross-checked by a densitometric analysis. GABA-ir cells are most abundant in Vc, in an increasing rostrocaudal gradient within the nucleus. Lower densities are found in Vip and Vp. The mean total number of strongly labeled GABA-ir neurons ranges between 1,800 in Vp to 7,800 in Vip and 22,900 in Vc, and varies notably between subjects. Glycine-ir neurons are more numerous and display more homogeneous densities in all nuclei. Strongly labeled Gly-ir cells predominate in all nuclei, their total number ranging between 9,400 in Vp to 24,300 in Vip and 34,200 in Vc. A substantial fraction of immunolabeled neurons in all nuclei coexpress GABA and glycine. In general, all neurons strongly immunoreactive for GABA are small, while weakly GABA-ir cells which coexpress Gly are larger. In Vc, one-third of all neurons are immunoreactive: 16.6% of them are single-labeled for GABA and 31.6% are single-labeled for glycine. The remaining 51.8% express GABA and glycine in different combinations, with those showing strong double labeling accounting for 22.6%.
The present study investigated whether a co-application of tramadol (TRA) and dihydroetorphine (DHE) would exert a synergy in analgesic effect and delay acute tolerance development. Intraperitoneal injection of TRA (in mg) and subcutaneous injection of DHE (in ng) were delivered in fixed proportions (1:6.25, 1:12.5, 1:25, 1:50, 1:100, and 1:200). The effect of analgesia was accessed by tail-flick test and analyzed with isobolographic analysis. For test of acute tolerance, six successive injections of either TRA (20 mg/kg) alone, DHE (1 000 ng/kg) alone, or a combination of TRA (20 mg/kg) and DHE (250 ng/kg) were administered. We found that (1) except for 1 mg : 6.25 ng and 1 mg : 50 ng, combinations, all the other ratios produced a significant synergy in their analgesic effect; (2) the effect of analgesia induced by repeated TRA plus DHE injections lasted significantly longer, indicating a slower onset of acute tolerance. These results indicate that TRA and DHE injections in certain dose ratios can induce synergistic analgesia, which is resistant against the development of acute tolerance.
Down's syndrome (DS) or trisomy 21 is the most common genetic cause of mental retardation, and adults with DS develop Alzheimer type of disease (AD). Cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) is encoded on chromosome 21 and deficiency in its activity causes homocystinuria, the most common inborn error of sulfur amino acid metabolism and characterized by mental retardation and vascular disease. Here, we show that the levels of CBS in DS brains are approximately three times greater than those in the normal individuals. CBS is localized to astrocytes and those surrounding senile plaques in the brains of DS patients with AD. The over-expression of CBS may cause the developmental abnormality in cognition in DS children and that may lead to AD in DS adults.
gamma-Secretase is a multimeric membrane protein complex comprised of presenilin (PS), nicastrin (Nct), Aph-1, and Pen-2. It is a member of an atypical class of aspartic proteases that hydrolyzes peptide bonds within the membrane. During the biosynthetic process of the gamma-secretase complex, Nct and Aph-1 form a heterodimeric intermediate complex and bind to the C-terminal region of PS, serving as a stabilizing scaffold for the complex. Pen-2 is then recruited into this trimeric complex and triggers endoproteolysis of PS, conferring gamma-secretase activity. Although the Pen-2 accumulation depends on PS, the binding partner of Pen-2 within the gamma-secretase complex remains unknown. We reconstituted PS1 in Psen1/Psen2 deficient cells by expressing a series of PS1 mutants in which one of the N-terminal six transmembrane domains (TMDs) was swapped with those of CD4 (a type I transmembrane protein) or CLAC-P (a type II transmembrane protein). We report that the proximal two-thirds of TMD4 of PS1, including the conserved Trp-Asn-Phe sequence, are required for its interaction with Pen-2. Using a chimeric CD4 molecule harboring PS1 TMD4, we further demonstrate that the PS1 TMD4 bears a direct binding motif to Pen-2. Pen-2 may contribute to the activation of the gamma-secretase complex by directly binding to the TMD4 of PS1.
The amyloid beta-protein precursor intracellular domain fragment (AICD) is generated from amyloid beta-protein precursor by consecutive cleavages. AICD is thought to activate FE65-dependent gene expression, but the molecular mechanism remains under consideration. We found that dimeric 14-3-3gamma bound both AICD and FE65 simultaneously, and this binding facilitated FE65-dependent gene transactivation by enhancing the association of AICD with FE65. 14-3-3gamma bound to the 667VTPEER672 motif of AICD and, most interestingly, the phosphorylation of AICD at Thr-668 in this motif inhibited the interaction with 14-3-3gamma and blocked gene transactivation. 14-3-3gamma required a sequence between the WW domain and the first phosphotyrosine interaction domain of FE65 for association with FE65. Deletion of this region blocked 14-3-3gamma binding to FE65 and suppressed AICD-mediated FE65-dependent gene transactivation, although the deletion mutant FE65 was still able to bind Tip60, a histone acetyltransferase that forms a complex with FE65 in the nucleus. Taken together, these data demonstrate that 14-3-3gamma facilitates FE65-dependent gene transactivation by forming a complex containing AICD and FE65, and phosphorylation of AICD down-regulates FE65-dependent gene transactivation through the dissociation of 14-3-3gamma and/or FE65 from AICD. Our findings suggest that multiple interactions of AICD with FE65 and 14-3-3gamma modulate FE65-dependent gene transactivation.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) are two major inflammatory mediators. Here we show that iNOS specifically binds to COX-2 and S-nitrosylates it, enhancing COX-2 catalytic activity. Selectively disrupting iNOS-COX-2 binding prevented NO-mediated activation of COX-2. This synergistic molecular interaction between two inflammatory systems may inform the development of anti-inflammatory drugs.

In addition to affecting respiration and vascular tone, deviations from normal CO(2) alter pH, consciousness, and seizure propensity. Outside the brainstem, however, the mechanisms by which CO(2) levels modify neuronal function are unknown. In the hippocampal slice preparation, increasing CO(2), and thus decreasing pH, increased the extracellular concentration of the endogenous neuromodulator adenosine and inhibited excitatory synaptic transmission. These effects involve adenosine A(1) and ATP receptors and depend on decreased extracellular pH. In contrast, decreasing CO(2) levels reduced extracellular adenosine concentration and increased neuronal excitability via adenosine A(1) receptors, ATP receptors, and ecto-ATPase. Based on these studies, we propose that CO(2)-induced changes in neuronal function arise from a pH-dependent modulation of adenosine and ATP levels. These findings demonstrate a mechanism for the bidirectional effects of CO(2) on neuronal excitability in the forebrain.
A rare type of mammalian retinal ganglion cell (RGC) expresses the photopigment melanopsin and is a photoreceptor. These intrinsically photosensitive RGCs (ipRGCs) drive circadian-clock resetting, pupillary constriction, and other non-image-forming photic responses. Both the light responses of ipRGCs and the behaviors they drive are remarkably sustained, raising the possibility that, unlike rods and cones, ipRGCs do not adjust their sensitivity according to lighting conditions (&quot;adaptation&quot;). We found, to the contrary, that ipRGC sensitivity is plastic, strongly influenced by lighting history. When exposed to a constant, bright background, the background-evoked response decayed, and responses to superimposed flashes grew in amplitude, indicating light adaptation. After extinction of a light-adapting background, sensitivity recovered progressively in darkness, indicating dark adaptation. Because these adjustments in sensitivity persisted when synapses were blocked, they constitute &quot;photoreceptor adaptation&quot; rather than &quot;network adaptation.&quot; Implications for the mechanisms generating various non-image-forming visual responses are discussed.
AMPA receptors mediate the majority of the fast excitatory transmission in the central nervous system. Much evidence suggests that the fast trafficking of AMPA receptors into and out of the postsynaptic membrane underlies changes in synaptic strength thought to be necessary for higher cognitive functions such as learning and memory. Despite the abundance of research conducted in this area, a direct, real-time functional assay that measures the trafficking of native AMPA receptors has been lacking. Toward this aim, we use a photoreactive, irreversible antagonist of AMPA receptors, ANQX, to rapidly silence surface AMPA receptors and investigate directly the trafficking of native AMPA receptors in real time. We find that the most dynamic movement of AMPA receptors occurs by lateral movement across the surface of neurons. Fast cycling of surface AMPA receptors with receptors from internal stores does occur but exclusively at extrasynaptic somatic sites. The cycling of synaptic AMPA receptors only occurs on a much longer timescale with complete exchange requiring at least 16 hr. This cycling is not dependent on protein synthesis or action potential driven network activity. These data suggest a revised model of AMPA receptor trafficking wherein a large internal store of AMPA receptors exchanges rapidly with extrasynaptic somatic AMPA receptors, and these newly inserted AMPA receptors then travel laterally along dendrites to reside stably at synapses.
Neuropilins, secreted semaphorin coreceptors, are expressed in discrete populations of spinal motor neurons, suggesting they provide critical guidance information for the establishment of functional motor circuitry. We show here that motor axon growth and guidance are impaired in the absence of Sema3A-Npn-1 signaling. Motor axons enter the limb precociously, showing that Sema3A controls the timing of motor axon in-growth to the limb. Lateral motor column (LMC) motor axons within spinal nerves are defasciculated as they grow toward the limb and converge in the plexus region. Medial and lateral LMC motor axons show dorso-ventral guidance defects in the forelimb. In contrast, Sema3F-Npn-2 signaling guides the axons of a medial subset of LMC neurons to the ventral limb, but plays no major role in regulating their fasciculation. Thus, Sema3A-Npn-1 and Sema3F-Npn-2 signaling control distinct steps of motor axon growth and guidance during the formation of spinal motor connections.
Accumulation of beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) in the extracellular space of the brain has been hypothesized to be a culprit in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In this issue of Neuron, Cirrito et al. describe a series of experiments demonstrating that extracellular Abeta levels are directly modulated by neuronal and synaptic activity.

It has been hypothesized that mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction leads to a pyrimidine deficiency since the pyrimidine biosynthetic enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase is coupled to the electron transport chain. The uridine prodrug triacetyluridine (PN401) is neuroprotective in several models of neurodegenerative disease involving respiratory chain toxins. Therefore, the therapeutic effects of PN401 might involve the correction of a pyrimidine deficiency secondary to respiratory chain impairment. We infused mice with the cytochrome c oxidase inhibitor azide, which inhibited brain complex IV activity. Chronic infusion of azide for 2 or 14 days induced significant toxicity and mortality but did not cause a pyrimidine deficit in the brain. In contrast, the pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor N-phosphonoacetyl-l-aspartate (PALA) produced a pyrimidine deficit with minimal mortality. Treatment with 6% PN401 decreased mortality and cerebrocortical apoptosis caused by azide. Previously, we found that optimal neuroprotection against mitochondrial complex II inhibition required 4-6% PN401. PN401 at 1, 3, 6 and 10% in chow induced nonlinear increases in plasma uridine with 6% PN401 elevating plasma uridine up to 80 muM, and these higher micromolar uridine levels were also required for neuroprotection in chemical hypoxia models in vitro. Our results indicate that severe complex IV inhibition in vivo does not lead to a pyrimidine deficiency, and therefore the protective effect of PN401 in the azide toxin model is not mediated through the correction of a pyrimidine deficiency. Furthermore, supraphysiological levels of uridine are required to produce optimal protective effects in disorders involving impairment of mitochondrial respiratory complex II or IV.
Olfactory information is dramatically restructured as it makes its way through the brain. Recent work using a remarkable experimental preparation has revealed how this transformation is achieved.
Synaptotagmin 1 likely acts as a Ca2+ sensor in neurotransmitter release by Ca2+-binding to its two C2 domains. This notion was strongly supported by the observation that a mutation in the C2A domain causes parallel decreases in the apparent Ca2+ affinity of synaptotagmin 1 and in the Ca2+ sensitivity of release. However, this study was based on a single loss-of-function mutation. We now show that tryptophan substitutions in the synaptotagmin 1 C2 domains act as gain-of-function mutations to increase the apparent Ca2+ affinity of synaptotagmin 1. The same substitutions, when introduced into synaptotagmin 1 expressed in neurons, enhance the Ca2+ sensitivity of release. Mutations in the two C2 domains lead to comparable and additive effects in release. Our results thus show that the apparent Ca2+ sensitivity of release is dictated by the apparent Ca2+ affinity of synaptotagmin 1 in both directions, and that Ca2+ binding to both C2 domains contributes to Ca2+ triggering of release.
Nonconscious recognition of facial expressions opens an intriguing possibility that two emotions can be present together in one brain with unconsciously and consciously perceived inputs interacting. We investigated this interaction in three experiments by using a hemianope patient with residual nonconscious vision. During simultaneous presentation of facial expressions to the intact and the blind field, we measured interactions between conscious and nonconsciously recognized images. Fear-specific congruence effects were expressed as enhanced neuronal activity in fusiform gyrus, amygdala, and pulvinar. Nonconscious facial expressions also influenced processing of consciously recognized emotional voices. Emotional congruency between visual and an auditory input enhances activity in amygdala and superior colliculus for blind, relative to intact, field presentation of faces. Our findings indicate that recognition of fear is mandatory and independent of awareness. Most importantly, unconscious fear recognition remains robust even in the light of a concurrent incongruent happy facial expression or an emotional voice of which the observer is aware.
The responses to sound of auditory-nerve fibers are well known in many animals but are topics of conjecture for humans. Some investigators have claimed that the auditory-nerve fibers of humans are more sharply tuned than are those of various experimental animals. Here we invalidate such claims. First, we show that forward-masking psychophysical tuning curves, which were used as the principal support for those claims, greatly overestimate the sharpness of cochlear tuning in experimental animals and, hence, also probably in humans. Second, we calibrate compound action potential tuning curves against the tuning of auditory-nerve fibers in experimental animals and use compound action potential tuning curves recorded in humans to show that the sharpness of tuning in human cochleae is not exceptional and that it is actually similar to tuning in all mammals and birds for which comparisons are possible. Third, we note that the similarity of frequency of tuning across species with widely diverse cochlear lengths and auditory bandwidths implies that for any given stimulus frequency the &quot;cochlear amplifier&quot; is confined to a highly localized region of the cochlea.

Attending to a stimulus is known to enhance the neural responses to that stimulus. Recent experiments on visual attention have shown that this modulation can have object-based characteristics, such that, when certain parts of a visual object are attended, other parts automatically also receive enhanced processing. Here, we investigated whether visual attention can modulate neural responses to other components of a multisensory object defined by synchronous, but spatially disparate, auditory and visual stimuli. The audiovisual integration of such multisensory stimuli typically leads to mislocalization of the sound toward the visual stimulus (ventriloquism illusion). Using event-related potentials and functional MRI, we found that the brain's response to task-irrelevant sounds occurring synchronously with a visual stimulus from a different location was larger when that accompanying visual stimulus was attended versus unattended. The event-related potential effect consisted of sustained, frontally distributed, brain activity that emerged relatively late in processing, an effect resembling attention-related enhancements seen at earlier latencies during intramodal auditory attention. Moreover, the functional MRI data confirmed that the effect included specific enhancement of activity in auditory cortex. These findings indicate that attention to one sensory modality can spread to encompass simultaneous signals from another modality, even when they are task-irrelevant and from a different location. This cross-modal attentional spread appears to reflect an object-based, late selection process wherein spatially discrepant auditory stimulation is grouped with synchronous attended visual input into a multisensory object, resulting in the auditory information being pulled into the attentional spotlight and bestowed with enhanced processing.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes (mGluR1 to mGluR8) act as important pre- and postsynaptic regulators of neurotransmission in the CNS. These receptors consist of two domains, an extracellular region containing the orthosteric agonist site and a transmembrane heptahelical domain involved in G protein activation and recognition of several recently synthesized pharmacological modulators. The presynaptic receptor mGluR7 shows the highest evolutionary conservation within the family, but no selective pharmacological tool was known. Here we characterize an mGluR7-selective agonist, N,N'-dibenzhydrylethane-1,2-diamine dihydrochloride (AMN082), which directly activates receptor signaling via an allosteric site in the transmembrane domain. At transfected mammalian cells expressing mGluR7, AMN082 potently inhibits cAMP accumulation and stimulates GTPgammaS binding (EC50-values, 64-290 nM) with agonist efficacies comparable with those of L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4) and superior to those of L-glutamate. AMN082 (&lt; or = 10 microM) failed to show appreciable activating or inhibitory effects at other mGluR subtypes and selected ionotropic GluRs. Chimeric receptor studies position the binding site of AMN082 in the transmembrane region of mGluR7, and we demonstrate that this allosteric agonist has little, if any, effect on the potency of orthosteric ligands. Here we provide evidence for full agonist activity mediated by the heptahelical domain of family 3 G protein-coupled receptors (which have mGluR-like structure) that may lead to drug development opportunities. Further, AMN082 is orally active, penetrates the blood-brain barrier, and elevates the plasma stress hormones corticosterone and corticotropin in an mGluR7-dependent fashion. Therefore, AMN082 is a valuable tool for unraveling the role of mGluR7 in stress-related CNS disorders.
Recombinant human nerve growth factor (rhNGF) is regarded as the most promising therapy for neurodegeneration of the central and peripheral nervous systems as well as for several other pathological conditions involving the immune system. However, rhNGF is not commercially available as a drug. In this work, we provide data about the production on a laboratory scale of large amounts of a rhNGF that was shown to possess in vivo biochemical, morphological, and pharmacological effects that are comparable with the murine NGF (mNGF), with no apparent side effects, such as allodynia. Our rhNGF was produced by using conventional recombinant DNA technologies combined with a biotechnological approach for high-density culture of mammalian cells, which yielded a production of approximately 21.5 +/- 2.9 mg/liter recombinant protein. The rhNGF-producing cells were thoroughly characterized, and the purified rhNGF was shown to possess a specific activity comparable with that of the 2.5S mNGF by means of biochemical, immunological, and morphological in vitro studies. This work describes the production on a laboratory scale of high levels of a rhNGF with in vitro and, more important, in vivo biological activity equivalent to the native murine protein.
Hot flashes are the most common symptom of the climacteric and occur in about 75% of perimenopausal and postmenopausal women in Western societies. Although hot flashes accompany the withdrawal of estrogen at menopause, the decline in estrogen levels is not sufficient to explain their occurrence. Elevated sympathetic activation acting through central alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors contributes to the initiation of hot flashes, possibly by narrowing the thermoneutral zone in symptomatic women. Hot flashes are then triggered by small elevations in core body temperature acting within this narrowed zone. A relaxation-based method, paced respiration, has been shown in 3 controlled investigations to significantly reduce objectively measured hot flash occurrence by about 50% with no adverse effects. In 6 studies of physical exercise, however, investigators did not find positive effects on hot flashes, possibly because exercise raises core body temperature, thereby triggering hot flashes. Although many epidemiologic studies have found increased reports of sleep disturbance during the menopausal transition, recent laboratory investigations have not found this effect, nor have they found that hot flashes produce disturbed sleep. Therefore, sleep complaints in women at midlife should not routinely be attributed to hot flashes or to menopause.
Impressive advances in the last decade have been made in the genetics and neuroscience of neuropsychiatric illness. Synergies between complex genetics, elaboration of intermediate phenotypes (Egan et al. (2004) Schizophrenia. London: Blackwell) and novel applications in neuroimaging (Bookheimer et al. (2000) N Engl J Med, 343, 450-456) are revealing the effects of positively associated disease alleles on aspects of neurological function. Genes such as NRG-1, DISC1, RGS4, COMT, PRODH, DTNBP1, G72, DAAO, GRM3 (Harrison and Weinberger (2005) Mol Psychiatry, 10, 40-68) and others have been implicated in schizophrenia along with 5-HTTPR (Ogilvie et al. (1996) Lancet, 347, 731-733; Caspi et al. (2003) Science, 301, 386-389) and BDNF (Geller et al. (2004) Am J Psychiatry, 161, 1698-1700) in affective disorders. As the genetics and complex neurocircuits of these and disorders are being untangled, parallel applications in pharmacogenomics and gene-based drug metabolism are shaping a drive for personalized medicine. Genetic research and pharmacogenomics suggest that the subcategorization of individuals based on various sets of susceptibility alleles will make the treatment of neuropsychiatric and other illnesses more predictable and effective.
The chronic i.c.v. infusion of morphine has been reported for rats but not for mice. In the current report, the antinociceptive tolerance to both i.c.v. morphine infusion and s.c. implantation of morphine pellets in mice was compared. Physical dependence after i.c.v. morphine infusion was also evaluated. Osmotic minipumps were filled with morphine (50 mM), connected to i.c.v. cannulae, and implanted s.c. to deliver 50 nmol/h for 3 days (i.e., 3.6 micromol total). Robust jumping precipitated by naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) indicated the development of physical dependence. Tolerance to i.c.v., i.t., and i.v. morphine (6.3-, 2.0-, and 4.4-fold, respectively) was observed using the tail flick test. Mice implanted with pellets containing 75 mg morphine for 3 days (i.e., approximately 260 micromol total) were also tolerant to morphine (6.5-, 7.5- and 18-fold, respectively). Thus, the tolerance developed using the two methods was not identical. These results allow comparison of morphine tested by 3 different routes (i.c.v., i.t., and i.v.) after chronic morphine treatment by two routes (i.c.v. and s.c.) in a single study.
This study used behavioural and in vivo electrophysiological paradigms to examine the effects of systemic and spinal administration of a bradykinin B1 receptor antagonist, compound X, on acute nociceptive responses in the rat. In behavioural experiments, compound X significantly increased the latency to withdraw the hindpaw from a radiant heat source after both intravenous and intrathecal administration, without affecting motor performance on the rotarod. In electrophysiological experiments, both intravenous and direct spinal administration of compound X attenuated the responses of single dorsal horn neurones to noxious thermal stimulation of the hindpaw. These data show that the antinociceptive effects of a bradykinin B1 receptor antagonist are mediated, at least in part, at the level of the spinal cord and suggest a role for spinal bradykinin B1 receptors in acute nociception.
We have previously shown that treatment of rats with the anabolic androgen steroid nandrolone decreased the density of alpha1B-adrenoceptors in the rat kidney [Uhln, S., Lindblom, J., Kindlundh, A., Muhisha, P., Nyberg, F., (2003). Nandrolone treatment decreases the level of rat kidney alpha1B-adrenoceptors. Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's Arch. Pharmacol. 368, 91-98]. This effect may have been caused either by decreased de novo synthesis of alpha1B-adrenoceptors or by increased degradation of alpha1B-adrenoceptors [corrected] In the present study, we show that treatment of rats with nandrolone decreases the level of mRNA for the alpha1B-adrenoceptor in the kidneys, implying decreased synthesis of alpha1B-adrenoceptors. On the other hand, nandrolone did not decrease the density of alpha1B-adrenoceptors in Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells, even though the sub-cell line tested, MDCK-D1, expresses both the androgen receptor and the alpha1B-adrenoceptor. It is concluded that the regulation of alpha1B-adrenoceptor expression by anabolic androgenic steroids is intricate and cell-type specific.
Overexpression studies have identified X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) as a potent inhibitor of caspases. However, the exact function of endogenous XIAP in regulating mammalian apoptosis is less clear. Endogenous XIAP strictly regulates cytochrome c-dependent caspase activation in sympathetic neurons but not in many mitotic cells. We report that postmitotic cardiomyocytes, unlike fibroblasts, are remarkably resistant to cytosolic microinjection of cytochrome c. The cardiomyocyte resistance to cytochrome c is mediated by endogenous XIAP, as XIAP-deficient cardiomyocytes die rapidly with cytosolic cytochrome c alone. Importantly, we found that cardiomyocytes, like neurons, have markedly reduced Apaf-1 levels and that this decrease in Apaf-1 is directly linked to the tight regulation of caspase activation by XIAP. These data identify an important function of XIAP in cardiomyocytes and point to a striking similarity in the regulation of apoptosis in postmitotic cells.
The morphology of the precentral sulcus was examined via 3D visualization in 40 structural magnetic resonance images of the human brain to define its common features and their variability. The precentral sulcus is composed of two distinct sulcal configurations: 1) the inferior precentral sulcus (IP), situated caudal to the inferior frontal sulcus, and 2) the superior precentral sulcus (SP), caudal to the superior frontal sulcus. The SP was usually a single connected structure, and only in 24% of cases studied did it consist of two separate folds. The caudal end of the superior frontal sulcus and the SP merge on the surface of the brain. However, a clear separation can be established in 72% of cases by analyzing the morphology of the depth of this region in serial sections. Two or three small sulci can be identified in the area between the SP and the midline: the medial precentral sulcus, the marginal precentral sulcus, and a paramidline sulcus. The IP is composed of three different parts: a dorsal and a ventral branch, both oriented vertically, and a short horizontal extension. The ventral branch forms the caudal border of the inferior frontal gyrus, the dorsal branch forms the caudal border of the ventral portion of the middle frontal gyrus, and the horizontal extension runs in a rostrodorsal direction into the middle frontal gyrus. These three structures are closely related to each other but can, in most cases, be separated in the depth of the inferior precentral sulcal complex.
The L-shaped anterior zone of the lateral hypothalamic area's subfornical region (LHAsfa) is delineated by a pontine nucleus incertus input. Functional evidence suggests that the subfornical region and nucleus incertus modulate foraging and defensive behaviors, although subfornical region connections are poorly understood. A high-resolution Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) structural analysis is presented here of the LHAsfa neuron population's overall axonal projection pattern. The strongest LHAsfa targets are in the interbrain and cerebral hemisphere. The former include inputs to anterior hypothalamic nucleus, dorsomedial part of the ventromedial nucleus, and ventral region of the dorsal premammillary nucleus (defensive behavior control system components), and to lateral habenula and dorsal region of the dorsal premammillary nucleus (foraging behavior control system components). The latter include massive inputs to lateral and medial septal nuclei (septo-hippocampal system components), and inputs to bed nuclei of the stria terminalis posterior division related to the defensive behavior system, intercalated amygdalar nucleus (projecting to central amygdalar nucleus), and posterior part of the basomedial amygdalar nucleus. LHAsfa vertical and horizontal limb basic projection patterns are similar, although each preferentially innervates certain terminal fields. Lateral hypothalamic area regions immediately medial, lateral, and caudal to the LHAsfa each generate quite distinct projection patterns. Combined with previous evidence that major sources of LHAsfa neural inputs include the parabrachial nucleus (nociceptive information), defensive and foraging behavior system components, and the septo-hippocampal system, the present results suggest that the LHAsfa helps match adaptive behavioral responses (either defensive or foraging) to current internal motivational status and external environmental conditions.
Applying functional magnetic resonance imaging techniques, hemodynamic responses elicited by slowly flashing checkerboards (0.25 Hz) were measured both before and after a block of rapidly presented checkerboards (9 Hz -- a 'photic tetanus') was delivered. It has been shown previously, using electroencephalography, that this photic tetanus potentiates components of the visual-evoked potential. In the present study, hemodynamic responses in the extrastriate visual cortex were significantly increased to checkerboards presented at a low frequency after the administration of the photic tetanus. These results support the idea that long-term potentiation can be demonstrated non-invasively within the human visual cortex and provide evidence that the plastic changes are localized within the secondary visual cortex.

BACE1 is a membrane-bound aspartyl protease involved in production of the Alzheimer's amyloid beta-protein. The BACE1 ectodomain is partially cleaved to generate soluble BACE1, but the physiological significance of this event is unclear. During our characterization of BACE1 shedding from human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells stably expressing BACE1, we unexpectedly found that detectable amounts of BACE1 holoproteins were released extracellularly along with soluble BACE1. Treatment with the metalloprotease inhibitor, TAPI-1, inhibited BACE1 shedding but increased BACE1 holoprotein release. Soluble and full-length BACE1 were released in parallel, at least partly originating from the plasma membrane. Furthermore, the release of soluble BACE1, but not full-length BACE1, was increased by deletion of the C-terminal dileucine motif, indicating that dysregulated BACE1 sorting affects BACE1 shedding. These findings suggest that the release of BACE1 holoproteins may be a physiologically relevant cellular process.
Neurotrophin signaling plays important roles in regulating the survival, differentiation, and maintenance of neurons in the nervous system. Binding of neurotrophins to their cognate receptors Trks induces transactivation and phosphorylation of the receptor at several tyrosine residues. These phosphorylated tyrosine residues then serve as crucial docking sites for adaptor proteins containing a Src homology 2 or phosphotyrosine binding domain, which upon association with the receptor initiates multiple signaling events to mediate the action of neurotrophins. Here we report the identification of a Src homology 2 domain-containing molecule, SLAM-associated protein (SAP), as an interacting protein of TrkB in a yeast two-hybrid screen. SAP was initially identified as an adaptor molecule in SLAM family receptor signaling for regulating interferon-gamma secretion. In the current study, we found that SAP interacted with TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC receptors in vitro and in vivo. Binding of SAP required Trk receptor activation and phosphorylation at the tyrosine 674 residue, which is located in the activation loop of the kinase domain. Overexpression of SAP with Trk attenuated tyrosine phosphorylation of the receptors and reduced the binding of SH2B and Shc to TrkB. Moreover, overexpression of SAP in PC12 cells suppressed the nerve growth factor-dependent activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 and phospholipase Cgamma, in addition to inhibiting neurite outgrowth. In summary, our findings demonstrated that SAP may serve as a negative regulator of Trk receptor activation and downstream signaling.
Distinct intracellular pathways are involved in regulated and constitutive protein secretion from neuronal and endocrine cells, yet the peptide signals and molecular mechanisms responsible for targeting and retention of soluble proteins in secretory granules are incompletely understood. By using confocal microscopy and subcellular fractionation, we examined trafficking of the neuronal and endocrine peptide precursor VGF that is stored in large dense core vesicles and undergoes regulated secretion. VGF cofractionated with secretory vesicle membranes but was not detected in detergent-resistant lipid rafts. Deletional analysis using epitope-tagged VGF suggested that the C-terminal 73-amino acid fragment of VGF, containing two predicted alpha-helical loops and four potential prohormone convertase (PC) cleavage sites, was necessary and sufficient with an N-terminal signal peptide-containing domain, for large dense core vesicle sorting and regulated secretion from PC12 and INS-1 cells. Further transfection analysis identified the sorting sequence as a compact C-terminal alpha-helix and embedded 564RRR566 PC cleavage site; mutation of the 564RRR566 PC site in VGF-(1-65): GFP:VGF-(545-617) blocked regulated secretion, whereas disruption of the alpha-helix had no effect. Mutation of the adjacent 567HFHH570 motif, a charged region that might enhance PC cleavage in acidic environments, also blocked regulated release. Finally, inhibition of PC cleavage in PC12 cells using the membrane-permeable synthetic peptide chloromethyl ketone (decanoyl-RVKR-CMK) blocked regulated secretion of VGF. Our studies define a critical RRR-containing C-terminal domain that targets VGF into the regulated pathway in neuronal PC12 and endocrine INS-1 cells, providing additional support for the proposed role that PCs and their cleavage sites play in regulated peptide secretion.
Serum-inducible kinase (SNK) is a member of polo-like kinases that serve as regulators of multiple events during cell division. Rapid changes in the activity and abundance of SNK were reported after the serum stimulation and after the activation of synaptic transmission in the brain. Yet the detailed mechanisms that control the level of SNK protein have not been fully elucidated. In this report, we show that the RING-H2 domain of hVPS18 (human vacuolar protein sorting 18) has a genuine ubiquitin ligase (E3) activity. Using the yeast two-hybrid screening, we identify SNK as a candidate substrate of hVPS18. The half-life of SNK is increased in HeLa cells that down-regulated hVPS18 by lentivirus-mediated small hairpin RNA interference. Furthermore, the delayed entry into S phase is observed in HeLa cells overexpressing hVPS18. These results suggest that hVPS18 may play an important role in regulation of SNK activity through its ubiquitin ligase.
HB-GAM (heparin-binding growth-associated molecule, also designated as pleiotrophin) and midkine form a two-member family of extracellular matrix proteins that bind tightly to sulfated carbohydrate structures such as heparan sulfate. These proteins are used by developing neurons as extracellular cues in axonal growth and guidance. HB-GAM was recently reported to enhance differentiation of neural stem cells. Based on the solution structure of HB-GAM, we have recently shown that HB-GAM consists of two beta-sheet domains flanked by flexible lysine-rich N- and C-terminal tails with no apparent structure. These domains are homologous to thrombospondin type I repeats present in numerous extracellular proteins that interact with the cell surface. Our findings showed that the two beta-sheet domains fold independently. We showed that the domains (but not the lysine-rich tails) in HB-GAM are required and sufficient for interaction with hippocampal neurons. The individual domains bind heparan sulfate weakly and fail to produce significant biological effects in neurite outgrowth and long term potentiation assays. The amino acids in the linker region joining the two domains may be replaced with glycines with no effect on protein function. These results suggest a co-operative action of the two beta-sheet domains in the biologically relevant interaction with neuron surface heparan sulfate.
Arrestins play a fundamental role in the regulation and signal transduction of G protein-coupled receptors. Here we describe the crystal structure of cone arrestin at 2.3A resolution. The overall structure of cone visual arrestin is similar to the crystal structures of rod visual and the non-visual arrestin-2, consisting of two domains, each containing ten beta-sheets. However, at the tertiary structure level, there are two major differences, in particular on the concave surfaces of the two domains implicated in receptor binding and in the loop between beta-strands I and II. Functional analysis shows that cone arrestin, in sharp contrast to its rod counterpart, bound cone pigments and non-visual receptors. Conversely, non-visual arrestin-2 bound cone pigments, suggesting that it may also regulate phototransduction and/or photopigment trafficking in cone photoreceptors. These findings indicate that cone arrestin displays structural and functional features intermediate between the specialized rod arrestin and the non-visual arrestins, which have broad receptor specificity. A unique functional feature of cone arrestin was the low affinity for its cognate receptor, resulting in an unusually rapid dissociation of the complex. Transient arrestin binding to the photopigment in cones may be responsible for the extremely rapid regeneration and reuse of the photopigment that is essential for cone function at high levels of illumination.

Electrical synapses are common between inhibitory neurons in the mammalian thalamus and neocortex. Synaptic modulation, which allows flexibility of communication between neurons, has been studied extensively at chemical synapses, but modulation of electrical synapses in the mammalian brain has barely been examined. We found that the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, via endogenous neurotransmitter or by agonist, causes long-term reduction of electrical synapse strength between the inhibitory neurons of the rat thalamic reticular nucleus.
Nodes of Ranvier are regularly placed, nonmyelinated axon segments along myelinated nerves. Here we show that nodal membranes isolated from the central nervous system (CNS) of mammals restricted neurite outgrowth of cultured neurons. Proteomic analysis of these membranes revealed several inhibitors of neurite outgrowth, including the oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp). In rat spinal cord, OMgp was not localized to compact myelin, as previously thought, but to oligodendroglia-like cells, whose processes converge to form a ring that completely encircles the nodes. In OMgp-null mice, CNS nodes were abnormally wide and collateral sprouting was observed. Nodal ensheathment in the CNS may stabilize the node and prevent axonal sprouting.
The effect of uremia on renal cortex cytoplasmic proteasomes was examined by comparing proteasomes isolated from 5/6th nephrectomy rats 3-months post-surgery and age-matched control rats with normal renal function. ATP-dependent proteasome activity was reduced 50% in chronic renal failure rats (CRF) 3-months post-surgery compared to age-matched control rats. Trypsin-like (T-like) proteasome activity was decreased 90% compared to 70% for caspase-like activity (PGPHase) and 30% for chymotrypsin-like activity (C-like). ATP-independent proteasome activity was decreased 60% in CRF rats 3-months post-surgery. ATP-independent renal cortex proteasome T-like activity in CRF rats was 4% of age-matched control rats. C-like and PGPHase activities were 60% and 50% of age-matched controls, respectively. Uremia was associated with decreased 26S proteasome beta subunits. CRF rat 26S proteasomes had decreased levels of beta1, beta3, alpha4, and alpha7 abundances. Compared to age-matched control rats with normal renal function, CRF rats had a 25% increase in ubiquitinated cytoplasmic proteins. Decreased renal cytoplasmic proteasome activity may play a role in renal tubule hypertrophy common to renal diseases associated with decreased functioning nephrons.
According to recent epidemiological data in Japan, stroke affects roughly 5.3 males and 3.9 females per 1000 person-years and is the third leading cause of mortality. At present, management strategies for secondary prevention of stroke include aggressive treatment of cardiovascular risk factors (i.e., hypertension, smoking cessation, etc.). Antiplatelet drugs in Japan, namely aspirin and cilostazol, are utilized regularly for the prevention of secondary stroke. While aspirin is beneficial for a wide range of cardiovascular endpoints, including total and ischemic strokes, it is also associated with significantly increased risks for hemorrhagic infarction. Cilostazol, by contrast, has been shown to significantly reduce the risk of recurrent strokes without affecting the occurrence of intracranial hemorrhage. In the Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study, a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving more than 1000 Japanese patients, cilostazol was found to reduce the risk of secondary stroke by 41.7% compared with placebo, a statistically significant reduction (P = 0.015). The greatest risk reduction (43.4% in cilostazol versus placebo, P = 0.0373) was found in patients who initially had a lacunar infarction, suggesting that cilostazol has a specific effect against small-vessel disease. In addition, cilostazol achieved significant risk reductions on a number of combined endpoints (e.g., cerebral infarction, intracranial hemorrhage, myocardial infarction, or vascular death), and was associated with benefits in intent-to-treat analyses. These findings indicate that cilostazol may have a role as a vascular neuroprotectant, but the clinical implications are limited by the fact that patients were randomized to placebo instead of aspirin, which is the standard of care.
GSK3 (glycogen synthase kinase-3) regulation is proposed to play a key role in the hormonal control of many cellular processes. Inhibition of GSK3 in animal models of diabetes leads to normalization of blood glucose levels, while high GSK3 activity has been reported in Type II diabetes. Insulin inhibits GSK3 by promoting phosphorylation of a serine residue (Ser-21 in GSK3alpha, Ser-9 in GSK3beta), thereby relieving GSK3 inhibition of glycogen synthesis in muscle. GSK3 inhibition in liver reduces expression of the gluconeogenic genes PEPCK (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase), G6Pase (glucose-6-phosphatase), as well as IGFBP1 (insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1). Overexpression of GSK3 in cells antagonizes insulin regulation of these genes. In the present study we demonstrate that regulation of these three genes by feeding is normal in mice that express insulin-insensitive GSK3. Therefore inactivation of GSK3 is not a prerequisite for insulin repression of these genes, despite the previous finding that GSK3 activity is absolutely required for maintaining their expression. Interestingly, insulin injection of wild-type mice, which activates PKB (protein kinase B) and inhibits GSK3 to a greater degree than feeding (50% versus 25%), does not repress these genes. We suggest for the first time that although pharmacological inhibition of GSK3 reduces hepatic glucose production even in insulin-resistant states, feeding can repress the gluconeogenic genes without inhibiting GSK3.

Novel 5-HT(1) autoreceptor ligands based on the N-4-aryl-piperazinyl-N'-ethyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4', 3':4,5]thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4(3H)-one core are described. Aiming at antidepressants with a novel mode of action our objective was to identify potent antagonists showing balanced affinities and high selectivity for the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) receptors. Strategies for the development of dual 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) antagonists based on 1 and 2 as leads and the corresponding results are discussed. Isoquinoline analogue 33 displayed high affinity and an antagonistic mode of action for the 5-HT(1A) and the 5-HT(1B) receptors and was characterized further with respect to selectivity, electrically stimulated [(3)H]5-HT release and in vivo efficacy.
The absolute and spectral sensitivities to light by the human circadian system, measured through melatonin suppression or phase shifting response, are beginning to emerge after a quarter century of active research. The present paper outlines a hypothesized model of human circadian phototransduction that is consistent with the known neuroanatomy and physiology of the human visual and circadian systems. Spectral opponency is fundamental to the model, providing a parsimonious explanation of some recently published data. The proposed model offers a framework for hypothesis testing and subsequent discussion of the practical aspects of architectural lighting with respect to light and health.
Over the last 15 years, many publications described the use of peptide sequences that have been dubbed cell penetrating peptides (CPP), Trojan Horse peptides, protein transduction domains, or membrane-translocating sequences. These mostly positively charged domains bring attached cargo across biological membranes. One of the reasons for the interest in CPP is their potential as delivery tools to enhance the pharmacodynamics of drugs otherwise poorly bioavailable. In particular, the neuroscientist aiming to deliver a protein or other compound into the brain for analytical or therapeutic reasons is faced with the challenge that few drugs cross the blood-brain barrier. CPP are valuable tools to overcome the plasma membrane or the blood-brain barrier in basic research, and in relevant models of neural disease, and will hopefully help to increase the precious few treatments or even cures for people with diseases of the brain and nervous system. Here, we review applications in neuroscience and recent insights into the mechanism of CPP-mediated trafficking.
The success of cancer virotherapy depends on its efficacy versus toxicity profile in human clinical trials. Progress towards clinical trials can be hampered by the relatively elevated doses of oncolytic viruses administered in animal models to achieve an anticancer effect and by the even higher doses required in humans to approximate an animal bioequivalent dose. Such elevated doses of injected viral proteins may also lead to undesirable toxicities and are also very difficult to produce in a biotechnological setting. We report that a relatively potent herpes simplex virus type 1 oncolytic virus (rQNestin34.5) produces 45% survivors at a dose of 3 x 10(4) plaque-forming units (pfu) in a 9-day-old mouse model of human glioma. Unlike our previous findings with less potent oncolytic viruses, though, the preadministration of cyclophosphamide did not enhance this survival or affect oncolytic virus tumor distribution and tumor volume. However, when oncolytic virus doses were reduced (3 x 10(3) and 3 x 10(2) pfu), cyclophosphamide significantly enhanced both animal survival and oncolytic virus tumor distribution and also reduced tumor volumes. These findings thus show that cyclophosphamide allows for dose reduction of doses of a relatively potent oncolytic virus, a finding with implications for the development of clinical trials.

We studied acetylcholinesterase (AChE) effects on glutamate receptors (GluR) in rat brain sections, synaptosomal membranes and cultured hippocampal neurones. A selective potentiation of AMPA receptors (AMPAR) binding in AMPAR-enriched layers undergoing synaptogenesis plus an increased surface expression of synaptic clusters of GluR1, GluR2, and SV2a was found. Thus, the AMPAR synaptic recruitment induced by AChE, could be a molecular mechanism underlying its non-classical synaptogenic actions.


The collagen-tailed form of acetylcholinesterase (ColQ-AChE) is the major if not unique form of the enzyme associated with the specialized synaptic basal lamina at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). This enzyme form consists of both catalytic and non-catalytic subunits encoded by separate genes, assembled as three enzymatic tetramers attached to the three-stranded collagen-like tail. We have previously shown that catalytic subunits are assembled in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and that after approximately 90min a subset of these tetramers assemble with collagenic tail subunits in the Golgi apparatus. In muscle, blocking ER to Golgi transport with Brefeldin A prevents the appearance of ColQ-AChE, consistent with assembly of asymmetric forms in the Golgi. Moreover, newly synthesized and assembled ColQ-AChE associates with perlecan intracellularly and can only be co-immunoprecipitated with anti-perlecan antibodies 90min after the first appearance of catalytic subunits. Once assembled, the ColQ-AChE/perlecan complex is externalized where it co-localizes with other components of the NMJ including dystroglycan, rapsyn, laminin and MuSK. These clusters tend to form over the nuclei that are expressing the components, suggesting local vectorial transport to the cell surface, and may form a primary scaffold that in turn can capture other molecular constituents of the neuromuscular synapse. While most AChE clusters on quail myotubes are devoid of acetylcholine receptors, treatment of the culture with recombinant agrin results in a rapid translocation of receptors to the AChE clusters in less than 4h. It remains to be determined if MuSK is localized to the clusters. In vivo, AChE transcripts and enzyme are more highly expressed at the NMJs, implying higher rates of AChE translation and assembly in the synaptic regions, and hence more ColQ-AChE for localized export. We have previously shown that binding sites for ColQ-AChE are concentrated at sites of nerve-muscle contact where they colocalize with AChR and perlecan. ColQ-AChE binds directly to perlecan using solid phase microtiter plate assay, the Biacore assay, and co-immunoprecipitations. Moreover, perlecan binds to dystroglycan at the NMJ. In perlecan or dystroglycan null mice there is no accumulation of AChE at the NMJ, supporting the hypothesis that this heparan sulfate proteoglycan is an essential component of the ColQ-AChE localization mechanism. Together, these studies suggest a model of synaptic development whereby AChE can be targeted to and clustered on the muscle membrane together with dystroglycan and perlecan to form scaffolds to which AChR can be clustered through activation of the MuSK receptor. At mature synapses ColQ-AChE is secreted directly into the synaptic cleft where it binds to the heparan sulfate proteoglycan perlecan as well as potentially other molecules including MuSK, as was recently reported.
The presence of a collagenous protein (ColQ) characterizes the collagen-tailed forms of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase at vertebrate neuromuscular junctions, which is tethered in the synaptic basal lamina. ColQ subunits, differing mostly by their signal sequences, are encoded by transcripts ColQ-1 and ColQ-1a, which are differentially expressed in slow- and fast-twitch muscles in mammals, respectively. Both ColQ transcripts are derived from a single COLQ gene. Transcripts encoding ColQ increased during myogenic differentiation of C2C12 cells; the increase was in parallel with AChE catalytic subunit. Quantitative PCR analysis indicated that the increase during the myotube formation was due to the up regulation of ColQ-1 transcript instead of ColQ-1a. In order to reveal the regulatory mechanism of ColQ transcripts, two distinct promoters, pColQ-1 and pColQ-1a, were isolated from human COLQ gene. The ColQ promoters showed a muscle fiber type-specific expression pattern, and which was in line with the expression of endogenous transcript. After in vivo DNA transfection, pColQ-1 showed strong activity in slow-twitch muscle (e.g. soleus), while pColQ-1a was preferably expressed in fast-twitch muscle (e.g. tibialis). Mutation analysis of the ColQ promoters suggested that the muscle fiber type-specific expression pattern of ColQ transcripts was regulated by a slow upsteam regulatory element (SURE) and a fast intronic regulatory element (FIRE). These results explain the specific expression patterns of collagen-tailed AChE in slow and fast muscle fibers.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) hydrolyzes its physiological substrate acetylcholine at one of the highest known catalytic rates. Two sites of ligand interaction have been identified: an acylation site or A-site at the base of the active site gorge, and a peripheral site or P-site at its mouth. Despite a wealth of information about the AChE structure and the role of specific residues in catalysis, an understanding of the catalytic mechanism and the role of the P-site has lagged far behind. In recent years we have clarified how the P- and A-sites interact to promote catalysis. Our studies have revealed that the P-site mediates substrate trapping and that ligand binding to the P-site can result in steric blockade of the A-site as well as allosteric activation. We have demonstrated this activation only for the acylation step of the catalytic reaction, but others have proposed that it involves the deacylation step. To investigate this point, we have measured the reaction of carbamoyl esters (carbamates) with AChE. With these slowly hydrolyzed substrates, the carbamoylation (acylation) and decarbamoylation (deacylation) steps can be resolved and analyzed separately. Carbamoylcholine is one of the closest structural analogs of acetylcholine, and we monitored these steps in continuous mixed assays with acetylthiocholine as a reporter substrate. At high concentrations of carbamoylcholine, decarbamoylation was inhibited but no activation of carbamoylation was observed. However, high concentrations of acetylthiocholine had no effect on the decarbamoylation rate constants. We concluded that the binding of acetylthiocholine to the P-site does not activate deacylation reactions.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) has been strongly highlighted because of its induction in many cell types by toxic stimuli, including oxidative stress. The intense HO-1 immunostaining in the substantia nigra of Parkinson disease (PD) patients suggests its involvement in the pathogenesis of this neurodegenerative disease. In this work we investigated HO-1 expression in rat substantia nigra postnatal cell cultures under conditions mimicking dopamine toxicity and its modulation by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a potent neuroprotective factor for dopaminergic neurons. In neuron-glia cultures, we found that H2O2, a product of dopamine metabolism, or l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the dopamine precursor used in the therapy of PD, induced a fast up-regulation of HO-1 mRNA and protein levels, followed by a secondary down-regulation. H2O2 and L-DOPA also increased HO-1 expression in astrocyte cultures, but with a delayed time course in H2O2-treated cultures. HO-1 expression was decreased in neuron-glia cultures under conditions under which GDNF up-regulation was observed. Because exogenously applied GDNF prevented HO-1 up-regulation in cultures treated with H2O2 or l-DOPA, and antibody neutralization of GDNF prevented the secondary HO-1 down-regulation observed in neuron-glia cultures, we propose that GDNF negatively modulates HO-1 expression induced by oxidative stress. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing the modulation of HO-1 expression by GDNF.
Mutations in parkin are currently recognized as the most common cause of familial Parkinsonism. Emerging evidence also suggests that parkin expression variability may confer a risk for the development of the more common, sporadic form of Parkinson's disease (PD). Supporting this, we have recently demonstrated that parkin solubility in the human brain becomes altered with age. As parkin apparently functions as a broad-spectrum neuroprotectant, the resulting decrease in the availability of soluble parkin with age may underlie the progressive susceptibility of the brain to stress. Interestingly, we also observed that many familial-PD mutations of parkin alter its solubility in a manner that is highly reminiscent of our observations with the aged brain. The converging effects on parkin brought about by aging and PD-causing mutations are probably not trivial and suggest that environmental modulators affecting parkin solubility would increase an individual's risk of developing PD. Using both cell culture and in vivo models, we demonstrate here that several PD-linked stressors, including neurotoxins (MPP+, rotenone, 6-hydroxydopamine), paraquat, NO, dopamine and iron, induce alterations in parkin solubility and result in its intracellular aggregation. Furthermore, the depletion of soluble, functional forms of parkin is associated with reduced proteasomal activities and increased cell death. Our results suggest that exogenously introduced stress as well as endogenous dopamine could affect the native structure of parkin, promote its misfolding, and concomitantly compromise its protective functions. Mechanistically, our results provide a link between the influence of environmental and intrinsic factors and genetic susceptibilities in PD pathogenesis.
A family from the south of Western Australia is described with Dutch cerebral amyloid angiopathy (HCHWA-D). The proband died at age 60 from recurrent lobar haemorrhages in the brain, as did his sister and five other family members. The APP 693 mutation at position 22 of the Abetapeptide resulting in a glutamine for glutamic acid was identified in the proband and the affected sister. Pathologically lobar haemorrhages were found with cerebrovascular angiopathy; neuritic plaques were found but no neurofibrilary tangles. There was a leukoencephalopathy on MRI scanning. Dementia and cognitive decline has not been observed in this family. This is the first family reported outside of Europe and the Northern Hemisphere. The discovery highlights the importance of detecting this rare cause of fatal cerebral haemorrhage as it has implications for gene testing and general medical management.
Primate models are commonly used in Parkinson's disease research to study stereotaxic strategies that demand accurate localization of the structures in basal ganglia. We demonstrate a method to construct an extensive tabular database of 3D stereotaxic co-ordinates of various basal ganglia structures from high-quality magnetic resonance (MR) images of 47 adult female 3-5 kg rhesus monkeys. For each animal, the structures in the basal ganglia were traced as they appeared on the axial MR images. Their maximal outlines were projected in the axial plane to create a stack of images and X, Y, Z co-ordinates were calculated for margins of each structure. These co-ordinates and the outlines of the individual nuclei help delineate a &quot;common area,&quot; which was further narrowed down to a point that represents the 'most reliable target point' (MRTP) in subthalamic nucleus, globus pallidum, caudate and putamen on both sides. Common area and MRTP represent the region that can most definitely be associated with a structure and hence the most definite target for a given structure. The goal of this study is to demonstrate the method of construction, discuss the feasibility and usefulness of such a tabular database that could potentially add to accuracy of localization while using atlas-based stereotaxy. Though use of MRI remains a standard practice and advances in imaging have made targeting for functional surgery more accurate, in developing countries that implies prohibitive costs per procedure. Population based human databases similar to the monkey database described here, when used along with less expensive imaging modalities can reduce the costs considerably as well as add to the accuracy of targeting.
NFATc4 has recently been identified as playing an important role in variety of activity-dependent neuronal processes, including hippocampal plasticity, axonal growth, neuronal survival, and apoptosis. However, a systematic study examining the distribution of NFATc4 within the nervous system has yet to be conducted. With this in mind, we sought to determine the regional localization of NFATc4 within the adult mouse brain. Interestingly, NFATc4 was expressed broadly, but not uniformly, throughout various brain structures. The highest levels of NFATc4 expression were localized to the hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and various hypothalamic nuclei. Other brain regions that expressed NFATc4 included the cerebellum, striatum, globus pallidus, amygdala, neocortex, and brainstem nuclei. Given NFATc4's widespread expression, these results are consistent with the notion that NFATc4 may underlie activity-dependent neuronal plasticity throughout the adult brain.
Excitatory synaptic inputs from the subthalamic nucleus (STN) have been proposed to underlie burst firing of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine (DA) neurons in Parkinson's disease. Given the potential importance of the STN-SNc synapse in health and disease, our goal was to study how transmission at this synapse is regulated. We tested the hypothesis that neurotransmission at STN-SNc synapses is tonically inhibited by endogenous glutamate acting on presynaptic group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). By using whole-cell recording techniques in brain slices, we examined the effect of LY341495, a mGluR antagonist that is most potent at group II mGluRs, on excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) that either were evoked in SNc DA neurons by stimulation of the STN or were spontaneously occurred in the presence of tetrodotoxin (miniature EPSCs; mEPSCs). LY341495 increased the evoked EPSC amplitude and mEPSC frequency without changing mEPSC amplitude. In contrast, the group III mGluR antagonist UBP1112 failed to increase the evoked EPSC amplitude. An elevation of extracellular glutamate concentration by a glutamate transporter inhibitor, TBOA, suppressed the evoked EPSCs. LY341495, but not UBP1112, partially reversed the TBOA action. The modulations of EPSCs by TBOA and LY341495 were associated with changes in paired-pulse facilitation ratio. Furthermore, TBOA decreased mEPSC frequency, which was partially reversed by LY341495, without affecting mEPSC amplitude. The results indicate that presynaptic group II mGluRs at STN-SNc synapses appear to be partially activated by a basal level of extracellular glutamate and able to sense the change in extracellular glutamate concentration, subsequently modulating synaptic glutamate release.
Alterations in peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) expression are associated with a heterogeneous group of hereditary demyelinating peripheral neuropathies. Two mutations at glycine 94, a single guanine insertion or deletion in PMP22, result in different reading frameshifts and, consequently, an extended G94fsX222 or a truncated G94fsX110 protein, respectively. Both of these autosomal dominant mutations alter the second half of PMP22 and yet are linked to clinical phenotypes with distinct severities. The G94fsX222 is associated with hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies, whereas G94fsX110 causes severe neuropathy diagnosed as Dejerine-Sottas disease or Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type IA. To investigate the subcellular changes associated with the G94 frameshift mutations, we expressed epitope-tagged forms in primary rat Schwann cells. Biochemical and immunolabeling studies indicate that, unlike the wild-type protein, which is targeted for the plasma membrane, frameshift PMP22s are retained in the cell, prior to reaching the medial Golgi compartment. Similar to Wt-PMP22, both frameshift mutants are targeted for proteasomal degradation and accumulate in detergent-insoluble, ubiquitin-containing aggregates upon inhibition of this pathway. The extended frameshift PMP22 shows the ability to form spontaneous aggregates in the absence of proteasome inhibition. On the other hand, Schwann cells expressing the truncated protein proliferate at a significantly higher rate than Schwann cells expressing the wild-type or the extended PMP22. In summary, these results suggest that a greater potential for PMP22 aggregation is associated with a less severe phenotype, whereas dysregulation of Schwann cell proliferation is linked to severe neuropathy.
Intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS), a novel rehabilitative therapy consisting of stimulation through fine, hair-like microwires targeted at the ventral spinal cord, has been proposed for restoring standing and walking following spinal cord injury. This study compared muscle recruitment characteristics of ISMS with those produced by peripheral nerve cuff stimulation (NCS). Thirty-three minutes of either ISMS or NCS at 1, 20 or 50 s(-1) and 1.2 x threshold (T) amplitude depleted glycogen from muscle fibres of vastus lateralis and rectus femoris. ISMS and NCS were also carried out at 20 s(-1) and 3.0T. Muscle serial sections were stained for glycogen and for myosin heavy chain (MHC)-based fibre types using a panel of monoclonal antibodies. The results of this study show that ISMS recruited fatigue-resistant (FR) fibres at 2.9, 1.9, 1.7 and 2.5 times their relative MHC content at 1, 20 and 50 s(-1) 1.2T and 20 s(-1) 3.0T, respectively. In contrast, NCS recruited FR fibres at 1.2, 1.0, 2.1 and 0.0 times their MHC content at 1, 20 and 50 s(-1) 1.2T and 20 s(-1) 3.0T, respectively. The proportion of FR fibres recruited by ISMS and NCS was significantly different in the 20 s(-1) 3.0T condition (P &lt; 0.0001). We also report that force recruitment curves were 4.9-fold less steep (P &lt; 0.019) for ISMS than NCS. The findings of this study provide evidence for the efficacy of ISMS and further our understanding of muscle recruitment properties of this novel rehabilitative therapy.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) is an integrative structure of the hypothalamus receiving periphery-derived information pertinent to hydromineral and cardiovascular homeostasis. In this context, excitability of MnPO neurones is controlled by fast GABAergic, glutamatergic and angiotensinergic projection from the subfornical organ (SFO). Taking advantage of a brain slice preparation preserving synaptic connection between the SFO and the MnPO, and appropriate bicarbonate-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), we investigated a possible implication of an active outward Cl- transport in regulating efficacy of the GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory response at the SFO-MnPO synapse. When somata of the MnPO neurones was loaded with 18 mm chloride, stimulation of the SFO evoked outward inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in 81% of the MnPO neurones held at -60 mV. Accordingly, E(IPSC) was found 25 mV hyperpolarized from the theoretical value calculated from the Nernst equation, indicating that IPSC polarity and amplitude were driven by an active Cl- extrusion system in these neurones. E(IPSC) estimated with gramicidin-based perforated-patch recordings amounted -89.2 +/- 4.3 mV. Furosemide (100 microm), a pharmacological compound known to block the activity of the neurone-specific K(+)-Cl- cotransporter, KCC2, reversed IPSC polarity and shifted E(IPSC) towards its theoretical value. Presence of the KCC2 protein in the MnPO was further detected with immunohistochemistry, revealing a dense network of KCC2-positive intermingled fibres. In the presence of a GABA(B) receptor antagonist, high-frequency stimulation (5 Hz) of the SFO evoked a train of IPSCs or inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), whose amplitude was maintained throughout the sustained stimulation. Contrastingly, similar 5 Hz stimulation carried out in the presence of furosemide (50 microm) evoked IPSCs/IPSPs, whose amplitude collapsed during the high-frequency stimulation. Similar reduction in inhibitory neurotransmission was also observed in MnPO neurones lacking the functional Cl- extrusion mechanism. We conclude that a majority of MnPO neurones were characterized by a functional Cl- transporter that ensured an efficient activity-dependent Cl- transport rate, allowing sustained synaptic inhibition of these neurones. Pharmacological and anatomical data strongly suggested the involvement of KCC2, as an essential postsynaptic determinant of the inhibitory neurotransmission afferent to the MnPO, a key-structure in the physiology of the hydromineral and cardiovascular homeostasis.
Although membrane proteins often rely on ionizable residues for structure and function, their ionization states under physiological conditions largely elude experimental estimation. To gain insight into the effect of the local microenvironment on the proton affinity of ionizable residues, we have engineered individual lysines, histidines and arginines along the alpha-helical lining of the transmembrane pore of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. We can detect individual proton binding-unbinding reactions electrophysiologically at the level of a single proton on a single side chain as brief blocking-unblocking events of the passing cation current. Kinetic analysis of these fluctuations yields the position-dependent rates of proton transfer, from which the corresponding pK(a) values and shifts in pK(a) can be calculated. Here we present a self-consistent, residue-by-residue description of the microenvironment around the pore-lining transmembrane alpha-helices (M2) in the open-channel conformation, in terms of the excess free energy that is required to keep the engineered basic side chains protonated relative to bulk water. A comparison with closed-channel data leads us to propose that the rotation of M2, which is frequently invoked as a hallmark of the gating mechanism of Cys-loop receptors, is minimal, if any.

P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) appear to participate in producing nociceptive responses after nerve injury. However, the mechanisms underlying the receptor-mediated nociception in the neuropathic state remain unclear. Using spared nerve injury (SNI) rats, we found that allodynic and nocifensive (flinch) behavioral responses developed after injury can be reversed by P2X receptor antagonists, indicating an involvement of P2X receptors. Immunocytochemical studies revealed that P2X3 receptors are expressed in small and medium but rarely in large DRG neurons of both normal and SNI rats. Thus, contrary to the conventional view that only large A beta cells mediate allodynia, small and medium cells are intimately involved in P2X3 receptor-mediated allodynia. Measuring ATP levels in the subcutaneous space of the rat paw, we showed that ATP release does not change after SNI. On the other hand, the P2X receptor agonist, alpha beta-methylene ATP produces 3.5-fold larger flinch responses at a 8.0-fold lower dose. Thus, sensitization of P2X3 receptors rather than a change in ATP release is responsible for the neuropathic pain behaviors. We further demonstrated that sensitization of P2X3 receptors arises from an increase in receptor function. ATP-induced P2X3 receptor-mediated currents in DRG neurons is 2.5-fold larger after SNI. The expression of P2X3 receptors on the cell membrane is significantly enhanced while the total expression of P2X3 receptors remained unchanged. Thus, the enhancement of trafficking of P2X3 receptors is likely an important mechanism contributing to the increase in receptor function after nerve injury.
Limited information exist about associations between different headache types and other pains, family history of pain, and psychosocial factors among children from the general population suffering from less severe headache. We interviewed 130 schoolchildren together with a parent to find out whether such factors differ between children with mainly infrequent and moderate migraine or tension-type headache as compared to those without primary headache. Children with headache, especially those with migraine reported other pains and physical symptoms more frequently than children without primary headache. Coherently, parents of children suffering from migraine reported their children to have significantly more somatic symptoms than parents of children without primary headache. In addition, first-degree relatives of children with headache suffered from more migraine, other pains, and physical symptoms compared with first-degree relatives of children without primary headache. Children with migraine visited the school nurse, used medication and were absent from school because of headache more often than those with tension-type headache. Few other differences in psychosocial factors were found between the three groups. Migraine among first-degree relatives and the total sum of physical symptoms in children were the strongest predictors of headache in logistic regression analysis. It is concluded that in schoolchildren with mainly infrequent and moderate headache, pain and physical symptoms cluster within individuals as well as their families, however, psychological and social problems are uncommon.
In the normal adult rodent and primate, arcuate nucleus (ARH) neurons function as conduits for transmitting metabolic hormonal signals into the hypothalamic circuitry that modulates feeding and energy expenditure. We and others have shown that ARH projections do not fully develop until the 3rd postnatal week in the rodent. This is in stark contrast to the nonhuman primate (NHP) in which ARH projections develop during the 3rd trimester of pregnancy. This species difference suggests that maternal diet and health are likely key factors for the development of ARH projections in the primate, whereas the postnatal environment (i.e., diet) would be more important in the rodent. Furthermore, pertubations in these circuits during critical periods of development may have long-term consequences on feeding behavior and body weight management. Our group has used a rat model of overfeeding and underfeeding specifically during the postnatal period to begin to investigate the metabolic adaptions that may cause developmental abnormalities in the hypothalamic circuitry. While the overfed animals become obese as adults and the underfed maintain a lean phenotype, both models display low basal insulin and IGFII levels as adults. Furthermore, both models have abnormal expression of several key genes in peripheral metabolic tissue that are suggestive of changes in sympathetic outflow. Human studies show that gestational diabetes can also contribute to the development of obesity and diabetes in children; however, the mechanism is unknown. Since the critical periods for the development of hypothalamic circuits are different between rodents and primates our group has begun studies using NHP model to determine if maternal obesity/diabetes causes abnormalities in the development of metabolic systems, including the brain, in the offspring. To do this we have placed female NHPs on either a control diet or a high fat/calorie diet to induce obesity and diabetes. We have characterized the onset of insulin resistance and hyperleptinemia in these animals over the last 2(1/2) years and have collected offspring. Ongoing studies will investigate the metabolic abnormalities in these offspring.

Much interest has focussed on glutamate and the N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. A number of studies have reported abnormal gene transcription of various glutamate receptor subtypes in the hippocampus including the NMDA receptor. However, corresponding protein levels in subregions of the hippocampus have not yet been investigated. We have used immunoautoradiographical techniques to assess the expression of the obligatory NMDA receptor subunit NR1 and an associated post-synaptic density protein PSD-95 in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in schizophrenia and mood disorder. Optical density measures from film autoradiographs revealed no changes in NR1 or PSD-95 in the OFC or dentate hilus, however a decrease in PSD-95 was found in the dentate molecular layer in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder relative to major depression. These findings were unrelated to antipsychotic or mood stabilizer drug treatment. The dentate molecular layer contains the dendritic trees of granule cells and is the target of major excitatory afferent inputs from associative cortical, parahippocampal and hippocampal regions. A reduction in PSD-95 at glutamate synapses of the molecular layer may have a deleterious impact on information flow to other hippocampal regions via granule cells and their projecting mossy fibres. A down-regulation of PSD-95 in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder may also relate to disease mechanisms of psychosis.

Mounting evidence suggests that sleep loss negatively affects learning and memory processes through disruption of hippocampal function. In the present study, we examined whether sleep loss alters the generation, differentiation, and survival of new cells in the dentate gyrus. Rats were sleep restricted by keeping them awake in slowly rotating drums for 1 day or repeatedly for 20 h/day over a period of 8 days. In addition to home cage controls, we included forced activity controls which, compared to sleep restricted rats, walked at double speed for half the time. These animals thus walked the same distance but had sufficient time to sleep. The results show that a single day of sleep deprivation significantly reduced hippocampal cell proliferation in the hilus of the dentate gyrus as measured by immunostaining for the proliferation marker Ki-67. Repeated partial sleep deprivation reduced cell proliferation in both the hilus and the subgranular zone. However, the latter was also found after chronic forced activity, and may not have been specific for sleep loss. To study neuronal survival, rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) 5 days before the experiment. The number of surviving, BrdU-positive cells was not affected by sleep restriction. Also, the differentiation of BrdU-positive new cells into NeuN-positive neuronal and GFAP-positive glial phenotypes was not significantly altered by sleep loss. In conclusion, since new cells in the hilus mostly differentiate into glia, our findings indicate that sleep loss may reduce hippocampal gliogenesis.
Allosteric modulation of mouse 5-Hydroxytryptamine(3A) (5-HT(3A)) and 5-HT(3A/B) receptor function by ethanol and trichloroethanol (TCEt) was assessed in HEK293 cells with whole cell patch-clamp electrophysiological recordings. Ethanol enhanced 5-HT(3A) receptor function, but had no effect on mouse 5-HT(3A/B) receptor mediated currents. The enhancing action of trichloroethanol (TCEt) on mouse 5-HT(3A/B) receptor function was much less than that observed in the mouse 5-HT(3A) receptor. Where alcohol-induced increases in peak amplitude were observed, the slope of the 20-80% rising phase of current onset was also enhanced, suggesting that increases in activation rate may be one mechanism through which alcohols enhance function of the 5-HT(3) receptors.
Inhibitory synaptic transmission in the dorsal horn (DH) of the spinal cord plays an important role in the modulation of nociceptive messages because pharmacological blockade of spinal GABAA receptors leads to thermal and mechanical pain symptoms. Here, we show that during the development of thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia associated with inflammatory pain, synaptic inhibition mediated by GABAA receptors in lamina II of the DH was in fact markedly increased. This phenomenon was accompanied by an upregulation of the endogenous production of 5alpha-reduced neurosteroids, which, at the spinal level, led to a prolongation of GABAA receptor-mediated synaptic currents and to the appearance of a mixed GABA/glycine cotransmission. This increased inhibition was correlated with a selective limitation of the inflammation-induced thermal hyperalgesia, whereas mechanical allodynia remained unaffected. Our results show that peripheral inflammation activates an endogenous neurosteroid-based antinociceptive control, which discriminates between thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia.
Alterations of long-term synaptic plasticity have been proposed to participate in the development of addiction. To preserve synaptic functions, homeostatic processes must be engaged after exposure to abused drugs. At the mouse cortico-accumbens synapses, a single in vivo injection of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) suppresses endocannabinoid-mediated long-term depression. Using biochemical and electrophysiological approaches, we now report that 1 week of repeated in vivo THC treatment reduces the coupling efficiency of cannabinoid CB1 receptors (CB1Rs) to G(i/o) transduction proteins, as well as CB1R-mediated inhibition of excitatory synaptic transmission at the excitatory synapses between the prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Nonetheless, we found that cortico-accumbens synapses unexpectedly express normal long-term depression because of a reversible switch in its underlying mechanisms. The present data show that, in THC-treated mice, long-term depression is expressed because a presynaptic mGluR2/3 (metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3)-dependent mechanism replaces the impaired endocannabinoid system. Thus, in the NAc, a novel form of presynaptic homeostasis rescues synaptic plasticity from THC-induced deficits.
Homer1 mutant mice exhibit behavioral and neurochemical abnormalities that are consistent with an animal model of schizophrenia. Because the Homer1 gene encodes both immediate early gene (IEG) and constitutively expressed (CC) gene products, we used the local infusion of adeno-associated viral vectors carrying different Homer1 transcriptional variants into the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to distinguish between the roles for IEG and CC Homer1 isoforms in the &quot;schizophrenia-like&quot; phenotype of Homer1 mutant mice. PFC overexpression of the IEG Homer1 isoform Homer1a reversed the genotypic differences in behavioral adaptation to repeated stress, whereas overexpression of the constitutively expressed Homer1 isoform Homer1c reversed the genotypic differences in sensorimotor and cognitive processing, as well as cocaine behavioral sensitivity. Homer1a overexpression did not influence PFC basal glutamate content but blunted the glutamate response to cocaine in wild-type mice. In contrast, Homer1c overexpression reversed the genotypic difference in PFC basal glutamate content and enhanced cocaine-induced elevations in glutamate. These data demonstrate active and distinct roles for Homer1a and Homer1c isoforms in the PFC in the mediation of behavior, in the maintenance of basal extracellular glutamate, and in the regulation of PFC glutamate release relevant to schizophrenia and stimulant abuse comorbidity.
Alzheimer's disease is cytopathologically characterized by loss of synapses and neurons, neuritic amyloid plaques consisting of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides, and neurofibrillary tangles consisting of hyperphosphorylated tau protein in susceptible brain regions. Abeta, which triggers a cascade of pathogenic events including tau phosphorylation and neuronal excitotoxicity, is proteolytically derived from beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP); the pathological and physiological functions of APP, however, remain undefined. Here we demonstrate that the level of tau phosphorylation in cells and brains deficient in APP is significantly higher than that in wild-type controls, resulting from activation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) but not glycogen synthase kinase 3, the two major tau kinases. In addition, we show that overexpression of APP or its non-amyloidogenic homolog amyloid precursor-like protein 1 suppresses both basal and stress-induced CDK5 activation. The ectodomain of APP, sAPPalpha, is responsible for inhibiting CDK5 activation. Furthermore, neurons derived from APP-deficient mice exhibit reduced metabolism and survival rates and are more susceptible to excitotoxic glutamate-induced apoptosis. These neurons also manifest significant defects in neurite outgrowth compared with neurons from the wild-type littermates. The observed neuronal excitotoxicity/apoptosis is mediated through a mechanism involving CDK5 activation. Our study defines a novel neuroprotective function for APP in preventing tau hyperphosphorylation via suppressing overactivation of CDK5. We suggest that CDK5 activation, through a calcium/calpain/p25 pathway, plays a key role in neuronal excitotoxicity and represents an underlying mechanism for the physiological functions of APP.
Pyramidal neurons of the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of Apteronotus leptorhynchus express Kv3-type voltage-gated potassium channels that give rise to high-threshold currents at the somatic and dendritic levels. Two members of the Kv3 channel family, AptKv3.1 and AptKv3.3, are coexpressed in these neurons. AptKv3.3 channels are expressed at uniformly high levels in each of four ELL segments, whereas AptKv3.1 channels appear to be expressed in a graded manner with higher levels of expression in segments that process high-frequency electrosensory signals. Immunohistochemical and recombinant channel expression studies show a differential distribution of these two channels in the dendrites of ELL pyramidal neurons. AptKv3.1 is concentrated in somas and proximal dendrites, whereas AptKv3.3 is distributed throughout the full extent of the large dendritic tree. Recombinant channel expression of AptKv3 channels through in vivo viral injections allowed directed retargeting of AptKv3 subtypes over the somadendritic axis, revealing that the sequence responsible for targeting channels to distal dendrites lies within the C-terminal domain of the AptKv3.3 protein. The targeting domain includes a consensus sequence predicted to bind to a PDZ (postsynaptic density-95/Discs large/zona occludens-1)-type protein-protein interaction motif. These findings reveal that different functional roles for Kv3 potassium channels at the somatic and dendritic level of a sensory neuron are attained through specific targeting that selectively distributes Kv3.3 channels to the dendritic compartment.
Among hypnotic agents that enhance GABAA receptor function, etomidate is unusual because it is selective for beta2/beta3 compared with beta1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors. Mice incorporating an etomidate-insensitive beta2 subunit (beta(2N265S)) revealed that beta2 subunit-containing receptors mediate the enhancement of slow-wave activity (SWA) by etomidate, are required for the sedative, and contribute to the hypnotic actions of this anesthetic. Although the anatomical location of the beta2-containing receptors that mediate these actions is unknown, the thalamus is implicated. We have characterized GABAA receptor-mediated neurotransmission in thalamic nucleus reticularis (nRT) and ventrobasalis complex (VB) neurons of wild-type, beta2(-/-), and beta(2N265S) mice. VB but not nRT neurons exhibit a large GABA-mediated tonic conductance that contributes approximately 80% of the total GABAA receptor-mediated transmission. Consequently, although etomidate enhances inhibition in both neuronal types, the effect of this anesthetic on the tonic conductance of VB neurons is dominant. The GABA-enhancing actions of etomidate in VB but not nRT neurons are greatly suppressed by the beta(2N265S) mutation. The hypnotic THIP (Gaboxadol) induces SWA and at low, clinically relevant concentrations (30 nM to 3 microM) increases the tonic conductance of VB neurons, with no effect on VB or nRT miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) or on the holding current of nRT neurons. Zolpidem, which has no effect on SWA, prolongs VB mIPSCs but is ineffective on the phasic and tonic conductance of nRT and VB neurons, respectively. Collectively, these findings suggest that enhancement of extrasynaptic inhibition in the thalamus may contribute to the distinct sleep EEG profiles of etomidate and THIP compared with zolpidem.

Rasmussen encephalitis (RE) sera were screened for antibodies to human alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) using electrophysiology, calcium imaging, and ligand binding assays. Sera from two of nine patients with RE blocked ACh-induced currents through alpha7 nAChRs and the ACh-induced rise in intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i) and inhibited (125)I-alpha-bungarotoxin binding in cells expressing alpha7 nAChRs. Thus, the alpha7 nAChR is a potential target for pathogenic antibodies in patients with RE.

Developmental studies identified four classes (V0, V1, V2, V3) of embryonic interneurons in the ventral spinal cord. Very little is known, however, about their adult phenotypes. Therefore, we characterized the location, neurotransmitter phenotype, calcium-buffering protein expression, and axon distributions of V1-derived neurons in the adult mouse spinal cord. In the mature (P20 and older) spinal cord, most V1-derived neurons are located in lateral LVII and in LIX, few in medial LVII, and none in LVIII. Approximately 40% express calbindin and/or parvalbumin, while few express calretinin. Of seven groups of ventral interneurons identified according to calcium-buffering protein expression, two groups (1 and 4) correspond with V1-derived neurons. Group 1 are Renshaw cells and intensely express calbindin and coexpress parvalbumin and calretinin. They represent 9% of the V1 population. Group 4 express only parvalbumin and represent 27% of V1-derived neurons. V1-derived Group 4 neurons receive contacts from primary sensory afferents and are therefore proprioceptive interneurons. The most ventral neurons in this group receive convergent calbindin-IR Renshaw cell inputs. This subgroup resembles Ia inhibitory interneurons (IaINs) and represents 13% of V1-derived neurons. Adult V1-interneuron axons target LIX and LVII and some enter the deep dorsal horn. V1 axons do not cross the midline. V1-derived axonal varicosities were mostly (&gt;80%) glycinergic and a third were GABAergic. None were glutamatergic or cholinergic. In summary, V1 interneurons develop into ipsilaterally projecting, inhibitory interneurons that include Renshaw cells, Ia inhibitory interneurons, and other unidentified proprioceptive interneurons.
Diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) phosphorylates the second messenger diacylglycerol (DAG) to yield phosphatidic acid, two neural signaling elements that function to modulate synaptic activity. Of the nine mammalian DGK isotypes known, DGK epsilon (DGKepsilon) shows specificity for arachidonoyldiacylglycerol (20:4-DAG) and selectively contributes to modulate brain signaling pathways linked to synaptic activity and epileptic seizure activity. In this study, we examined changes in gene transcription in a mouse kindling model of epileptogenesis using control DGKepsilon (+/+) and DGKepsilon-knockout (-/-) mice. Total RNA was isolated from the hippocampus and analyzed using RNA and DNA arrays. Significantly altered gene-expression levels were confirmed independently using Western immunoblot analysis. In agreement with our previous studies, a very few number of genes reached a significance of twofold or greater (either up- or down-regulated; p&lt;0.05). Among the most significantly up-regulated genes in DGKepsilon (+/+) mice included those encoding the inducible prostaglandin synthase cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), also known as tyrosine 3-monooxygenase, the rate-limiting enzyme of catecholamine biosynthesis. Kindled DGKepsilon (-/-) animals exhibited no large increases in COX-2 or TH gene expression. These data, plus our previous findings that DGKepsilon (-/-) mice show higher resistance to electroconvulsive shock, suggest an interplay between and regulatory role for DGKepsilon, COX-2, and catecholamine signaling during kindling epileptogenesis.
The non-canonical pathway based on processing of NF-kappaB2 precursor protein p100 to generate p52 plays a critical role in controlling B cell function and lymphoid organogenesis. Activation of this unique pathway by extracellular stimuli requires NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) and de novo protein synthesis. However, how NIK is regulated is largely unknown. Here, we systematically analyzed NIK expression at different levels in the presence or absence of different NF-kappaB stimuli. We found that NIK mRNA is relatively abundant and undergoes constitutive protein synthesis in resting B cells. However, NIK protein is undetectable. Interestingly, protein expression of NIK is steadily induced by B cell-activating factor or CD40 ligand, two major physiological inducers of p100 processing, but not by mitogen phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate/ionomycin or cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha, two well known inducers of the canonical NF-kappaB signaling. Remarkably, both B cell-activating factor and CD40 ligand do not significantly induce expression of NIK at translational or transcriptional level but rather rescue the basally translated NIK protein from undergoing degradation. Furthermore, overexpressed or purified NIK protein triggers p100 processing in the presence of protein synthesis inhibitor. Taken together, these studies define one important mechanism of NIK regulation and the central role of NIK stabilization in the induction of p100 processing. These studies also provide the first evidence explaining why activation of the non-canonical NF-kappaB signaling is delayed and can be inhibited by protein synthesis inhibitor as well as why most classical NF-kappaB stimuli, including mitogens and tumor necrosis factor alpha, fail to induce p100 processing.
Dystrobrevins are a family of widely expressed dystrophin-associated proteins that comprises alpha and beta isoforms and displays significant sequence homology with several protein-binding domains of the dystrophin C-terminal region. The complex distribution of the multiple dystrobrevin isoforms suggests that the variability of their composition may be important in mediating their function. We have recently identified kinesin as a novel dystrobrevin-interacting protein and localized the dystrobrevin-binding site on the cargo-binding domain of neuronal kinesin heavy chain (Kif5A). In the present study, we assessed the kinetics of the dystrobrevin-Kif5A interaction by quantitative pull-down assay and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analysis and found that beta-dystrobrevin binds to kinesin with high affinity (K(D) approximately 40 nM). Comparison of the sensorgrams obtained with alpha and beta-dystrobrevin at the same concentration of analyte showed a lower affinity of alpha compared to that of beta-dystrobrevin, despite their functional domain homology and about 70% sequence identity. Analysis of the contribution of single dystrobrevin domains to the interaction revealed that the deletion of either the ZZ domain or the coiled-coil region decreased the kinetics of the interaction, suggesting that the tertiary structure of dystrobrevin may play a role in regulating the interaction of dystrobrevin with kinesin. In order to understand if structural changes induced by post-translational modifications could affect dystrobrevin affinity for kinesin, we phosphorylated beta-dystrobrevin in vitro and found that it showed reduced binding capacity towards kinesin. The interaction between the adaptor/scaffolding protein dystrobrevin and the motor protein kinesin may play a role in the transport and targeting of components of the dystrophin-associated protein complex to specific sites in the cell, with the differences in the binding properties of dystrobrevin isoforms reflecting their functional diversity within the same cell type. Phosphorylation events could have a regulatory role in this context.
Propofol (2,6-diisopropylphenol) is a short-acting intravenous anesthetic. Propofol is known to impair maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) in synaptic responses from Schaffer collateral-commissural (SC) pathway to CA1 pyramidal cells in the hippocampus, but the threshold concentration of propofol needed to elicit this action is unknown. The actions of propofol in vivo (e.g., amnesia, sedation, hypnosis and immobility) depend on its concentration, and thus it is necessary to determine the concentration required to impair CA1 LTP in order to assess the impact of impairment in vivo. In the present study, we investigated the effects of various concentrations of propofol on synaptic plasticity, primarily by measuring LTP at SC pathway to CA1 pyramidal cell synapses in mouse hippocampal slices. Continuous application of 50 microM propofol from 20 min before tetanus stimulation suppressed potentiation of the synaptic responses by tetanus stimulation. The suppression was pronounced from 10 min post-tetanus and about 55% suppression of the potentiation was observed at 60 min after tetanus. Propofol at 5 or 20 microM did not have this effect. The presence of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors antagonist, picrotoxin, abrogated the suppression of LTP by 50 microM propofol. Propofol 50 microM did not affect long-term depression (LTD). These results suggest that the suppression of hippocampal CA1 LTP via GABA(A) receptors requires a much higher propofol concentration compared with that needed to induce amnesia.
Snake presynaptic phospholipase A2 neurotoxins (SPANs) paralyze the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Upon intoxication, the NMJ enlarges and has a reduced content of synaptic vesicles, and primary neuronal cultures show synaptic swelling with surface exposure of the lumenal domain of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptotagmin I. Concomitantly, these neurotoxins induce exocytosis of neurotransmitters. We found that an equimolar mixture of lysophospholipids and fatty acids closely mimics all of the biological effects of SPANs. These results draw attention to the possible role of local lipid changes in synaptic vesicle release and provide new tools for the study of exocytosis.


Parietal lesions in humans can produce a specific disruption of visually guided hand movement, termed optic ataxia. The fact that the deficit mainly occurs in peripheral vision suggests that reaching in foveal and extrafoveal vision rely on two different neural substrates. In the present study, we have directly tested this hypothesis by event-related fMRI in healthy subjects. Brain activity was measured when participants reached toward central or peripheral visual targets. Our results confirm the existence of two systems, differently modulated by the two conditions. Reaching in central vision involved a restricted network including the medial intraparietal sulcus (mIPS) and the caudal part of the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd). Reaching in peripheral vision activated in addition the parieto-occipital junction (POJ) and a more rostral part of PMd. These results show that reaching to the peripheral visual field engages a more extensive cortical network than reaching to the central visual field.
The visual cortex is organized into retinotopic maps that preserve an orderly representation of the visual world, achieved by topographically precise inputs from the lateral geniculate nucleus. We show here that geniculocortical mapping is imprecise when the waves of spontaneous activity in the retina during the first postnatal week are disrupted genetically. This anatomical mapping defect is present by postnatal day 8 and has functional consequences, as revealed by optical imaging and microelectrode recording in adults. Pharmacological disruption of these retinal waves during the first week phenocopies the mapping defect, confirming both the site and the timing of the disruption in neural activity responsible for the defect. Analysis shows that the geniculocortical miswiring is not a trivial or necessary consequence of the retinogeniculate defect. Our findings demonstrate that disrupting early spontaneous activity in the eye alters thalamic connections to the cortex.
Activity-induced modification of GABAergic transmission contributes to the plasticity of neural circuits. In the present work we found that prolonged postsynaptic spiking of hippocampal neurons led to a shift in the reversal potential of GABA-induced Cl- currents (E(Cl)) toward positive levels in a duration- and frequency-dependent manner. This effect was abolished by blocking cytosolic Ca2+ elevation and mimicked by releasing Ca2+ from internal stores. Activity- and Ca2+-induced E(Cl) shifts were larger in mature neurons, which express the K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 at high levels, and inhibition of KCC2 occluded the shifts. Overexpression of KCC2 in young cultured neurons, which express lower levels of KCC2 and have a more positive E(Cl), resulted in hyperpolarized E(Cl) similar to that of mature cells. Importantly, these young KCC2-expressing neurons became responsive to neuronal spiking and Ca2+ elevation by showing positive E(Cl) shifts. Thus, repetitive postsynaptic spiking reduces the inhibitory action of GABA through a Ca2+-dependent downregulation of KCC2 function.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are concentrated in myelinated nerves at the nodes of Ranvier flanked by paranodal axoglial junctions. Establishment of these essential nodal and paranodal domains is determined by myelin-forming glia, but the mechanisms are not clear. Here, we show that two isoforms of Neurofascin, Nfasc155 in glia and Nfasc186 in neurons, are required for the assembly of these specialized domains. In Neurofascin-null mice, neither paranodal adhesion junctions nor nodal complexes are formed. Transgenic expression of Nfasc155 in the myelinating glia of Nfasc-/- nerves rescues the axoglial adhesion complex by recruiting the axonal proteins Caspr and Contactin to the paranodes. However, in the absence of Nfasc186, sodium channels remain diffusely distributed along the axon. Our study shows that the two major Neurofascins play essential roles in assembling the nodal and paranodal domains of myelinated axons; therefore, they are essential for the transition to saltatory conduction in developing vertebrate nerves.
Elevated activity of the Cdk5/p25 complex has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The report by Fischer and colleagues in this issue of Neuron describes a dichotomous role for the activator protein p25 in synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory, whereby transient expression in transgenic mice produces beneficial effects, but prolonged expression is detrimental. This work demonstrates the complexity of Cdk5/p25 in neuronal function and shows that dysregulation of a factor involved in plasticity can cause neurodegeneration.
Inbred mouse strains have different genetic backgrounds that can result in impairment of synaptic plasticity and memory. Strain-dependent performance in behavioral and cognitive tasks is well-documented. Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), an activity-dependent enhancement of synaptic transmission that may underlie some forms of learning and memory has been shown to differ significantly between inbred mouse strains. However, an effect of strain on the expression of proteins, critically involved in synaptic plasticity, learning and memory has not been described yet. We have been addressing this question by determining expressional levels of a panel of proteins involved in neuronal information processing in hippocampus of five mouse strains by immunoblotting. Four inbred strains (FVB/N, C57Bl/6J, 129S2/Sv and Balb/c), commonly used for generating genetically modified mice and for conventional experiments in pharmacology and toxicology and one outbred strain (OF1) have been selected. A significant effect of strain was detected for total and phosphorylated calcium-calmodulin dependent kinase IIalpha (CaMKII, pCaMKII), phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (pMAPK), total and phosphorylated calcium-responsive element binding 1 (creb, pcreb), early-growth response protein 1 (egr 1), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), drebrin and postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95). These results may indicate genetic determination of synaptic plasticity-related mechanisms relevant for the molecular events mediating hippocampal information processing and storage. Data presented herein highlight the importance of careful selection of the mouse strain for studies of synaptic plasticity.
Aging has diverse effects on different behaviors and underlying neural systems. This study utilized fear conditioning to determine if aged mice have deficits in the acquisition and/or retention of memories for contextual or cued fear conditioning, and to determine if galantamine, an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor and allosteric modulator of nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptors, would alter acquisition and/or retention of fear conditioning memories in young (2-3 months) and aged (19-20 months) C57BL/6 mice. Mice were trained with two white-noise CS (85 dB, 30 s)-footshock US (0.57 mA, 2 s) presentations. In the initial study, separate groups were tested 24, 48, or 96 h post-training. All mice were retested 1 week after the initial test. Aged mice were impaired in freezing to the CS for the 48 and 96 h train-test intervals, but not the 24-h interval. When retested 1 week after the initial test, freezing to the CS was significantly lower for all train-test intervals. No age-related deficits were found in contextual fear conditioning. In the second study, 2 mg/kg galantamine was administered to young and aged mice before fear conditioning and conditioned fear was assessed 48 h later. No age-related deficits in cued fear conditioning were seen in galantamine-treated aged mice. Thus, aged C57BL/6 mice are impaired in the long-term retention of auditory cued fear conditioning, but not the acquisition of auditory cued or contextual fear conditioning. This retention deficit for cued fear conditioning is ameliorated by treatment with the AChE inhibitor galantamine.
Lateral shifts in overt attention have been previously shown to modulate reaction times to lateral electrocutaneous stimuli, as well as perception or unpleasantness thresholds. A response bias can play a role in the elicitation of these lateral differences. Therefore, the present experiment aimed at investigating whether eye orientation induces a decision bias in favour of the ipsilateral hemispace. Participants were asked whether or not they suspected subliminal electrocutaneous shocks, whereas no subliminal stimulation was actually delivered. A secondary visual task led participants to direct their eyes ipsi- or contralateral to the stimulated area. Differences between experimental conditions in the amount of subliminal shocks participants acknowledge to receive (number of positive responses) are thought to reflect decision biases. Low and high trait anxiety participants were involved. Results showed an interaction between the eye orientation and the tested hand. The number of positive responses was smaller in right-hand tests with contralateral eye orienting. This effect fits those described previously with real electrocutaneous stimuli. This interaction is related to hemispheric differences in spatial attention. In contrast to thresholds studies, this study failed to replicate that a lateral difference arises in the low but not in the high trait anxiety individuals, suggesting that this interaction was mostly due to the neurosensory processing of the electrocutaneous stimuli.
L-type high-voltage-activated calcium channels are involved in the conduction and integration of electrical activity and associative long-term potentiation in the basolateral amygdalar complex (BLC). However, little is known about the neuronal localization of these channels in this brain region. We used immunohistochemical techniques to determine which cell types in the BLC express the Ca(v)1.2 subtype of L-type calcium channels. Immunofluorescence experiments demonstrated that Ca(v)1.2 calcium channels were mainly found in somata and dendrites of pyramidal neurons that exhibited immunoreactivity for calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK). Only a few parvalbumin-positive and calretinin-positive interneurons exhibited Ca(v)1.2 immunoreactivity. The presence of high levels of Ca(v)1.2 immunoreactivity in BLC pyramidal cells is consistent with physiological findings showing that calcium entry through L-type calcium channels in pyramidal cell dendrites in the lateral amygdala is required for associative LTP and the conversion of synaptic events into long-term emotional memory.
Sensory experience is critical for the formation of neuronal circuits and it is well known that neuronal activity plays a crucial role in the formation and maintenance of synapses. In the vertebrate retina, exposure to different environmental conditions results in structural, physiological, neurochemical and pharmacological changes. Serotoninergic (5HT) amacrine cells of the chicken retina are bistratified interneurons whose primary dendrites descend through the inner nuclear layer (INL) to branch in the inner plexiform layer (IPL) forming two plexi, an outer network, localized to sublamina 1, and an inner network, localized to sublamina 4 and 5 of the IPL. Their development is temporally correlated with the establishment of synapses in the retina and with the emergence of the typical adult electroretinogram. It is unknown, however, which role these cells play in processing visual information and whether visual deprivation modifies their phenotype. Here, we show that, in the chicken, red-light rearing from hatching to postnatal day 12 significantly alters the stratification pattern of 5HT amacrine cells, inhibiting their age-dependent pruning measured with morphometric and densitometric procedures; as well as increasing serotonin immunoreactivity measured as relative optical density. This change in dendritic arborization, accompanied by an increase in serotonin concentration in dark adapted conditions, may decrease visual threshold, thus increasing visual sensitivity.
Hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) contribute to the expression of certain types of synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation (LTP). It is well documented that tyrosine kinases increase NMDAR phosphorylation and potentiate NMDAR function. However, it is unclear how these phosphorylation changes result in enhanced NMDAR activity. We previously reported that NMDAR surface expression can be increased by LTP-inducing stimulation via tyrosine kinase-dependent mechanisms in the adult hippocampus [D.R. Grosshans, D.A. Clayton, S.J. Coultrap, M.D. Browning, Nat. Neurosci., 5 (2002) 27-33]. We therefore hypothesized that tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDAR may enhance the trafficking of the receptor to the synaptic membrane. Here, we show that the stoichiometry of NR2A and NR2B tyrosine phosphorylation is significantly higher in synaptosomal membranes than intracellular microsomal/light membranes. Interestingly, NR2B tyrosine-1472, but not NR1 serine-896 or -897, phosphorylation is significantly higher in synaptosomal membranes than intracellular microsomal/light membranes. Furthermore, treatment of hippocampal slices with either a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor or a tyrosine kinase inhibitor alters NMDAR tyrosine phosphorylation and produces a corresponding change in the concentration of NMDARs in the synaptosomal membrane fraction. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that tyrosine phosphorylation may enhance NMDAR activity by increasing the number of NMDARs at the synaptic membrane.
Pleckstrin homology (PH) domains play diverse roles in cytoskeletal dynamics and signal transduction. Split PH domains represent a unique subclass of PH domains that have been implicated in interactions with complementary partial PH domains 'hidden' in many proteins. Whether partial PH domains exist as independent structural units alone and whether two halves of a split PH domain can fold together to form an intact PH domain are not known. Here, we solved the structure of the PH(N)-PDZ-PH(C) tandem of alpha-syntrophin. The split PH domain of alpha-syntrophin adopts a canonical PH domain fold. The isolated partial PH domains of alpha-syntrophin, although completely unfolded, remain soluble in solution. Mixing of the two isolated domains induces de novo folding and yields a stable PH domain. Our results demonstrate that two complementary partial PH domains are capable of binding to each other to form an intact PH domain. We further showed that the PH(N)-PDZ-PH(C) tandem forms a functionally distinct supramodule, in which the split PH domain and the PDZ domain function synergistically in binding to inositol phospholipids.
In non-human mammals, the neuropeptide oxytocin is a key mediator of complex emotional and social behaviors, including attachment, social recognition, and aggression. Oxytocin reduces anxiety and impacts on fear conditioning and extinction. Recently, oxytocin administration in humans was shown to increase trust, suggesting involvement of the amygdala, a central component of the neurocircuitry of fear and social cognition that has been linked to trust and highly expresses oxytocin receptors in many mammals. However, no human data on the effects of this peptide on brain function were available. Here, we show that human amygdala function is strongly modulated by oxytocin. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to image amygdala activation by fear-inducing visual stimuli in 15 healthy males after double-blind crossover intranasal application of placebo or oxytocin. Compared with placebo, oxytocin potently reduced activation of the amygdala and reduced coupling of the amygdala to brainstem regions implicated in autonomic and behavioral manifestations of fear. Our results indicate a neural mechanism for the effects of oxytocin in social cognition in the human brain and provide a methodology and rationale for exploring therapeutic strategies in disorders in which abnormal amygdala function has been implicated, such as social phobia or autism.
Individual differences in resiliency to particular stressors may be mediated by specific neuropeptide receptor patterns in the brain. Here, we explored this issue by using a multivariate approach to identify brain sites in which oxytocin (OTR), vasopressin (V1aR), and corticotropin-releasing factor type 1 (CRF1) or type 2 receptor binding covaried with a measure of isolation-induced anxiety: isolation potentiated startle (IPS). Partial least squares (PLS) analysis identified three binding sites, the shell of the nucleus accumbens (AccSh), lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and intermediate zone of the lateral septum, in which CRF1, V1aR, and OTR receptors, respectively, covaried with IPS. Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that the three binding sites accounted for more of the variation in IPS as a linear combination than when considered individually. Using the same multiple regression model, the linear combination of the same three binding sites/peptide receptors measured in a new group of animals successfully predicted their IPS values. There were no differences in binding between grouped and isolated animals, suggesting that the patterns are trait effects rather than a consequence of isolation. Based on the finding that CRF1 receptors in the AccSh were positively correlated with IPS, we infused CRF directly into the AccSh and found that it significantly potentiated startle after a short isolation period but not under grouped conditions. This result directly supported the predictions made by the combined PLS/regression approach. These results suggest that the integrated activity of neuropeptide systems mediating both social behavior and anxiety underlie IPS.
Long-term depression (LTD) in sensory cortices depends on the activation of NMDA receptors. Here, we report that in visual cortical slices, the induction of LTD (but not long-term potentiation) also requires the activation of receptors coupled to the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway. Using immunolesions in combination with agonists and antagonists, we selectively manipulated the activation of alpha1 adrenergic, M1 muscarinic, and mGluR5 glutamatergic receptors. Inactivation of these PLC-coupled receptors prevents the induction of LTD, but only when the three receptors were inactivated together. LTD is fully restored by activating any one of them or by supplying intracellular D-myo-inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3). LTD was also impaired by intracellular application of PLC or IP3 receptor blockers, and it was absent in mice lacking PLCbeta1, the predominant PLC isoform in the forebrain. We propose that visual cortical LTD requires a minimum of PLC activity that can be supplied independently by at least three neurotransmitter systems. This essential requirement places PLC-linked receptors in a unique position to control the induction of LTD and provides a mechanism for gating visual cortical plasticity via extra-retinal inputs in the intact organism.
Rod-like inclusions (rods), composed of actin saturated with actin depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin, are induced in hippocampal neurons by ATP depletion, oxidative stress, and excess glutamate and occur in close proximity to senile plaques in human Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain (Minamide et al., 2000). Here, we show rods are found in brains from transgenic AD mice. Soluble forms of amyloid beta (Abeta(1-42)) induce the formation of rods in a maximum of 19% of cultured hippocampal neurons in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Approximately one-half of the responding neurons develop rods within 6 h or with as little as 10 nM Abeta(1-42). Abeta(1-42) induces the activation (dephosphorylation) of ADF/cofilin in neurons that form rods. Vesicles containing amyloid precursor protein (APP), beta-amyloid cleavage enzyme, and presenilin-1, a component of the gamma-secretase complex, accumulate at rods. The beta-secretase-cleaved APP (either beta-C-terminal fragment of APP or Abeta) also accumulates at rods. These results suggest that rods, formed in response to either Abeta or some other stress, block the transport of APP and enzymes involved in its processing to Abeta. These stalled vesicles may provide a site for producing Abeta(1-42), which may in turn induce more rods in surrounding neurons, and expand the degenerative zone resulting in plaque formation.
The molecular mechanisms that determine the size and complexity of the neuronal dendritic tree are unclear. Here, we show that the phosphoinositide-3' kinase (PI3K)-Akt-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway promotes the growth and branching of dendrites in cultured hippocampal neurons. Constitutively active mutants of Ras, PI3K, and Akt, or RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown of lipid phosphatase PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome Ten), induced growth and elaboration of dendrites that was blocked by mTOR inhibitor rapamycin and/or by overexpression of eIF-4E binding protein 1 (4E-BP1), which inhibits translation of 5' capped mRNAs. The effect of PI3K on dendrites was lost in more mature neurons (&gt;14 d in vitro). Dendritic complexity was reduced by inhibition of PI3K and by RNAi knockdown of mTOR or p70 ribosomal S6 kinase (p70S6K, an effector of mTOR). A rapamycin-resistant mutant of mTOR &quot;rescued&quot; the morphogenetic effects of PI3K in the presence of rapamycin. By regulating global and/or local protein translation, and as a convergence point for multiple signaling pathways, mTOR could play a central role in the control of dendrite growth and branching during development and in response to activity.
A change in the spontaneous release of neurotransmitter is a useful indicator of processes occurring within presynaptic terminals. Linear techniques (e.g. Fourier transform) have been used to analyse spontaneous synaptic events in previous studies, but such methods are inappropriate if the timing pattern is complex. We have investigated spontaneous glycinergic miniature synaptic currents (mIPSCs) in principal cells of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body. The random versus deterministic (or periodic) nature of mIPSCs was assessed using recurrence quantification analysis. Nonlinear methods were then used to quantify any detected determinism in spontaneous release, and to test for chaotic or fractal patterns. Modelling demonstrated that this procedure is much more sensitive in detecting periodicities than conventional techniques. mIPSCs were found to exhibit periodicities that were abolished by blockade of internal calcium stores with ryanodine, suggesting calcium oscillations in the presynaptic inhibitory terminals. Analysis indicated that mIPSC occurrences were chaotic in nature. Furthermore, periodicities were less evident in congenitally deaf mice than in normal mice, indicating that appropriate neural activity during development is necessary for the expression of deterministic chaos in mIPSC patterns. We suggest that chaotic oscillations of mIPSC occurrences play a physiological role in signal processing in the auditory brainstem.


The brain acts as an integrated information processing system, which methods in cognitive neuroscience have so far depicted in a fragmented fashion. Here, we propose a simple and robust way to integrate functional MRI (fMRI) with single trial event-related potentials (ERP) to provide a more complete spatiotemporal characterization of evoked responses in the human brain. The idea behind the approach is to find brain regions whose fMRI responses can be predicted by paradigm-induced amplitude modulations of simultaneously acquired single trial ERPs. The method was used to study a variant of a two-stimulus auditory target detection (odd-ball) paradigm that manipulated predictability through alternations of stimulus sequences with random or regular target-to-target intervals. In addition to electrophysiologic and hemodynamic evoked responses to auditory targets per se, single-trial modulations were expressed during the latencies of the P2 (170-ms), N2 (200-ms), and P3 (320-ms) components and predicted spatially separated fMRI activation patterns. These spatiotemporal matches, i.e., the prediction of hemodynamic activation by time-variant information from single trial ERPs, permit inferences about regional responses using fMRI with the temporal resolution provided by electrophysiology.
Fragile X syndrome, a common form of inherited mental retardation, is caused by the absence of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) due to a mutation in the FMR1 gene. We investigated the differentiation of neural stem cells generated from the brains of fmr1-knockout (KO) mice and from postmortem tissue of a fragile X fetus. Mouse and human FMRP-deficient neurospheres generated more TuJ1-positive cells (3-fold and 5-fold, respectively) than the control neurospheres generated from normal mouse and human brains, and these cells showed morphological alterations with fewer and shorter neurites and a smaller cell body volume. The number of cells expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein and generated by these neurospheres was reduced because of increased apoptotic cell death. Furthermore, there was an increase in a population of cells with intense oscillatory Ca2+ responses to neurotransmitters in differentiated cells lacking FMRP. In addition, the number of cells in a cohort of bromodeoxyuridine-labeled newborn cells was increased in the subventricular zone of the telencephalon of the fmr1-KO mouse in vivo. These results demonstrate substantial alterations in the early maturation of FMRP-deficient neural stem cells in fragile X syndrome and in the fmr1-KO mice.
Pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex display marked layer- and subtype-specific differences in their axonal projections and dendritic morphologies. Here we show that transcription factor Zfp312 is selectively expressed by layer V and VI subcortical projection pyramidal neurons and their progenitor cells. Knocking down Zfp312 with small interfering RNAs dramatically reduced the number of subcortical axonal projections from deep-layer pyramidal neurons and altered their dendritic morphology. In contrast, misexpression of Zfp312 in cortically projecting pyramidal neurons of layers II and III induced the expression of Tbr1, a transcription factor enriched in deep-layer neurons, and the formation of ectopic subcortical axonal projections. Thus, our results indicate that transcription factor Zfp312 plays a critical role in layer- and neuronal subtype-specific patterning of cortical axonal projections and dendritic morphologies.
Techniques for fast noninvasive control of neuronal excitability will be of major importance for analyzing and understanding neuronal networks and animal behavior. To develop these tools we demonstrated that two light-activated signaling proteins, vertebrate rat rhodopsin 4 (RO4) and the green algae channelrhodospin 2 (ChR2), could be used to control neuronal excitability and modulate synaptic transmission. Vertebrate rhodopsin couples to the Gi/o, pertussis toxin-sensitive pathway to allow modulation of G protein-gated inward rectifying potassium channels and voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. Light-mediated activation of RO4 in cultured hippocampal neurons reduces neuronal firing within ms by hyperpolarization of the somato-dendritic membrane and when activated at presynaptic sites modulates synaptic transmission and paired-pulse facilitation. In contrast, somato-dendritic activation of ChR2 depolarizes neurons sufficiently to induce immediate action potentials, which precisely follow the ChR2 activation up to light stimulation frequencies of 20 Hz. To demonstrate that these constructs are useful for regulating network behavior in intact organisms, embryonic chick spinal cords were electroporated with either construct, allowing the frequency of episodes of spontaneous bursting activity, known to be important for motor circuit formation, to be precisely controlled. Thus light-activated vertebrate RO4 and green algae ChR2 allow the antagonistic control of neuronal function within ms to s in a precise, reversible, and noninvasive manner in cultured neurons and intact vertebrate spinal cords.
Defects of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) maintenance have recently been associated with inherited neurodegenerative and muscle diseases and the aging process. Twinkle is a nuclear-encoded mtDNA helicase, dominant mutations of which cause adult-onset progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) with multiple mtDNA deletions. We have generated transgenic mice expressing mouse Twinkle with PEO patient mutations. Multiple mtDNA deletions accumulate in the tissues of these mice, resulting in progressive respiratory dysfunction and chronic late-onset mitochondrial disease starting at 1 year of age. The muscles of the mice faithfully replicate all of the key histological, genetic, and biochemical features of PEO patients. Furthermore, the mice have progressive deficiency of cytochrome c oxidase in distinct neuronal populations. These &quot;deletor&quot; mice do not, however, show premature aging, indicating that subtle accumulation of mtDNA deletions and progressive respiratory chain dysfunction are not sufficient to accelerate aging. This model is a valuable tool for therapy development and testing for adult-onset mitochondrial disorders.
Not the mere procurement and use of drugs, but the fact that patterns of seeking and taking become compulsive after prolonged drug use is a defining characteristic of drug addiction. Development of a therapy that targets the compulsive aspects of drug use and thus addresses addiction at its core would therefore be very desirable. In the present review, we will discuss animal studies that attempt to model loss of control over drug use. Furthermore, we will try to put these studies in a theoretical perspective, and discuss the hypothesized underlying neural and behavioral mechanisms.
The central problem in the treatment of cocaine and heroin addiction is high rates of relapse to drug use after periods of forced or self-imposed abstinence. Relapse can be modeled in laboratory animals a reinstatement procedure in which responding for drug is extinguished and then reinstated by acute exposure to the drug, drug cues, or stress. In this review, we first summarize data from recent (2003-2005) studies on the neural substrates involved in reinstatement of heroin and cocaine seeking. We also discuss the neural mechanisms underlying the progressive increase in cocaine seeking after withdrawal (incubation of cocaine craving). Finally, we provide an update on several novel candidate medications for relapse prevention suggested by recent preclinical studies, and we discuss the translation of findings from nonhuman laboratory studies to the clinical phenomenon of relapse.
Learned associations that occur during the process of repeated drug use in addiction can later manifest as trigger factors in relapse to renewed drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. The process of conditioned-cued relapse of drug-seeking behavior has been successfully modeled in animals using the reinstatement procedure, in which chronic drug self-administration can be extinguished or withheld, and then reinstated using conditioned stimuli previously paired with the drug. Our laboratory has extensively studied the neural circuitry underlying conditioned-cued drug-seeking during the expression of reinstatement. In order to study the learning process of drug-cue pairings, we further developed a procedure whereby discrete cocaine-cue pairings can be conducted in a single pavlovian training session in animals previously trained to self-administer cocaine. Presentation of these cues during later reinstatement trials produces robust responding over extinction levels at levels similar to those seen when animals experience the cues on a daily basis. In a series of experiments, we have shown that reversible pharmacological inactivation of the basolateral complex of the amygdala just prior to acquisition of cocaine-cue associations blocks the ability of cocaine-paired stimuli to elicit conditioned-cued reinstatement. This learning process is mediated in part by muscarinic acetylcholine and dopaminergic inputs to the basolateral complex of the amygdala, as intra-amygdala infusion of selective receptor antagonists at the time of acquisition significantly affects reinstatement. We have also recently found that disruption of neural activity within the basolateral complex of the amygdala at the time of consolidation (just after cocaine-cue pairings) will disrupt reinstatement. Taken together, these results reveal the importance of the amygdala in the acquisition, consolidation, and expression of drug-stimulus learning that drives relapse to drug-seeking behavior.
Glutamate receptors (also known as clan C) are one of the main groups of GPCRs with many subgroup linked through complex evolutionary relationships. We performed thorough searches for genes coding for proteins belonging to this family in the human, mouse, Fugu, and zebrafish genomes, as well as in four invertebrate species. We assembled over 70 new full-length sequences from protein predictions excluding pseudogenes. This resulted in a total of 22 full-length sequences from the human genome, 79 from the mouse genome, 30 from the Fugu genome, and 32 from the zebrafish genome (pseudogenes are not included in these numbers). We show that the vertebrate Glutamate GPCRs form four main phylogenetic groups with a total of eight subgroups (Group I: V2R, TAS1R, GPRC6A, and CASR, Group II: GRM, Group III: GABA together with previously unpublished GPR158 and GPR158L and Group IV: GPRC5). All eight receptor subgroups are present both in mammals and fish, except for GPRC5 and GPR158. The pheromone (V2R), GPRC6, and sweet taste (TAS1) receptors were not found in invertebrates while GRM, GABA, and CASR were found in both C. elegans and C. intestinalis. The pheromone receptors are found in high numbers in mouse, zebrafish and Fugu but are only found as pseudogenes in the human genome. This report provides a comprehensive overview of the expansion/deletions of the groups within the Glutamate receptor family.

Influential theoretical models propose a central role for afferent information from the body in the expression of emotional feeling states. Feedback representations of changing states of bodily arousal influence learning and facilitate concurrent and prospective decision-making. Functional neuroimaging studies have increased understanding of brain mechanisms that generate changes in autonomic arousal during behavior and those which respond to internal feedback signals to influence subjective feeling states. In particular, anterior cingulate cortex is implicated in generating autonomic changes, while insula and orbitofrontal cortices may be specialized in mapping visceral responses. Independently, ventromedial prefrontal cortex is recognized to support processes of internal (self-) reference that predominate in states of rest and disengagement and which putatively serve as a benchmark for dynamic interactions with the environment. Lesion data further highlight the integrated role of these cortical regions in autonomic and motivational control. In computational models of control, forward (efference copies) and inverse models are proposed to enable prediction and correction of action and, by extension, the interpretation of the behavior of others. It is hypothesized that the neural substrate for these processes during motivational and affective behavior lies within the interactions of anterior cingulate, insula, and orbitofrontal cortices. Generation of visceral autonomic correlates of control reinforce experiential engagement in simulatory models and underpin concepts such as somatic markers to bridge the dualistic divide.
A good night's sleep is one of life's most satisfying experiences, while sleeplessness is stressful and causes cognitive impairment. Yet the mechanisms that regulate the ability to sleep have only recently been subjected to detailed investigation. New studies show that the control of wake and sleep emerges from the interaction of cell groups that cause arousal with other nuclei that induce sleep such as the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO). The VLPO inhibits the ascending arousal regions and is in turn inhibited by them, thus forming a mutually inhibitory system resembling what electrical engineers call a &quot;flip-flop switch.&quot; This switch may help produce sharp transitions between discrete behavioral states, but it is not necessarily stable. The orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus may help stabilize this system by exciting arousal regions during wakefulness, preventing unwanted transitions between wakefulness and sleep. The importance of this stabilizing role is apparent in narcolepsy, in which an absence of the orexin neurons causes numerous, unintended transitions in and out of sleep and allows fragments of REM sleep to intrude into wakefulness. These influences on the sleep/wake system by homeostatic and circadian drives, as well as emotional inputs, are reviewed. Understanding the pathways that underlie the regulation of sleep and wakefulness may provide important insights into how the cognitive and emotional systems interact with basic homeostatic and circadian drives for sleep.
Electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle can reward arbitrary acts or motivate biologically primitive, species-typical behaviors like feeding or copulation. The subsystems involved in these behaviors are only partially characterized, but they appear to transsynaptically activate the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. Basal function of the dopamine system is essential for arousal and motor function; phasic activation of this system is rewarding and can potentiate the effectiveness of reward-predictors that guide learned behaviors. This system is phasically activated by most drugs of abuse and such activation contributes to the habit-forming actions of these drugs.
The neurochemical modulation of prefrontal cortical function is reviewed with special reference to the ascending dopaminergic and serotoninergic projections. Evidence is surveyed from studies of rats, nonhuman primates, and humans to suggest that prefrontal dopamine has specific functions in attentional control and working memory, mediated mainly through the D1 receptor, whereas manipulations of serotonin are shown by contrast to affect reversal learning in monkeys and human volunteers and measures of impulsivity in rats. These findings are discussed in the context of these as well as other neurotransmitter systems (including noradrenaline and acetylcholine) having distinct roles in the neuromodulation of prefrontal cortical function. The capacity of the prefrontal cortex itself to exert top-down regulation of these ascending neurochemical systems is also discussed.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of cannabinoid agonists on established inflammatory hyperalgesia. We have compared the effects of pre-administration versus post-administration of a potent non-selective cannabinoid agonist HU210 and a selective CB2 receptor agonist JWH-133 on hindpaw weight bearing and paw oedema in the carrageenan model of inflammatory hyperalgesia. For comparative purposes we also determined the effects of the mu-opioid receptor agonist morphine and the COX2 inhibitor rofecoxib in this model. At 3 h following intraplantar injection of carrageenan (2%, 100 microl) there was a significant (P &lt; 0.001) reduction in weight bearing on the ipsilateral hindpaw, compared to vehicle treated rats and a concomitant increase in ipsilateral hindpaw volume (P &lt; 0.001), compared to vehicle treated rats. Systemic administration of HU210 (10 microg/kg) and JWH-133 (10 mg/kg) at 3 h following injection of carrageenan, significantly attenuated decreases in ipsilateral hindpaw weight bearing (P &lt; 0.05 for both) and paw volume (P &lt; 0.001 for both). Pre-administration of HU210 and JWH-133 had similar effects on weight bearing in this model. Pre-administered HU210 also significantly decreased carrageenan-induced changes in paw volume (P &lt; 0.001), this was not the case for JWH-133. Effects of post-administered HU210 and JWH-133 on ipsilateral hindpaw weight bearing and paw volume were comparable to the effect of systemic post-administration of morphine and rofecoxib (3 mg/kg for both). In summary, both HU210 and JWH-133 attenuated established inflammatory hypersensitivity and swelling, suggesting that cannabinoid-based drugs have clinical potential for the treatment of established inflammatory pain responses.

HIV-1-associated dementia (HIV-D) remains a significant consequence of HIV-1 infection and AIDS. Since the clinical introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), the incidence of HIV-D has decreased, yet the prevalence has increased as patients are living longer under treatment. Additionally, a less severe form of HIV-D, minor cognitive motor disorder, has become an increasing issue. Two different models have been proposed for virus entry in the central nervous system (CNS) in HIV-D. In the 'Trojan horse' model, the virus enters the CNS early carried by macrophages and infects resident glia; later in the course of infection, virus replication is activated and additional monocyte/macrophages are recruited into the CNS via cytokine/chemokine networks and endothelial-cell-leukocyte interactions at the blood-brain barrier. In the 'late invasion' model, an inherently invasive activated monocyte subset is expanded from bone marrow as a result of immune dysregulation in the periphery in the setting of AIDS. In this review we discuss these two separate, although not mutually exclusive, means for virus entry and persistence in the CNS. Additionally, we explore mechanisms for neuronal injury and apoptosis, including the role of virus, viral and host proteins, oxidative stress and products of infected or uninfected activated microglia and astrocytes. Potential therapeutic strategies are also briefly discussed.
Although dimerization appears to be a common property of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), it remains unclear whether a GPCR dimer binds one or two molecules of ligand and whether ligand binding results in activation of one or two G-proteins when measured using functional assays in intact living cells. Previously, we demonstrated that serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine2C (5-HT2C) receptors form homodimers (Herrick-Davis, K., Grinde, E., and Mazurkiewicz, J. (2004) Biochemistry 43, 13963-13971). In the present study, an inactive 5-HT(2C) receptor was created and coexpressed with wild-type 5-HT2C receptors to determine whether dimerization regulates receptor function and to determine the ligand/dimer/G-protein stoichiometry in living cells. Mutagenesis of Ser138 to Arg (S138R) produced a 5-HT2C receptor incapable of binding ligand or stimulating inositol phosphate (IP) signaling. Confocal fluorescence imaging revealed plasma membrane expression of yellow fluorescent protein-tagged S138R receptors. Expression of wild-type 5-HT2C receptors in an S138R-expressing stable cell line had no effect on ligand binding to wild-type 5-HT2C receptors, but inhibited basal and 5-HT-stimulated IP signaling as well as constitutive and 5-HT-stimulated endocytosis of wild-type 5-HT2C receptors. M1 muscarinic receptor activation of IP production was normal in the S138R-expressing cells. Heterodimerization of S138R with wild-type 5-HT2C receptors was visualized in living cells using confocal fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). FRET was dependent on the donor/acceptor ratio and independent of the receptor expression level. Therefore, inactive 5-HT2C receptors inhibit wild-type 5-HT2C receptor function by forming nonfunctional heterodimers expressed on the plasma membrane. These results are consistent with a model in which one GPCR dimer binds two molecules of ligand and one G-protein and indicate that dimerization is essential for 5-HT receptor function.

Animal models of DMD have played, and will continue to play, a key role in the understanding of the pathogenesis and treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). The mdx mouse and GRMD dog are spontaneous dystrophin deficient mutants and have been the most widely used models to date. A number of other murine models have been created by exposure to mutagens or genetic manipulation. The animal models have allowed the development of a number of promising experimental therapeutic approaches to DMD that are now entering clinical trial, the majority of which would not have been developed without their use. However, there has been much debate about the merits of the different animal models, which will only be finally clear as we learn from the initial human clinical trials.

