

Amiloride and its derivative 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride (EIPA) were previously shown to inhibit coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) RNA replication in cell culture, with two amino acid substitutions in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 3D(pol) conferring partial resistance of CVB3 to these compounds (D. N. Harrison, E. V. Gazina, D. F. Purcell, D. A. Anderson, and S. Petrou, J. Virol. 82:1465-1473, 2008). Here we demonstrate that amiloride and EIPA inhibit the enzymatic activity of CVB3 3D(pol) in vitro, affecting both VPg uridylylation and RNA elongation. Examination of the mechanism of inhibition of 3D(pol) by amiloride showed that the compound acts as a competitive inhibitor, competing with incoming nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs) and Mg(2+). Docking analysis suggested a binding site for amiloride and EIPA in 3D(pol), located in close proximity to one of the Mg(2+) ions and overlapping the nucleotide binding site, thus explaining the observed competition. This is the first report of a molecular mechanism of action of nonnucleoside inhibitors against a picornaviral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.

Refractory status epilepticus (RSE) is defined as status epilepticus that continues despite treatment with benzodiazepines and one antiepileptic drug. RSE should be treated promptly to prevent morbidity and mortality; however, scarce evidence is available to support the choice of specific treatments. Major independent outcome predictors are age (not modifiable) and cause (which should be actively targeted). Recent recommendations for adults suggest that the aggressiveness of treatment for RSE should be tailored to the clinical situation. To minimise intensive care unit-related complications, focal RSE without impairment of consciousness might initially be approached conservatively; conversely, early induction of pharmacological coma is advisable in generalised convulsive forms of the disorder. At this stage, midazolam, propofol, or barbiturates are the most commonly used drugs. Several other treatments, such as additional anaesthetics, other antiepileptic or immunomodulatory compounds, or non-pharmacological approaches (eg, electroconvulsive treatment or hypothermia), have been used in protracted RSE. Treatment lasting weeks or months can sometimes result in a good outcome, as in selected patients after encephalitis or autoimmune disorders. Well designed prospective studies of RSE are urgently needed.


There have been numerous non-scientific reports on the behavioural effects of Asian plants in humans who consumed these plants wholly or part thereof. Knowledge passed from generation to generation informs us of plants that increase effort and stamina, such as during paddy planting after the ingestion of Mitragyna speciosa Korth (ketum) as a tea supplement. Centella asiatica and Myristica fragrans are used as herbs to improve memory and to treat epilepsy, respectively. Zizyphus mauritiana is used to treat headache and burn pain, acts as an antitussive, and reduces rigor mortis immediately after death. These plants, which have been identified to exhibit analgaesic, muscle-relaxing, and nootropic effects, may contain important bio-compounds for medicinal chemistry and pharmaceutical research in Malaysia. The electrophysiology properties of these plants and their effects on epilepsy, behaviour, and pain will lead Malaysia to future new drug discoveries.
The IARU Congress on Aging, Longevity and Health, held on 5-7 October 2010 in Copenhagen, Denmark, was hosted by Rector Ralf Hemmingsen, University of Copenhagen and Dean Ulla Wewer, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen and was organized by Center for Healthy Aging (CEHA) under the leadership of CEHA Managing Director Lene Juel Rasmussen and Prof. Vilhelm Bohr, National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore, USA (associated to CEHA). The Congress was attended by approximately 125 researchers interested in and/or conducting research on aging and aging-related topics. The opening Congress Session included speeches by Ralf Hemmingsen, Ulla Wewer, and Lene Juel Rasmussen and Keynote Addresses by four world renowned aging researchers: Povl Riis (The Age Forum), Bernard Jeune (University of Southern Denmark), George Martin (University of Washington, USA) and Jan Vijg (Albert Einstein School of Medicine, USA) as well as a lecture discussing the art-science interface by Thomas Sderqvist (Director, Medical Museion, University of Copenhagen). The topics of the first six Sessions of the Congress were: Neuroscience and DNA damage, Aging and Stress, Life Course, Environmental Factors and Neuroscience, Muscle and Life Span and Life Span and Mechanisms. Two additional Sessions highlighted ongoing research in the recently established Center for Healthy Aging at the University of Copenhagen. This report highlights outcomes of recent research on aging-related topics, as described at the IARU Congress on Aging, Longevity and Health.
In the 21st century human life has been profoundly changed by developments in sanitation, medical interventions and public health measures. Practically every person born into a developed nation population has a chance to survive throughout entire reproductive life and well beyond. Human body has evolved in the past adaptations to hunting-gathering, and later, agricultural ways of life. In the new situation of practically non-existent premature mortality and technologically developed complex societies medical practice will devote less attention to &quot;saving lives&quot;--preventing premature deaths--and more to enhancing capacities of our biological organisms and providing for maintenance of the bodies beyond their biological limits established by evolution. The role of advances in nanotechnology, information technology, neuroscience and biotechnology is discussed in the context of mind and body enhancements.
A wide range of hyperimmune-associated diseases plague post-industrial society, with a prevalence and impact that is staggering. Strong evidence points towards a loss of helminths from the ecosystem of the human body (the human biome) as the most important factor in this epidemic. Helminths, intestinal worms which are largely eradicated by elements of post-industrial culture including toilets and water treatment facilities, have an otherwise ubiquitous presence in vertebrates, and have co-evolved with the immune system. Not only do helminths discourage allergic and autoimmune reactions by diverting the immune system away from these pathologic processes and stimulating host regulatory networks, helminths release a variety of factors which down-modulate the immune system. A comprehensive view of hyperimmune-related disease based on studies in immunology, parasitology, evolutionary biology, epidemiology, and neurobiology indicates that the effects of biome depletion may not yet be fully realized, and may have an unexpectedly broad impact on many areas of human biology, including cognition. Fortunately, colonization with helminths results in a cure of numerous autoimmune and allergic diseases in laboratory rodents, and clinical studies in humans have indicated their utility for treatment of both multiple sclerosis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these considerations, commitment of considerable resources toward understanding the effects of &quot;biome depletion&quot; and systematically evaluating the most effective approach toward biome reconstitution is strongly encouraged.

Recently, cognitive neuroscience has shed new light on our understanding of the neural underpinning of humans' morality. These findings allow for a fundamental questioning and rethinking of the alleged dichotomy between reason and emotion, that has profoundly shaped both moral philosophy and moral psychology. Functional neuroimaging and neuropsychology studies have provided strong arguments favoring a dynamic and interdependent interaction between rational and emotional processes in the brain. Yet another fundamental issue remains largely unexplored: the dissociation between certain behaviours and the moral judgments that seem to precede them. The importance of this dissociation was highlighted in a study of psychopathic patients during which they preserved their moral judgments while frequently engaging in completely non moral behaviour. Such dissociation could result from the cognitive difference between an objective moral judgement with no personal consequence, and a subjective behavioural choice that has effective or potential personal consequences. Consequently, the results of moral dilemma experiments would differ widely depending whether they explore objective or subjective moral evaluations. That these evaluations involve two distinct neural processes should be taken into account when exploring the neural bases of human morality.

Our mini-review focuses on dual regulation of cellular nitric oxide (NO) signaling pathways by traditionally characterized enzymatic formation from L-arginine via the actions of NO synthases (NOS) and by enzymatic reduction of available cellular nitrite pools by a diverse class of cytosolic and mitochondrial nitrite reductases. Nitrite is a major metabolic product of NO and is found in all cell and tissue types that utilize NO signaling processes. Xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) has been previously characterized as a housekeeping enzyme responsible for cellular uric acid formation via enzymatic conversion of hypoxanthine and xanthine. It has become apparent that XOR possesses multi-functional enzymatic activities outside the realm of xanthine metabolism and a small but significant literature also established a compelling functional association between administered sodium nitrite, XOR activation, and pharmacologically characterized NO transductive effects in positive cardiovascular function enhanced pulmonary perfusion, and protection against ischemia/reperfusion injury and hypoxic damage and oxidative stress. Similar positive vascular and cellular effects were observed to be functionally associated with mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase and cytochrome c/cytochrome c oxidase. The profound implications of a reciprocal regulatory mechanism responsible for cytosolic and mitochondrial NO production are discussed below.

Bicolored objects are retained in visual short-term memory (VSTM) less efficiently than unicolored objects. This is unlike shape-color combinations, whose retention in VSTM does not differ from that observed for shapes only. It is debated whether this is due to a lack of color integration and whether this may reflect the function of separate memory mechanisms. Participants judged whether the colors of bicolored objects (each with an external and an internalcolor) were the same or different across two consecutive screens. Colors had to be remembered either individually or in combination. In Experiment 1, external colors in the combined colors condition were remembered better than the internal colors, and performance for both was worse than that in the individual colors condition. The lack of color integration observed in Experiment 1 was further supported by a reduced capacity of VSTM to retain color combinations, relative to individual colors (Experiment 2). An additional account was found in Experiment 3, which showed spared color-color binding in the presence of impaired shape-color binding in a brain-damaged patient, thus suggesting that these two memory mechanisms are different.
A wearable camera that takes pictures automatically, SenseCam, was used to generate images for rehearsal, promoting consolidation and retrieval of memories for significant events in a patient with memory retrieval deficits. SenseCam images of recent events were systematically reviewed over a 2-week period. Memory for these events was assessed throughout and longer-term recall was tested up to 6 months later. A written diary control condition followed the same procedure. The SenseCam review procedure resulted in significantly more details of an event being recalled, with twice as many details recalled at 6 months follow up compared to the written diary method. Self-report measures suggested autobiographical recollection was triggered by the SenseCam condition but not by reviewing the written diary. Emotional and social wellbeing questionnaires indicated improved confidence and decreased anxiety as a result of memory rehearsal using SenseCam images. We propose that SenseCam images provide a powerful boost to autobiographical recall, with secondary benefits for quality of life.


CK2 is a heterotetrameric ubiquitous kinase consisting of two catalytic subunits and two regulatory subunits. The two catalytic subunits,  and ', are highly homologous but differ in their C-terminal regions. It is not known whether CK2 and ' have distinctive substrate specificity, since no - or '-specific substrate has been identified. Thus, it is assumed that the two kinase isoforms overlap in their substrate specificity. CK2 protein levels and activity were found to be elevated in the brain when compared to other organs. Here we have studied the protein levels of CK2 and ' isoforms in nine major brain regions. We found that both, CK2 and ', are expressed in all brain regions tested. Whereas CK2 levels do not vary strongly across the regions, CK2' levels are slightly higher in the cortex and hippocampus than in other regions. Furthermore, we show that CK2 protein levels in the striatum are relatively high when compared to CK2'. The approximate stoichiometry ratio of CK2:CK2' is 8:1. Therefore, one can consider that CK2 levels are predominant in comparison to CK2' levels throughout the mammalian brain.
Although the calpain-calpastatin system has been implicated in a number of pathological conditions, its normal physiological role remains largely unknown. To investigate the functions of this system, we generated conventional and conditional calpain-2 knockout mice. The conventional calpain-2 knockout embryos died around embryonic day 15, preceded by cell death associated with caspase activation and DNA fragmentation in placental trophoblasts. In contrast, conditional knockout mice in which calpain-2 is expressed in the placenta but not in the fetus were spared. These results suggest that calpain-2 contributes to trophoblast survival via suppression of caspase activation. Double-knockout mice also deficient in calpain-1 and calpastatin resulted in accelerated and rescued embryonic lethality, respectively, suggesting that calpain-1 and -2 at least in part share similar in vivo functions under the control of calpastatin. Triple-knockout mice exhibited early embryonic lethality, a finding consistent with the notion that this protease system is vital for embryonic survival.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) are promising antitumor drugs acting through reactivation of silenced tumor suppressor genes. Several HDACi are currently in clinical trials both for hematological and solid tissue malignancies. Cooperative action of HDACi and DNA methylation inhibitors (DNMTi) has been reported, making combined treatment an attractive choice for cancer therapy. There is some evidence that synergistic effects of HDACi and DNMTi are achieved by their action on common targets, including DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1). To further analyze this interaction, we investigated the effect of the HDACi trichostatin A on global and gene-specific DNA methylation and applied methods with single molecule sensitivity, confocal laser scanning microscopy with avalanche photodiode detectors (APD imaging) and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), to study its effect on the nuclear dynamics of DNMT1 in live cells. Our data show that trichostatin A treatment reduces global DNA methylation and the DNMT1 protein level and alters DNMT1 nuclear dynamics and interactions with chromatin. The mechanisms underlying these effects are apparently distinct from the mechanisms of action of the DNMT inhibitor 5-azacytidine. Our study sheds light on the molecular mechanisms underlying the synergistic action of HDACi and DNMTi and may also help to define improved policies for cancer treatment.
Activation of metabotropic- (mGluRs) or NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) each can induce long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission in CA1 hippocampal neurons. These two forms of LTD are triggered by diverse signaling pathways yet both are expressed by the internalization of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs). An unanswered question remains as to whether the convergence of the mGluR and NMDAR signaling pathways on AMPAR endocytosis renders these two forms of plasticity functionally equivalent, with both pathways inducing endocytosis of the same population of synaptic AMPARs. We now report evidence that these pathways couple to the endocytosis of distinct populations of AMPARs defined by their mobility in the membrane surface. NMDAR activation enhances removal of surface AMPARs that rapidly cycle into and out of the membrane surface, while activation of mGluRs with DHPG results in the internalization of a non-mobile population of AMPARs. Glutamate Receptor Interacting Proteins 1 and 2 (GRIP1/2) play a key role in defining the non-cycling receptor population. GRIP1/2 knockdown with siRNA increases the proportion of rapidly cycling surface AMPARs and inhibits mGluR- but not NMDAR-mediated AMPAR internalization. Additionally, we find that mGluR activation dissociates surface AMPARs from GRIP1/2 while stimulation of NMDARs elicits the loss of membrane receptors not bound to GRIP1/2. We propose that these two receptor pathways can drive the endocytosis of distinct populations of AMPARs: NMDARs activation induces the endocytosis of rapidly cycling surface AMPARs not directly associated with GRIP1/2 while mGluR activation induces the endocytosis of non-cycling GRIP-bound surface AMPARs.
Calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and adrenomedullin are potent biologically active peptides that have been proposed to play an important role in vascular and inflammatory diseases. Their function in the central nervous system is still unclear since they have been proposed as either pro-inflammatory or neuroprotective factors. We investigated the effects of the two peptides on astrocytes and microglia, cells of the central nervous system that exert a strong modulatory activity in the neuroinflammatory processes. In particular, we studied the ability of CGRP and adrenomedullin to modulate microglia activation, i.e. its competence of producing and releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines that are known to play a crucial role in neuroinflammation. In this work we show that the two neuropeptides exert a potent inhibitory effect on lipopolysaccharide-induced microglia activation in vitro, with strong inhibition of the release of pro-inflammatory mediators (such as NO, cytokines and chemokines). Both CGRP and adrenomedullin are known to promote cAMP elevation, this second messenger cannot fully account for the observed inhibitory effects, thereby suggesting that other signaling pathways are involved. Interestingly, the inhibitory effect of CGRP and adrenomedullin appears to be stimulus specific, since direct activation with pro-inflammatory cytokines was not affected. Our findings clarify aspects of microglia activation, and contribute to the comprehension of the switch from reparative to detrimental function that occurs when glia is exposed to different conditions. Moreover, they draw the attention to potential targets for novel pharmacological intervention in pathologies characterized by glia activation and neuroinflammation.
Several secreted proteins facilitate the growth and guidance of sympathetic axons to their target organs during development. Here we show that IL-1, a key regulator of inflammation in the immune system, inhibits axonal growth and branching from cultured sympathetic neurons at a stage in development when their axons are ramifying within their targets in vivo. IL-1 is synthesised in sympathetic ganglia and its targets at this stage, and IL-1 protein is detectable in the axons and perikarya of the innervating neurons. It acts directly on developing axons to inhibit their growth via NF-B signalling. These findings show that IL-1 is a novel locally, and target-derived factor that can regulate the extent of sympathetic axon growth during the late embryonic and early postnatal period in developing rat sympathetic neurons.
In the early postnatal hippocampus, the first synapses to appear on excitatory pyramidal neurons are formed directly on dendritic shafts. Very few dendritic spines are present at this time. By adulthood, however, the overwhelming majority of synapses are located at the tips of dendritic spines. Several models have been proposed to account for the transition from mostly shaft to mostly spinous synapses but none has been demonstrated conclusively. To investigate the cellular mechanism underlying the shaft-to-spinous synapse transition, we designed live imaging experiments to directly observe the dynamics of shaft and spinous synapses on developing dendrites. Immunofluorescent synaptic labeling of GFP-filled neurons showed that the shaft-to-spinous synapse transition in dissociated culture mirrors that in vivo. Along with electron microscopy, the fluorescent labeling also showed that veritable shaft synapses are abundant in dissociated culture and that shaft synapses are frequently adjacent to spines or other dendritic protrusions, a configuration previously observed in vivo by others. We used live long-term time lapse confocal microscopy of GFP-filled dendrites and VAMP2-DsRed-labeled boutons to record the fate of shaft synapses and associated dendritic protrusions and boutons with images taken hourly for up to 31 continuous hours. Inspection of the time lapse imaging series revealed that shaft synapses can persist adjacent to either existing or newly grown dendritic protrusions. Alternatively, a shaft synapse bouton can redistribute to contact an adjacent dendritic protrusion. However, we never observed shaft synapses transforming themselves into spines or any type of dendritic protrusions. We conclude that repeated iterations of dendritic protrusion or spine outgrowth adjacent to shaft synapses is very likely to be a critical component of the shaft-to-spinous synapse transition during CNS development.
The administration of progesterone as a neuroprotective agent following traumatic brain injury has recently entered phase III clinical trials. Previous work has demonstrated that therapeutic concentrations of progesterone decrease excitotoxicity through direct inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels, an action independent of the nuclear progesterone receptor. Here we report using cultured rat striatal neurons that these same concentrations of progesterone also block voltage-gated potassium channels, sodium channels and GABA(A) currents. The actions of progesterone act at the surface membrane of neurons in a steroid specific, voltage-independent, concentration-dependent manner. Notably, these broad actions of progesterone on ion channel and neurotransmitter receptor function mirror those of dihydropyridines, and indicate potential shared mechanisms of action, the prospective of additional therapeutic applications, and possibly, untoward effects.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines play critical roles in autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recently, it has been reported that -arrestin 1 and 2 are involved in the regulation of inflammation. We hypothesized that -arrestin 1 and 2 play critical roles in murine models of RA. Using a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and a human TNF transgenic (TNFtg) mouse model, we demonstrated that -arrestin 1 and 2 expression are significantly increased in joint tissue of CIA mice and TNFtg mice. In fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) isolated from hind knee joint of CIA mice, we observed an increase of -arrestin 1 and 2 protein and mRNA levels in the early stage of arthritis. In FLS, low molecular weight hyaluronan (HA)-induced TNF and IL-6 production was increased by overexpression of -arrestin 1 but decreased by overexpression of -arrestin 2 demonstrating isoform specific regulation. TNF and HA induced an increase of -arrestin 1 and 2 expression in FLS, while high mobility group box (HMGB)-1 only stimulated -arrestin 1 expression. TNF- or HA-induced -arrestin 2 expression was blocked by a p38 inhibitor. To examine the in vivo role of -arrestin 2 in the pathogenesis of arthritis, WT and -arrestin 2 KO mice were subjected to collagen antibody-induced arthritis (CAIA). -Arrestin 2 KO mice exhibited more severe arthritis in CAIA. Thus -arrestin 2 is anti-inflammatory in CAIA. These composite observations suggest that -arrestin 1 and 2 differentially regulate FLS inflammation and increased -arrestin 2 may reduce experimental arthritis severity.
The harmony and function of the complex brain circuits and synapses are sustained mainly by excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission, neurotrophins, gene regulation, and factors, many of which are incompletely understood. A common feature of brain circuit components, such as dendrites, synaptic membranes, and other membranes of the nervous system, is that they are richly endowed in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), the main member of the omega-3 essential fatty acid family. DHA is avidly retained and concentrated in the nervous system and known to play a role in neuroprotection, memory, and vision. Only recently has it become apparent why the surprisingly rapid increases in free (unesterified) DHA pool size take place at the onset of seizures or brain injury. This phenomenon began to be clarified by the discovery of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), the first-uncovered bioactive docosanoid formed from free DHA through 15-lipoxygenase-1 (15-LOX-1). NPD1 synthesis includes, as agonists, oxidative stress and neurotrophins. The evolving concept is that DHA-derived docosanoids set in motion endogenous signaling to sustain homeostatic synaptic and circuit integrity. NPD1 is anti-inflammatory, displays inflammatory resolving activities, and induces cell survival, which is in contrast to the pro-inflammatory actions of the many of omega-6 fatty acid family members. We highlight here studies relevant to the ability of DHA to sustain neuronal function and protect synapses and circuits in the context of DHA signalolipidomics. DHA signalolipidomics comprises the integration of the cellular/tissue mechanism of DHA uptake, its distribution among cellular compartments, the organization and function of membrane domains containing DHA phospholipids, and the precise cellular and molecular events revealed by the uncovering of signaling pathways regulated by docosanoids endowed with prohomeostatic and cell survival bioactivity. Therefore, this approach offers emerging targets for prevention, pharmaceutical intervention, and clinical translation involving DHA-mediated signaling.
The songbird model is widely established in a number of laboratories for the investigation of the neurobiology and development of vocal learning. While vocal learning is rare in the animal kingdom, it is a trait that songbirds share with humans. The neuroanatomical and physiological organization of the brain circuitry that controls learned vocalizations has been extensively characterized, particularly in zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). Recently, several powerful molecular and genomic tools have become available in this organism, making it an attractive choice for neurobiologists interested in the neural and genetic basis of a complex learned behavior. Here, we briefly review some of the main features of vocal learning and associated brain structures in zebra finches and comment on some examples that illustrate how themes related to nutrition and addiction can be explored using this model organism.
Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder (PEPD) and inherited erythromelalgia (IEM) are inherited pain syndromes arising from different sets of gain-of-function mutations in the sensory neuronal sodium channel isoform Nav1.7. Mutations associated with PEPD, but not IEM, result in destabilized inactivation of Nav1.7 and enhanced resurgent sodium currents. Resurgent currents arise after relief of ultra-fast open-channel block mediated by an endogenous blocking particle and are thought to influence neuronal excitability. As such, enhancement of resurgent currents may constitute a pathological mechanism contributing to sensory neuron hyperexcitability and pain hypersensitivity associated with PEPD. Furthermore, pain associated with PEPD, but not IEM, is alleviated by the sodium channel inhibitor carbamazepine. We speculated that selective attenuation of PEPD-enhanced resurgent currents might contribute to this therapeutic effect. Here we examined whether carbamazepine and two other sodium channel inhibitors, riluzole and anandamide, exhibit differential inhibition of resurgent currents. To gain further insight into the potential mechanism(s) of resurgent currents, we examined whether these inhibitors produced correlative changes in other properties of sodium channel inactivation. Using stably transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing wild-type Nav1.7 and the PEPD mutants T1464I and M1627K, we examined the effects of the three drugs on Nav4 peptide-mediated resurgent currents. We observed a correlation between resurgent current inhibition and a drug-mediated increase in the rate of inactivation and inhibition of persistent sodium currents. Furthermore, although carbamazepine did not selectively target resurgent currents, anandamide strongly inhibited resurgent currents with minimal effects on the peak transient current amplitude, demonstrating that resurgent currents can be selectively targeted.
Particulate matter air pollution is a pervasive global risk factor implicated in the genesis of pulmonary and cardiovascular disease. Although the effects of prolonged exposure to air pollution are well characterized with respect to pulmonary and cardiovascular function, comparatively little is known about the impact of particulate matter on affective and cognitive processes. The central nervous system may be adversely affected by activation of reactive oxygen species and pro-inflammatory pathways that accompany particulate matter pollution. Thus, we investigated whether long-term exposure to ambient fine airborne particulate matter (&lt;2.5m (PM(2.5))) affects cognition, affective responses, hippocampal inflammatory cytokines and neuronal morphology. Male mice were exposed to either PM(2.5) or filtered air (FA) for 10 months. PM(2.5) mice displayed more depressive-like responses and impairments in spatial learning and memory as compared with mice exposed to FA. Hippocampal pro-inflammatory cytokine expression was elevated among PM(2.5) mice. Apical dendritic spine density and dendritic branching were decreased in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions, respectively, of PM(2.5) mice. Taken together, these data suggest that long-term exposure to particulate air pollution levels typical of exposure in major cities around the globe can alter affective responses and impair cognition.
The repeated use of drugs that directly or indirectly stimulate dopamine transmission carry addiction liability and produce enduring pathological changes in the brain circuitry that normally regulates adaptive behavioral responding to a changing environment. This circuitry is rich in glutamatergic projections, and addiction-related behaviors in animal models have been linked to impairments in excitatory synaptic plasticity. Among the best-characterized glutamatergic projection in this circuit is the prefrontal efferent to the nucleus accumbens. A variety of molecular adaptations have been identified in the prefrontal glutamate synapses in the accumbens, many of which are induced by different classes of addictive drugs. Based largely on work with cocaine, we hypothesize that the drug-induced adaptations impair synaptic plasticity in the cortico-accumbens projection, and thereby dysregulate the ability of addicts to control their drug-taking habits. Accordingly, we go on to describe the literature implicating the drug-induced changes in protein content or function that impinge upon synaptic plasticity and have been targeted in preclinical models of relapse and, in some cases, in pilot clinical trials. Based upon modeling drug-induced impairments in neuroplasticity in the cortico-accumbens pathway, we argue for a concerted effort to clinically evaluate the hypothesis that targeting glial and neuronal proteins regulating excitatory synaptic plasticity may prove beneficial in treating addiction.
Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1), a genetic risk factor for multiple serious psychiatric diseases including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and autism, is a key regulator of multiple neuronal functions linked to both normal development and disease processes. As these diseases are thought to share a common deficit in synaptic function and architecture, we have analyzed the role of DISC1 using an approach that focuses on understanding the protein-protein interactions of DISC1 specifically at synapses. We identify the Traf2 and Nck-interacting kinase (TNIK), an emerging risk factor itself for disease, as a key synaptic partner for DISC1, and provide evidence that the DISC1-TNIK interaction regulates synaptic composition and activity by stabilizing the levels of key postsynaptic density proteins. Understanding the novel DISC1-TNIK interaction is likely to provide insights into the etiology and underlying synaptic deficits found in major psychiatric diseases.
Peripheral inflammation or nerve injury induces a primary afferent barrage into the spinal cord, which can cause N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent alterations in the responses of dorsal horn sensory neurons to subsequent afferent inputs. This plasticity, such as &quot;wind-up&quot; and central sensitization, contributes to the hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons and increased pain-related behavior in animal models, as well as clinical signs of chronic pain in humans, hyperalgesia and allodynia. Binding of NMDA receptor subunits by the scaffolding protein postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95) can facilitate downstream intracellular signaling and modulate receptor stability, contributing to synaptic plasticity. Here, we show that spinal delivery of the mimetic peptide Tat-NR2B9c disrupts the interaction between PSD-95 and NR2B subunits in the dorsal horn and selectively reduces NMDA receptor-dependent events including wind-up of spinal sensory neurons, and both persistent formalin-induced neuronal activity and pain-related behaviors, attributed to central sensitization. Furthermore, a single intrathecal injection of Tat-NR2B9c in rats with established nerve injury-induced pain attenuates behavioral signs of mechanical and cold hypersensitivity, with no effect on locomotor performance. Thus, uncoupling of PSD-95 from spinal NR2B-containing NMDA receptors may prevent the neuronal plasticity involved in chronic pain and may be a successful analgesic therapy, reducing side effects associated with receptor blockade.

Genetic studies of Parkinson's disease over the last decade or more have revolutionized our understanding of this condition. -Synuclein was the first gene to be linked to Parkinson's disease, and is arguably the most important: the protein is the principal constituent of Lewy bodies, and variation at its locus is the major genetic risk factor for sporadic disease. Intriguingly, duplications and triplications of the locus, as well as point mutations, cause familial disease. Therefore, subtle alterations of -synuclein expression can manifest with a dramatic phenotype. We outline the clinical impact of -synuclein locus multiplications, and the implications that this has for Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. Finally, we discuss potential strategies for disease-modifying therapies for this currently incurable disorder.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) can induce nonmotor side effects such as behavioral and mood disturbances or body weight gain in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. We hypothesized that some of these problems could be related to an altered attribution of incentive salience (ie, emotional relevance) to rewarding and aversive stimuli. Twenty PD patients (all men; mean age  SD, 58.3  6 years) in bilateral STN DBS switched ON and OFF conditions and 18 matched controls rated pictures selected from the International Affective Picture System according to emotional valence (unpleasantness/pleasantness) and arousal on 2 independent visual scales ranging from 1 to 9. Eighty-four pictures depicting primary rewarding (erotica and food) and aversive fearful (victims and threat) and neutral stimuli were selected for this study. In the STN DBS ON condition, the PD patients attributed lower valence scores to the aversive pictures compared with the OFF condition (P &lt; .01) and compared with controls (P &lt; .01). The difference between the OFF condition and controls was less pronounced (P &lt; .05). Furthermore, postoperative weight gain correlated with arousal ratings from the food pictures in the STN DBS ON condition (P &lt; .05 compensated for OFF condition). Our results suggest that STN DBS increases activation of the aversive motivational system so that more relevance is attributed to aversive fearful stimuli. In addition, STN DBS-related sensitivity to food reward stimuli cues might drive DBS-treated patients to higher food intake and subsequent weight gain.
Although major depression is one of the most frequent psychiatric disorders among patients with Parkinson's disease, diagnostic criteria have yet to be validated. The main aim of our study was to validate depressive symptoms using latent class analysis for use as diagnostic criteria for major depression in Parkinson's disease. We examined a consecutive series of 259 patients with Parkinson's disease admitted to 2 movement disorders clinics for regular follow-ups. All patients were assessed with a comprehensive psychiatric interview that included structured assessments for depression, anxiety, and apathy. The main finding was that all 9 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (4th edition) diagnostic criteria for major depression (ie, depressed mood, diminished interest or pleasure, weight or appetite changes, sleep changes, psychomotor changes, loss of energy, feelings of worthlessness or inappropriate guilt, poor concentration, and suicidal ideation) identified a patient class (severe depression group) with high statistical significance. Latent class analysis also demonstrated a patient class with minimal depressive symptoms (no-depression group), and a third patient class with intermediate depressive symptoms (moderate depression). Anxiety and apathy were both significant comorbid conditions of moderate and severe depression. Taken together, our findings support the use of the full Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (4th edition) criteria for major depression for use in clinical practice and research in Parkinson's disease and suggest that anxiety may be included as an additional diagnostic criterion.
Recent studies have reported cognitive decline to be common in the early phase of Parkinson's disease. Imaging data connect working memory and executive functioning to the dopamine system. It has also been suggested that bradykinesia is the clinical manifestation most closely related to the nigrostriatal lesion. Exploring the relationship between motor dysfunction and cognition can help us find shared or overlapping systems serving different functions. This relationship has been sparsely investigated in population-based studies of untreated Parkinson's disease. The aim of the present study was to investigate the association between motor signs and cognitive performance in the early stages of Parkinson's disease before the intake of dopaminergic medication. Patients were identified in a population-based study of incident cases with idiopathic parkinsonism. Patients with the postural instability and gait disturbances phenotype were compared with patients with the tremor-dominant phenotype on demographics and cognitive measures. Associations between cognitive and motor scores were investigated, with age, education, and sex controlled for. Bradykinesia was associated with working memory and mental flexibility, whereas axial signs were associated with episodic memory and visuospatial functioning. No significant differences in the neuropsychological variables were found between the postural instability and gait disturbances phenotype and the tremor phenotype. Our results indicate a shared system for slow movement and inflexible thinking that may be controlled by a dopaminergic network different from dopaminergic networks involved in tremor and/or rigidity. The association between axial signs and memory and visuospatial function may point to overlapping systems or pathologies related to these abilities.
We investigated whether turning problems in Parkinson's disease may be the result of abnormal horizontal multisegmental angular coordination. Ten mildly affected patients and controls stood upright and voluntarily reoriented eyes and body to illuminated targets of eccentricities up to 180 degrees. The effects of target location, visibility, and predictability on movement parameters were evaluated. Patients' latencies were normal. Control subjects foveated large eccentricity targets with a single gaze shift in approximately 30% of predictable trials. Patients rarely did so (10% of predictable trials) because of reduced head-in-space and trunk velocity. This resulted in massive foveation delays in patients-an average of half a second for displacements of 180 degrees. The covariation of eye, head, and trunk rotations was quantified statistically by means of principal components analysis. In both groups, the combined movement was initially stereotyped and two principal components accounted for nearly all data variance-the original three mechanical degrees of freedom (i.e., eye-head-trunk) are reduced to two kinematic degrees of freedom. However, in patients, the eye contributed more, and the head and trunk less, to the gaze shift than in control subjects. Although the eye-to-foot turning synergy is preserved in early-stage parkinsonism, quantitative differences are prominent, particularly a larger ocular (and smaller head-trunk) contribution in patients. Turning problems in Parkinson's disease do not result from inability to assemble multisegmental movements, as patients' ability to control numerous degrees of freedom is preserved. However, trunk bradykinesia reduces the frequency of single-step gaze shifts, thus prolonging target acquisition time. Preserved eye motion compensates for trunk slowness.




The delayed conditioned eyeblink reflex, in which an individual learns to close the eyelid in response to a conditioned stimulus (e.g. a tone) relies entirely on the functional integrity of a cerebellar motor circuitry that involves the contingent activation of Purkinje cells by parallel and climbing fibres. Molecular changes that disrupt the function of this circuitry, in particular a loss of type-1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu1 receptors), occur in Purkinje cells of patients with multiple sclerosis and in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis as a result of neuroinflammation. mGlu1 receptors are required for cerebellar motor learning associated with the conditioned eyeblink reflex. We propose that the delayed paradigm of the eyeblink conditioning might be particularly valuable for the detection of subtle abnormalities of cerebellar motor learning that are clinically silent and are not associated with demyelinating lesions or axonal damage. In addition, the test might have predictive value following a clinically isolated syndrome, and might be helpful for the evaluation of the efficacy of drug treatment in multiple sclerosis.
We review areas of overlap between nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK; nm23) and two proteins manifesting an equivalent diversity of action, each with many thousands of publications. The first is a constitutively active protein kinase, CK2 (formerly casein kinase 2), that includes NDPK amongst its hundreds of targets. The second is an enigmatic member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family of membrane pumps that normally hydrolyse ATP to transport substrates. Yet our unusual family member (ABCC7) is not a pump but, uniquely, acts as a regulated anion channel. ABCC7 is the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), and we discuss the highly prevalent CFTR mutation (F508del CFTR) in terms of the uncertainties surrounding the molecular basis of cystic fibrosis that cloud approaches to corrective therapy. Using lysates from cells stably expressing either wild-type or F508del CFTR, incubated with the CK2 substrate GTP, we show that the phosphoproteome of F508del CFTR-expressing cells both differs from wild-type CFTR-expressing cells and is significantly enhanced in intensity by 1.5-fold (p&lt;0.05, paired t test with Bonferroni correction, n=4). Phosphorylation is about 50% attenuated with a specific CK2 inhibitor. We propose that a new function may exist for the CFTR region that is commonly mutated, noting that its sequence (PGTIKENIIF(508)GVSYDEYRYR) is not only highly conserved within the C sub-family of ABC proteins but also a related sequence is found in NDPK. We conclude that a latent path may exist between mutation of this conserved sequence, CK2 hyperactivity and disease pathogenesis that might also explain the heterozygote advantage for the common F508del CFTR mutant.
We develop a general likelihood-based framework for use in the estimation of neural firing rates, which is designed to choose the temporal smoothing parameters that maximize the likelihood of missing data. This general framework is algorithm-independent and thus can be applied to a multitude of established methods for firing rate or conditional intensity estimation. As a simple example of the use of the general framework, we apply it to the peristimulus time histogram and kernel smoother, the methods most widely used for firing rate estimation in the electrophysiological literature and practice. In doing so, we illustrate how the use of the framework can employ the general point process likelihood as a principled cost function and can provide substantial improvements in estimation accuracy for even the most basic of rate estimation algorithms. In particular, the resultant kernel smoother is simple to implement, efficient to compute, and can accurately determine the bandwidth of a given rate process from individual spike trains. We perform a simulation study to illustrate how the likelihood framework enables the kernel smoother to pick the bandwidth parameter that best predicts missing data, and we show applications to real experimental spike train data. Additionally, we discuss how the general likelihood framework may be used in conjunction with more sophisticated methods for firing rate and conditional intensity estimation and suggest possible applications.
We propose a new estimation method for the characterization of the Hodgkin-Huxley formalism. This method is an alternative technique to the classical estimation methods associated with voltage clamp measurements. It uses voltage clamp type recordings, but is based on the differential evolution algorithm. The parameters of an ionic channel are estimated simultaneously, such that the usual approximations of classical methods are avoided and all the parameters of the model, including the time constant, can be correctly optimized. In a second step, this new estimation technique is applied to the automated tuning of neuromimetic analog integrated circuits designed by our research group. We present a tuning example of a fast spiking neuron, which reproduces the frequency-current characteristics of the reference data, as well as the membrane voltage behavior. The final goal of this tuning is to interconnect neuromimetic chips as neural networks, with specific cellular properties, for future theoretical studies in neuroscience.
Astrocytes contribute to a variety of functions in the brain, including homeostasis, synapse formation, plasticity, and metabolism. Astrocyte dysfunction may disrupt their normal role, including neuronal support, thereby contributing to neurodegenerative pathologies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). To understand the role of astrocytes in the pathogenesis of age-related disorders, we isolated astrocytes by laser capture microdissection, using glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as a marker, and characterized the astrocyte transcriptome at different Braak neurofibrillary tangle stages in postmortem temporal cortex samples derived from the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS) cohort, using microarray analysis. The largest number of significant, differentially expressed genes were identified when the expression profile of astrocytes from isocortical stages of neurofibrillary tangle pathology (Braak stages V-VI) were compared with entorhinal stages (Braak stages I-II). Dysregulation of genes associated with the actin cytoskeleton, proliferation, apoptosis, and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis occurred at low Braak stages, while altered regulation of intracellular signaling pathways, including insulin, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways were primarily associated with high levels of Alzheimer-type pathology, and occurred at lower Braak stages in individuals with the APOE4 allele. Our findings implicate astrocyte dysfunction in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative pathology in the aging brain, and provide a basis for future candidate studies based on specific pathways.
Using a range of tests we have studied alterations in behavior with advancing age in female C57BL/6 (of Jackson origin), the golden standard on which most genetically engineered mice are back-crossed. In parallel, growth and survival data were collected. In a protected environment the 90% and 75% cohort survival age was 20 and 25 months, respectively, and the 50% cohort survival was 32 months. In mice, body weight increases continuously until 15-20 months of age, while in advanced age whole body weight drops. The body mass loss in senescence is associated with emergence of other aged phenotype features such as kyphosis, balding and loss of fur-color. Our behavioral data show that aging modulates certain aspects of basic behavior in a continuous manner, like explorative and locomotor activities. Advanced age associates with an acceleration of behavioral impairments evident in most of the tests used, including motor skill acquisition and memory consolidation. However, certain domains of mouse behavior were well preserved also in advanced age such as thermal noxious threshold and working memory as assessed by an object recognition task. The decreased drive to explore is suggested to be a key factor underlying many aspects of reduced performance including cognitive capacity during aging. Behavioral aging affects genetically closely related individuals housed under strictly standardized conditions differentially (Collier, T.J., Coleman, P.D., 1991. Divergence of biological and chronological aging: evidence from rodent studies. Neurobiol. Aging, 12, 685-693; Ingram, D.K., 1988. Motor performance variability during aging in rodents. Assessment of reliability and validity of individual differences. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci., 515, 70-96). Consistent with this a subpopulation of the 28-month-old mice showed an explorative activity similar to young-adult mice and a significantly stronger preference for a novel object than aged mice with a less explorative behavior. Thus, subtle environmental factors and epigenetic modifications may be important modulators of aging.
Lafora disease (LD) is the inherited progressive myoclonus epilepsy caused by mutations in either EPM2A gene, encoding the protein phosphatase laforin or the NHLRC1 gene, encoding the ubiquitin ligase malin. Since malin is an ubiquitin ligase and its mutations cause LD, it is hypothesized that improper clearance of its substrates might lead to LD pathogenesis. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that neuronatin is a novel substrate of malin. Malin interacts with neuronatin and enhances its degradation through proteasome. Interestingly, neuronatin is an aggregate prone protein, forms aggresome upon inhibition of cellular proteasome function and malin recruited to those aggresomes. Neuronatin is found to stimulate the glycogen synthesis through the activation of glycogen synthase and malin prevents neuronatin-induced glycogen synthesis. Several LD-associated mutants of malin are ineffective in the degradation of neuronatin and suppression of neuronatin-induced glycogen synthesis. Finally, we demonstrate the increased levels of neuronatin in the skin biopsy sample of LD patients. Overall, our results indicate that malin negatively regulates neuronatin and its loss of function in LD results in increased accumulation of neuronatin, which might be implicated in the formation of Lafora body or other aspect of disease pathogenesis.
Substance P (SP), a neuropeptide member of the tachykinin (TK) family, has a functional role both in physiological and pathological conditions, including Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis disease. One hypothesis of the selective motor neuron death in ALS involves the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, because these neurons are extremely susceptible to excessive stimulation of AMPA receptors. It has been reported that SP exerts its action against a variety of insults including excitotoxicity, and that altered levels of SP have been observed in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with ALS. Here we have analyzed the interaction between SP and AMPA receptor functionality, both in Control cortical neurons in culture and in those obtained from a genetic mouse model of ALS (G93A). Our studies demonstrate that SP reduces the kainate-activated currents in Control and G93A neurons and that this reduction is significantly higher in the mutated neurons. SP effect is mediated by its receptor NK1 because GR 82334 (5 M), a NK1 competitive antagonist, is able to suppress the current reduction. Analysis of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in Control and G93A neurons indicates that SP (200 nM) is able to significantly decrease the mEPSC amplitudes in G93A neurons, whereas it is ineffective on Control mEPSCs. Western blotting experiments in cultures and cortical tissues show a higher NK1 expression level in G93A mice compared to that of Control. This is also confirmed by immunocytochemistry experiments in cultured neurons. In addition, the amount of GluR1 subunit AMPA receptors is not modified following SP exposure, indicating a non internalization of the AMPA receptors. Finally, toxicity experiments have revealed that SP is able to rescue G93A cortical cells whereas it is ineffective on those of Control. These findings provide the first evidence of SP having a physiological and protective role in the G93A mouse model of ALS, and may suggest the possible use of SP as a clinical therapeutic treatment.
Weight loss is the most important non-neurological complication of Huntington's disease (HD). It correlates with disease progression and affects the quality of life of HD patients, suggesting that it could be a valuable target for therapeutic intervention. The mechanism underlying weight loss in HD is unknown. Mutant huntingtin, the protein that causes the disease, is not only expressed in the brain, but also along the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Here we demonstrate that the GI tract of HD mice is affected. At the anatomical level we observed loss of enteric neuropeptides, as well as decreased mucosal thickness and villus length. Exploring the functions of the GI system we found impaired gut motility, diarrhea, and malabsorption of food. The degree of malabsorption was inversely associated with body weight, suggesting that GI dysfunction plays an important role in weight loss in HD mice. In summary, these observations suggest that the GI tract is affected in HD mice and that GI dysfunction contributes to nutritional deficiencies and weight loss.
Understanding of the role of insulin in the brain has gradually expanded, from initial conceptions of the brain as insulin-insensitive through identification of a role in regulation of feeding, to recent demonstration of insulin as a key component of hippocampal memory processes. Conversely, systemic insulin resistance such as that seen in type 2 diabetes is associated with a range of cognitive and neural deficits. Here we review the evidence for insulin as a cognitive and neural modulator, including potential effector mechanisms, and examine the impact that type 2 diabetes has on these mechanisms in order to identify likely bases for the cognitive impairments seen in type 2 diabetic patients.
We report an individual with a massive left-hemisphere lesion, who showed reverse patterns of dissociations between word and number processing in two modalities (auditory comprehension and written production). His performance in auditory comprehension was perfect for words, but severely impaired for numbers. In written production, he performed significantly better at writing numbers (both Arabic numbers and word numbers) than writing words. His visual comprehension fell into normal range for words and numbers while his oral production was at floor for both. This case profile adds further evidence to the functional/neural segregation of word and number processing systems.
MicroRNAs (miRs), endogenous small RNAs, regulate gene expression through repression of translational activity after binding to target mRNAs. miRs are involved in various cellular processes including differentiation, metabolism, and apoptosis. Furthermore, possible involvement of miRs in neuronal function have been proposed. For example, miR-132 is closely related to neuronal outgrowth while miR-134 plays a role in postsynaptic regulation, suggesting that brain-specific miRs are critical for synaptic plasticity. On the other hand, numerous studies indicate that BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), one of the neurotrophins, is essential for a variety of neuronal aspects such as cell differentiation, survival, and synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system (CNS). Interestingly, recent studies, including ours, suggest that BDNF exerts its beneficial effects on CNS neurons via up-regulation of miR-132. Here, we present a broad overview of the current knowledge concerning the association between neurotrophins and various miRs.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by striatal neurodegeneration, involving apoptosis. FK506, an inhibitor of calcineurin (or protein phosphatase 3, formerly known as protein phosphatase 2B), has shown neuroprotective effects in several cellular and animal models of HD. In the present study, we show the protective effects of FK506 in two striatal HD models, primary rat striatal neurons treated with 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) and immortalized striatal STHdh cells derived from HD knock-in mice expressing normal (STHdh(7/7)) or full-length mutant huntingtin (FL-mHtt) with 111 glutamines (STHdh(111/111)), under basal conditions and after exposure to 3-NP or staurosporine (STS). In rat striatal neurons, FK506 abolished 3-NP-induced increase in caspase-3 activation, DNA fragmentation/condensation and necrosis. Nevertheless, in STHdh(111/111) cells under basal conditions, FK506 did not prevent, in a significant manner, the release of cytochrome c and apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria, or alter Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, but significantly reverted caspase-3 activation. In STHdh(111/111) cells treated with 0.3mM 3-NP or 25 nM STS, linked to high necrosis, exposure to FK506 exerted no significant effects on caspase-3 activation. However, treatment of STHdh(111/111) cells exposed to 10nM STS with FK506 effectively prevented cell death by apoptosis and moderate necrosis. The results suggest that FK506 may be neuroprotective against apoptosis and necrosis under mild cell death stimulus in the presence of FLmHtt.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. Mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) are a frequent cause of recessive PD. Autophagy, a pathway for clearance of protein aggregates or impaired organelles, is a newly identified mechanism for PD development. However, it is still unclear what molecules regulate autophagy in PINK1-silenced cells. Here we report that autophagosome formation is promoted in the early phase in response to PINK1 gene silencing by lentivirus transfer vectors expressed in mouse striatum. Reduced PP2A activity and increased phosphorylation of PP2A at Y307 (inactive form of PP2A) were observed in PINK1-knockdown dopaminergic cells and striatum tissues. Treatment with C2-ceramide (an agonist of PP2A) reduced autophagy levels in PINK1-silenced MN9D cells, which suggests that PP2A plays an important role in the PINK1-knockdown-induced autophagic pathway. Furthermore, phosphorylation of Bcl-2 at S87 increased in PINK1-silenced cells and was negatively regulated by additional treatment with C2-ceramide, which indicates that Bcl-2 may be downstream of PP2A inactivation in response to PINK1 dysfunction. Immunoprecipitation also revealed dissociation of the Bcl-2/Beclin1 complex in PINK1-silenced cells, which was reversed by additional treatment with C2-ceramide, and correlated with changes in level of autophagy and S87 phosphorylation of Bcl-2. Finally, Western blots for cleaved caspase-9 and flow cytometry results for active caspase-3 revealed that PP2A inactivation is involved in the protective effect of autophagy on PINK1-silenced cells. Our findings show that downregulation of PP2A activity in PINK1-silenced cells promotes the protective effect of autophagy through phosphorylation of Bcl-2 at S87 and blockage of the caspase pathway. These results may have implications for identifying the mechanism of PD.
Spinal cord injury (SCI), depending on the severity of injury, leads to neurological dysfunction and paralysis. Methylprednisolone, the only currently available therapy renders limited protection in SCI. Therefore, other therapeutic agents must be tested to maximize neuroprotection and functional recovery. Previous data from our laboratory indicate that estrogen (17-estradiol) at a high dose may attenuate multiple damaging pathways involved in SCI and improve locomotor outcome. Since use of high dose estrogen may have detrimental side effects and therefore may never be used in the clinic, the current study investigated the efficacy of this steroid hormone at very low doses in SCI. In particular, we tested the impact of dosing (1-10 g/kg), mode of delivery (intravenous vs. osmotic pump), and delay in estrogen application (15 min-4 h post-SCI) on microgliosis and neuronal death in acute SCI in rats. Treatment with 17-estradiol (1-10 g/kg) significantly reduced microglial activation and also attenuated apoptosis of neurons compared to untreated SCI animals. The attenuation of cell death and inflammation by estrogen was observed regardless of mode and time of delivery following injury. These findings suggest estrogen as a potential agent for the treatment of individuals with SCI.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle responsible for correct folding and sorting of proteins contributing to neurogenesis and neuronal cell death. We used rapid kindling to analyze specific ER stress marker expression underlying focal epileptogenesis. Seven-week-old rats were divided into three groups: sham (n = 6), partially kindled (n = 8), and over-kindled rats (n = 9). Over kindled rats received over100 stimuli. Partially kindled animals had stimuli halted at stage 2. Protein from ipsilateral hippocampus was electrophoresed on SDS-PAGE, followed by hybridization with primary antibodies, anti-KDEL (-Lys-Asp-Glu-coo-), Bcl-2, BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), CHOP (C/EBP-homolog protein), C/EBP (CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein), NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate; -R1 &amp;2A), GluR1 (glutamate receptor), and -tubulin. Western blotting revealed that the ER stress marker BiP (immunoglobulin heavy chain-binding protein) was markedly increased in both partially- and over-kindled groups. BiP expression was ninefold greater than control in partially kindling while twofold greater than control in over-kindled animals. Although ER stress response was accelerated, CHOP expression, which upregulates when apoptosis signaling is accelerated by ER stress, was suppressed. Bcl-2, which acts as an anti-apoptotic molecule, was upregulated in the over-kindled group. Remarkable elevation of BiP was found in partially kindled animals, but not in over-kindled. Over-kindled rats had spontaneous generalized seizure, while partially kindled ones had only partial seizures. Elevation of markers of ER stress in partial seizures might reflect transfer of discharge to contralateral limbic structures. We observed indications of functional changes and neurogenesis in limbic structure during kindling. Widespread indications of functional changes in several membrane and secreted proteins, including NMDA-R1 &amp; R2A and BDNF, for mossy fiber re-construction on the CA3 area, which are related to protein synthesis in the ER, may be important in epileptogenesis.
Evaluating early changes in cerebral metabolism in hydrocephalus can help in the decision making and the timing of surgical intervention. This study was aimed at examining the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle rate and (13)C label incorporation into neurotransmitter amino acids and other compounds 2 weeks after rats were subjected to kaolin-induced progressive hydrocephalus. In vivo and ex vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), combined with the infusion of [1,6-(13)C]glucose, was used to monitor the time courses of (13)C label incorporation into the different carbon positions of glutamate in the forebrains of rats with hydrocephalus as well as in those of controls. Metabolic rates were determined by fitting the measured data into a one-compartment metabolic model. The TCA cycle rate was 1.3  0.2 moles/gram/minute in the controls and 0.8  0.4 moles/gram/minute in the acute hydrocephalus group, the exchange rate between -ketoglutarate and glutamate was 4.1  2.5 moles/gram/minute in the controls and 2.7  2.6 moles/gram/minute in the hydrocephalus group calculated from in vivo MRS. There were no statistically significant differences between these rates. Hydrocephalus caused a decrease in the amounts of glutamate, alanine and taurine. In addition, the concentration of the neuronal marker N-acetyl aspartate was decreased. (13)C Labelling of most amino acids derived from [1,6-(13)C]glucose was unchanged 2 weeks after hydrocephalus induction. The only indication of astrocyte impairment was the decreased (13)C enrichment in glutamine C-2. This study shows that hydrocephalus causes subtle but significant alterations in neuronal metabolism already early in the course of the disease. These sub-lethal changes, however, if maintained and if ongoing might explain the delayed and programmed neuronal damage as seen in chronic hydrocephalus.
Tyrosine kinase receptors TrkB and TrkC mediate neuroprotective effects of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophins in the dopaminergic nigro-striatal system, but it is obscure about their responses or expression changes in the injured substantia nigra under Parkinson's disease. In present study, immunofluorescence, Fluoro-Jade staining and laser scanning confocal microscopy were applied to investigate distribution and changes of TrkB and TrkC in the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra by comparison of control and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model. It revealed that TrkB and TrkC-immunoreactivities were substantially localized in cytoplasm and cell membrane of the substantia nigra neurons of control adults. While neurons double-labeled with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)/TrkB, or TH/TrkC were distributed in a large numbers in the substantia nigra of controls, they apparently went down at 36.2-65.7% of normal level, respectively following MPTP insult. In MPTP model, cell apoptosis or degeneration of nigral neurons were confirmed by caspase-3 and Fluoro-Jade staining. More interestingly, TH/TrkB-positive neurons survived more in cell numbers in comparison with that of TH/TrkC-positive ones in the MPTP model. This study has indicated that TrkB-containing dopamine neurons are less sensitive in the substantia nigra of MPTP mouse model, suggesting that specific organization of Trks may be involved in neuronal vulnerability to MPTP insult, and BDNF-TrkB signaling may play more important role in protecting dopamine neurons and exhibit therapeutic potential for Parkinson's disease.
The hypothesis that gap junctions are implicated in facilitating axonal conduction has not yet been experimentally demonstrated at the electrophysiological level. We found that block of gap junctions with oleammide slows down axonal conduction velocity in the hippocampal Schaffer collaterals, a central myelinated pathway. Moreover, we explored the possibility that support by the oligodendrocyte to the axon involves energy metabolism, a hypothesis that has been recently proposed by some of us. In agreement with this hypothesis, we found that the effect of oleammide was reversed by pretreatment with creatine, a compound that is known to increase the energy charge of the tissue. Moreover, conduction velocity was also slowed down by anoxia, a treatment that obviously decreases the energy charge of the tissue, and by ouabain, a compound that blocks plasma membrane Na/K-ATPase, the main user of ATP in the brain. We hypothesize that block of gap junctions slows down conduction velocity in central myelinated pathways because oligodendrocytes synthesize ATP and transfer it to the axon through gap junctions.

Rapid advance in medical technology has resulted in the availability of numerous tests and treatment strategies in the management of acute stroke. The increasingly evidence-based context of clinical medicine necessitates that clinicians use only appropriate tools to facilitate the diagnostic process and patient management. In this review, we seek to explore the use of computed tomography angiography (CTA) in the diagnosis and management of patients presenting with acute stroke (ischemic and hemorrhagic) or transient ischemic attack (TIA). We present evidence in favor of the use of CTA, highlight the disadvantages of this imaging modality, and present a heuristic model based on our experience at utilizing CTA for decision making in acute stroke and TIAs.

To investigate gender differences in brain perfusion, this study utilized pulsed arterial spin-labeling magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a large number of healthy children. Data on structural and perfusion MRI in the brain were collected from 202 healthy children aged 5-18 years. Gender differences in brain perfusion using partial volume correction (PVC), which was calculated by dividing the normalized perfusion MRI by the normalized gray-matter segments, were analyzed by applying voxel-based analysis and region-of-interest (ROI) analysis. Girls showed significantly higher brain perfusion with PVC in the bilateral medial aspect of the parietal lobes, including the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus, as compared to boys using voxel-based analysis. In addition, brain perfusion with PVC in the bilateral posterior cingulate cortex, bilateral precuneus, and left thalamus was significantly higher in girls than in boys in the ROI analysis. In contrast, no regions were seen in which boys exhibited higher brain perfusion with PVC than girls in both analyses. The findings showed significant differences between boys and girls in brain perfusion with PVC, and these differences may contribute to gender differences in the cognitive ability of healthy children.
We recently suggested that serotonin 7 (5-Ht7) receptors may play a role in ADHD-like symptoms, at least in animal models. A mixed 5-Ht(1a/7) agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, counteracted the augmented levels of basal impulsivity, observed after treatment with a selective 5-Ht7 antagonist, SB269970 (Leo et al., 2009). In the present study, these serotonergic compounds were investigated by pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) at 4.7 T in adult isoflurane-anaesthetized rats. Axial echo-planar images were collected from the prefrontal cortex (PFC), ventral (nucleus accumbens, NAcc) and dorsal (dStr) striata, the hippocampus and the thalamus. After consecutive image collection for 30 min (50 baseline images), adult rats received either SB269970 (3mg/kg), 8-OH-DPAT (0.06 mg/kg) or saline intra-peritoneally (i.p.) via a remote cannula; the images were then collected for further 30 min (50 post-treatment images). Data were analysed 1) through an activation map generated on brain templates, obtained by using animals from each experimental group; 2) by a two-way ANOVA for the evaluation of temporal profiles, extracted within selected ROIs of each animal. Both compounds increased the BOLD signal in the areas of interest: SB269970, the selective 5-Ht7 antagonist, induced a significant effect in the PFC, particularly the orbital (oPFC) region, and in the NAcc. This effect started 6 to 12 min after drug administration, reached a maximum (+2.8%/+2.3%) at 12 to 18 min, and then moved to the dorsal thalamic nuclei. In contrast, the effects of 8-OH-DPAT were first observed in midline thalamic nuclei, and later appeared in forebrain regions: its effects were modest and transient within the NAcc and oPFC (+1.7% at 18 to 24 min after injection), whereas they were higher and long-lasting in the dStr and PFC, specifically the medial (mPFC) region (+3.1%/+4.0% from 15 min after drug administration onwards). The brain BOLD changes, reported as a consequence of selective 5-Ht7 antagonist administration, seemed restricted to the oPFC, NAcc and dorso-thalamic circuits, whereas the non-selective blockade of serotonergic receptors affected the mPFC, dStr and mid(line)-thalamic circuitry. The present findings revealed two differential serotonergic sub-pathways, as evidenced by the detection of physiological vascular feedback and/or neuronal activation.
Behavioral studies have long shown that humans solve problems in two ways, one intuitive and fast (System 1, model-free), and the other reflective and slow (System 2, model-based). The neurobiological basis of dual process problem solving remains unknown due to challenges of separating activation in concurrent systems. We present a novel neuroeconomic task that predicts distinct subjective valuation and updating signals corresponding to these two systems. We found two concurrent value signals in human prefrontal cortex: a System 1 model-free reinforcement signal and a System 2 model-based Bayesian signal. We also found a System 1 updating signal in striatal areas and a System 2 updating signal in lateral prefrontal cortex. Further, signals in prefrontal cortex preceded choices that are optimal according to either updating principle, while signals in anterior cingulate cortex and globus pallidus preceded deviations from optimal choice for reinforcement learning. These deviations tended to occur when uncertainty regarding optimal values was highest, suggesting that disagreement between dual systems is mediated by uncertainty rather than conflict, confirming recent theoretical proposals.
Emotions are often understood in relation to conditioned responses. Narrative emotions, however, cannot be reduced to a simple associative relationship between emotion words and their experienced counterparts. Intensity in stories may arise without any overt emotion depicting words and vice versa. In this fMRI study we investigated BOLD responses to naturally fluctuating emotions evoked by listening to a story. The emotional intensity profile of the text was found through a rating study. The validity of this profile was supported by heart rate variability (HRV) data showing a significant correspondence across participants between intensity ratings and HRV measurements obtained during fMRI. With this ecologically valid stimulus we found that narrative intensity was accompanied by activation in temporal cortices, medial geniculate nuclei in the thalamus and amygdala, brain regions that are all part of the system for processing conditioned emotional responses to auditory stimuli. These findings suggest that this system also underpins narrative emotions in spite of their complex nature. Traditional language regions and premotor cortices were also activated during intense parts of the story whereas orbitofrontal cortex was found linked to emotion with positive valence, regardless of level of intensity.
Attentional orienting can be modulated by stimulus-driven bottom-up as well as task-dependent top-down processes. In a recent study we investigated the interaction of both processes in a manual stimulus-response compatibility task. Whereas the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and the dorsal premotor cortex (dPMC) were involved in orienting towards the stimulus side facilitating congruent motor responses, the right temporoparietal junction (TPJ), right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) as well as the preSMA sustained top-down control processes involved in voluntary reorienting. Here we used dynamic causal modelling to investigate the contributions and task-dependent interactions between these regions. Thirty-six models were tested, all of which included bilateral IPS, dPMC and primary motor cortex (M1) as a network transforming visual input into motor output as well as the right TPJ, right DLPFC and the preSMA as task-dependent top-down regions influencing the coupling within the dorsal network. Our data showed the right temporoparietal junction to play a mediating role during attentional reorienting processes by modulating the inter-hemispheric balance between both IPS. Analysis of connection strength supported the proposed role of the preSMA in controlling motor responses promoting or suppressing activity in primary motor cortex. As the results did not show a clear tendency towards a role of the right DLPFC, we propose this region, against the usual interpretation of an inhibitory influence in stimulus-response compatibility tasks, to subserve generic monitoring processes. Our DCM study hence provides evidence for context-dependent top-down control of right TPJ and DLPFC as well as the preSMA in stimulus-response compatibility.
When faced with expanding brain lesions of unknown origin showing a ring-shaped enhancement on post-contrast imaging, we use definite criteria to direct further investigation and distinguish among a number of possible diagnostic hypotheses. However, a correct diagnosis may be difficult in some cases, especially when dealing with less frequent conditions. This is the case of actinomycosis, a highly treatable but insidious infection for which nowadays there may be a low level of attention. Brain localization is associated with a significant morbidity and may represent a true diagnostic pitfall. Here we report the difficulties encountered with a case of central nervous system actinomycosis.
There is increasing evidence for mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative disorders, although the exact role of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations in this process is unresolved. We investigated inherited and somatic mtDNA substitutions and deletions in Guam amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and parkinsonism-dementia (PD). Hypervariable segment 1 sequences of Chamorro mtDNA revealed that the odds ratio of a PD or ALS diagnosis was increased for individuals in the E1 haplogroup while individuals in the E2 haplogroup had decreased odds of an ALS or PD diagnosis. Once the disorders were examined separately, it became evident that PD was responsible for these results. When the entire mitochondrial genome was sequenced for a subset of individuals, the nonsynonymous mutation at nucleotide position 9080, shared by all E2 individuals, resulted in a significantly low odds ratio for a diagnosis of ALS or PD. Private polymorphisms found in transfer and ribosomal RNA regions were found only in ALS and PD patients in the E1 haplogroup. Somatic mtDNA deletions in the entire mtDNA genome were not associated with either ALS or PD. We conclude that mtDNA haplogroup effects may result in mitochondrial dysfunction in Guam PD and reflect Guam population history. Thus it is reasonable to consider Guam ALS and PD as complex disorders with both environmental prerequisites and small genetic effects.
Sporadic inclusion-body myositis (s-IBM) is a chronic progressive inflammatory myopathy leading to severe disability. It has been suggested that statins may benefit s-IBM patients based on their pleiotropic effects on autoimmunity and possible adverse influence of increased cholesterol on muscle pathological changes. We carried out a pilot, open-label trial to evaluate safety and tolerability of oral simvastatin in s-IBM patients. Fourteen patients were treated with 40 mg of simvastatin over 12 months. Primary outcome measures included the assessment tools proposed by International Myositis Outcome Assessment Collaborative Study group and the IBM-Functional Rating Scale. As additional data, we report the results obtained from muscle MRI, biopsy and oropharyngeal scintigraphy. Ten patients completed the trial and the treatment appeared safe and well tolerated. None of the patients showed a significant clinical improvement. Outcome measures used in this study proved to be valuable tools for global assessment of s-IBM patients. At present, we cannot recommend simvastatin as a treatment for s-IBM though our data may warrant a placebo-controlled study.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) is a principal mediator in pro-inflammatory processes that involve necrosis, apoptosis and proliferation. Experimental and clinical evidence demonstrate that peripheral nerve injury results in activation and morphological changes of microglial cells in the spinal cord. These adjustments occur in order to initiate an inflammatory cascade in response to the damage. Between the agents involved in this reaction, TNF- is recognized as a key player in this process as it not only modulates lesion formation, but also because it is suggested to induce nociceptive signals. Nowadays, even though the function of TNF- in inflammation and pain production seems to be generally accepted, diverse sources of literature point to different pathways and outcomes. In this review, we systematically searched and reviewed original articles from the past 10 years on animal models of peripheral nervous injury describing TNF- expression in neural tissue and pain behavior.
Low-grade gliomas are slow-growing tumors invading eloquent areas and white matter pathways. For many decades these tumors were considered inoperable because of their high tropism for eloquent areas. However, the young age of the patients and the inescapable anaplastic transformation have recently suggested more aggressive treatments. We analyzed the neurological and neuro-oncological outcome of 12 patients who underwent surgery fully awake for the resection of LGG, harboring eloquent areas. 10 right- and 2 left-handed patients underwent pre-operative assessment: Karnofsky Performance Status, Edinburgh Handedness Inventory Score; neuropsychological and neurophysiological evaluations, according to the tumor location. During surgery we performed: sensory-motor-evoked potentials, continuous electro-corticography and bipolar/monopolar cortico-subcortical mapping during neuropsychological tests. The resection rate was calculated with neuro-imaging elaboration software. No permanent post-operative deficits were reported; 2 patients improved after surgery. No impairment of cognitive functions was reported. The KPS improved in 8 patients and was steady in the others. The mean resection rate was 78.3%. The resection allowed the control of pre-operative seizures without increasing the drug intake. Awake surgery allowed a good resection rate despite the eloquent location of the tumors, without post-operative deficit. The neuropsychological outcome was unchanged after surgery. The resection seems to improve seizure control. All the patients came back to normal life and work. In conclusion, awake surgery is reliable and feasible in removal of LGG, even if invading the main eloquent areas and networks. All the patients experienced a normal life after surgery, without permanent deficits.
The purpose of this case report is to increase the knowledge about magnetic resonance spectrum of pyogenic abscesses of the brain. A 74-year-old woman presented with a left frontal lobe cystic mass, developed in the site of post-traumatic contusions after surgical evacuation of a subdural hematoma. MR imaging showed an ipsilateral mass lesion with a thin, regular rim of T1 high-intensity signal, T2 low-intensity signal, and gadolinium-enhancement. Diffusion-weighted imaging with measure of apparent diffusion coefficient value showed inhomogenous diffusion restriction in the lesion core. Perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI) demonstrated high relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) in both the lesion wall and perilesional area, with a maximal rCBV ratio (rCBV of the lesion/rCBV of the normal contralateral white matter) of 5.65 and 0.58, respectively. As a result, surgery and pathology showed a pyogenic abscess. Cultures grew were Providencia stuartii species. In conclusion, a pyogenic brain abscess from P. stuartii may show high rCBV at PWI, thus mimicking a necrotic tumour.


Induction of seizures by electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS) is amongst the most efficacious treatments for major depression. However, the working mechanism by which ECS exerts its antidepressant effects remains elusive. The galanin system is regulated by ECS in seizure-prone brain regions and has been shown to modulate depression-like behaviour. To further explore its potential role in the antidepressant effects of ECS the galanin system was investigated by in situ hybridisation and [(125)I]-galanin receptor binding during repeated ECS in the locus coeruleus, dorsal raphe and discrete nuclei of the hypothalamus. Adult mice were treated with ECS once daily for 14 consecutive days, a paradigm previously shown to exert antidepressant-like effects. Significant increases in galanin transcription were found in the locus coeruleus and dorsomedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. In addition, GalR2 mRNA levels in the ventro- and dorsomedial nuclei of the hypothalamus were upregulated whereas no GalR1 mRNA upregulation was observed. [(125)I]-galanin receptor binding was downregulated in the ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus and dorsal raphe. These data show that the galanin system is regulated by repeated ECS in brain regions involved in monoaminergic neurotransmission and stress modulation thus indicating a possible role of the galanin system in the therapeutic effects of ECS.
Postconditioning can be induced by a broad range of stimuli within minutes to days after an ischemic cerebral insult. A special form is elicited by pharmacological intervention called second pathophysiological stress. The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of low-dose (5 mg/kg) kainate postconditioning with onsets 0, 24 and 48 h after the ischemic insult on the hippocampal synaptic plasticity in a 2-vessel occlusion model in rat. The hippocampal function was tested by LTP measurements of Schaffer collateral-CA1 pyramidal cell synapses in acute slices and the changes in density of Golgi-Cox-stained apical dendritic spines. Postconditioning 0 and 24 h after ischemia was not protective, whereas 48-h-onset postconditioning resulted in the reappearance of a normal spine density (&gt;100,000 spines) 3 days after ischemia, in parallel with the long-term restoration of the damaged LTP function. Similar, but somewhat less effects were observed after 10 days. Our data clearly demonstrate the onset dependence of postconditioning elicited by a subconvulsant dose of kainate treatment in global ischemia, with restoration of the structural plasticity and hippocampal function.
Observations that N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) antagonists produce symptoms in humans that are similar to those seen in schizophrenia have led to the current hypothesis that schizophrenia might result from NMDA receptor hypofunction. Inhibition of D-amino acid oxidase (DAAO), the enzyme responsible for degradation of D-serine, should lead to increased levels of this co-agonist at the NMDA receptor, and thereby provide a therapeutic approach to schizophrenia. We have profiled some of the preclinical biochemical, electrophysiological, and behavioral consequences of administering potent and selective inhibitors of DAAO to rodents to begin to test this hypothesis. Inhibition of DAAO activity resulted in a significant dose and time dependent increase in D-serine only in the cerebellum, although a time delay was observed between peak plasma or brain drug concentration and cerebellum D-serine response. Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modeling employing a mechanism-based indirect response model was used to characterize the correlation between free brain drug concentration and D-serine accumulation. DAAO inhibitors had little or no activity in rodent models considered predictive for antipsychotic activity. The inhibitors did, however, affect cortical activity in the Mescaline-Induced Scratching model, produced a modest but significant increase in NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents in primary neuronal cultures from rat hippocampus, and resulted in a significant increase in evoked hippocampal theta rhythm, an in vivo electrophysiological model of hippocampal activity. These findings demonstrate that although DAAO inhibition did not cause a measurable increase in D-serine in forebrain, it did affect hippocampal and cortical activity, possibly through augmentation of NMDA receptor-mediated currents.
There is preclinical evidence supporting the finding that the GABA(B) receptor orthosteric agonist, baclofen, has significant effects on eating behavior suggesting the potential therapeutic application of this compound for the treatment of eating related disorders. However, the wide clinical use of baclofen might be limited by the appearance of sedative and motor impairment effects. The identification of positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of GABA(B) receptors represents a novel therapeutic approach to reduce the centrally-mediated adverse effects typical of the GABA(B) receptor orthosteric agonist. In the present work, we report the in vitro profile of a novel chemical structure, 2-{1-[2-(4-chlorophenyl)-5-methylpyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidin-7-yl]-2-piperidinyl}ethanol (CMPPE) identified by screening the GSK compound collection. CMPPE potentiates GABA-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding to membranes of human recombinant cell line and of rat brain cortex. GABA concentration-response curves (CRC) in the presence of fixed concentrations of CMPPE, in rat native tissue, revealed an increase of both the potency and maximal efficacy of GABA. A similar modulatory effect was observed in GABA(B) receptor-mediated activation of inwardly rectifying potassium channels in hippocampal neurons. CMPPE (30-100 mg/kg) and GS39783 (100 mg/kg) significantly decreased food consumption in rat without impairment on the animal locomotor activity. On the contrary, baclofen (2.5 mg/kg) decreased both food intake and motor performance. All together these findings confirm the role of GABA(B) system in controlling animal food intake and for the first time demonstrate that GABA(B) receptor PAMs may represent a novel pharmacological approach to treat eating disorders without unwanted sedative effects.
Voltage sensitivity has been demonstrated for some GPCRs. At the dopamine D(2S) receptor, this voltage sensitivity is agonist-specific; some agonists, including dopamine, exhibit decreased potency at depolarized potentials, whereas others are not significantly affected. In the present study, we examined some of the receptor-agonist interactions contributing to these differences, and investigated how dopamine D(2S) receptor voltage sensitivity affects clinically used dopamine agonists. GIRK channel activation in voltage-clamped Xenopus oocytes was used as readout of receptor activation. Structurally distinct agonists and complementary site-directed mutagenesis of the receptor's binding site were used to investigate the role of agonist-receptor interactions. We also confirmed that the depolarization-induced decrease of dopamine potency in GIRK activation is correlated by decreased binding of radiolabeled dopamine, and by decreased potency in G protein activation. In the mutagenesis experiments, a conserved serine residue as well as the conserved aspartate in the receptor's binding site were found to be important for voltage sensitive potency of dopamine. Furthermore, the voltage sensitivity of the receptor had distinct effects on different therapeutic D(2) agonists. Depolarization decreased the potency of several compounds, whereas for others, efficacy was reduced. For some agonists, both potency and efficacy were diminished, whereas for others still, neither parameter was significantly altered. The present work identifies some of the ligand-receptor interactions which determine agonist-specific effects of voltage at the dopamine D(2S) receptor. The observed differences between therapeutic agonists might be clinically relevant, and make them potential tools for investigating the roles of dopamine D(2) receptor voltage sensitivity in native tissue.
Leptin is a hormone that crosses the blood-brain barrier and regulates numerous CNS functions. The hippocampus in particular is an important site for leptin action. Indeed, leptin markedly influences excitatory synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity in this brain region. Recent studies indicate that leptin modulation of hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission is age-dependent however the cellular basis for this is unclear. Here we show that early in development leptin evokes a transient (P11-18) or persistent (P5-8) depression of synaptic transmission, whereas leptin evokes a long lasting increase (LTP) in synaptic strength in adulthood. The synaptic depressions induced by leptin required activation of NMDA receptor GluN2B subunits and the ERK signalling cascade. Conversely, leptin-induced LTP in adult was mediated by GluN2A subunits and involved PI 3-kinase dependent signalling. In addition, low-frequency stimulus (LFS)-evoked LTD occluded the persistent effects of leptin at P5-8 and vice versa. Similarly, synaptically-induced LTP occluded the persistent increase in synaptic transmission induced by leptin, indicating that similar expression mechanisms underlie leptin-induced LTD and LFS-induced LTD at P5-8, and leptin-induced LTP and HFS-induced LTP in adult. These findings have important implications for the role of leptin in hippocampal synaptic function during early neuronal development and in aging.
The dopaminergic system is known to modulate decision-making. As N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors strongly influence dopaminergic function, it is conceivable that the glutamatergic system is also involved in decision-making. We examined whether polymorphisms in the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor 2B subunit gene (GRIN2B) influence decision-making using the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). In total, 245 (n = 245, 127 female) healthy German students were included in the analysis. Two synonymous SNPs in exon 13, rs1806191 (H1178H) and rs1806201 (T888T) showed the strongest association with aspects of IGT performance. Females with a CC allele in rs1806201 made less use both of a win-stay strategy and demonstrated more exploratory behaviour during task execution. For rs1806191, we found a strong additive effect in usage of a win-stay strategy. This, partly sex-dependent, correlation of the win-stay/lose-shift behaviour with GRIN2B genotypes suggests that healthy individuals with certain GRIN2B variations respond differently to ambiguous conditions, possibly by altered perception of wins and losses. These findings underline the necessity to integrate the glutamatergic system when examining decision-making processes.
Acetazolamide is a potent inhibitor of the reversible hydration of CO(2) catalyzed by the enzyme carbonic anhydrase and is commonly used to increase cerebral blood flow e.g. in order to estimate cerebrovascular reserve. However it is not known whether acetazolamide may positively affect the excitability of neurons in the brain in vivo or cortical processing abilities. To test these possibilities we intravenously administered a low dose (7 mg/kg) acetazolamide to volunteers who performed a demanding visual signal detection task while undergoing whole brain electroencephalographic examinations. Two groups were tested twice on the same task, while receiving acetazolamide or a saline treatment in between the two sessions. Our data indicate that, while the control group showed a decrease in global gamma (30-49 Hz) power across sessions, with no correlation to performance, the acetazolamide group showed increased global gamma power that strongly related to their performance in the signal detection task. This was accompanied by a decrease in the early part of the event related potential in the control group, a decrease not seen in the acetazolamide group. There were no significant differences in blood pressure, ventilation rate, or heart rate between the two groups. It is possible that the differences between the groups, observed in this study, are related to the enhancing effect of acetazolamide on the nitric oxide generation catalyzed by carbonic anhydrase, or to other actions of acetazolamide, e.g. opening of Ca(2+) activated K(+) channels and inhibition of Ca(2+) channels.
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders remain common in the current era of effective antiretroviral therapy. However, the severity at presentation of these disorders has been reduced, and the typical manifestations have changed. A revision of the American Academy of Neurology (AAN) criteria has been made on this basis, and a revision of the analogous criteria by the American Psychiatric Association will be forthcoming in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)-5. This article compares the relevant sets of diagnostic criteria that will be employed. It is concluded that a greater degree of integration of the revised, HIV-specific AAN criteria for HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders with the criteria proposed for the DSM-5 would prove advantageous for research, clinical, educational and administrative purposes.
This article is a selective review of functional imaging investigations and brain stimulation studies addressing the neural mechanisms of recovery of stroke-associated aphasia. The imaging results show that aphasia recovery is associated with a complex pattern of brain reorganisation, involving both ipsilateral and contralateral brain regions, which is modulated by lesion size and site, time post-onset, type of training, and language task. The information provided by the imaging investigations needs to be integrated with the results of brain stimulation studies, in order to specify the most effective protocols in term of modality, locus and timing of stimulation. Further studies, using multiple imaging and neuromodulation approaches, are required to reach sound conclusions about the potential usefulness of brain stimulation approaches as an adjunct to aphasia rehabilitation.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative and progressive disease related to a gradual decline in cognitive functions such as memory, attention, perceptual-spatial abilities, language, and executive functions. Recent evidence has suggested that interventions promoting neural plasticity can induce significant cognitive gains especially in subjects at risk of or with mild AD. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) are non-invasive techniques that can induce significant and long-lasting changes in focal and non-focal neuroplasticity. In this review, we present initial preliminary evidence that TMS and tDCS can enhance performance in cognitive functions typically impaired in AD. Also, we reviewed the initial six studies on AD that presented early findings showing cognitive gains such as in recognition memory and language associated with TMS and tDCS treatment. In addition, we showed that TMS has also been used to assess neuroplasticity changes in AD supporting the notion that cortical excitability is changed in AD due to the neurodegenerative process. Due to the safe profile, cost of these tools, and initial clinical trials results, further studies are warranted in order to replicate and extend the initial findings of rTMS and tDCS as cognitive enhancers in AD. Further trials should explore different targets of stimulation along with different paradigms of stimulation including combination with behavioural interventions.
Neglect is a multifaceted, complex syndrome, in which patients fail to detect or respond to stimuli or parts thereof located contralesionally. Non-invasive brain stimulation by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) may not only be useful as diagnostic research tools to explore the pathophysiology of neglect, but also for ameliorating its symptoms. Current approaches for modulating neglect non-invasively are mainly based on the neurophysiological concept of interhemispheric inhibition, which suggests a pathological overactivation of the contralesional hemisphere due to reduced inhibitory influences from the lesioned one. Within this framework, non-invasive brain stimulation mainly aims to inhibit the contralesional hemisphere to allow for rebalancing the system. However, facilitatory protocols for enhancing the ipsilesional neural circuitry might also prove useful. In this review, we discuss the contribution of non-invasive brain stimulation to current pathological concepts of neglect, the promising results of the proof-of-principle studies currently available as well as the specific aspects to be systematically investigated before broader clinical trials may eventually suggest a routine clinical application.
Neuropsychological or cognitive rehabilitation has undergone a considerable theoretical and practical development as a specialised field of research and clinical application in its own right. Its possibilities of intervention have been considerably expanded after the abandonment of a wrong belief in the immutability of the central nervous system and the growing evidence in favour of the existence of a considerable degree of neuroplasticity even in the mature and aged brain. Modulation of synaptic transmission and synaptogenesis, the staple mechanism of neuroplasticity in development, maturation and learning, is also assumed by most to underlie functional recovery in the damaged central nervous system. In order to achieve a true scientific rationale for neurological and neuropsychological rehabilitation, it will be necessary to fully understand the actual overlaps and the actual differences between the mechanisms of repair and reorganisation after brain damage and those of physiological development and normal learning.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can generate an increase or a decrease of neuronal excitability, which can modulate cognition and behaviour. Transcranial magnetic stimulation-induced cortical changes have been shown to result in neural plasticity. Thus, TMS provides an important opportunity to gain more insight into the mechanisms responsible for the remarkable flexibility of the central nervous system. The aim of this review was to cover the topics that could be useful when using TMS in the cognitive rehabilitation field after brain damage. The basic TMS principles are introduced, together with the clinical application for diagnosis and prognosis, the biological aspects, and the use in cognitive neuroscience studies. Finally, several hypotheses are discussed to explain the likely mechanisms induced by TMS that favour the recovery of a function after brain damage and cause the adult brain to undergo plasticity. The possibility of non-invasively interacting with the functioning of the brain and its plasticity mechanisms - a possibility that may eventually lead to cognitive and behavioural modifications - opens new and exciting scenarios in the cognitive neurorehabilitation field.
Fronto-striatal loops play an important role action selection processes, especially when discordant sensory and contextual information has to be integrated to allow adequate selection of actions. Neurodegeneration weakens neural inter-connectivity, which compromises the precision of neural synchronization processes. Yet, it is widely unknown how far changes in the precision of neural synchronization processes are induced by only slight dysfunctions of striatal neural inter-connectivity and in how far such slight changes may affect action selection processes. We investigated these processes in a sample of 25 pre-HDs and case-matched controls in a modified Go/Nogo task, while assessing neural synchronization processes by means of phase-locking factors (PLFs) as derived from event-related potentials (ERPs). The results show that pre-HDs only encounter problems in response inhibition, when discordant contextual information and sensory input have to be integrated. No deficits were evident, when response inhibition can be based on more habitual stimulus-response mappings, i.e., when contextual and sensory information were congruent. While 'habitual' action selection is unaffected by changes in striatal structures influencing reliability of neural synchronization processes, efficient 'controlled' processes of action seem to be closely dependent upon highly reliable neural synchronization processes. The neurophysiological analysis suggests that especially pre-motor inhibition processes (Nogo-N2) are affected. This was most strongly reflected in a decline in the degree of phase-locking in the Nogo-N2 range. Deficits in pre-HDs seem to emerge as a consequence of phase-locking-behavioural decoupling. Of clinical interest, declines in the precision of phase-locking depended on the amount of the individual's mutant huntingtin exposure and predicted the probability of disease manifestation in the next five years. This suggests that phase-locking parameters may prove useful in future studies evaluating a possible function as a biomarker in Huntington's disease.
The brain's orienting response is a biologically primitive, yet critical cognitive function necessary for survival. Though based on a wide network of brain regions, the lateral prefrontal cortex and posterior hippocampus are thought to play essential roles. Indeed, damage to these regions results in abnormalities of the novelty P3 or P3a, an event-related potential (ERP) sign of the orienting response. Like other ubiquitous markers of orienting, such as the galvanic skin response, the P3a habituates when novel events are repeated. Here, we assessed habituation of the P3a in patients who had undergone unilateral anteromedial resection of the medial temporal lobe (AMTL), including the entire hippocampus, for relief of pharmacologically intractable epilepsy. Eight left- and 8 right-AMTL patients and 16 age- and education-matched controls heard frequent standard tones, infrequent targets (requiring reaction times) and equally infrequent, unique novel, environmental sounds. The novel sounds repeated 2 blocks after their first presentation. In controls, novel repetition engendered a reduction in P3a amplitude, but this was not the case in either left- or right-AMTL patients. We conclude that bilaterally intact hippocampi are necessary for the brain to appreciate that a repetition of a novel sound has occurred, perhaps due to disruptions in ipsilateral hippocampal-prefrontal pathways and/or between the left and right hippocampi.
Neglect patients are not aware of stimuli in the contralesional space. We aimed to simulate neglect-like behaviour in healthy participants, by asking them to orient their visuospatial attention in two conditions: non-hypnotic suggestion and post-hypnotic suggestion. Results showed that directing visuospatial attention to one side of space caused neglect of stimuli in the opposite side of space, but only when participants were under post-hypnotic suggestion. Furthermore, directing visuospatial attention to the right side of space caused more neglect of left-sided stimuli than directing visuospatial attention to the left side of space did for right-sided stimuli. We propose that post-hypnotic suggestion can be a useful tool for (de)activating neurocognitive mechanisms underlying visuospatial awareness, a function that is fundamental for our survival. The use of post-hypnotic suggestion could be applied to the study of many domains of cognitive neurosciences (e.g., neurocognitive rehabilitation).
The effect of age on tactile rod bisection is explored in an attempt to fully understand lateralized biases that are not driven by prior experience or visual processing. In Experiment 1, a total of 549 healthy participants aged between 3 and 84 years of age, divided into eight age groups, used touch alone without vision to bisect one wooden rod. Participants across all age groups, except those approaching or in adolescence, showed pseudoneglect on tactile rod bisection. In Experiment 2 a total of 72 healthy participants aged between 6 and 96 years old, divided into three age groups, used touch alone without vision to bisect three wooden rods of different length. Experiment 2 showed pseudoneglect across the full adult life span and most notably in the oldest participants. For the youngest participants there was not a significant pseudoneglect bias but there was a significant effect of gender with females showing greater leftward bias than males. When participants scanned and bisected the rods starting from the right-hand side, pseudoneglect was significantly enhanced; again this bias interacted with age. The results suggest that the right hemisphere exerts an early capacity to orient attention contralaterally and that this capacity continues in middle and older adulthood which is inconsistent with current models of cognitive ageing. The findings are discussed in terms of how the right hemisphere preferentially orients attention leftward in the absence of direct visuo-spatial processing across lifespan and how this may be modulated by variables like gender and starting position.
Musical training strengthens speech perception in the presence of background noise. Given that the ability to make use of speech sound regularities, such as pitch, underlies perceptual acuity in challenging listening environments, we asked whether musicians' enhanced speech-in-noise perception is facilitated by increased neural sensitivity to acoustic regularities. To this aim we examined subcortical encoding of the same speech syllable presented in predictable and variable conditions and speech-in-noise perception in 31 musicians and nonmusicians. We anticipated that musicians would demonstrate greater neural enhancement of speech presented in the predictable compared to the variable condition than nonmusicians. Accordingly, musicians demonstrated more robust neural encoding of the fundamental frequency (i.e., pitch) of speech presented in the predictable relative to the variable condition than nonmusicians. The degree of neural enhancement observed to predictable speech correlated with subjects' musical practice histories as well as with their speech-in-noise perceptual abilities. Taken together, our findings suggest that subcortical sensitivity to speech regularities is shaped by musical training and may contribute to musicians' enhanced speech-in-noise perception.
It has been proposed that reversal learning is impaired following damage to the orbitofrontal and ventromedial frontal cortex (OFC/VMFC) and to the medial temporal lobe (MTL), including the hippocampal formation. However, the exact characteristics of the MTL-associated reversal learning deficit are not known. To investigate this issue, we assessed 30 newly diagnosed patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and 30 matched healthy controls. All patients fulfilled the aMCI criteria of the Mayo Clinic Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and underwent head magnetic resonance imaging that confirmed MTL atrophy. Reversal learning was assessed using a novel reinforcement learning task. Participants first acquired and then reversed stimulus-outcome associations based on negative and positive feedback (losing and gaining points). Stimuli consisted of a cue (geometric shapes) and a spatial context (background color or pattern). Neuropsychological assessment included tasks related to the MTL (paired associates learning), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) (extradimensional shift, One-touch Stockings of Cambridge), and OFC/VMFC (Holiday Apartment Task). Results revealed that, relative to controls, patients with aMCI exhibited a marked reversal learning deficit, which was highly selective for the reversal of context. The acquisition of stimulus-outcome associations and cue reversal learning were spared. Performance on the context reversal learning task significantly correlated with the right hippocampal volume. In addition, patients with aMCI had deficits on tests related to DLPFC but not to OFC/VMFC. However, DLPFC dysfunctions were not associated with context reversal learning. These results suggest that MTL deficits in aMCI selectively affect context reversal learning when OFC/VMFC functions are spared. This deficit is not influenced by the valence of the outcome (positive or negative feedback) and by executive dysfunctions.
Parkinson's disease (PD) has been frequently associated with facial emotion recognition impairments, which could adversely affect the social functioning of those patients. Facial emotion recognition requires processing of the spatial relations between facial features, known as the facial configuration. Few studies, however, have investigated this ability in people with PD. We hypothesized that facial emotion recognition impairments in patients with PD could be accounted for by a deficit in configural processing. To assess this hypothesis, three tasks were proposed to 10 patients with PD and 10 healthy controls (HC): (i) a facial emotion recognition task with upright faces, (ii) a similar task with upside-down faces, to explore the face inversion effect, and (iii) a configural task to assess participants' abilities to detect configural modifications made on a horizontal or vertical axis. The results showed that when compared with the HC group, the PD group had impaired facial emotion recognition, in particular for faces expressing anger and fear, and exhibited reduced face inversion effect for these emotions. More importantly, the PD group's performance on the configural task to detect vertical modifications was lower than the HC group's. Taken together, these results suggest the presence of a configural processing alteration in patients with PD, especially for vertical, second-order information. Furthermore, configural performance was positively correlated with emotion recognition for anger, disgust, and fear, suggesting that facial emotion recognition could be related, at least partially, to configural processing.


The current study uses an extended access rat model of cocaine self-administration (5-h session per day, 14 days), which elicits several features manifested during the transition to human addiction, to study the neural adaptations associated with cocaine withdrawal. Given that the hippocampus is thought to have an important role in maintaining addictive behavior and appears to be especially relevant to mechanisms associated with withdrawal, this study attempted to understand how extended access to cocaine impacts the hippocampus at the cellular and molecular levels, and how these alterations change over the course of withdrawal (1, 14, and 28 days). Therefore, at the cellular level, we examined the effects of cocaine withdrawal on cell proliferation (Ki-67+ and NeuroD+ cells) in the DG. At the molecular level, we employed a 'discovery' approach with gene expression profiling in the DG to uncover novel molecules possibly implicated in the neural adaptations that take place during cocaine withdrawal. Our results suggest that decreased hippocampal cell proliferation might participate in the adaptations associated with drug removal and identifies 14 days as a critical time-point of cocaine withdrawal. At the 14-day time-point, gene expression profiling of the DG revealed the dysregulation of several genes associated with cell fate regulation, highlighting two new neurobiological correlates (Ascl-1 and Dnmt3b) that accompany cessation of drug exposure. Moreover, the results point to Fas-Associated protein with Death Domain (FADD), a molecular marker previously associated with the propensity to substance abuse and cocaine sensitization, as a key cell fate regulator during cocaine withdrawal. Identifying molecules that may have a role in the restructuring of the hippocampus following substance abuse provides a better understanding of the adaptations associated with cocaine withdrawal and identifies novel targets for therapeutic intervention.
The neural circuit linking the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the basolateral amygdala (BLA) has crucial roles in both the acquisition and the extinction of fear. However, the mechanism by which this circuit encodes fear and extinction remains unknown. In this study, we monitored changes in the magnitude of evoked field potentials (EFPs) in the mPFC-BLA and BLA-mPFC pathways following auditory fear conditioning and extinction, in freely moving rats. We report that extinction of fear is mediated by depression of the EFPs in the mPFC-BLA and by potentiation in the reciprocal pathway of BLA-mPFC. Interestingly, reinstatement of fear was associated with recovery of freezing and with reversal of the changes in EFPs that were observed following extinction in both pathways. The findings indicate that the mPFC-BLA circuit expresses differential changes following fear and extinction and point to dynamic and plastic changes underlying fear, extinction, and reinstatement. Manipulations targeting these different types of plasticity could constitute a therapeutic tool for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
The principal defining feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is memory impairment. As the transcription factor CREB (cAMP/Ca(2+) responsive element-binding protein) is critical for memory formation across species, we investigated the role of CREB in a mouse model of AD. We found that TgCRND8 mice exhibit a profound impairment in the ability to form a spatial memory, a process that critically relies on the dorsal hippocampus. Perhaps contributing to this memory deficit, we observed additional deficits in the dorsal hippocampus of TgCRND8 mice in terms of (1) biochemistry (decreased CREB activation in the CA1 region), (2) neuronal structure (decreased spine density and dendritic complexity of CA1 pyramidal neurons), and (3) neuronal network activity (decreased arc mRNA levels following behavioral training). Locally and acutely increasing CREB function in the CA1 region of dorsal hippocampus of TgCRND8 mice was sufficient to restore function in each of these key domains (biochemistry, neuronal structure, network activity, and most importantly, memory formation). The rescue produced by increasing CREB was specific both anatomically and behaviorally and independent of plaque load or A levels. Interestingly, humans with AD show poor spatial memory/navigation and AD brains have disrupted (1) CREB activation, and (2) spine density and dendritic complexity in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. These parallel findings not only confirm that TgCRND8 mice accurately model key aspects of human AD, but furthermore, suggest the intriguing possibility that targeting CREB may be a useful therapeutic strategy in treating humans with AD.
Despite significant evidence that opioids are involved in attachment by mediating social reward and motivation, the role of opioids in the formation of adult social attachments has not been explored. We used the socially monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) to explore the role of endogenous opioids in social bonding by examining partner preference formation in female prairie voles. We hypothesized that -opioid receptors (MORs) in the striatum have a critical role in partner preference formation. We therefore predicted that peripheral administration of an opioid receptor antagonist would inhibit partner preference formation, and more specifically, that -opioid selective receptor blockade within the striatum would inhibit partner preference formation. To test our hypotheses, we first administered the non-selective opioid antagonist naltrexone peripherally to females during an 18-h cohabitation with a male and later tested the female with a partner preference test (PPT). Females showed a dose schedule-dependent decrease in partner preference in the PPT, with females in the continuous dose group displaying stranger preferences. Next, we administered microinjections of the MOR selective antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP) into either the nucleus accumbens shell (NAS) or the caudate-putamen (CP) immediately before a 24-h cohabitation with a male, and later tested the female with a PPT. Females receiving CTAP into the CP, but not the NAS, showed no preference in the PPT, indicating an inhibition of partner preference formation. We show here for the first time that MORs modulate partner preference formation in female prairie voles by acting in the CP.
In the past few years, several experimental studies have suggested that empathy occurs in the social lives of rodents. Thus, rodent behavioral models can now be developed to elucidate the mechanistic substrates of empathy at levels that have heretofore been unavailable. For example, the finding that mice from certain inbred strains express behavioral and physiological responses to conspecific distress, while others do not, underscores that the genetic underpinnings of empathy are specifiable and that they could be harnessed to develop new therapies for human psychosocial impairments. However, the advent of rodent models of empathy is met at the outset with a number of theoretical and semantic problems that are similar to those previously confronted by studies of empathy in humans. The distinct underlying components of empathy must be differentiated from one another and from lay usage of the term. The primary goal of this paper is to review a set of seminal studies that are directly relevant to developing a concept of empathy in rodents. We first consider some of the psychological phenomena that have been associated with empathy, and within this context, we consider the component processes, or endophenotypes of rodent empathy. We then review a series of recent experimental studies that demonstrate the capability of rodents to detect and respond to the affective state of their social partners. We focus primarily on experiments that examine how rodents share affective experiences of fear, but we also highlight how similar types of experimental paradigms can be utilized to evaluate the possibility that rodents share positive affective experiences. Taken together, these studies were inspired by Jaak Panksepp's theory that all mammals are capable of felt affective experiences.
This essay provides an overview of evolutionary levels of consciousness, with a focus on a continuum of consciousness: from primarily affective to more advanced cognitive forms of neural processing-from anoetic (without knowledge) consciousness based on affective feelings, elaborated by brain networks that are subcortical- and can function without neocortical involvement, to noetic (knowledge based) and autonoetic (higher reflective mental) processes that permits conscious awareness. An abundance of such mind-brain linkages have been established using standard neuropsychological and brain-imaging procedures. Much of the characterization of human mental landscapes has been achieved with long accepted psychometric procedures that often do not adequately tap the lived anoetic experiential phenomenological aspects of mind. Without an understanding of affective based anoetic forms of consciousness, an adequate characterization of the human mind may never be achieved. A full synthesis will require us to view mental-experiential processes concurrently at several distinct neurophysiological levels, including foundational affective-emotional issues that are best probed with cross-species affective neuroscience strategies. This essay attempts to relate these levels of analysis to the neural systems that constitute lived experience in the human mind.
Six of the primary-process subcortical brain emotion systems - SEEKING, RAGE, FEAR, CARE, GRIEF and PLAY - are presented as foundational for human personality development, and hence as a potentially novel template for personality assessment as in the Affective Neurosciences Personality Scales (ANPS), described here. The ANPS was conceptualized as a potential clinical research tool, which would help experimentalists and clinicians situate subjects and clients in primary-process affective space. These emotion systems are reviewed in the context of a multi-tiered framing of consciousness spanning from primary affect, which encodes biological valences, to higher level tertiary (thought mediated) processing. Supporting neuroscience research is presented along with comparisons to Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory and the Five Factor Model (FFM). Suggestions are made for grounding the internal structure of the FFM on the primal emotional systems recognized in affective neuroscience, which may promote substantive dialog between human and animal research traditions. Personality is viewed in the context of Darwinian &quot;continuity&quot; with the inherited subcortical brain emotion systems being foundational, providing major forces for personality development in both humans and animals, and providing an affective infrastructure for an expanded five factor descriptive model applying to normal and clinical human populations as well as mammals generally. Links with ontogenetic and epigenetic models of personality development are also presented. Potential novel clinical applications of the CARE maternal-nurturance system and the PLAY system are also discussed.
A challenge for social-affective neuroscience programs is to identify simple and yet valid animal models for studying the expression of basic social emotions and their role during different developmental windows, from infancy to adulthood. For example, although laboratory rats are useful for studying juvenile social interactions, they are not ideal for studying infant attachment bonds. Here, we evaluate current understanding of the social behavior of Octodon degus, a diurnal precocial rodent, to elucidate the value of this species as a model for social-affective neuroscience research. After a synopsis of species-specific characteristics and brain susceptibility to changes of social environment, our behavioral findings on degu social proclivities are summarized. We then discuss why this pre-clinical model provides a valuable addition to the commonly available animal models for the study of human psychopathology.
Appetitive motivation and incentive states are essential functions sustained by a common emotional brain process, the SEEKING disposition, which drives explorative and approach behaviors, sustains goal-directed activity, promotes anticipatory cognitions, and evokes feelings of positive excitement which control reward-learning. All such functions are orchestrated by the same &quot;archetypical&quot; neural processes, activated in ancient subcortical areas and transported to the forebrain by the mesolimbic dopamine (ML-DA) system. In mammals, the neurophysiology of the SEEKING urge is expressed by DA-promoted high-frequency oscillations, in the form of transient and synchronized gamma waves (&gt;30Hz) emerging in limbic forebrain and diffusing throughout basal ganglia-thalamocortical (BG-T-C) circuits. These patterns may be considered basic &quot;SEEKING neurodynamic impulses&quot; which represent the primary-process exploratory disposition getting integrated with information relative to the external and the internal environment. Abnormal manifestation of SEEKING and its neural substrates are evident in clinical depression and addiction. Specifically, depression is characterized by reduced recruitment of SEEKING, while addictions reflect re-organizations of the SEEKING disposition around ultra-specific appetitive memories and compulsive activities.
Words such as cognition, motivation and emotion powerfully guide theory development and the overall aims and goals of behavioral neuroscience research. Once such concepts are accepted generally as natural aspects of the brain, their influence can be pervasive and long lasting. Importantly, the choice of conceptual terms used to describe and study mental/neural functions can also constrain research by forcing the results into seemingly useful 'conceptual' categories that have no discrete reality in the brain. Since the popularly named 'cognitive revolution' in psychological science came to fruition in the early 1970s, the term cognitive or cognition has been perhaps the most widely used conceptual term in behavioral neuroscience. These terms, similar to other conceptual terms, have potential value if utilized appropriately. We argue that recently the term cognition has been both overused and misused. This has led to problems in developing a usable shared definition for the term and to promotion of possible misdirections in research within behavioral neuroscience. In addition, we argue that cognitive-guided research influenced primarily by top-down (cortical toward subcortical) perspectives without concurrent non-cognitive modes of bottom-up developmental thinking, could hinder progress in the search for new treatments and medications for psychiatric illnesses and neurobehavioral disorders. Overall, linkages of animal research insights to human psychology may be better served by bottom-up (subcortical to cortical) affective and motivational 'state-control' perspectives, simply because the lower networks of the brain are foundational for the construction of higher 'information-processing' aspects of mind. Moving forward, rapidly expanding new techniques and creative methods in neuroscience along with more accurate brain concepts, may help guide the development of new therapeutics and hopefully more accurate ways to describe and explain brain-behavior relationships.
The affective foundations of depression and addictions are discussed from a cross-species - animal to human - perspective of translational psychiatric research. Depression is hypothesized to arise from an evolutionarily conserved mechanism to terminate protracted activation of separation-distress (PANIC/GRIEF) systems of the brain, a shutdown mechanism which may be in part mediated by down-regulation of dopamine based reward-SEEKING resources. This shutdown of the brain's core motivational machinery is organized by shifts in multiple peptide systems, particularly increased dynorphin (kappa opioids). Addictions are conceived to be primarily mediated by obsessive behaviors sustained by reward-SEEKING circuits in the case of psychostimulant abuse, and also powerful consummatory-PLEASURE responses in the case of opioid abuse, which in turn capture SEEKING circuits. Both forms of addiction, as well as others, eventually deplete reward-SEEKING resources, leading to a state of dysphoria which can only temporarily be reversed by drugs of abuse, thereby promoting a negative affect that sustains addictive cycles. In other words, the opponent affective process - the dysphoria of diminished SEEKING resources - that can be aroused by sustained over-arousal of separation-distress (PANIC/GRIEF) as well as direct pharmacological over-stimulation and depletion of SEEKING resources, may be a common denominator for the genesis of both depression and addiction. Envisioning the foundation of such psychiatric problems as being in imbalances of the basic mammalian emotional systems that engender prototype affective states may provide more robust translational research strategies, coordinated with, rather than simply focusing on, the underlying molecular dynamics. Emotional vocalizations might be one of the best ways to monitor the underlying affective dynamics in commonly used rodent models of psychiatric disorders.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) has traditionally been characterized by various psychological symptoms, involvement of diverse functional systems (e.g., somatic, affect, cognition, reward, etc.), and with progress in neuroscience, an increasing number of brain regions. This has led to the general assumption that MDD is a stress-responsive brain 'system disorder' where either one or several alterations infiltrate a large number of functional systems in the brain that control the organism's somatic, affective, and cognitive life. However, while the effects or consequences of the abnormal changes in the functional systems of, for instance affect, cognition or reward have been investigated extensively, the underlying core mechanism(s) underlying MDD remain unknown. Hypotheses are proliferating rapidly, though. Based on recent findings, we will entertain an abnormality in the resting-state activity in MDD to be a core feature. Based on both animal and human data, we hypothesize that abnormal resting-state activity levels may impact stimulus-induced neural activity in medially situated core systems for self-representation as well as external stimulus (especially stress, specifically separation distress) interactions. Moreover, due to nested hierarchy between subcortical and cortical regions, we assume 'highjacking' of higher cortical affective and cognitive functions by lower subcortical primary-process emotional systems. This may account for the predominance of negative affect in somatic and cognitive functional system operations with the consecutive generation of the diverse symptoms in MDD. We will here focus on the neuroanatomical and biochemical basis of resting-state abnormalities in MDD including their linkage to the diverse psychopathological symptoms in depression. However, our 'resting-state hypothesis' may go well beyond that by being sufficiently precise to be linked to genetic, social, immunological, and endocrine dimensions and hypotheses as well as to clinical dimensions like endophenotypes and various diagnostic-prognostic biomarkers. Taken together, our 'resting-state hypothesis' may be considered a first tentative framework for MDD that integrates translational data, the various dimensions, and subcortical-cortical systems while at the same time providing the link to the clinical level of symptoms, endophenotypes and biomarkers.
In mammals, rewarding properties of drugs depend on their capacity to activate appetitive motivational states. With the underlying mechanisms strongly conserved in evolution, invertebrates have recently emerged as a powerful new model in addiction research. In crayfish natural reward has proven surprisingly sensitive to human drugs of abuse, opening an unlikely avenue of research into the basic biological mechanisms of drug addiction. In a series of studies we first examined the presence of natural reward systems in crayfish, then characterized its sensitivity to a wide range of human drugs of abuse. A conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm was used to demonstrate that crayfish seek out those environments that had previously been paired with the psychostimulants cocaine and amphetamine, and the opioid morphine. The administration of amphetamine exerted its effects at a number of sites, including the stimulation of circuits for active exploratory behaviors (i.e., SEEKING). A further study examined morphine-induced reward, extinction and reinstatement in crayfish. Repeated intra-circulatory infusions of morphine served as a reward when paired with distinct visual or tactile cues. Morphine-induced CPP was extinguished after repeated saline injections. Following this extinction phase, morphine-experienced crayfish were once again challenged with the drug. The priming injections of morphine reinstated CPP at all tested doses, suggesting that morphine-induced CPP is unrelenting. In an exploration of drug-associated behavioral sensitization in crayfish we concurrently mapped measures of locomotion and rewarding properties of morphine. Single and repeated intra-circulatory infusions of morphine resulted in persistent locomotory sensitization, even 5 days following the infusion. Moreover, a single dose of morphine was sufficient to induce long-term behavioral sensitization. CPP for morphine and context-dependent cues could not be disrupted over a drug free period of 5 days. This work demonstrates that crayfish offer a comparative and complementary approach in addiction research. Serving as an invertebrate animal model for the exposure to mammalian drugs of abuse, modularly organized and experimentally accessible nervous systems render crayfish uniquely suited for studying (1) the basic biological mechanisms of drug effects, (2) to explore how the appetitive/seeking disposition is implemented in a simple neural system, and (3) how such a disposition is related to the rewarding action of drugs of abuse. This work aimed to contribute an evolutionary, comparative context to our understanding of a key component in learning, and of natural reward as an important life-sustaining process.
Jaak Panksepp has been a pioneer in the burgeoning field of affective neuroscience. His visionary research has inspired numerous students, colleagues and health professionals to aspire to understand the neurobiological underpinnings of emotions and their relationship to psychiatric disorders. Bowling Green State University was honored to host a celebration of Jaak and his considerable research accomplishments, and what follows is an abbreviated biography of his career in science.
The philosophical implications of Jaak Panksepp's affective neuroscience comprise a significant form of skepticism regarding our capacities as agents. This is clear in two ways. (1) Panksepp's methods of inquiry support a corollary to Dobzhansky's famous maxim concerning evolution: nothing in mammalian psychology makes sense except in light of ancient affective capacities shared by all mammals. The application of this maxim, I argue, raises informed doubts concerning our knowledge of our own capacities. (2) Against the backdrop of this maxim, Panksepp's substantive discoveries provide tentative confirmation of theories in psychology which raise doubts about our alleged capacity to give reasons for our actions. Taken together, Panksepp's methods and discoveries call into question the view we have of ourselves as free and responsible agents, while pointing us toward more-fruitful forms of inquiry concerning all our animal capacities, including our capacities for deliberation, choice, and action.

The question pursued in this study was when neural activity appears in the cortico-basal ganglia system that could predict alternate behavioral responses in a reaction time (RT) task. In this protocol, rats first performed a nose poke to initiate a trial, depressed a lever when presented, and then released the lever after a tone cue. Multiple-channel, single-unit recordings (up to 62 units) were obtained simultaneously from the prefrontal cortex, the dorsal medial striatum, the globus pallidus, and the substantia nigra pars reticulata in a single rat during a session. Results indicated that (1) global alterations of neural activity appeared in clusters, which was associated with different behavioral components and observed in each of the targeted areas; (2) small independent subsets of neurons responded differently between error (lever was released before tone presentation) and correct trials (lever was released within 0.5s after tone onset) during these behavioral episodes; (3) significant correlations between RTs and single units activities were found in the early preparation phases of the task. The results reveal that complex early preparatory activity exists several seconds before the final movements in a RT task, which may determine executive functions leading to rapid decoding of alternate behavioral performances.







Down syndrome (DS) is one of the most common survivable chromosomal disorders, and is well known to be associated with multiple autoimmune diseases. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. An association of DS and other autoimmune disease has been previously reported, and we report one case of DS in coexistence with MS, diabetes mellitus, and thyroid diseases. We suggest that MS, such as other autoimmune diseases, is prevalent in DS patients.
The morbidity of hemangioblastoma in the supratentorial region is very low, and is seldom found in the area of the cerebellopontine angle, so it is easily misdiagnosis before surgery. We report and discuss a case of hemangioblastoma originating at the right cerebellopontine angle in a 42-year-old female patient.
Transsphenoidal surgery is the mainstream in the management of sellar and anterior fossa diseases. However, textiloma, as known as cotton left behind during an operation, is rarely reported as a complication of transsphenoidal surgery. In this paper, we present a case of textiloma after transsphenoidal surgery. The patient had been suffering progressive blurred vision and she received transsphenoidal surgery for the diagnosis of pituitary tumor. However, the intermittent headaches persisted for half a year after the surgery. The subsequent images revealed a rim-like enhanced tumor in the sellar region. The retained cotton material was found when she underwent transcranial surgery. The etiology and management of textiloma are discussed, and the relevant literature also reviewed.
Intradural lumbar cystic schwannomas are a very rare entity and only 10 case reports have been reported in the literature. The diagnosis and management remains a challenge for clinical physicians. Herein, we report a 51-year-old female presenting with lower back pain and radiating pain at the left upper thigh. Magnetic resonance images of lumbar spine demonstrated an intradural cystic mass approximately 18 x 17 x 35 mm in size occupying L4 to L5, which appeared as the same signal intensity as CSF. At operation, a well encapsulated cystic mass was found. The pathological examination confirmed a diagnosis of schwannoma. The relevant literature was also reviewed.
Osteoid osteoma is a benign bone tumor, which rarely occurs in the skull, and often causes local pain that is worse at night, characteristically relieved by aspirin. Giant osteoid osteoma in the occipital bone is uncommon. We present a case of a 42-year-old female with an osteoid osteoma of the occipital bone that was totally resected. We discuss the clinical presentation, radiographic findings, and differential diagnosis of occipital osteoid osteoma.








This review article addresses obsessive-compulsive disorder from the prospective of information that is relevant to general practitioners, family physicians, and other medical health specialists, focusing on epidemiology, etiology, diagnostic criteria, comorbidity, and a summary of well recognized treatment modalities and approaches that are available to treat this condition.
The hemispheres of the human brain are anatomically and functionally asymmetric, and many cognitive and motor functions such as language and handedness are lateralized. This review examines anatomical, psychological, and physiological approaches to the understanding of separate hemispheric functions and their integration. The concept of hemispheric laterality plays a central role in current neuropsychological and pathophysiological models of schizophrenia. Reduced hemispheric asymmetry has also been reported for other mental disorders, for example, bipolar disorder. Recent research reflects an increasing interest in the molecular and population genetics of laterality and its potential link with animal models of schizophrenia. The authors review the principles of laterality and brain asymmetry and discuss the evidence for changes in asymmetry in schizophrenia and other mental disorders.
Mirror neurons are a class of visuomotor neurons in the monkey premotor and parietal cortices that discharge during the execution and observation of goal-directed motor acts. They are deemed to be at the basis of primates' social abilities. In this review, the authors provide a fresh view about two still open questions about mirror neurons. The first question is their possible functional role. By reviewing recent neurophysiological data, the authors suggest that mirror neurons might represent a flexible system that encodes observed actions in terms of several behaviorally relevant features. The second question concerns the possible developmental mechanisms responsible for their initial emergence. To provide a possible answer to question, the authors review two different aspects of sensorimotor development: facial and hand movements, respectively. The authors suggest that possibly two different &quot;mirror&quot; systems might underlie the development of action understanding and imitative abilities in the two cases. More specifically, a possibly prewired system already present at birth but shaped by the social environment might underlie the early development of facial imitative abilities. On the contrary, an experience-dependent system might subserve perception-action couplings in the case of hand movements. The development of this latter system might be critically dependent on the observation of own movements.
How do people tell a lie? One useful approach to addressing this question is to elucidate the neural substrates for deception. Recent conceptual and technical advances in functional neuroimaging have enabled exploration of the psychology of deception more precisely in terms of the specific neuroanatomical mechanisms involved. A growing body of evidence suggests that the prefrontal cortex plays a key role in deception, and some researchers have recently emphasized the importance of other brain regions, such as those responsible for emotion and reward. However, it is still unclear how these regions play a role in making effective decisions to tell a lie. To provide a framework for considering this issue, the present article reviews current accomplishments in the study of the neural basis of deception. First, evolutionary and developmental perspectives are provided to better understand how and when people can make use of deception. The ensuing section introduces several findings on pathological lying and its neural correlate. Next, recent findings in the cognitive neuroscience of deception based on functional neuroimaging and loss-of-function studies are summarized, and possible neural mechanisms underlying deception are proposed. Finally, the priority areas of future neuroscience research-human honesty and dishonesty-are discussed.
Anterior screw fixation of Type II odontoid fractures provides immediate stabilization of the cervical spine while preserving C1-2 motion. This technique has a high fusion rate, but can be technically challenging. The authors identify key points that should be taken into account to maximize the chance for a favorable outcome. Keys to success include proper patient and fracture selection, identification of suitable screw entry point and correct screw trajectory, achieving bicortical purchase, and placing 2 screws when feasible and applicable. The authors review the operative technique and present guidance on appropriate patient selection and common pitfalls in anterior screw fixation, with strategies for avoiding complications.
The thoracoscopic approach to the anterior spine is a practical and valuable means of approaching ventral spinal lesions but demands advanced technical skills and fine hand-eye coordination that is usually acquired with experience. A mutual understanding of all the ventilatory and surgical steps allows for an organized orchestration between the anesthesiologist and surgeon, which ultimately helps minimize potential complications. Despite a concerted effort by all involved to avoid risks, thoracoscopic surgery is associated with complications for which the surgical team should be cognizant. In this paper, the authors detail the operative technique of vertebral corpectomy and interbody fusion via the thoracoscopic approach for the treatment of ventral spinal pathology involving the thoracic and lower lumbar spine, discuss complications known to occur with the thoracoscopic approach, and present means to help avoid them.
The aim of this study was to investigate the long-term natural history of nontraumatic angiogram-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage with typical pretruncal (P-SAH) and diffuse (D-SAH) pattern of hemorrhage. A retrospective review of 102 patients who experienced angiographically negative SAH at our institution was undertaken (11.6% of 882 spontaneous SAH). Follow-ups were obtained at 7.9 to 16 years. In the D-SAH group, 11 patients (13.9%) out of 79 had an aneurysm, and four (5.1%) had rebleeding episodes. In the P-SAH group, the second angiography was negative in all of the 23 cases, and no rebleeding episodes were recorded. The long-term follow-up confirms that P-SAH is a benign disease. A second angiography could not be necessary. D-SAH is probably due to an aneurysm that thrombose early after the bleeding. At short-term follow-up, the sack could frequently recanalize and rebleed, whereas a late follow-up shows that rebleeding is very rare.
Neuromodulation strategies have been proposed to treat a variety of neurological disorders, including medication-resistant epilepsy. Electrical stimulation of both central and peripheral nervous systems has emerged as a possible alternative for patients who are not deemed to be good candidates for resective procedures. In addition to well-established treatments such as vagus nerve stimulation, epilepsy centers around the world are investigating the safety and efficacy of neurostimulation at different brain targets, including the hippocampus, thalamus, and subthalamic nucleus. Also promising are the preliminary results of responsive neuromodulation studies, which involve the delivery of stimulation to the brain in response to detected epileptiform or preepileptiform activity. In addition to electrical stimulation, novel therapeutic methods that may open new horizons in the management of epilepsy include transcranial magnetic stimulation, focal drug delivery, cellular transplantation, and gene therapy. We review the current strategies and future applications of neuromodulation in epilepsy.
More than 1 million people in the United States live with a spinal cord injury (SCI). Despite medical advances, many patients with SCIs still experience substantial neurological disability, with loss of motor, sensory, and autonomic function. Cell therapy is ideally suited to address the multifactorial nature of the secondary events following SCI. Remarkable advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of SCI, structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging, image-guided micro-neurosurgical techniques, and transplantable cell biology have enabled the use of cell-based regenerative techniques in the clinic. It is important to note that there are more than a dozen recently completed, ongoing, or recruiting cell therapy clinical trials for SCI that reflect the views of many key stakeholders. The field of regenerative neuroscience has reached a stage in which the clinical trials are scientifically and ethically justified. Although experimental models and analysis methods and techniques continue to evolve, no model will completely replicate the human condition. It is recognized that more work with cervical models of contusive/compressive SCI are required in parallel with clinical trials. It is also important that the clinical translation of advances made through well-established and validated experimental approaches in animal models move forward to meet the compelling needs of individuals with SCI and to advance the field of regenerative neuroscience. However, it is imperative that such efforts at translation be done in the most rigorous and informed fashion to determine safety and possible efficacy, and to provide key information to clinicians and basic scientists, which will allow improvements in regenerative techniques and the validation and refinement of existing preclinical animal models and research approaches. The field of regenerative neuroscience should not be stalled at the animal model stage, but instead the clinical trials need to be focused, safe, and ethical, backed up by a robust, translationally relevant preclinical research strategy.
The main pathology underlying motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) is a rather selective degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons. Intrastriatal transplantation of immature DA neurons, which replace those neurons that have died, leads to functional restoration in animal models of PD. Here we describe how far the clinical translation of the DA neuron replacement strategy has advanced. We briefly summarize the lessons learned from the early clinical trials with grafts of human fetal mesencephalic tissue, and discuss recent findings suggesting susceptibility of these grafts to the disease process long-term after implantation. Mechanisms underlying graft-induced dyskinesias, which constitute the only significant adverse event observed after neural transplantation, and how they should be prevented and treated are described. We summarize the attempts to generate DA neurons from stem cells of various sources and patient-specific DA neurons from fully differentiated somatic cells, with particular emphasis on the requirements of these cells to be useful in the clinical setting. The rationale for the new clinical trial with transplantation of fetal mesencephalic tissue is described. Finally, we discuss the scientific and clinical advancements that will be necessary to develop a competitive cell therapy for PD patients.
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) continue to be a consequence of HIV-1 infection among clade B-infected individuals. In contrast, the incidence of severe neurological impairment is lower among clade C-infected patients in regions of Sub-Saharan Africa and India. Biological aspects such as replication, cytopathicity, inflammatory response, and neurotoxicity unique to each clade influence neuropathogenicity and ultimately affect the clinical outcome of the disease. We hypothesize that productive infection by clade C isolates leads to macrophage-mediated neurotoxicity, although to a lesser extent than clade B isolates. Using a panel of primary isolates of clades B and C we demonstrated that clade B has higher replication efficiency in monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) through reverse transcriptase activity assay and HIV-1 p24 antigen ELISA. To test the neurotoxicity of clades B and C, we used an in vitro neurotoxicity model. Conditioned medium from clade B-infected MDM was neurotoxic to rat and human neuron cultures. In contrast, clade C isolates mediated neurotoxicity when a higher initial viral titer was used for MDM infection. Furthermore, neurotoxicity mediated by isolates of both clades correlated with virus replication in MDM. Together, these results suggest that in comparison to clade B, primary isolates of clade C have slower replication kinetics in primary MDM, leading to lower levels of macrophage-mediated neurotoxicity. Elucidating the differences in replication and macrophage-mediated neurotoxicity between isolates of HIV-1 clades B and C will provide important insights needed to clarify the disparity seen in HAND incidence.
In spite of the essentiality of manganese (Mn) as a trace element necessary for a variety of physiological processes, Mn in excess accumulates in the brain and has been associated with dysfunction and degeneration of the basal ganglia. Despite the high sensitivity, limited chemical interference, and multi-elemental advantages of traditional methods for measuring Mn levels, they lack the feasibility to assess Mn transport dynamics in a high-throughput manner. Our lab has previously reported decreased net Mn accumulation in a mutant striatal cell line model of Huntington's disease (STHdh(Q111/Q111)) relative to wild-type following Mn exposure. To evaluate Mn transport dynamics in these striatal cell lines, we have developed a high-throughput fluorescence-quenching extraction assay (Cellular Fura-2 Manganese Extraction Assay - CFMEA). CFMEA utilizes changes in fura-2 fluorescence upon excitation at 360 nm (Ca(2+) isosbestic point) and emission at 535 nm, as an indirect measurement of total cellular Mn content. Here, we report the establishment, development, and application of CFMEA. Specifically, we evaluate critical extraction and assay conditions (e.g. extraction buffer, temperature, and fura-2 concentration) required for efficient extraction and quantitative detection of cellular Mn from cultured cells. Mn concentrations can be derived from quenching of fura-2 fluorescence with standard curves based on saturation one-site specific binding kinetics. Importantly, we show that extracted calcium and magnesium concentrations below 10 M have negligible influence on measurements of Mn by fura-2. CFMEA is able to accurately measure extracted Mn levels from cultured striatal cells over a range of at least 0.1-10 M. We have used two independent Mn supplementation approaches to validate the quantitative accuracy of CFMEA over a 0-200 M cellular Mn-exposure range. Finally, we have utilized CFMEA to experimentally confirm a deficit in net Mn accumulation in the mutant HD striatal cell line versus wild-type cells. To conclude, we have developed and applied a novel assay to assess Mn transport dynamics in cultured striatal cell lines. CFMEA provides a rapid means of evaluating Mn transport kinetics in cellular toxicity and disease models.
















Because the use of monoamine reuptake inhibitors as weight-reducing agents is limited by adverse effects, novel antiobesity drugs are needed. We studied acute effects of the noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor sibutramine (SIB), alone and after pretreatment with 1- and 2-adrenoceptor (AR), and 5-HT1/2/7, 5-HT1B and 5-HT2C receptor antagonists in order to determine which ARs and 5-HT receptors act downstream of SIB on feeding and locomotion. Acute effects on caloric and water intake, meal microstructure and locomotion were assessed, using an automated weighing system and telemetry in male rats with restricted 18-h access to Western style diet. SIB 3 mg/kg reduced meal size and frequency, which suggests enhanced within- and postmeal satiety. Imiloxan (2B-AR), WB4101 (1-AR), SB-224289 (5-HT1B), and modestly BRL 44408 (2A/D-AR) attenuated SIB's effect on meal size, suggesting that 2B- and 1-ARs and 5-HT1B receptors mediate within-meal satiety, with a modest role for 2A/D-ARs. Only prazosin (1/2B/2C-AR) counteracted SIB's effect on meal frequency. At 3 mg/kg, SIB modestly increased locomotion. This effect was blocked by metergoline (5-HT1/2/7), WB4101 (1-AR), and RX821002 (2-AR). Interestingly, the 2-AR antagonists atipamezole and RX821002 enhanced SIB's effect on caloric intake, probably due to inverse agonistic actions at 2A-autoreceptors that further enhanced release of NA that regulates caloric intake. Thus, an inverse agonist of presynaptic 2A-ARs might beneficially enhance SIB's weight-reducing effect and offer novel treatment for obesity. All in all, the present data supports the ARs and 5-HT receptors involved in the effects of SIB on different aspects of caloric intake and locomotion.
Glioblastoma is the most malignant form of adult brain tumor and is associated with a dismal prognosis. Emerging data suggest that Notch signaling participates principally in the formation and malignant progression of glioblastoma. Resveratrol is a terpenoid that exhibits broad pro-apoptotic activity in various types of cancers, including glioblastoma. However, the effects of resveratrol on Notch signaling in glioblastomas have not yet been fully elucidated. We demonstrated that resveratrol strongly suppressed cell growth and induced apoptosis in A172 and T98G glioblastoma cells, which have low active Notch-1 expression and a heterozygous p53 mutation. Our results suggest that resveratrol significantly activates intracellular Notch-1 and restores wild-type p53 expression in a time-dependent manner. Significant de-phosphorylation of Akt, increased Bax expression, decreased Bcl-2 expression and cleavage of caspase-3 were also observed in resveratrol-induced apoptosis in glioblastoma cells. Moreover, simultaneous treatment with resveratrol and a Notch-1 inhibitor (MRK-003) partially attenuated the apoptosis and completely blocked the activation of Notch-1 and the increase in wild-type p53. This suggests that restoration of wild-type p53 expression depends on Notch-1 activation. In addition, the de-phosphorylation of Akt, increased expression of Bax and cleavage of caspase-3 were not fully reversed by MRK-003 treatment, suggesting that p53 restoration is not the only mechanism underlying resveratrol-induced apoptosis. Taken together, we confirmed the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of resveratrol on glioblastoma cells and revealed Notch-1 activation-dependent restoration of p53 as an important causative mechanism.




Brainstem and spinal mechanisms mediating visceral nociception are investigated here using electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry techniques in a model of acute visceral pain. Colorectal distension (CRD) produced graded visceromotor responses (VMR) in normal rats, and these were facilitated by intracolonic mustard oil (MO) that generated acute visceral hyperalgesia. The neuropathic pain drug pregabalin (PGB) is thought to have state-dependent effects in attenuating neuropathic, but not acute somatic pain, likely by impairing calcium-channel trafficking. We found that systemic PGB produced antinociceptive effects on CRD-evoked VMRs in nave rats lacking pathophysiology and in MO-pretreated rats. Systemic PGB also significantly reduced Fos labelling in lumbosacral spinal cords of rats given noxious repetitive CRD; however, PGB did not alter this measure of neural activity in the brainstem. Differential brainstem processing of noxious somatic and visceral stimuli may underlie the unique lack of state-dependent actions of PGB in this visceral pain model. Single-unit recordings in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) verify that brainstem processing of somatic and visceral stimuli differs. The effects of CRD on RVM cells classed as ON, OFF, or NEUTRAL were independent of their somatic responses, with surprising changes in RVM cell activity to innocuous visceral stimulation. PGB also markedly reduced the visceral responses of RVM ON-cells to noxious CRD. These results illustrate clear differences in the central processing of visceral and somatic stimuli, yet a common role for descending modulation by brainstem activity in mediating evoked pain measures.


Primary systemic therapy (PST) adds some practical problems to the pathologic examination of neoplastic breast tissue obtained from patients before and after chemotherapy. Pathologists, oncologists, breast surgeons, radiotherapists and radiologists in the Marche Region held a Consensus Meeting in Ancona on May 13, 2010, in which 15 statements dealing with neoadjuvant chemotherapy were approved by all participants. The first two statements are related to the pre-PST phase and concern the technical procedures and the histological report of the core biopsy. The other statements deal with similar issues of the post-PST surgical specimen.

The psychological correlates of enuresis are receiving growing attention, coherently with a multi-factorial approach to this problem, but to date the empirical findings are still inconsistent and incomplete. The aim of this study is to contribute to the understanding of the socio-affective functioning of enuretic children by exploring four central dimensions: attachment, self-esteem, self-control, and temperament. Twenty-two enuretic children with their mothers were enrolled in the study and matched, based on gender and age, to a control group of continent healthy children. Measures were collected through mothers' reports and individual administrations to all children. Controlling for socio-demographic variables, we found a significantly lower incidence of secure attachment, lower self-esteem, and higher rates of behavioral problems among the enuretic group, compared with the control group. No differences in the temperamental dimensions were found. These preliminary findings support the view of enuresis as a bio-behavioral problem and, from a practical standpoint, underline the urgency for physicians not to underestimate this disturbance, but, indeed, to treat the problem through medical strategies and to devote attention to the psychological difficulties of these patients.
Our objective was to assess the mental health and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in children and their parents after renal transplantation (TX) compared to healthy controls and children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and to identify possible health status variables associated with impaired mental health and HRQOL. Thirty-eight TX children with a median age of 13 (range 3-19) years were investigated. Mental health was assessed by the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core Scales and the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ-20). Each mother's own mental health and QOL were assessed by the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-30) and the Quality of Life Scale (QOLS). Forty children with ALL [median age 11 (8.5-15.4) years] and 42 healthy children [median age 11 (8.9- 15) years] served as controls. Treadmill exercise results from 22 of the 38 patients were included in the analysis. TX children showed significantly higher levels of mental health problems and lower HRQOL at 2 to 16 years after transplantation compared to both control groups. Body mass index and maximal oxygen uptake (n=22/38) were significant predictors of child mental health (SDQ) and child QOL (PedsQL), respectively. Based on these results, we suggest that rehabilitation after TX should include a focus on physical activity and QOL to reduce interconnected physical and psychological morbidity in kidney TX children.
Molybdenum cofactor deficiency predominantly affects the central nervous system. There are limited data on long-term outcome or brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features. We examined the clinical, brain MRI, biochemical, genetic, and electroencephalographic features and outcome in 8 children with a diagnosis of molybdenum cofactor deficiency observed in our institution over 10 years. Two modes of presentation were identified: early (classical) onset with predominantly epileptic encephalopathy in 6 neonates, and late (atypical) with global developmental impairment in 2 children. Children in both groups had varying degrees of motor, language, and visual impairment. There were no deaths. Brain MRI demonstrated cerebral infarction in all but one child in the atypical group. Distinctive features were best observed on early brain MRI: acute symmetrical involvement of the globus pallidi and subthalamic regions coexisting with older cerebral hemisphere infarction, chronic lesions suggestive of a prenatal insult, pontocerebellar hypoplasia with retrocerebellar cyst, and presence of a distinctive band at the cortical/subcortical white matter. Sequential imaging revealed progressive pontine atrophy and enlargement of retrocerebellar cyst. The brain MRI of one child with atypical presentation (verbal dyspraxia, lens dislocation) showed symmetrical cerebellar deep nuclei signal abnormality without cerebral infarction. Imaging pattern on early brain MRI (&lt;1 week) may prompt the diagnosis, potentially allowing early treatment and disease modifications.
Playing music may involve different cognitive domains, but previous studies of musicians and patients with brain lesions have reported inconsistent associations between music performances and other cognitive functions. Fine musical performance may be associated with high executive and control functions. 21 skilled musicians and 21 age- and education-matched healthy controls with no specific musical competence were compared on attentive, executive, linguistic, perceptual, praxic, memory, and theory of mind functions, using standardized neuropsychological tests. No differences between the musicians and controls, music composers and performers, or between soloists or orchestral players were observed. In musicians, there was no correlation between the test scores and amount of music education. Findings based on these musician groups, carefully evaluated, suggest further exploration of associations of distinct components of music comprehension and expression with different cognitive functions and behavioral aspects.
To investigate the long-term effect of blindness on the task of leaping down to a lower landing surface, five blind individuals were compared with 10 sighted individuals who performed landing movements with and without sight. Participants performed six consecutive drop-landings from four different heights, during which the prelanding modulation of EMG timing and amplitude in four lower-limb muscles were recorded. Analysis showed that blind individuals showed specific prelanding EMG modulation, suggesting that long-term dependence on somesthetic and vestibular cues leads to different preparatory measures for vertical falls.
This article reviews the cultural history of man's relationship with tobacco and the steps in the discovery of tobacco addiction. Nicotine dependence (ND) or nicotine addiction (NA), among other forms of drug addiction, continues to be a significant public health problem in the world, as it is associated with major severe diseases such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. Evidence for a genetic influence on smoking behavior and ND has prompted a search for susceptibility genes. Proof has recently accumulated that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the genetic region encoding the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits 5, 3, and 4 are associated with smoking and ND. In this review, we consider tobacco as the archetype of substance addiction and describe the evolution of the tobacco habit from elite users to lower socioeconomic abusers (by mass marketing and specific targeting of vulnerable groups by the tobacco industry) to exemplify detrimental behavior with major threats to public health. Finally, we discuss the reasons for the difficulty of quitting addictions/habits and highlight possible solutions.

3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) is one of the most widely abused illegal drugs. Some users self-report euphoria and an increased perception and feeling of closeness to others. When taken in warm environments, MDMA users may develop acute complications with potential fatal consequences. In rodents, MDMA increases locomotor activity and, depending on ambient temperature, may produce a dose-dependent, potentially lethal hyperthermia. Like most other recreational drugs, MDMA is frequently taken in combination with other substances including tobacco, EtOH, marijuana, amphetamines, cocaine and, caffeine. Although polydrug use is very common, the understanding of the effects of this multiple substance use, as well as the analysis of consequences of different drug-drug associations, received rather little attention. The purpose of this review is to summarize our current knowledge about the changes on MDMA-related behavior, pharmacology, and neurotoxicity associated with co-consumption of other drugs of abuse and psychoactive agents.
Repeated unavoidable stress induces in rats decreased reactivity to avoidable stressors and an anhedonia-like condition that are reverted by long-term antidepressant treatments and regarded as models of core symptoms of depression. Morphine-sensitized rats present resilience to stress-induced behavioral deficits and, if hyporeactivity to stress models a depressive symptom, stress resistance can be regarded as a manic symptom. This hypothesis is supported by the observation that long-term lithium administration reinstates sensitivity to stress in sensitized rats. The first aim of the study was to examine the effects of carbamazepine, a standard antimanic treatment, on the stress resilience of sensitized rats, to further characterize morphine sensitization as a model of manic symptom. Carbamazepine administration abolished stress resilience but did not interfere with the expression of sensitization. The second aim of the study was to assess whether repeated carbamazepine treatment affected the dopaminergic and behavioral responses to a natural reward, a palatable food (vanilla sugar, VS), in non food-deprived sensitized and control rats and compare these possible effects with those of repeated lithium administration. Control and sensitized rats showed increased extraneuronal dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens shell after VS consumption and competence to acquire an instrumental VS-sustained appetitive behavior (VAB). Repeated carbamazepine treatment abolished the dopaminergic response to VS consumption and disrupted the competence to acquire VAB in control rats. Lithium-treated rats showed a dopaminergic response to VS and easily acquired the appetitive behavior. In sensitized rats, neither carbamazepine nor lithium administration interfered with the dopaminergic response to VS and the acquisition of VAB. In summary, the effect of carbamazepine on the stress resilience of sensitized rats further supported the hypothesis that morphine sensitization might model some symptoms of mania. Moreover, in control rats carbamazepine treatment elicited an anhedonia-like condition that clearly distinguished the effects of this drug from those of lithium.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the most abundant peptides in mammalian brain and NPY-like-immunoreactivity is highly expressed in the lateral septum, an area extensively involved in anxiety regulation. NPY counteracts the neurochemical and behavioral responses to acute threat in animal models, and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of NPY at low doses is anxiolytic. Less is known about the specific contributions of the lateral septum to NPY-mediated anxiety regulation. In Experiment 1, the effects of infusions of NPY (1.5 g) into the lateral septum were investigated in three animal models of anxiety: the elevated plus-maze, novelty-induced suppression of feeding, and shock-probe burying tests. Experiment 2 examined the role of the NPY Y1 receptor in these models by co-infusing the Y1 antagonist BIBO 3304 (0.15 g, 0.30 g) with NPY into the lateral septum. In the elevated plus-maze, there were no changes in rats' open arm exploration, the index of anxiety reduction in this test. In the novelty-induced suppression of feeding test, rats infused with NPY showed decreases in the latency to consume a palatable snack in a novel (but not familiar) environment, suggesting a reduction in anxiety independent of increases in appetite. This anxiolysis was attenuated by co-infusion with BIBO 3304 (0.30 g) in Experiment 2. Lastly, rats infused with NPY showed decreases in the duration of burying behavior in the shock-probe burying test, also indicative of anxiety reduction. However, unlike in the feeding test, BIBO 3304 did not attenuate the NPY-induced anxiolysis in the shock-probe test. It is concluded that NPY produces anxiolytic-like actions in the lateral septum in two animal models of anxiety: the novelty-induced suppression of feeding, and shock-probe burying tests, and that this anxiolysis is dependent on Y1 receptor activation in the feeding test.


In June of 1968 the NIMH established the Laboratory of Preclinical Pharmacology (LPP) under the leadership of Erminio Costa at St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington, DC. From its inception until 1985 more than 170 scientists produced over 800 scientific publications that largely influenced the direction of neuroscience research. Under Dr. Costa's scientific guidance LPP made numerous discoveries that contributed to the understanding of neuronal function and push the fledging field of neuroscience forward. Methods were developed to measure the turnover rate of catecholamines, serotonin, acetylcholine and GABA, and to assess the dynamic state of neuronal stores of peptides; the regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase activity was revealed; the molecular mechanisms underlying neurotransmitter receptor signaling and regulation were explored; the concept that opioid peptides function as neuromodulators in structures that are not involved in pain threshold regulation was proposed; the role of GABAergic transmission for the action of benzodiazepines was pioneered; the endogenous mechanisms operative in opiate tolerance were elucidated; and approaches to measure mRNA and evaluate its regulation were introduced. As a tribute to Dr. Costa, this article presents the initial journey and the many contributions to teaching and research that he made from 1963 to 1985, a period that I worked with him and call it &quot;the golden years&quot;.
While Dr. Costa was the Director of FGIN he became interested in the regulation of genes encoding various neurotransmitter receptors. More specifically, there was increasing evidence supporting a role for tetanic stimulation of the NMDA-subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the development of long term potentiation and long term depression. Moreover, the protein products of the immediate early gene family, such as c-fos and c-jun, were known modulators of downstream signaling events that facilitated changes in neuronal transcriptomes in response to incoming afferent stimulation. The immediate early gene products were known transcriptional factors that activated gene expression in response to excitatory stimulation. In fact, the expression of c-fos/c-jun was often used to map neuronal circuits linked through a common initiation point such as occurs in focally-evoked seizures. Dr. Costa firmly believed that excitatory and inhibitory transmission was balanced in the central nervous system and that this might come about through changes in the expression of the genes encoding these neurotransmitter receptors. In other words, persistent stimulation of NMDA receptors would be expected to increase expression of the inhibitory GABAA receptors to accommodate the increased excitation. That this receptor crosstalk might occur through the products of the immediate early genes was testable and the focus of the Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory from 1988 to 1994. In a broader sense, stimulation of ionotropic NMDA-selective glutamate receptors has been associated with numerous downstream molecular and cellular processes. How these processes are linked to changes in gene expression has been the focus of studies in the neurosciences for many years.
Pharmacological regulation of gene expression was one of the top professional interests of Dr. Costa. He promoted the idea that drugs can improve the endogenous mechanisms of synaptic plasticity by modulating gene expression. In this article I reflect upon Dr. Costa's leadership in projects undertaken at FGIN that were aimed at elucidating how neurotransmitter receptor activation could affect brain function by modulating genes and their products. I will be presenting examples of how pharmacological tools can change gene expression. These include the ability of drugs of abuse to alter the synthesis of opioid peptides or an endogenous ligand for GABAA receptor. I will conclude with a brief summary of intriguing discoveries about the regulation of nerve growth factor (NGF) and its receptors by beta-receptor agonists, adrenal steroids and cytokines.
In this short note in tribute to Dr. Erminio Costa, I reflect upon the sabbatical period that I spent with him during his early years at the Fidia-Georgetown Institute for the Neurosciences [FGIN] at the Georgetown University Medical Center. I detail some of the interesting projects that we were involved in at that time, that led us to create strong bridges between chemistry and the neurosciences, and that led in turn to the discovery of various classes of interesting molecular tools such as the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligand FGIN-1-27.
This historical review of the electrophysiology laboratory complemented the activity of the various research teams at the Fidia Georgetown Institute for the Neurosciences and it was the fulfillment of Dr. Erminio Costa's dream to be able to study the inhibitory and excitatory synapse in the central nervous system. These studies were facilitated by the development of the patch clamp technique that allows the functional testing of several of the biochemical and pharmacological hypotheses. The studies described here were the results of the hard work of all the collaborators involved in the projects that will never forget the passionate and stimulating discussion with Dr Costa during and after the development of these projects.
When we lost Ermino Costa last year, the end of an era was marked. &quot;Mimo&quot; as we affectionately called him, was looked upon by scores of students, post-doctoral scholars and colleagues with respect and admiration and he was a scientific father figure to many. In this article I reflect upon his time at Georgetown University including his recruitment, formation and leadership of the Fidia-Georgetown Institute for Neuroscience (FGIN). The founding of FGIN created a focus upon neurosciences at the university and fostered many new collaborations. My laboratory became associated with the Institute and was involved in common interests concerning ion and second messenger studies and single cell imaging. Mimo's critical support of work and people during his long and illustrious career has significantly impacted not only neuroscience but the people who were so fortunate to have traveled with him along the road to many important and exciting discoveries.
The following review highlights a small portion of the research ongoing in my laboratory at the Fidia Georgetown Institute of Neuroscience (FGIN) during the years 1989-1994. Specifically, this work focused on the selective vulnerability of neurons in Alzheimer's disease. At the time, it was known that -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoaxolepropionate (AMPA) receptors were composed of one or more subunits (GluR1-4). Furthermore, the presence of the GluR2 subunit was known to substantially reduce Ca2+ through AMPA receptors in response to ligand binding. This finding led us to hypothesize that the presence or absence of the GluR2 subunit in the AMPA receptor may have a profound influence on the ability of the cell to gate extracellular Ca2+ and maintain intracellular calcium homeostasis. Furthermore, in Alzheimer's disease we hypothesized that cells at risk for developing AD neuropathology will express certain combinations of glutamate receptor subunits that form channels with increased permeability to Ca2+. In turn, these cells may become more vulnerable to the pathologic consequences of increased intracellular Ca2+ and destabilized intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis. To test this hypothesis we employed anatomical techniques and examined post mortem materials from patients with AD. The results of these studies are summarized in this review. Notably, this review also highlights the valuable collaborations established during my five years at FGIN and pays tribute to the intellectually rich and supportive environment provided by Dr. Costa and colleagues.
From the biochemistry of testicular and adrenal steroids to the mysteries of brain steroid biosynthesis and from pharmacy and pharmacology to neuropharmacology and neurosciences were two transitions in my scientific career where Erminio (Mimo) Costa played a catalytic role. A review of the years and findings that contributed in our understanding of the link between benzodiazepines and neurosteroid biosynthesis that established the pharmacology of neurosteroidogenesis is a testimony to Dr. Costa's will to push the borders of knowledge that inspired us to challenge existing notions and paradigms.
The Laboratory of Receptor Pharmacology studied the GABAB and muscarinic m2/m3 receptors present in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells. From 1985 to 1992, multiple scientists showed the GABAB receptor had, at least, two affinity states, the low affinity receptor inhibiting adenylyl cyclase and the higher affinity receptor increasing intracellular calcium from ryanodine sensitive calcium stores. Muscarinic m2 receptors inhibit adenylyl cyclase and would undergo desensitization using, in part, similar mechanism of desensitization identified for the beta-adrenergic receptor coupled to adenylyl cyclase. Muscarinic m3 receptors increased intracellular calcium levels via inositol 3-phosphate-sensitive intracellular calcium stores.
In 1996, Dr. Costa was invited by Prof. Boris Astrachan, Chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Illinois at Chicago, to direct the research of the &quot;Psychiatric Institute, Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, at the University of Illinois at Chicago.&quot; He was asked to develop a seminal research program on psychiatric disorders. Viewed in retrospect, Dr. Costa met and surpassed the challenge, as was usual for him. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms whereby nurture (epigenetic factors) and nature (genetic factors) interact to cause major psychiatric disorders was at the center of Dr. Costa's mission for the last 15 years of his research at the Psychiatric Institute. The challenge for Dr. Costa and his colleagues (Auta, Caruncho, Davis, Grayson, Guidotti, Impagnatiello, Kiedrowski, Larson, Manev, Pappas, Pesold, Pinna, Sharma, Smalheiser, Sugaya, Tueting, Veldic [1-111]) had always been to find new ways to prevent and treat psychiatric disorders with pharmacological agents that failed to have major unwanted side effects. In this list, we have quoted the first authors of the papers pertaining to the field of research highlighted in the title. As you know, Dr. Costa was an eclectic scientist and in his 15 years of studies at UIC, he touched many other aspects of neuroscience research that are not discussed in this overview.
This article describes briefly the history and activities of the Fidia-Georgetown Institute for the Neurosciences (FGIN), from its establishment in 1985 to its closure in 1994. It also provides a list of those colleagues and students who worked at FGIN and contributed to various research projects.
This article briefly outlines the background and major findings of the research projects in which, together with a number of skilled and enthusiastic collaborators, I was involved at FGIN under the mentorship of the late Dr. Erminio Costa.The topics covered are () our search for an endogenous ligand of the [3H]-imipramine binding site, as an approach to shed light on the still today elusive mechanisms underlying the therapeutic action of antidepressant drugs; () our attempt to correlate psychopathological states, characterized by dysfunctions of the GABAergic neurotransmission, with an altered brain content of Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI), a peptide that exerts a direct negative modulation of GABAA receptor function and also, by binding to the mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor, increases the brain content of GABAA receptor-active neurosteroids; () our demonstration that the activation of the glutamate/NMDA receptor, throughstimulation of several intracellular signaling pathways, induces the expression of the early inducible gene c-fos, a mechanism proposed to underlie glutamate-mediated neuronal plasticity.
We analyze the synchronization dynamics of a model obtained from the phase reduction of the mean-field complex Ginzburg-Landau equation with heterogeneity. We present exact results that uncover the role of dissipative and reactive couplings on the synchronization transition when shears and natural frequencies are independently distributed. As it occurs in the purely dissipative case, an excess of shear diversity prevents the onset of synchronization, but this does not hold true if coupling is purely reactive. In this case, the synchronization threshold turns out to depend on the mean of the shear distribution, but not on all the other distribution's moments.
We present a time-dependent level-crossing theory for linear dynamical systems perturbed by colored Gaussian noise. We apply these results to approximate the firing statistics of conductance-based integrate-and-fire neurons receiving excitatory and inhibitory Poissonian inputs. Analytical expressions are obtained for three key quantities characterizing the neuronal response to time-varying inputs: the mean firing rate, the linear response to sinusoidally modulated inputs, and the pairwise spike correlation for neurons receiving correlated inputs. The theory yields tractable results that are shown to accurately match numerical simulations and provides useful tools for the analysis of interconnected neuronal populations.
Bursting is one of the primary activity regimes of neurons. Our study is focused on determining a generic biophysical mechanism underlying the coexistence of the bursting and silent regimes observed in a neuron model. We show that the main ingredient for this mechanism is a saddle periodic orbit. The stable manifold of the orbit sets a threshold between the regimes of activity. Thus, the range of the controlling parameters, where the coexistence is observed, is limited by the bifurcations' values at which the saddle orbit appears and disappears. We show that it appears through the subcritical Andronov-Hopf bifurcation, where the equilibrium representing the silent regime loses stability, and disappears at the homoclinic bifurcation. Correspondingly, the bursting regime disappears in close proximity to the homoclinic bifurcation.
The current-source density (CSD) analysis is a widely used method in brain electrophysiology, but this method rests on a series of assumptions, namely that the surrounding extracellular medium is resistive and uniform, and in some versions of the theory, that the current sources are exclusively made by dipoles. Because of these assumptions, this standard model does not correctly describe the contributions of monopolar sources or of nonresistive aspects of the extracellular medium. We propose here a general framework to model electric fields and potentials resulting from current source densities, without relying on the above assumptions. We develop a mean-field formalism that is a generalization of the standard model and that can directly incorporate nonresistive (nonohmic) properties of the extracellular medium, such as ionic diffusion effects. This formalism recovers the classic results of the standard model such as the CSD analysis, but in addition, we provide expressions to generalize the CSD approach to situations with nonresistive media and arbitrarily complex multipolar configurations of current sources. We found that the power spectrum of the signal contains the signature of the nature of current sources and extracellular medium, which provides a direct way to estimate those properties from experimental data and, in particular, estimate the possible contribution of electric monopoles.
Regenerative processes occurring under physiological (maintenance) and pathological (reparative) conditions are a fundamental part of life and vary greatly among different species, individuals, and tissues. Physiological regeneration occurs naturally as a consequence of normal cell erosion, or as an inevitable outcome of any biological process aiming at the restoration of homeostasis. Reparative regeneration occurs as a consequence of tissue damage. Although the central nervous system (CNS) has been considered for years as a &quot;perennial&quot; tissue, it has recently become clear that both physiological and reparative regeneration occur also within the CNS to sustain tissue homeostasis and repair. Proliferation and differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) residing within the healthy CNS, or surviving injury, are considered crucial in sustaining these processes. Thus a large number of experimental stem cell-based transplantation systems for CNS repair have recently been established. The results suggest that transplanted NPCs promote tissue repair not only via cell replacement but also through their local contribution to changes in the diseased tissue milieu. This review focuses on the remarkable plasticity of endogenous and exogenous (transplanted) NPCs in promoting repair. Special attention will be given to the cross-talk existing between NPCs and CNS-resident microglia as well as CNS-infiltrating immune cells from the circulation, as a crucial event sustaining NPC-mediated neuroprotection. Finally, we will propose the concept of the context-dependent potency of transplanted NPCs (therapeutic plasticity) to exert multiple therapeutic actions, such as cell replacement, neurotrophic support, and immunomodulation, in CNS repair.
The most common behavioral test of hippocampus-dependent, spatial learning and memory is the Morris water task, and the most commonly studied behavioral correlate of hippocampal neurons is the spatial specificity of place cells. Despite decades of intensive research, it is not completely understood how animals solve the water task and how place cells generate their spatially specific firing fields. Based on early work, it has become the accepted wisdom in the general neuroscience community that distal spatial cues are the primary sources of information used by animals to solve the water task (and similar spatial tasks) and by place cells to generate their spatial specificity. More recent research, along with earlier studies that were overshadowed by the emphasis on distal cues, put this common view into question by demonstrating primary influences of local cues and local boundaries on spatial behavior and place-cell firing. This paper first reviews the historical underpinnings of the &quot;standard&quot; view from a behavioral perspective, and then reviews newer results demonstrating that an animal's behavior in such spatial tasks is more strongly controlled by a local-apparatus frame of reference than by distal landmarks. The paper then reviews similar findings from the literature on the neurophysiological correlates of place cells and other spatially correlated cells from related brain areas. A model is proposed by which distal cues primarily set the orientation of the animal's internal spatial coordinate system, via the head direction cell system, whereas local cues and apparatus boundaries primarily set the translation and scale of that coordinate system.

Somatostatin-expressing, low threshold-spiking (LTS) cells and fast-spiking (FS) cells are two common subtypes of inhibitory neocortical interneuron. Excitatory synapses from regular-spiking (RS) pyramidal neurons to LTS cells strongly facilitate when activated repetitively, whereas RS-to-FS synapses depress. This suggests that LTS neurons may be especially relevant at high rate regimes and protect cortical circuits against over-excitation and seizures. However, the inhibitory synapses from LTS cells usually depress, which may reduce their effectiveness at high rates. We ask: by which mechanisms and at what firing rates do LTS neurons control the activity of cortical circuits responding to thalamic input, and how is control by LTS neurons different from that of FS neurons? We study rate models of circuits that include RS cells and LTS and FS inhibitory cells with short-term synaptic plasticity. LTS neurons shift the RS firing-rate vs. current curve to the right at high rates and reduce its slope at low rates; the LTS effect is delayed and prolonged. FS neurons always shift the curve to the right and affect RS firing transiently. In an RS-LTS-FS network, FS neurons reach a quiescent state if they receive weak input, LTS neurons are quiescent if RS neurons receive weak input, and both FS and RS populations are active if they both receive large inputs. In general, FS neurons tend to follow the spiking of RS neurons much more closely than LTS neurons. A novel type of facilitation-induced slow oscillations is observed above the LTS firing threshold with a frequency determined by the time scale of recovery from facilitation. To conclude, contrary to earlier proposals, LTS neurons affect the transient and steady state responses of cortical circuits over a range of firing rates, not only during the high rate regime; LTS neurons protect against over-activation about as well as FS neurons.
The motion of ions, molecules or proteins in dendrites is restricted by cytoplasmic obstacles such as organelles, microtubules and actin network. To account for molecular crowding, we study the effect of diffusion barriers on local calcium spread in a dendrite. We first present a model based on a dimension reduction approach to approximate a three dimensional diffusion in a cylindrical dendrite by a one-dimensional effective diffusion process. By comparing uncaging experiments of an inert dye in a spiny dendrite and in a thin glass tube, we quantify the change in diffusion constants due to molecular crowding as D(cyto)/D(water)=1/20. We validate our approach by reconstructing the uncaging experiments using Brownian simulations in a realistic 3D model dendrite. Finally, we construct a reduced reaction-diffusion equation to model calcium spread in a dendrite under the presence of additional buffers, pumps and synaptic input. We find that for moderate crowding, calcium dynamics is mainly regulated by the buffer concentration, but not by the cytoplasmic crowding, dendritic spines or synaptic inputs. Following high frequency stimulations, we predict that calcium spread in dendrites is limited to small microdomains of the order of a few microns (&lt;5 m).
We previously reported that autosomal recessive demyelinating Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) type 4B1 neuropathy with myelin outfoldings is caused by loss of MTMR2 (Myotubularin-related 2) in humans, and we created a faithful mouse model of the disease. MTMR2 dephosphorylates both PtdIns3P and PtdIns(3,5)P(2), thereby regulating membrane trafficking. However, the function of MTMR2 and the role of the MTMR2 phospholipid phosphatase activity in vivo in the nerve still remain to be assessed. Mutations in FIG4 are associated with CMT4J neuropathy characterized by both axonal and myelin damage in peripheral nerve. Loss of Fig4 function in the plt (pale tremor) mouse produces spongiform degeneration of the brain and peripheral neuropathy. Since FIG4 has a role in generation of PtdIns(3,5)P(2) and MTMR2 catalyzes its dephosphorylation, these two phosphatases might be expected to have opposite effects in the control of PtdIns(3,5)P(2) homeostasis and their mutations might have compensatory effects in vivo. To explore the role of the MTMR2 phospholipid phosphatase activity in vivo, we generated and characterized the Mtmr2/Fig4 double null mutant mice. Here we provide strong evidence that Mtmr2 and Fig4 functionally interact in both Schwann cells and neurons, and we reveal for the first time a role of Mtmr2 in neurons in vivo. Our results also suggest that imbalance of PtdIns(3,5)P(2) is at the basis of altered longitudinal myelin growth and of myelin outfolding formation. Reduction of Fig4 by null heterozygosity and downregulation of PIKfyve both rescue Mtmr2-null myelin outfoldings in vivo and in vitro.
Since October 2001, more than 1.6 million American military service members have deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan in the Global War on Terrorism. It is estimated that between 5% and 35% of them have sustained a concussion, also called mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), during their deployment. Up to 80% of the concussions experienced in theater are secondary to blast exposures. The unique circumstances and consequences of sustaining a concussion in combat demands a unique understanding and treatment plan. The current literature was reviewed and revealed a paucity of pathophysiological explanations on the nature of the injury and informed treatment plans. However, through observation and experience, a theoretical but scientifically plausible model for why and how blast injuries experienced in combat give rise to the symptoms that affect day-to-day function of service members who have been concussed has been developed. We also are able to offer treatment strategies based on our evaluation of the current literature and experience to help palliate postconcussive symptoms. The purpose of this review is to elucidate common physical, cognitive, emotional, and situational challenges, and possible solutions for this special population of patients who will be transitioning into the civilian sector and interfacing with health professionals. There is a need for further investigation and testing of these strategies.
Concussion is defined as a biomechanically induced brain injury characterized by the absence of gross anatomic lesions. Early and late clinical symptoms, including impairments of memory and attention, headache, and alteration of mental status, are the result of neuronal dysfunction mostly caused by functional rather than structural abnormalities. The mechanical insult initiates a complex cascade of metabolic events leading to perturbation of delicate neuronal homeostatic balances. Starting from neurotoxicity, energetic metabolism disturbance caused by the initial mitochondrial dysfunction seems to be the main biochemical explanation for most postconcussive signs and symptoms. Furthermore, concussed cells enter a peculiar state of vulnerability, and if a second concussion is sustained while they are in this state, they may be irreversibly damaged by the occurrence of swelling. This condition of concussion-induced brain vulnerability is the basic pathophysiology of the second impact syndrome. N-acetylaspartate, a brain-specific compound representative of neuronal metabolic wellness, is proving a valid surrogate marker of the post-traumatic biochemical damage, and its utility in monitoring the recovery of the aforementioned &quot;functional&quot; disturbance as a concussion marker is emerging, because it is easily detectable through proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Stiff person syndrome (SPS) is a rare disorder, characterised by fluctuating rigidity and stiffness of the axial and proximal lower limb muscles, with superimposed painful spasms and continuous motor unit activity on electromyography. Although rare in general neurology practice, once observed it is unforgettable. The general neurologist may see only one or two cases during his or her career and as such it remains underdiagnosed. Left untreated, SPS symptoms can progress to cause significant disability. Patients have a poor quality of life and an excess rate of comorbidity and mortality. The severity of symptoms and lack of public awareness of the condition create anxiety and uncertainty for people with the disease. This review aims to raise awareness of SPS and to improve the likelihood of its earlier diagnosis and treatment.
Cells in the mammalian body must accurately maintain their content of cholesterol, which is an essential membrane component and precursor for vital signalling molecules. Outside the brain, cholesterol homeostasis is guaranteed by a lipoprotein shuttle between the liver, intestine and other organs via the blood circulation. Cells inside the brain are cut off from this circuit by the blood-brain barrier and must regulate their cholesterol content in a different manner. Here, we review how this is accomplished by neurons and astrocytes, two cell types of the central nervous system, whose cooperation is essential for normal brain development and function. The key observation is a remarkable cell-specific distribution of proteins that mediate different steps of cholesterol metabolism. This form of metabolic compartmentalization identifies astrocytes as net producers of cholesterol and neurons as consumers with unique means to prevent cholesterol overload. The idea that cholesterol turnover in neurons depends on close cooperation with astrocytes raises new questions that need to be addressed by new experimental approaches to monitor and manipulate cholesterol homeostasis in a cell-specific manner. We conclude that an understanding of cholesterol metabolism in the brain and its role in disease requires a close look at individual cell types.
Purinergic neurotransmission, involving release of ATP as an efferent neurotransmitter was first proposed in 1972. Later, ATP was recognised as a cotransmitter in peripheral nerves and more recently as a cotransmitter with glutamate, noradrenaline, GABA, acetylcholine and dopamine in the CNS. Both ATP, together with some of its enzymatic breakdown products (ADP and adenosine) and uracil nucleotides are now recognised to act via P2X ion channels and P1 and P2Y G protein-coupled receptors, which are widely expressed in the brain. They mediate both fast signalling in neurotransmission and neuromodulation and long-term (trophic) signalling in cell proliferation, differentiation and death. Purinergic signalling is prominent in neurone-glial cell interactions. In this review we discuss first the evidence implicating purinergic signalling in normal behaviour, including learning and memory, sleep and arousal, locomotor activity and exploration, feeding behaviour and mood and motivation. Then we turn to the involvement of P1 and P2 receptors in pathological brain function; firstly in trauma, ischemia and stroke, then in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's, as well as multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Finally, the role of purinergic signalling in neuropsychiatric diseases (including schizophrenia), epilepsy, migraine, cognitive impairment and neuropathic pain will be considered.



Activation of corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) is necessary for establishing the classic endocrine response to stress, while activation of forebrain CRF neurons mediates affective components of the stress response. Previous studies have reported that mRNA for CRF2 receptor (CRFR2) is expressed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) as well as hypothalamic nuclei, but little is known about the localization and cellular distribution of CRFR2 in these regions. Using immunofluorescence with confocal microscopy, as well as electron microscopy, we demonstrate that in the BNST CRFR2-immunoreactive fibers represent moderate to strong labeling on axons terminals. Dual-immunofluorescence demonstrated that CRFR2-fibers co-localize oxytocin (OT), but not arginine-vasopressin (AVP), and make perisomatic contacts with CRF neurons. Dual-immunofluorescence and single cell RT-PCR demonstrate that in the hypothalamus, CRFR2 immunoreactivity and mRNA are found in OT, but not in CRF or AVP-neurons. Furthermore, CRF neurons of the PVN and BNST express mRNA for the oxytocin receptor, while the majority of OT/CRFR2 neurons in the hypothalamus do not. Finally, using adenoviral-based anterograde tracing of PVN neurons, we show that OT/CRFR2-immunoreactive fibers observed in the BNST originate in the PVN. Our results strongly suggest that CRFR2 located on oxytocinergic neurons and axon terminals might regulate the release of this neuropeptide and hence might be a crucial part of potential feedback loop between the hypothalamic oxytocin system and the forebrain CRF system that could significantly impact affective and social behaviors, in particular during times of stress.
The incidence of depression is 2-3 higher in women particularly during the reproductive years, an occurrence that has been associated with levels of sex hormones. The age-related decline of testosterone levels in men corresponds with the increased acquisition of depressive symptoms, and hormone replacement therapy can be efficacious in treating depression in hypogonadal men. Although it is not possible to model depression in rodents, it is possible to model some of the symptoms of depression including a dysregulated stress response and altered neuroplasticity. Among animal models of depression, chronic mild unpredictable stress (CMS) is a common paradigm used to induce depressive-like behaviours in rodents, disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis and decrease hippocampal neuroplasticity. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of hypogonadism, produced by gonadectomy, on the acquisition of depressive-like behaviours and changes in hippocampal neuroplasticity in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. A 21-day unpredictable CMS protocol was used on gonadectomised (GDX) and sham-operated males which produced an attenuation of weight gain in the GDX males receiving CMS treatment (GDX-CMS). Behavioural analysis was carried out to assess anxiety- and depressive-like behaviours. The combination of GDX and CMS produced greater passive behaviours within the forced swim test than CMS exposure alone. Similarly, hippocampal cell proliferation, neurogenesis and the expression of the neuroplastic protein polysialated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) were all significantly reduced in the GDX-CMS group compared to all other treatment groups. These findings indicate that testicular hormones confer resiliency to chronic stress in males therefore reducing the likelihood of developing putative physiological, behavioural or neurological depressive-like phenotypes.




The alternative outcome refers to the outcome of the unselected option in decision-making tasks, which has significant influence on the chosen outcome evaluation. Most paradigms have presented the alternative outcome either after or simultaneous with the chosen outcome, which complicates the observation on the brain activity associated with the alternative outcome. To circumvent this perceived shortcoming, we modified the classic paradigm designed by Yeung and Sanfey (2004) such that the alternative outcome was presented before the chosen outcome in each trial while an electroencephalogram was recorded. The feedback-related negativity (FRN) elicited by the positive alternative outcome was larger than that elicited by the negative alternative outcome, suggesting that the participants evaluated the positive alternative outcome as negative feedback. Moreover, the FRN and the P3 elicited by the chosen outcome were influenced by the valence of the alternative outcome. The current study reveals that the alternative outcome is treated as important information even though it is economically neutral.
The effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on cortical excitability are usually inferred from indirect indexes, such as EMG responses. It has now become possible to directly evaluate rTMS impact by means of concurrent EEG recording. The aim of this study was to examine the modulation induced by high frequency rTMS (20 Hz) over left primary motor cortex on the ongoing oscillatory activity. Thirteen subjects underwent two sham and a real rTMS session while acquiring EEG. Event-related desynchronization/synchronization was calculated for the  and  bands. rTMS induced a dose-dependent increase in synchronization in both bands over central and parietal sites. The strongest effect found for the  band outlasted the end of the stimulation. Considering previous studies, our data suggest that  generation may represent an intrinsic induced response and a basic response signature to TMS targeting the human resting motor cortex.

Ionizing radiation reduces the numbers of neurons expressing activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG). It is currently unclear if that change relates to cognitive function. We assessed the effects of 1 Gy of head-only Fe-particle irradiation on hippocampus-dependent and hippocampus-independent fear conditioning and determined how those changes related to Arc expression within the DG. Irradiated mice that did not receive tone-shock pairings on day 1 showed less freezing in the same context on a second day and a lower fraction of Arc-expressing neurons in the free (lower) blade of the DG than sham-irradiated mice. Those data suggested reduced hippocampus-dependent spatial habituation learning. Changes in Arc expression in the free blade correlated positively with freezing in mice that did not receive tone-shock pairings. However, irradiated mice that did receive tone-shock pairings showed enhanced contextual freezing but a reduced percentage of Arc-expressing neurons in the enclosed (upper) blade. Changes in Arc expression correlated negatively with freezing in mice that received tone-shock pairings. In animals receiving cued fear conditioning, radiation did not affect cognitive performance or the fractions of Arc-expressing neurons. While the relationship between Arc expression and cognitive performance is complex, our data suggest that radiation effects on hippocampus-dependent cognition might depend on the prominence (salience) of environmental stimuli and blade-specific Arc expression.

Diffuse low-grade gliomas (LGGs) in adults are progressive brain tumours that are radiologically characterized by slow and continuous growth that precedes anaplastic transformation. Standard treatment includes surgery and radiotherapy though the optimal timing of radiotherapy remains unsettled. Several retrospective and phase II studies have demonstrated that chemotherapy is also an interesting treatment option. However, several questions remain unanswered regarding its optimal use. The present review focuses on past, recent and ongoing developments in LGGs chemotherapy, including response assessment and potential predictive biomarkers of chemosensitivity.
Epilepsy associated with brain tumors presents with specific features deserving medical attention. Although commonly reported in patients with brain tumor, either as revealing mode or as a remote complication, limited knowledge is available regarding their epidemiology, clinical evolution, surgical outcome, physiopathology and treatment, providing only clues for clinical management. Seizures appear even more threatening for patients and caregivers, providing seizures could mean tumor progression and recurrence. This factor adds to the negative impact of epilepsy carried on quality of life measures. Pharmacotherapy is complicated by the use of chemotherapy and interaction between antiepileptic drugs and antineoplastic agents are frequent and potentially harmful. The high incidence of epilepsy enlights the question of prophylaxy with antiepileptic drugs, in patients without seizures, or during the perioperative period, and after surgery, when gross total resection has been achieved. This article attempts to provide the reader with an overview of brain tumor epilepsy in its specific aspects and to comment on some remaining issues.
Hypersensitive reactions to eyedrops are a common finding in clinical practice and represent a frequent cause of discontinuation of the therapy. Moreover, experimental and clinical studies show that long term use of topical drugs may induce ocular surface changes causing discomfort and potentially negatively affecting the compliance to the treatment as well as the success rate of filtering procedures. The exact mechanism involved and the roles of the active compound and the preservatives in inducing such detrimental effects of ophthalmic solutions are unclear. During the last years several antiglaucoma agents have been marketed as either preservative-free or benzalkonium chloride-free formulations in an attempt to reduce the adverse effects related to preservatives. This paper summarizes the body of evidence from existing studies about preservatives in antiglaucoma eyedrops, focusing on the latest compounds commercially available. A systematic review of the literature was performed. Current research is focusing not only on the efficacy of the drugs but also on their tolerability. Based on the existing data, there is a rationale to support the use of benzalkonium-free solutions whenever possible, especially in patients suffering from concomitant ocular surface diseases, experiencing local side effects and in those expected to need multiple and prolonged topical treatments.
The strategy of World Health Organization is to develop efficient and inexpensive vaccine against various infectious diseases amongst children's population. Vaccination is considered as the most cost effective health intervention known to public. Since 90years various substances have been added in vaccine formulation but still alum is considered as the safest adjuvant for human use licensed by United States Food and Drug Administration. MF 59 and ASO4 are the adjuvants were developed recently and approved for human use. Due to poor adjuvancity, conventional vaccines require multiple recall injection at approximately time intervals to attain optimal immune response. For past approximately two decades the vaccine research has been focused towards the alternation of alum type of adjuvant in order to increase the immunogenicity. The development of new vaccines, is more efficacious or easier to deliver, or both have become an area of research that can certainly benefit from controlled release technology. Especially, the conversion of multiple administration vaccine into single administration vaccine may represent an improved advancement towards the betterment of human health care and welfare. Biodegradable polymer microparticles have been evaluated for delivering antigens in native form, sustained release keeping in mind the safety aspects. In this article we review the overall concept of adjuvants in vaccine technology with special focus towards the prospects of controlled release antigens.
In this article it is suggested that current psychological theories of depression presuppose that this condition will develop as a result of a vicious circle involving negatively biased communication between systems of emotional stress-/alarm-signaling, executive functions and mood regulation. These systems may from a neuroanatomical point of view be located in the limbic system, the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex and the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA-) axis respectively. The theoretical and practical implications of this model for the understanding of pharmacological treatments of depression are briefly discussed and this theory is related to the catecholamine hypothesis of depression. The model is furthermore discussed in relation to deep brain stimulation (DBS) of treatment resistant major depression. Similarities and differences between this perspective and the one advocated by the &quot;homeostatic theory&quot; of depression are discussed. It is concluded that a topographical psychological theory may offer a useful heuristic in thinking about depression and that it offers several testable predictions about treatments of the disorder.


The peptide angiotensin IV (Ang IV) influences seizure susceptibility in rat and mouse models. Indeed, Ang IV has been shown to protect rats from limbic seizures in the focal pilocarpine model. Moreover, both anticonvulsive and antiepileptogenic effects of Ang IV have been reported in the acute pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) and kindling model of generalized seizures in mice. It has been hypothesized that the latter effects on seizures could be established via a modulatory effect on dopamine receptors in the basal ganglia or via an indirect interaction between Ang IV and adenosine A1 receptors. However, a possible role for insulin-regulated aminopeptidase (IRAP), the high affinity binding site for Ang IV, has not been studied yet. To unequivocally unravel the involvement of IRAP in generalized seizure generation, we investigated the susceptibility of male IRAP wild-type (IRAP(+/+)) and knock-out (IRAP(-/-)) mice to PTZ-induced seizures. Challenging these mice intravenously with PTZ resulted in significantly increased thresholds for myoclonic twitch and generalized clonic seizures with loss of righting reflexes in IRAP(-/-) mice compared to their IRAP(+/+) littermates. These behavioural data were confirmed by video-electrocorticography monitoring. Our study shows that IRAP(-/-) mice are less sensitive to the development of PTZ-induced seizures and suggests that IRAP is involved in generalized seizure generation.

Coping with stressful life events requires a degree of skill in the ability to attend to, comprehend, label, communicate and regulate emotions. Individuals vary in the extent to which these skills are developed, with the term 'alexithymia' often applied in the clinical and personality literature to those individuals most compromised in these skills. Although a frontal lobe model of alexithymia is emerging, it is unclear whether such a model satisfactorily reflects brain-related patterns associated with perceived emotional intelligence at the facet level. To determine whether these trait meta-mood facets (ability to attend to, have clarity of and repair emotions) have unique gray matter volume correlates, a voxel-based morphometry study was conducted in 30 healthy adults using the Trait Meta Mood Scale while co-varying for potentially confounding sociodemographic variables. Poorer Attention to Emotion was associated with lower gray matter volume in clusters distributed primarily throughout the frontal lobe, with peak correlation in the left medial frontal gyrus. Poorer Mood Repair was related to lower gray matter volume in three clusters in frontal and inferior parietal areas, with peak correlation in the left anterior cingulate. No significant volumetric correlations emerged for the Clarity of Emotion facet. We discuss the localization of these areas in the context of cortical circuits known to be involved in processes of self-reflection and cognitive control.
Medial frontal scalp-recorded negativity occurring 200-300ms post-stimulus [known as feedback-related negativity (FRN)] is attenuated following unpredicted reward and potentiated following unpredicted non-reward. This encourages the view that FRN may partly reflect dopaminergic 'reward-prediction-error' signalling. We examined the influence of a putatively dopamine-based personality trait, extraversion (N=30), and a dopamine-related gene polymorphism, DRD2/ANKK1 (N=24), on FRN during an associative reward-learning paradigm. FRN was most negative following unpredicted non-reward and least-negative following unpredicted reward. A difference wave contrasting these conditions was significantly more pronounced for extraverted participants than for introverts, with a similar but non-significant trend for participants carrying at least one copy of the A1 allele of the DRD2/ANKK1 gene compared with those without the allele. Extraversion was also significantly higher in A1 allele carriers. Results have broad relevance to neuroscience and personality research concerning reward processing and dopamine function.
Two neurodevelopmental disorders, Williams syndrome (WS) and autism, are both commonly described as having opposite social profiles: social avoidance in autism vs hypersociability in individuals with WS. The goal of this study was to contrast the brain activity associated with language processing in these two populations, in order to understand the very likely interplay between the use of language and the sociability dimension, on which these disorders diverge. Towards this aim, the N400 component of the event-related potentials was used to quantify the processing of semantic integration in these two populations. Results revealed that individuals with WS showed a significantly larger N400 effect, as compared to both typical controls and individuals with autism, while the latter group demonstrated the smallest N400 effect. The findings demonstrate quite opposite profiles of neural correlates of language processing in WS and autism, mirroring their contrasting social phenotypes.
This article analyzes the efficacy of the Together for Empowerment Activities (TEA) intervention in decreasing depressive symptoms and improving social support for persons living with HIV (PLH) and their family members. A total of 79 families, consisting of 88 PLH and 79 family members, were recruited from Anhui province, China, and randomized to the TEA intervention (n = 38) or a control condition (n = 41). The intervention was delivered at three levels: 1) TEA Gathering (small group for PLH and family members); 2) TEA Time (home-based family activities with children that accompany each TEA Gathering); and 3) TEA Garden (community events that build social integration). Face-to-face interviews were administered at baseline, 3, and 6 months. Mixed-effects regression models and kernel density estimation were used for data analysis. PLH and their family members in the intervention reported significant improvements in depressive symptoms, social support, and family functioning at the 3-month and 6-month follow-up assessments compared to those in the control condition. Heterogeneous intervention effects on social support and family functioning were indicated at the 6-month follow-up. The intervention could have various effect patterns for different subgroups within the intervention condition. This study provides preliminary data to support the feasibility and efficacy of a multilevel intervention.

Global analysis of stem/progenitor cells promises new insight into mechanisms that govern self-renewal and cellular potential, an unresolved question of stem/progenitor cell biology. Despite rapid advance of genome-wide profiling methods, the difficulty in cell purification remains a major challenge for global analysis of somatic stem/progenitor cells. Genetic tagging with a reporter provides a powerful tool for identification and isolation of a specific mature cell type; however, for stem/progenitor cells, reporter retention by progeny may be a concern for impurity. Here, we describe a genetic system combining a progenitor cell specific label with a second tag for marking differentiation. We present evidence that differential labeling of neural progenitor cells and their progeny enables prospective purification of these two cell types, whereas isolation based on a single marker compromises the purity of the intended progenitor population. Comparative expression profiling between the purified progenitors and progeny documents a neural progenitor cell transcriptome and uncovers an important role of Tyro3/Axl/Mer receptor tyrosine kinases in the maintenance of neural progenitor cells. This study establishes a general strategy for isolation of somatic stem/progenitor cells and provides a transcriptome database of neural progenitor cells useful for identification of causal factors of neural progenitor cell state, global dissection of epigenetic control of cellular potential, as well as for developing biomarkers or targets of brain cancer stem/initiating cells for therapeutic interventions.
Neurons derived from human embryonic stem cells hold promise for the therapy of neurological diseases. Quality inspection of human embryonic stem cell-derived neurons has often been based on immunolabeling for neuronal markers. Here we put emphasis on their physiological properties. Electrophysiological measurements were carried out systematically at different stages of neuronal in vitro development, including the very early stage, neuroepithelial rosettes. Developing human neurons are able to generate action potentials (APs) as early as 10 days after the start of differentiation. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive (putative dopaminergic, DA) neurons tend to aggregate into clumps, and their overall yield per coverslip is relatively low (8.3%) because of areas void of DA neurons. On the same in vitro day, neighboring neurons can be in very different stages of differentiation, including repetitive AP firing, single full-size AP, and abortive AP. Similarly, the basic electrophysiological parameters (resting membrane potential, input resistance, peak sodium, and peak potassium currents) are scattered in a wide range. Visual appearance of differentiating neurons, and number of primary and secondary dendrites cannot be used to predict the peak sodium current or AP firing properties of cultured neurons. Approximately 13% of neurons showed evidence of hyperpolarization-induced current (I(h)), a characteristic of DA neurons; however, no neurons with repetitive APs showed I(h). The electrophysiological measurements thus indicate that a standard DA differentiation (dibutyryl cyclic AMP-based) protocol, applied for 2-5 weeks, produces a heterogeneous ensemble of mostly immature neurons. The overall quality of human neurons under present conditions (survival factors were not used) begins to deteriorate after 12 days of differentiation.







Multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, with a second autoimmune disease after lymphocyte depletion, had elevated serum IL-21 before and after treatment which correlated to IL21 genotypes. In addition, the IL21 gene has been associated to several other autoimmune diseases. However, in a Spanish population there was no association to MS. Here, in a Swedish cohort (2090 MS cases and 1732 controls) 12 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) tagging IL21 were not associated to disease. There was no interaction with risk alleles of IL21R and HLA-DRB1*15. Lack of genetic association was confirmed in a meta-analysis with pooled data from the present study and the Spanish study. In conclusion, IL21 has not been shown to be a major risk gene for MS.
Environmental pollutants, such as dioxins and furans, are extremely toxic and related with pulmonary diseases development. Impairment of mitochondrial function has been shown in pollutant-induced hepatic injury, but it has not been addressed in lungs, even though lung mitochondria are primary cellular targets for pollutants-induced toxicity. In isolated lung mitochondria, dibenzofuran significantly increased the lag phase preceding mitochondrial repolarization, suggesting a decrease in the efficiency of the mitochondrial phosphorylative system.
The identification of neurotoxicity is a critical issue in drug development, and toxicologic pathologists play an important role in this effort. Neuropathology is a specialized area of toxicologic pathology in which a substantial number of nonroutine techniques and methods have been developed, and there are undoubtedly many instances in which these specialized procedures have helped characterize a neuropathologic lesion. Routine histopathologic methods employed in general toxicologic pathology studies are needed to identify the complete range of possible neuropathologic changes; once identified, many of these changes can be better defined by specialized techniques, such as immunohistochemistry, to confirm cell types involved. Sometimes, when neurotoxicity is expected, dedicated studies can be designed a priori and optimized for detection of the anticipated effects. However, when neurotoxicity arises unexpectedly or there is uncertainty around the potential for neurotoxicity, the decision of what to do can become more difficult. Recommendations to go ahead and perform the &quot;optimal&quot; study design that would accommodate all the potentially useful specialized techniques for characterizing a neuropathologic change are sometimes not practical and can be unnecessary and potentially detrimental to other end points in the study. In addition, there is not always agreement on when specialized techniques would be required and which ones should be used when necessary. Two techniques in particular that are commonly recommended to help facilitate the detection of neuropathologic lesions are perfusion fixation and the Fluoro-Jade stain.
Misuse of diethylene glycol (DEG) has led to numerous epidemic poisonings worldwide. DEG produces toxicity because of its metabolism, although the mechanism of its toxicity has not been further defined. The purpose of this study was to investigate the accumulation of specific metabolites in blood and target organ tissues and to determine the relationship between tissue accumulation of metabolites and the resulting toxicity. Wistar rats were treated with water, 2 g/kg DEG (low dose), 10 g/kg DEG (high dose), or 10 g/kg DEG + fomepizole (15 mg/kg then 10 mg/kg per 12 h, to inhibit DEG metabolism), and blood and tissue samples were collected up to 48 h. After high doses of DEG, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA) was the primary metabolite in the blood (4 mmol/l), with only low concentrations of diglycolic acid (DGA) (0.04 mmol/l). In contrast, renal and hepatic concentrations of DGA and of HEAA at 48 h were similar (4 mmol/l), indicating a 100-fold concentrative uptake of DGA by kidney tissue. Treatment with fomepizole blocked the formation of HEAA and DGA and the kidney toxicity. Both HEAA and DGA concentrations in the kidney correlated strongly with the degree of kidney damage. Accumulation of HEAA in blood correlated with increased anion gap and decreased blood bicarbonate so appeared responsible for the DEG-induced acidosis. Although these studies suggest that either metabolite may be involved in producing kidney toxicity, the unexpected renal accumulation of DGA at toxic doses of DEG suggests that it must also be considered a possible toxic metabolite of DEG.
The causal relationship between atrazine exposure and the occurrence of breast cancer in women was evaluated using the framework developed by Adami et al. (2011) wherein biological plausibility and epidemiological evidence were combined to conclude that a causal relationship between atrazine exposure and breast cancer is &quot;unlikely&quot;. Carcinogenicity studies in female Sprague-Dawley (SD) but not Fischer-344 rats indicate that high doses of atrazine caused a decreased latency and an increased incidence of combined adenocarcinoma and fibroadenoma mammary tumors. There were no effects of atrazine on any other tumor type in male or female SD or Fischer-344 rats or in three strains of mice. Seven key events that precede tumor expression in female SD rats were identified. Atrazine induces mammary tumors in aging female SD rats by suppressing the luteinizing hormone surge, thereby supporting a state of persistent estrus and prolonged exposure to endogenous estrogen and prolactin. This endocrine mode of action has low biological plausibility for women because women who undergo reproductive senescence have low rather than elevated levels of estrogen and prolactin. Four alternative modes of action (genotoxicity, estrogenicity, upregulation of aromatase gene expression or delayed mammary gland development) were considered and none could account for the tumor response in SD rats. Epidemiological studies provide no support for a causal relationship between atrazine exposure and breast cancer. This conclusion is consistent with International Agency for Research on Cancer's classification of atrazine as &quot;unclassifiable as to carcinogenicity&quot; and the United States Environmental Protection Agency's classification of atrazine as &quot;not likely to be carcinogenic.&quot;
Transferrin receptor (TfR) is a well-characterized plasma membrane protein that travels between the plasma membrane and intracellular membrane compartments. Although TfR itself should undergo degradation, the same as other intracellular proteins, whether a specific TfR degradation pathway exists has never been investigated. In this study, we screened small GTPase Rab proteins, common regulators of membrane traffic in all eukaryotes, for proteins that are specifically involved in TfR degradation. We performed the screening by three sequential methods, i.e. colocalization of Rab with TfR, colocalization with lysosomes, and knockdown of Rab by specific small interfering RNA (siRNA), and succeeded in identifying Rab12, a previously uncharacterized Rab isoform, as a prime candidate among the 60 human or mouse Rabs screened. We showed that expression of a constitutive active mutant of Rab12 reduced the amount of TfR protein, whereas functional ablation of Rab12 by knockdown of either Rab12 itself or its upstream activator Dennd3 increased the amount of TfR protein. Interestingly, however, knockdown of Rab12 had no effect on the degradation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) protein, i.e. on a conventional degradation pathway. Our findings indicated that TfR is constitutively degraded by a Rab12-dependent pathway (presumably from recycling endosomes to lysosomes), which is independent of the conventional degradation pathway.
Contrary to assumptions that changes in brain networks are possible only during crucial periods of development, research in the past decade has supported the idea of a permanently plastic brain. Novel experience, altered afferent input due to environmental changes and learning new skills are now recognized as modulators of brain function and underlying neuroanatomic circuitry. Given findings in experiments with animals and the recent discovery of increases in gray and white matter in the adult human brain as a result of learning, the old concept of cognitive reserve, that is the ability to reinforce brain volume in crucial areas and thus provide a greater threshold for age-dependent deficits, has been reinforced. The challenge we face is to unravel the exact nature of the dynamic structural alterations and, ultimately, to be able to use this knowledge for disease management. Understanding normative changes in brain structure that occur as a result of environmental changes and demands is pivotal to understanding the characteristic ability of the brain to adapt.
Inhibiting unwanted thoughts, actions and emotions figures centrally in daily life, and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is widely viewed as a source of this inhibitory control. We argue that the function of the PFC is best understood in terms of representing and actively maintaining abstract information, such as goals, which produces two types of inhibitory effects on other brain regions. Inhibition of some subcortical regions takes a directed global form, with prefrontal regions providing contextual information relevant to when to inhibit all processing in a region. Inhibition within neocortical (and some subcortical) regions takes an indirect competitive form, with prefrontal regions providing excitation of goal-relevant options. These distinctions are crucial for understanding the mechanisms of inhibition and how they can be impaired or improved.

Approximately 3% of Americans declare to have had a near-death experience. These experiences classically involve the feeling that one's soul has left the body, approaches a bright light and goes to another reality, where love and bliss are all encompassing. Contrary to popular belief, research suggests that there is nothing paranormal about these experiences. Instead, near-death experiences are the manifestation of normal brain function gone awry, during a traumatic, and sometimes harmless, event.
Regulatory CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T cells (Tregs) have been the focus of significant attention for their role in controlling immune responses. Although knowledge of Treg biology has burgeoned, wide gaps remain in our understanding of Treg function under both normal and pathological conditions. Pioneering studies demonstrated roles for Tregs in cancer and autoimmune diseases, including experimental autoimmune encephalitis, and this knowledge is often applied to other pathologies including neurodegenerative conditions. However, differences between immunity in neurodegeneration and in malignancy or autoimmunity are often neglected. Thus, Treg manipulations in central nervous system (CNS) neurodegenerative conditions often yield unexpected outcomes. In this piece, we explore how the immunology of neurodegeneration differs from that of cancer and autoimmunity and how these differences create confusion about the role of Tregs in neurodegenerative conditions.
The Grete Lundbeck European Brain Research Foundation awarded the inaugural Brain Prize 2011 to Pter Somogyi, Tams Freund and Gyrgy Buzski 'for their wide-ranging, technically and conceptually brilliant research on the functional organization of neuronal circuits in the cerebral cortex, especially in the hippocampus, a region that is crucial for certain forms of memory'. The present article highlights key findings and major conceptual contributions by these three scientists that were recognized by the award.
The hippocampal formation and striatum subserve declarative and procedural memory, respectively. However, experimental evidence suggests that the ventral striatum, as opposed to the dorsal striatum, does not lend itself to being part of either system. Instead, it may constitute a system integrating inputs from the amygdala, prefrontal cortex and hippocampus to generate motivational, outcome-predicting signals that invigorate goal-directed behaviors. Inspired by reinforcement learning models, we suggest an alternative scheme for computational functions of the striatum. Dorsal and ventral striatum are proposed to compute outcome predictions largely in parallel, using different types of information as input. The nature of the inputs to striatum is furthermore combinatorial, and the specificity of predictions transcends the level of scalar value signals, incorporating episodic information.
The hippocampus integrates the encoding, storage and recall of memories, binding the spatio-temporal and sensory information that constitutes experience and keeping episodes in their correct context. The rapid and accurate processing of such daunting volumes of continuously changing data relies on dynamically assigning different aspects of mnemonic processing to specialized, interconnected networks corresponding to the anatomical subfields of dentate gyrus (DG), CA3 and CA1. However, differentially processed information ultimately has to be reintegrated into conjunctive representations, and this is unlikely to be achieved by unidirectional, sequential steps through a DG-CA3-CA1 loop. In this Review, we highlight recently discovered anatomical and physiological features that are likely to necessitate updates to the hippocampal circuit diagram, particularly by incorporating the oft-neglected CA2 region.
A slow oscillatory movement (SOM) has previously been discovered superimposed on the three well known components of fixational eye movements. The purpose of the present study was to explore the visual influence on the control mechanism of the SOM. Three tests with different fixation targets and backgrounds were prepared. The eye position during a fixation task on healthy test subjects has been recorded by the Chronos eye tracking device. The visual stimuli with no or less information triggered larger SOM amplitudes. None of the investigated conditions significantly influenced on SOM frequency.
Current research on the etiopathogenesis of diseases of peripheral organs is primarily focused on the study of processes affecting those organs directly altered by diseases. As a result, therapeutic interventions are focused on the cells of those organs affected by pathological processes. However, pathological processes are not restricted to any &quot;circumscribed&quot; group of cells. Cells of tissue affected by pathological process interact with cells in the surrounding tissues. Moreover, pathologic processes also induce changes in the activity of the neuroendocrine and immune systems, which also affect the progression of pathological processes. The neurobiological view of diseases is based on the assumption that the nervous system processes signals related to pathological processes in peripheral organs and then consequently modulates it via the autonomic, neuroendocrine, and neuroimmune regulations. The aim of this paper is to explain the basis of the neurobiological view of diseases of the peripheral organs, and then discuss possible therapeutic consequences.


Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc), also known as activity-regulated gene 3.1 (Arg3.1), is an immediate early gene whose mRNA is selectively targeted to recently activated synaptic sites, where it is translated and enriched. This unique feature suggests a role for Arc/Arg3.1 in coupling synaptic activity to protein synthesis, leading to synaptic plasticity. Although the Arc/Arg3.1 gene has been shown to be induced by a variety of abused drugs and its protein has been implicated in diverse forms of long-term memory, relatively little is known about its role in drug-induced reward memory. In this study, we investigated the potential role of Arc/Arg3.1 protein expression in reward-related associative learning and memory using morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. We found that (1) intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of morphine (10mg/kg) increased Arc/Arg3.1 protein levels after 2h in the NAc core but not in the NAc shell. (2) In CPP experiments, Arc/Arg3.1 protein was increased in the NAc shell of rats following both morphine conditioning and the CPP expression test compared to rats that received the conditioning without the test or those that did not receive morphine conditioning. (3) Microinjection of Arc/Arg3.1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS) into the NAc core inhibited the acquisition, expression and reinstatement of morphine CPP; however, intra-NAc shell infusions of the AS only blocked the expression of CPP. These findings suggest that expression of the Arc/Arg3.1 protein in the NAc core is required for the acquisition, context-induced retrieval and reinstatement of morphine-associated reward memory, whereas Arc/Arg3.1 protein expression in the NAc shell is only critical for the context-induced retrieval of memory. As a result, Arc/Arg3.1 may be a potential therapeutic target for the prevention of drug abuse or the relapse of drug use.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major public health issue affecting 1.7 million Americans each year, of which approximately 50,000 are fatal. High-fat sucrose (HFS) diets are another public health issue which can lead to obesity, hypertension, and many other debilitating disorders. These two disorders combined can lead to more complicated issues. It has recently been shown that HFS diets can reduce levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) leading to reductions in neuronal and behavioral plasticity. This reduction in BDNF is suspected of increasing the susceptibility of the brain to injury. To test the effects of a HFS diet on recovery of function post-TBI, male Sprague-Dawley rats were used in this study. Eight weeks prior to TBI, rats were placed on a special HFS diet (n=14) or a standard rodent diet (n=14). Following this eight-week period, rats were prepared with bilateral frontal cortical contusion injuries (CCI) or sham procedures. Beginning two days post-TBI, animals were tested on a battery of behavioral tests to assess somatosensory dysfunction and spatial memory in the Morris water maze, with a reference memory and a working memory task. Following testing, animals were sacrificed and their brains processed for lesion analysis. The HFS diet worsened performance on the bilateral tactile adhesive removal test in sham animals. Injured animals on the Standard diet had a greater improvement in somatosensory performance in the adhesive removal test and had better performance on the working memory task compared to animals on the HFS diet. The HFS diet also resulted in significantly greater loss of cortical tissue post-CCI than in the Standard diet group. This study may aid in determining how nutritional characteristics or habits interact with damage to the brain.
Current smoking cessation aids are relatively ineffective at maintaining abstinence during withdrawal. Nicotine withdrawal is associated with a variety of symptoms including cognitive deficits and targeting these deficits may be a useful strategy for maintaining abstinence. Galantamine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and allosteric modulator of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) with cognitive enhancing effects that may alleviate cognitive deficits associated with nicotine withdrawal. The effects of galantamine on nicotine withdrawal-induced deficits in contextual fear conditioning in C57BL/6 mice were examined. An initial acute dose-response experiment revealed that 0.5 and 1mg/kg galantamine had no effect on fear conditioning. To determine if galantamine would reverse nicotine withdrawal-related deficits in contextual fear conditioning, mice were implanted with osmotic mini-pumps that delivered chronic saline or 6.3mg/kg/d nicotine for 12 days and then pumps were removed. Training and testing of fear conditioning occurred 24 and 48 h later, respectively. Nicotine withdrawal disrupted contextual fear conditioning, which was reversed with 1 but not 0.5mg/kg galantamine. Across all conditions in both studies 2mg/kg galantamine led to high levels of freezing that were likely due to nonspecific effects. The ability of galantamine to reverse nicotine withdrawal-deficits in contextual conditioning is likely mediated through enhanced levels of acetylcholine via inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, potentiation of hippocampal 42* nAChRs, or both. The present study suggests that acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and/or drugs that act as allosteric modulators of nAChRs might be targets for smoking cessation aids because they may alleviate withdrawal symptoms such as cognitive deficits that can lead to relapse.
Synesthesia is a perceptual condition in which sensory stimulation triggers anomalous sensory experiences. In colored sequence synesthesia (CSS), color experiences are triggered by sequences such as letters or numbers. We performed a family based linkage analysis to identify genetic loci responsible for the increased neural crosstalk underlying CSS. Our results implicate a 23 MB region at 16q12.2-23.1, providing the first step in understanding the molecular basis of CSS.
Growing evidence suggests that amyloid beta (A) and tau pathologies are strongly associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Extensive research of AD postmortem brains, mouse and fly models, including triple transgenic AD mice and mutant tau mice, and cell culture studies revealed that tau hyperphosphorylation is caused by multiple factors, including intraneuronal A-oligomers, chronic oxidative stress, reduced insulin-like growth factor 1, and astrocytic mediated-A and caspase activation. Overexpressed and phosphorylated tau appears to impair axonal transport of organelles causing synapse starvation, depletion of ATP, and ultimately neuronal damage. This article evaluates the role of tau in mitochondrial dysfunction and assesses how hyperphosphorylated tau impairs axonal transport of organelles in AD neurons.
Fyn is a Src-family tyrosine kinase that affects long term potentiation (LTP), synapse formation, and learning and memory. Fyn is also implicated in dendritic spine formation both in vitro and in vivo. However, whether Fyn's regulation of dendritic spine formation is brain-region specific and age-dependent is unknown. In the present study, we systematically examined whether Fyn altered dendritic spine density and morphology in the cortex and hippocampus and if these effects were age-dependent. We found that Fyn knockout mice trended toward a decrease in dendritic spine density in cortical layers II/III, but not in the hippocampus, at 1 month of age. Additionally, Fyn knockout mice had significantly decreased dendritic spine density in both the cortex and hippocampus at 3 months and 1 year, and Fyn's effect on dendritic spine density was age-dependent in the hippocampus. Moreover, Fyn knockout mice had wider spines at the three time points (1 month, 3 months, 1 year) in the cortex. These findings suggest that Fyn regulates dendritic spine number and morphology over time and provide further support for Fyn's role in maintaining proper synaptic function in vivo.
Soon, the genetic basis of most human Mendelian diseases will be solved. The next challenge will be to leverage this information to uncover basic mechanisms of disease and develop new therapies. To understand how this transformation is already beginning to unfold, we focus on the ciliopathies, a class of multi-organ diseases caused by disruption of the primary cilium. Through a convergence of data involving mutant gene discovery, proteomics, and cell biology, more than a dozen phenotypically distinguishable conditions are now united as ciliopathies. Sitting at the interface between simple and complex genetic conditions, these diseases provide clues to the future direction of human genetics.
The 5-HT(1B) receptor has been implicated in disorders such as depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder. In mice lacking the 5-HT(1B) receptor (5-HT(1B) knockout mice), important changes in physiology and behavior exist. In the absence of presynaptic 5-HT(1B) receptor inhibition, chronic SSRI treatment may differentially affect 5-HT(1A) receptor functionality. The present studies tested the hypothesis that chronically reducing 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) function with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment would accelerate 5-HT(1A) receptor desensitization in 5-HT(1B) knockout mice. Moreover, as 5-HT(1B) knockout mice have been found to display exaggerated autonomic and locomotor responses to environmental stressors, the effects of chronic SSRI treatment on the hyperreactive phenotype of 5-HT(1B) knockout mice were investigated. The stress-reducing effect of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist flesinoxan on increases in body temperature, heart rate and locomotor activity was similar in wild type and 5-HT(1B) knockout mice before and after chronic 21-day treatment with the SSRI fluvoxamine, indicating no apparent alteration of 5-HT(1A) receptor sensitivity in 5-HT(1B) knockout mice. Also, chronic SSRI treatment did not alter the increased stress reactivity to mild environmental stressors in 5-HT(1B) knockout mice. We demonstrate that no apparent differences in 5-HT(1A) receptor sensitivity occur between 5-HT(1B) knockout and wild type mice after chronic fluvoxamine treatment. Also, the hyperreactive phenotype of 5-HT(1B) knockout mice is unresponsive to chronic SSRI treatment. Taken together, these results indicate that constitutive absence of 5-HT(1B) receptors does not result in adaptive changes in 5-HT(1A) receptor functionality and that chronic SSRI treatment does not modify stress reactivity in 5-HT(1B) knockout mice.
Orexin receptor antagonists are being investigated as therapeutic agents for insomnia and addictive disorders. In this study the interactions between the orexin receptors (orexin 1 receptor and orexin 2 receptor), orexin peptides, and small molecule orexin antagonists were explored. To study these phenomena, a variety of mutant orexin receptors was made and tested using receptor binding and functional assays. Domains of the two orexin receptors were exchanged to show the critical ligand binding domains for orexin peptides and representative selective orexin receptor antagonists. Results from domain exchanges between the orexin receptors suggest that transmembrane domain 3 is crucially important for receptor interactions with small molecule antagonists. These data also suggest that the orexin peptides occupy a larger footprint, interacting with transmembrane domain 1, the amino terminus and transmembrane domain 5 as well as transmembrane domain 3. Transmembrane domain 3 has been shown to be an important part of the small molecule binding pocket common to rhodopsin and 2-adrenergic receptors. Additional orexin receptor 2 point mutations were made based on the common arrangement of receptor transmembrane domains shown in the G-protein coupled receptor crystal structure literature and the impact of orexin 2 receptor residue threonine 135 on the ligand selectivity of the 2 orexin receptors. These data support a model of the orexin receptor binding pocket in which transmembrane domains 3 and 5 are prominent contributors to ligand binding and functional activity. The data also illustrate key contact points for ligand interactions in the consensus small molecule pocket of these receptors.
Global forebrain ischemia results in damage to the pyramids in the CA1 hippocampal subfield, which is particularly vulnerable to excitotoxic processes. Morphological and functional disintegration of this area leads to a cognitive dysfunction and neuropsychiatric disorders. Treatment with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonists is a widely accepted method with which to stop the advance of excitotoxic processes and concomitant neuronal death. From a clinical aspect, competitive glycine- and polyamine-site antagonists with relatively low affinity and moderate side-effects are taken into account. Endogenous kynurenic acid acts as an antagonist on the obligatory co-agonist glycine site, and has long been at the focus of neuroprotective trials. In the present study, we estimated the neuroprotective capability of a novel kynurenic acid analog in transient global forebrain ischemia, measuring the rate of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell loss and the preservation of long-term potentiation at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. The neuroprotective potential was reflected by a significantly diminished hippocampal CA1 cell loss and preserved long-term potentiation expression. The neuroprotective effect was robust in the event of pretreatment, and also when the drug was administered at the time of reperfusion. This result is beneficial since a putative neuroprotectant proven to be effective as post-treatment is of much greater benefit.
GABA(A) receptors meet all the pharmacological criteria required to be considered important general anaesthetic targets. In the following study, the modulatory effects of various commercially available and novel cyclohexanols were investigated on recombinant human -aminobutyric acid (GABA(A), (1)(2)(2s)) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and compared to the modulatory effects on GABA currents observed with exposures to the intravenous anaesthetic agent, propofol. Submaximal EC(20) GABA currents were typically enhanced by co-applications of 3-300 M cyclohexanols. For instance, at 30 M 2,6-diisopropylcyclohexanol (a novel compound) GABA responses were increased ~3-fold (although similar enhancements were achieved at 3 M propofol). As regards rank order for modulation by the cyclohexanol analogues at 30 M, the % enhancements for 2,6-dimethylcyclohexanol~2,6-diethylcyclohexanol~2,6-diisopropylcyclohexanol~2,6-di-sec-butylcyclohexanol 2,6-di-tert-butylcyclohexanol~4-tert-butylcyclohexanol&gt;cyclohexanol~cyclopentanol~2-methylcyclohexanol. We further tested the potencies of the cyclohexanol analogues as general anaesthetics using a tadpole in vivo assay. Both 2,6-diisopropylcyclohexanol and 2,6-dimethylcyclohexanol were effective as anaesthetics with EC(50)s of 14.0 M and 13.1 M respectively, while other cyclohexanols with bulkier side chains were less potent. In conclusion, our data indicate that cyclohexanols are both positive modulators of GABA(A) receptors currents and anaesthetics. The positioning and size of the alkyl groups at the 2 and 6 positions on the cyclohexanol ring were critical determinants of activity.
To investigate the putative rewarding effects of atomoxetine, a non-stimulant medication for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), we conducted conditioned place preference (CPP) tests in an animal model of ADHD, the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). The effects of drug pre-exposure were also evaluated, thus, parallel experiments were done in rats which have undergone 14 days of atomoxetine treatment. The responses of SHR were compared with the rat strain representing the &quot;normal&quot; heterogeneous population, the Wistar rats. Neither rat strain showed significant CPP to atomoxetine. However, previous atomoxetine treatment produced place preference responses in rats, more profoundly in Wistar rats conditioned with the low and moderate atomoxetine doses. In conclusion, acute exposure to atomoxetine does not have any rewarding effect, however, drug pretreatment produces responses characteristic of reward or psychological dependence, more specifically in the &quot;normal&quot; vs. the ADHD animal model. The present findings call for more studies with atomoxetine, especially those that investigate the effects of long-term or chronic drug treatment.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor mediated long-term depression (mGlu receptor LTD) is evoked in hippocampal area CA1 chemically by the agonist 3,5-Dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG, agonist LTD) and synaptically by paired-pulse low frequency stimulation (PP-LFS, synaptic LTD). We tested the hypothesis that different expression mechanisms regulate mGlu receptor LTD in 15-21 day old rats through neurophysiologic recordings in CA1. Several findings, in fact, suggest that agonist and synaptic mGlu receptor LTD are expressed through different mechanisms. First, neither LTD occluded the other. Second, a low calcium solution enhanced agonist LTD but did not alter synaptic LTD. Third, application of the mGlu receptor antagonist LY341495 (2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropyl-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid) reversed agonist LTD expression, but did not alter synaptic LTD. Finally, an N-type, voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonist, -conotoxin GVIA (CTX), reduced agonist LTD expression by 35%, but did not alter synaptic LTD. CTX also blocked the increase in the paired-pulse ratio associated with agonist LTD. This study cautions against assuming that agonist and synaptic LTD are equivalent as several components underlying their expression appear to differ. Moreover, the data suggest that agonist LTD, but not synaptic LTD, has a presynaptic, N-channel mediated component.
Methods currently employed to study the release of hormones such as arginine vasopressin (AVP), while sensitive, suffer from a low temporal resolution such that the monitoring of AVP release on a moment-to-moment basis is not possible. Here, we describe a new approach to indirectly monitor the temporal profile of AVP release from the neurohypophysis of transgenic rats expressing an AVP-eGFP fusion gene. Using fibre-optic probes (termed 'optrodes') we were able to indirectly monitor AVP release via a reporter moiety in real-time. This method is a major advance over current methods used to monitor AVP release. Intravenous administration of hypertonic saline (3M NaCl) induced a rapid (latency of 2-3s) increase in fluorescence detected in the neurohypophysis that lasted on average for 60s - a response that was highly reproducible. Infusion of sodium nitroprusside induced a rapid fall in blood pressure accompanied by a rapid, stimulus-locked increase in fluorescent signal that returned to baseline with the recovery of blood pressure to pre-stimulus levels - again this response was highly reproducible. Withdrawal of blood (to simulate haemorrhage) also resulted in a stimulus-locked increase in fluorescence that return to baseline after the withdrawn blood was returned to the animal. In conclusion, we developed a highly sensitive approach that allows the indirect measurement of AVP release via the monitoring of a reporter gene in real-time. This technology can be adapted to permit the study of a whole array of neurohormones/chemicals in transgenic animals expressing a fluorescent reporter construct.
In vitro cell culture models are of enormous importance in neuroscience research and organotypic brain slices are found to be a potent model very close to the in vivo situation. Brain slices can be cultured as single slices or as co-slices. However, there is need to culture whole brain sections, containing the complex functional architecture. The aim of the present study was to develop and characterize whole brain sagittal slice cultures (200m organotypic vibrosections) from postnatal day 8 rats. We show that sagittal vibrosections can be cultured for several weeks and they maintain survival of cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons, as well as a strong capillary network. Partly long-distance cortico-striatal and cortico-hippocampal nerve fibers were found using Mini-Ruby neurotracing. Dopaminergic nerve fibers extended from the mesencephalon, but in the striato-nigral tract and in the striatum only strong dense varicosities were found. The model also allows to study pathological triggers, such as e.g. hydrogen peroxide markedly increased propidiumiodide-positive nuclei in the hippocampus. In conclusion, our novel model provides an easy potent whole sagittal brain culture system that allows to study cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons together but also in close interaction with all other cells of the brain and with capillaries. It will be a great challenge in future to use this model to re-construct whole pathways. This vibrosection model may partly represent a close adult in vivo situation, which allows to study neurodegeneration and neuroprotection of cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons, which plays an important role in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, respectively.
Engineered viral vectors tagged with a fluorescent protein such as enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) have been widely used to study neuronal function after intracranial injection into specific brain regions. A rapid dissection of the virus-expressing region is required for certain biochemical analyses. To improve the accuracy of the rapid dissection, we developed a method that employs a Bluestar flashlight in combination with barrier filter glasses to visualize the expression of EGFP lentivirus that has been microinjected into the nucleus accumbens. Processing of dissected tissue for EGFP immunoblotting further validated the approach.
The ability to successfully cryopreserve neural cells would represent an important advance with benefits to neural tissue engineering, neural transplantation, and neuroscience research. We have examined key factors responsible for damage to rat embryonic neural cells during cryopreservation using a two-step temperature profile, with an emphasis on the effects of cooling rate and plunge temperature. Our results indicate that the initial addition of 8% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and seeding of extracellular ice do not significantly decrease viable cell yield. However, subsequent freezing resulted in significant cell losses for all profile parameter combinations examined. A maximum post-thaw survival of 56% (compared to unfrozen controls) was observed after cooling at 2C/min to -80C followed by direct immersion in liquid nitrogen. Single-step removal of DMSO after thawing was associated with an additional 40-70% loss of viable cells, and the number of viable cells was further reduced by approximately 70% after 2 days of cell culture (resulting in a net viable cell yield of 9.60.4%). Nonetheless, the cryopreserved neurons that did survive displayed a normal morphology, including formation of neurites. Trends in neuronal viability conformed with predictions of existing theoretical models of cell freezing, with reduced survival for rapid cooling rates or high plunge temperatures (attributable to intracellular ice formation), and decreasing viability with increasing profile duration (consistent with the known effects of cell dehydration at suboptimal cooling rates). These observations suggest that neural cells are good candidates for further refinement of freezing profile design using a physics-based approach to parameter optimization.
A central goal of neuroscience is to understand how neural dynamics bring about the dynamics of behavior. However, neural and behavioral measures are noisy, requiring averaging over trials and subjects. Unfortunately, averaging can obscure the very dynamics that we are interested in, masking abrupt changes and artificially creating gradual processes. We develop a hidden semi-Markov model for precisely characterizing dynamic processes and their alteration due to experimental manipulations. This method takes advantage of multiple trials and subjects without compromising the information available in individual events within a trial. We apply our model to studying the effects of motivation on response rates, analyzing data from hungry and sated rats trained to press a lever to obtain food rewards on a free-operant schedule. Our method can accurately account for punctate changes in the rate of responding and for sequential dependencies between responses. It is ideal for inferring the statistics of underlying response rates and the probability of switching from one response rate to another. Using the model, we show that hungry rats have more distinct behavioral states that are characterized by high rates of responding and they spend more time in these high-press-rate states. Moreover, hungry rats spend less time in, and have fewer distinct states that are characterized by a lack of responding (Waiting/Eating states). These results demonstrate the utility of our analysis method, and provide a precise quantification of the effects of motivation on response rates.
Chronic orofacial pain encompasses a range of debilitating conditions, however in contrast to other body regions, few animal models are available to investigate mechanisms and treatments in the trigeminal area. Particularly, there is a lack of reliable models and testing methods in mice. We have behaviourally tested C57BL/6 mice subjected to unilateral chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the infraorbital nerve (IoN) or unilateral injections of Complete Freunds Adjuvant (CFA) into the vibrissal pad region with the aid of von Frey filaments and air-puffs and the use of a newly designed restraining device. These models were validated by suppressing the pain responses with appropriate drugs. The IoN-CCI group showed significant hyperalgesia on the ipsilateral side in comparison to baseline values for up to 20 days post-CCI following von Frey and air-puff stimulation. Gabapentin (60mg/kg), but not saline, temporarily reversed the hyperalgesia. Animals that received a CFA injection showed hyperresponsivity to both von Frey and air-puff stimulation for up to 4 days post injection. These effects were transiently reversed with 3mg/kg i.p. morphine but not saline. Our study proposes a new restraining device for mice, and validates a behavioural testing procedure of several facial pain models in mice, allowing for reproducible and robust assessment of the effects of pain-related agents and treatments, or phenotyping of genetically modified animals.
The challenges of developing drugs for central nervous system disorders have led some major companies to reduce or discontinue investment in the field, even though the unmet medical need is substantial. How can the wealth of basic research knowledge in neuroscience be successfully translated into new therapies?
Early visual processing stages have been demonstrated to be impaired in schizophrenia patients and their first-degree relatives. The amplitude and topography of the P1 component of the visual evoked potential (VEP) are both affected; the latter of which indicates alterations in active brain networks between populations. At least two issues remain unresolved. First, the specificity of this deficit (and suitability as an endophenotype) has yet to be established, with evidence for impaired P1 responses in other clinical populations. Second, it remains unknown whether schizophrenia patients exhibit intact functional modulation of the P1 VEP component; an aspect that may assist in distinguishing effects specific to schizophrenia. We applied electrical neuroimaging analyses to VEPs from chronic schizophrenia patients and healthy controls in response to variation in the parafoveal spatial extent of stimuli. Healthy controls demonstrated robust modulation of the VEP strength and topography as a function of the spatial extent of stimuli during the P1 component. By contrast, no such modulations were evident at early latencies in the responses from patients with schizophrenia. Source estimations localized these deficits to the left precuneus and medial inferior parietal cortex. These findings provide insights on potential underlying low-level impairments in schizophrenia.

Microdialysis is an extensively used technique for both in vivo and in vitro experiments, applicable to animal and human studies. In neurosciences, the in vivo microdialysis is usually performed to follow changes in the extracellular levels of substances and to monitor neurotransmitters release in the brain of freely moving animals. Catecholamines, such as dopamine and their related compounds, are involved in the neurochemistry and in the physiology of mental diseases and neurological disorders. It is generally supposed that the brain's energy requirement is supplied by glucose oxidation. More recently, lactate was proposed to be the metabolic substrate used by neurons during synaptic activity. In our study, an innovative microdialysis approach for simultaneous monitoring of catecholamines, indolamines, glutamate and energy substrates in the striatum of freely moving rats, using an asymmetric perfusion flow rate on microdialysis probe, is described. As a result of this asymmetric perfusion, two samples are available from the same brain region, having the same analytes composition but different concentrations. The asymmetric flow perfusion could be a useful tool in neurosciences studies related to brain's energy requirement, such as toxin-induced models of Parkinson's disease.

Hypothesis-driven science is expected to result in a continuum of studies and findings along a discrete path. By comparison, serendipity can lead to new directions that branch into different paths. Herein, I describe a diverse series of findings that were motivated by hypotheses, but driven by serendipity. I summarize how investigations into vision-guided ocular growth in the chick eye led to the identification of glucagonergic amacrine cells as key regulators of ocular elongation. Studies designed to assess the impact of the ablation of different types of neurons on vision-guided ocular growth led to the finding of numerous proliferating cells within damaged retinas. These proliferating cells were Mller glia-derived retinal progenitors with a capacity to produce new neurons. Studies designed to investigate Mller glia-derived progenitors led to the identification of a domain of neural stem cells that form a circumferential marginal zone (CMZ) that lines the periphery of the retina. Accelerated ocular growth, caused by visual deprivation, stimulated the proliferation of CMZ progenitors. We formulated a hypothesis that growth-regulating glucagonergic cells may regulate both overall eye size (scleral growth) and the growth of the retina (proliferation of CMZ cells). Subsequent studies identified unusual types of glucagonergic neurons with terminals that ramify within the CMZ; these cells use visual cues to control equatorial ocular growth and the proliferation of CMZ cells. Finally, while studying the signaling pathways that stimulate CMZ and Mller glia-derived progenitors, serendipity led to the discovery of a novel type of glial cell that is scattered across the inner retinal layers.

The 1-3-bis-chloroethyl-nitrosurea (BCNU)-treated rats represent a good model of cortical dysplasia (CD), as proved by the presence of some histological alterations similar to those observed in human CD, including cortical thinning, laminar disorganization, and heterotopia. The cortical cytoarchitectonics of BCNU-treated rats has been widely investigated by means of histological procedures, immunocytochemistry, and in situ hybridization techniques, implying the sacrifice of the animals. With the aim of identifying brain alterations in vivo to have the possibility of performing longitudinal studies, we used both conventional T(2)-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI). Though the T(2)-weighted MRI showed the gross anatomical landmarks of BCNU-treated rats, only following Mn(2+) administration T(1)-weighted MRI did reveal the brain cytoarchitectonics both of control and BCNU-treated rats. In particular, changes in MEMRI signal depicted the laminar architecture of control rats while BCNU-treated cortex showed no appreciable changes in MEMRI contrast, consistent with their abnormal cortical lamination. Furthermore, in the treated animals MEMRI revealed hyperintense signals corresponding to heterotopia, as shown by the comparison between MEMRI images and Thionin staining and calbindin immunocytochemistry from the same animals. The qualitative findings obtained with MEMRI were semi-quantitatively confirmed by image segmentation of grey matter. Overall, these data show that MEMRI can be used as a non-invasive technique to investigate cortical alterations in animal models of CD in vivo, giving the possibility to perform longitudinal studies, such as electrophysiological recordings or behavioural investigations.
Clinical studies have reported taste dysfunctions developing in patients undergoing chemotherapy. This adverse side effect is a major concern for the doctors and patients because disrupted taste can reduce appetite, cause malnutrition, delay recovery, and affect quality of life. Cyclophosphamide (CYP) is a common atenoplastic drug used during chemotherapy and is thought to affect taste through learned tasted aversions. This study asked whether CYP also alters umami taste sensory functions and disrupts taste epithelium of mice. Behavioral tests focused on taste acuity, assessed by the ability of mice to discriminate between the taste qualities of two umami substances, monosodium glutamate (MSG) and inosine 5'-monophosphate (IMP), and taste sensitivity, assessed by detection thresholds of MSG and IMP, after an IP injection (75 mg/kg) of CYP. The behavioral results revealed a two-phase disturbance in taste acuity and loss of sensitivity, the first phase occurring within 2-4 days after injection and the second occurring 9-12 days after injection. The number of fungiform papillae (with and without pores) decreased immediately after injection and did not begin to recover until 12 days after injection. Circumvallate taste buds began to show disturbances by 8 days after injection and evidence of recovery beginning 12 days after injection. Von Ebner glands were smaller and secreted less saliva 4 days postinjection but not later. These findings suggest the initial behavioral deficits may be because of cytotoxic effects of the drug on taste sensory tissues, whereas the second phase may be because of a disturbance of the taste cell replacement cycle.
A single administration of benzodiazepine-site ligands of the inhibitory GABA(A) receptors has been shown to lead to persistently potentiated AMPA receptor-mediated responses in dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This plasticity has been suggested to be a common property of different kinds of addictive drugs. We now wanted to test if the plasticity induced by diazepam would also affect behaviors elicited by other drugs of abuse. Activity and plasticity of the VTA dopaminergic neurons are known to be essential for the initiation and/or sensitization of the psychomotor responses to morphine and amphetamine. The effect of diazepam pre-treatment (a single dose of 5 mg/kg) was studied 24-72 h later in behaving C57BL/6J mice on locomotor activity induced by acute and repeated administration of morphine (5 mg/kg) and amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg). The pre-treatment attenuated the locomotor-activating effect of morphine. On the other hand, it reduced the amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization in male mice in N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent manner. The acute amphetamine effect was not affected. The results indicate that benzodiazepine-induced neural plasticity transiently reduces the sensitivity to psychomotor stimulation by opioids and stimulants.
In the developing brain synaptogenesis is accompanied by elimination of synapses possibly initiated by activity-dependent synaptic plasticity such as long-term depression (LTD). Experiments using 2nd postnatal week hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses have previously shown that these synapses, in contrast to those in the more adult brain, are easily depressed even during very low frequency (0.05-0.2 Hz) activity. We have now addressed the question whether such stimulation actually results in LTD, and if so, under which conditions this occurs. By introducing 30-60 min of stimulus interruption following 900 stimuli at 0.2 Hz and 0.05 Hz we found this stimulation to result in an LTD of -37% and -24%, respectively. The LTD following 0.2 Hz stimulation did not differ significantly from that resulting from 900 stimuli using the common LTD-inducing frequency of 1 Hz. When 0.2 Hz and 1 Hz stimulations were applied in the presence of a combined N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)/mGluR blockade the LTDs were only marginally smaller. However, the LTD observed under this latter condition was labile in that it reversed (de-depressed) by spontaneous and/or ambient NMDAR activity (labile LTD). 0.2 and 1 Hz-evoked NMDAR activity resulted in LTD not de-depressed by spontaneous and/or ambient NMDAR activity (stable LTD) and in little or no labile LTD. The stable LTD was fully de-depressed by high frequency-evoked NMDAR activity. 0.2 and 1 Hz-evoked mGluR activity impaired the labile LTD but did not result in stable LTD. In conclusion, in 2nd postnatal week CA3-CA1 synapses LTD is induced at frequencies well below one Hz as well as in the absence of NMDAR activity. Very low/low frequency-evoked NMDAR activity stabilizes LTD by raising its threshold for NMDAR-dependent de-depression. LTD at these developing synapses thus seems adapted for ease of induction as well as of de-depression.
Brain ischemia is often a consequence of cardiac or neurologic surgery. Prophylactic pharmacological neuroprotection would be beneficial for patients undergoing surgery to reduce brain damage due to ischemia. We examined the effects of two antiarrhythmic doses of lidocaine (2 or 4 mg/kg) on rats in a model of transient global cerebral ischemia. The occlusion of both common carotid arteries combined with hypotension for 10 min induced neuronal loss in the CA1 region of the hippocampus (1812 vs. 314 neurons/200 m linear distance of the cell body layer, XSD; P&lt;0.01). Lidocaine (4 mg/kg) 30 min before, during and 60 min after ischemia increased dorsal hippocampal CA1 neuronal survival 4 weeks after global cerebral ischemia (309 vs. 1812 neurons/200 m; P&lt;0.01). There was no significant cell loss after 10 min of ischemia in the CA3 region, the dentate region or the amygdalae; these regions were less sensitive than the CA1 region to ischemic damage. Lidocaine not only increased hippocampal CA1 neuronal survival, but also preserved cognitive function associated with the CA1 region. Using an active place avoidance task, there were fewer entrances into an avoidance zone, defined by relevant distal room-bound cues, in the lidocaine groups. The untreated ischemic group had an average, over the nine sessions, of 2112 (XSD) entrances into the avoidance zone per session; the 4 mg/kg lidocaine group had 78 entrances (P&lt;0.05 vs. untreated ischemic) and the non-ischemic control group 75 entrances (P&lt;0.01 vs. untreated ischemic). Thus, a clinical antiarrhythmic dose of lidocaine increased the number of surviving CA1 pyramidal neurons and preserved cognitive function; this indicates that lidocaine is a good candidate for clinical brain protection.
Agmatine, the decarboxylated metabolite of l-arginine, is considered to be a novel putative neurotransmitter. Recent studies have demonstrated that endogenous agmatine may directly participate in the processes of spatial learning and memory. Agmatine-immunoreactivity has been observed within synaptic terminals of asymmetric excitatory synapses in the hippocampal CA1 stratum radiatum (SR), suggesting that agmatine may be colocalized with glutamate. In the present study we demonstrate, using immunofluorescence confocal microscopy, that agmatine is colocalized with glutamate within CA1-CA3 hippocampal pyramidal cell bodies, in young Sprague-Dawley rats. Subcellular investigation, using postembedding electron microscopy-immunogold cytochemistry, has also revealed that agmatine is colocalized with glutamate in most synaptic terminals in the SR region of CA1. Ninety-seven percent of all agmatinergic profiles were found to contain glutamate, and 92% of all glutamatergic profiles contained agmatine (n=6; 300 terminals). Alterations in colocalized agmatine and glutamate levels in the SR synaptic terminals, following 4 days Morris water maze training, were also investigated. Compared with swim only control rats, water maze-trained rats had statistically significant increases in both agmatine (78%; P&lt;0.01) and glutamate (41%; P&lt;0.05) levels within SR terminals synapsing onto CA1 dendrites. These findings provide the first evidence that agmatine and glutamate are colocalized in synaptic terminals in the hippocampal CA1 region, and may co-participate in spatial learning and memory processing.
The present study has been designed to investigate the potential of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ([PPAR]-) agonists, pioglitazone, and rosiglitazone in hyperhomocysteinemia-induced vascular dementia of rats. l-methionine was administered for 8 weeks to induce hyperhomocysteinemia and associated vascular dementia. Pioglitazone and rosiglitazone were administered to l-methionine-treated rats for 4 weeks (starting from 5th to 8th weeks of methionine treatment). Donepezil served as a positive control in this study. On 52nd day onward, the animals were exposed to Morris water maze (MWM) for testing learning and memory abilities. Vascular endothelial function, serum nitrite/nitrate levels, brain thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS), brain reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, and brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity were also measured. l-methionine-treated animals have shown impairment of learning, memory, endothelial function, decrease in serum nitrite/nitrate levels, and brain GSH levels along with increase in brain TBARS levels and AChE activity. Pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, and donepezil significantly improved hyperhomocysteinemia-induced impairment of learning, memory, endothelial dysfunction, and changes in various biochemical parameters. It is concluded that pioglitazone and rosiglitazone may be considered as potential pharmacological agents for the management of hyperhomocysteinemia-induced vascular dementia.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, is regulated acutely by protein phosphorylation. No studies have systematically investigated the time course of TH phosphorylation in vivo in response to different stressors. We therefore determined the extent of TH phosphorylation at Ser19, Ser31, and Ser40 over a 40-min period in response to footshock or immobilization stress in the rat locus coeruleus and adrenal medulla. There were significant changes in TH phosphorylation in both tissues and the responses to the two stressors differed markedly. With each of the phosphorylation sites immobilization stress caused a much smaller, or less sustained, response than footshock stress. With immobilization stress there was a transient increase in Ser31 phosphorylation in the locus coeruleus and in the adrenal medulla, but there were no effects on Ser19 or Ser40 phosphorylation. With footshock stress there was a substantial decrease in Ser19 phosphorylation over time, a substantial increase in Ser31 phosphorylation over time, but there were no effects on Ser40 phosphorylation. Measuring TH phosphorylation at Ser19, Ser31, and Ser40 over time can therefore be used as a sensitive index to differentiate the effects of different stressors on catecholaminergic cells.
Restricted feeding (RF) schedules provide a cycle of fasting and feeding each day and induce circadian rhythms in food-anticipatory activity. In addition, daily rhythms in the expression of circadian clock genes, such as rhythms in Period1 (PER1) or Period2 (PER2), are also shifted in many brain areas that are important for the regulation of motivation and emotion. In order to differentiate brain areas that respond to the time of food presentation from areas that are sensitive to the degree of restriction, the present study compared RF schedules that provided rats with either a 2 h-meal (2hRF) or a 6 h-meal (6hRF) each day. As expected, 2hRF was associated with less food-consumption, more weight-loss, and more food-anticipatory running-wheel activity than 6hRF. In association with these metabolic and behavioral differences, the daily pattern of PER1 and PER2 expression in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH), which has been proposed to be integral to the generation and/or maintenance of food-anticipatory activities, peaked earlier in the 2hRF group and later in the 6hRF group. Because both RF groups exhibited approximately synchronous food-anticipatory activity, but phase shifted rhythms of PER1 and PER2 expression in the DMH, it suggests that the phase of food-anticipatory activity is not directly regulated by this brain area. Next, daily rhythms of PER2 expression in the limbic forebrain responded to each RF schedule in a nucleus-specific manner. In some brain areas, the amplitude of the PER2 rhythm was differentially adjusted in response to 2hRF and 6hRF, while other areas, responded similarly to both RF schedules. These findings demonstrate that daily rhythms of clock gene expression can be modulated by the motivational state of the animal, as influenced by meal duration, weight loss and food-consumption.
Neurotrophic factors regulate the development and maintenance of the nervous system and protect and repair dopaminergic neurons in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Vascular endothelial growth factors A (VEGF-A) and B have also neurotrophic effects on various types of neurons, including dopaminergic neurons. We examined the ability of the key lymphangiogenic factor VEGF-C to protect dopaminergic cells in vitro and in vivo. The study was initiated by a finding from microarray profiling of Neuro2A-20 cells which revealed up-regulation of VEGF-C by glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Next, we observed that VEGF-C can rescue embryonic dopaminergic neurons and activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway in vivo. VEGF receptors 1-2 and co-receptors, neuropilins 1-2, were expressed both in mouse embryonic cultures and adult midbrains. In vivo, VEGF-C had a robust functional effect in the rat unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of PD and there was a small additive effect on the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells with GDNF. The neuroprotective effect of VEGF-C is most likely due to a combination of direct and indirect neurotrophic effects because, VEGF-C, unlike GDNF, induced also angiogenesis in the striatum following 6-OHDA insult as it did in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). However, we detected activation of astroglia and microglia as well as blood-brain barrier disruption after intracerebral delivery of VEGF-C, raising a concern of its safe usage as a therapeutic molecule. Our results provide evidence of VEGF-C as a neurotrophic factor that influences the dopaminergic system through multiple mechanisms.
Dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta play a key role in the modulation of basal ganglia and provide a reward-related teaching signal essential for adaptative motor control. They are generally considered as a homogenous population despite several chemical and electrophysiological heterogeneities, which could underlie different preferential patterns of activity and/or different roles. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in juvenile rat brain slices, we observed that the evoked activity of dopaminergic neurons displays variable spike frequency adaptation patterns. The intensity of spike frequency adaptation decreased during post-natal development. The adaptation was associated with an increase in the initial firing frequency due to faster kinetics of the afterhyperpolarization component of the spike. Adaptation was enhanced when small conductance calcium-activated potassium (SK) channels were blocked with bath application of apamine. Lastly, spike frequency adaptation of the evoked discharge was associated with more irregularity in the spontaneous firing pattern. Altogether these results show a developmental heterogeneity and electrophysiological maturation of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons.
Experimentally naive rats show variance in their locomotor reactivity to novelty, some displaying higher (HR) while others displaying lower (LR) reactivity, associated with vulnerability to stress. We employed a chronic variable physical stress regimen incorporating intermittent and random exposures of physical stressors or control handling during the peripubertal-juvenile period to assess interactions between stress and the LRHR phenotype in depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors on the forced swim and social interaction tests, respectively. A decrease in immobility in the forced swim test along with a decrease in social contact in the social interaction test were observed in the juvenile HRs, coupled with increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in the hippocampus and in the basolateral amygdala with chronic variable physical stress. In contrast, an increase in immobility in the forced swim test and a decrease in social contact was observed in the LR counterparts coupled with an increase in the BDNF mRNA in the basolateral amygdala following chronic variable physical stress. Furthermore, chronic physical stress led to increased H3 and H4 acetylation at the P2 and P4 promoters of the hippocampal BDNF gene in the HR rats that is associated with increased suprapyramidal mossy fibre (SP-MF) terminal field volume. In contrast, chronic variable physical stress led to decreased H4 acetylation at the P4 promoter, associated with decreased SP-MF volume in the LR rats. These findings show dissociation in depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors following chronic variable physical stress in the juvenile HR animals that may be mediated by increased levels of BDNF in the hippocampus and in the amygdala, respectively. Moreover, chronic variable physical stress during the peripubertal-juvenile period results in opposite effects in depressive-like behavior in the LRHR rats by way of inducing differential epigenetic regulation of the hippocampal BDNF gene that, in turn, may mediate mossy fibre sprouting.
Nitric oxide produced by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the spinal cord is required for development of hyperalgesia in inflammatory and neuropathic pain states. nNOS is expressed by some dorsal horn neurons, and an early study that used a histochemical method to identify these cells suggested that they were mainly inhibitory interneurons. We have carried out a quantitative analysis of nNOS-immunoreactivity in laminae I-III of the rat dorsal horn, to determine the proportion of inhibitory and excitatory neurons and axonal boutons that express the protein. nNOS was present in 5% of neurons in laminae I and III, and 18% of those in lamina II. Although most cells with strong nNOS immunostaining were GABA-immunoreactive, two-thirds of the nNOS-positive cells in lamina II and half of those in lamina III were not GABAergic, and some of these expressed protein kinase C (PKC). We estimate that nNOS is present in 17-19% of the inhibitory interneurons in laminae I-II, and 6% of those in lamina III. However, our results suggest that nNOS is also expressed at a relatively low level by a significant proportion (17%) of excitatory interneurons in lamina II. nNOS was seldom seen in boutons that contained vesicular glutamate transporter 2, which is expressed by excitatory interneurons, but was co-localised with the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT, a marker for GABAergic and glycinergic axons). nNOS was detected in 13% of VGAT boutons in lamina I and in 7-8% of those in laminae II-III. However, it was only found in 2-4% of the VGAT boutons that were presynaptic to PKC-expressing interneurons in this region. These results indicate that nNOS is more widely expressed than previously thought, being present in both inhibitory and excitatory neurons. They provide further evidence that axons of neurochemically defined populations of inhibitory interneuron are selective in their post-synaptic targets.
Central sensitization is a crucial process underlying the increased neuronal excitability of nociceptive pathways following peripheral tissue injury and inflammation. Our previous findings have suggested that extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) molecules acting at purinergic receptors located on presynaptic terminals (e.g., P2X2/3, P2X3 subunits) and glial cells are involved in the glutamatergic-dependent central sensitization induced in medullary dorsal horn (MDH) nociceptive neurons by application to the tooth pulp of the inflammatory irritant mustard oil (MO). Since growing evidence indicates that activation of P2X7 receptors located on glia is involved in chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain, the aim of the present study was to test in vivo for P2X7 receptor involvement in this acute inflammatory pain model. Experiments were carried out in anesthetized Sprague-Dawley male rats. Single unit recordings were made in MDH functionally identified nociceptive neurons for which mechanoreceptive field, mechanical activation threshold and responses to noxious stimuli were tested. We found that continuous intrathecal (i.t.) superfusion over MDH of the potent P2X7 receptor antagonists brilliant blue G and periodated oxidized ATP could each significantly attenuate the MO-induced MDH central sensitization. MDH central sensitization could also be produced by i.t. superfusion of ATP and even more effectively by the P2X7 receptor agonist benzoylbenzoyl ATP. Superfusion of the microglial blocker minocycline abolished the MO-induced MDH central sensitization, consistent with reports that dorsal horn P2X7 receptors are mostly expressed on microglia. In control experiments, superfusion over MDH of vehicle did not produce any significant changes. These novel findings suggest that activation of P2X7 receptors in vivo may be involved in the development of central sensitization in an acute inflammatory pain model.
It has been suggested that gap junctions are involved in the synchronization during high frequency oscillations as observed during sharp wave-ripple complexes (SPW-Rs) and during recurrent epileptiform discharges (REDs). Ripple oscillations during SPW-Rs, possibly involved in memory replay and memory consolidation, reach frequencies of up to 200 Hz while ripple oscillations during REDs display frequencies up to 500 Hz. These fast oscillations may be synchronized by intercellular interactions through gap junctions. In area CA3, connexin 36 (Cx36) proteins are present and potentially sensitive to mefloquine. Here, we used hippocampal slices of adult rats to investigate the effects of mefloquine, which blocks Cx36, Cx43 and Cx50 gap junctions on both SPW-Rs and REDs. SPW-Rs were induced by high frequency stimulation in the CA3 region while REDs were recorded in the presence of the GABA(A) receptor blocker bicuculline (5 M). Both, SPW-Rs and REDs were blocked by the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone. Mefloquine (50 M), which did not affect stimulus-induced responses in area CA3, neither changed SPW-Rs nor superimposed ripple oscillations. During REDs, 25 and 50 M mefloquine exerted only minor effects on the expression of REDs but significantly reduced the amplitude of superimposed ripples by 17 and 54%, respectively. Intracellular recordings of CA3 pyramidal cells revealed that mefloquine did not change their resting membrane potential and input resistance but significantly increased the afterhyperpolarization following evoked action potentials (APs) resulting in reduced probability of AP firing during depolarizing current injection. Similarly, mefloquine caused a reduction in AP generation during REDs. Together, our data suggest that mefloquine depressed RED-related ripple oscillations by reducing high frequency discharges and not necessarily by blocking electrical coupling.
The serotonin system responds to the ovarian steroids, estradiol (E) and progesterone (P), in women and female animal models. In macaques, ovarian steroid administration to ovariectomized (Ovx) individuals improves serotonin neural function through actions on pivotal serotonin-related genes and proteins, such as TPH2 (tryptophan hydroxylase 2), SERT (serotonin reuptake transporter), and the 5HT1A autoreceptor. In addition, ovarian steroid administration reduces gene and protein expression in the caspase-independent pathway and reduces DNA fragmentation in serotonin neurons. This study examines the hypothesis that long-term ovariectomy will lead to a loss of serotonin neurons and compromised gene expression in serotonin neurons. Female Japanese macaques were ovariectomized or tubal ligated (n=5/group) at 3 years of age and returned to their natal troop. After 3 years, the animals were collected, administered a fenfluramine challenge to determine global serotonin availability, and then euthanized. Fev, TPH2, SERT, and 5HT1A expression were examined with digoxigenin in situ hybridization (ISH) and quantitative image analysis. Cell number, positive pixel area, and average pixel density were determined. In the Ovx group, Fev, TPH2, SERT, and 5HT1A showed a significant decease in average and total cell number and positive pixel area. The reduction in Fev-positive neurons suggests that there were fewer serotonin neurons in Ovx animals compared to ovary-intact animals. The decrease in TPH2 in the Ovx animals was consistent with earlier results in 5-month Ovx animals, but it may be due to the decrease in cell number rather than a decrease in expression on an individual cell basis. The decrease in SERT and 5HT1A in long-term Ovx differed from previous studies in short-term Ovx. In summary, long-term ovarian steroid loss resulted in fewer serotonin neurons and overall lower Fev, TPH2, SERT, and 5HT1A gene expression. This may be due to serotonin cell death or to a negative impact on a long-term developmental process in young female macaques.
Degeneration of the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) in aging and neurodegenerative diseases is well documented. Slowing or reversing this effect may have therapeutic implications. Phox2a and Phox2b are homeodomain transcriptional factors that function as determinants of the noradrenergic phenotype during embryogenesis. In the present study, recombinant lentiviral eGFP-Phox2a and -Phox2b (vPhox2a and vPhox2b) were constructed to study the effects of Phox2a/2b over-expression on dopamine -hydroxylase (DBH) and norepinephrine transporter (NET) levels in central noradrenergic neurons. Microinjection of vPhox2 into the LC of adult rats significantly increased Phox2 mRNA levels in the LC region. Over-expression of either Phox2a or Phox2b in the LC was paralleled by significant increases in mRNA and protein levels of DBH and NET in the LC. Similar increases in DBH and NET protein levels were observed in the hippocampus following vPhox2 microinjection. In the frontal cortex, only NET protein levels were significantly increased by vPhox2 microinjection. Over-expression of Phox2 genes resulted in a significant increase in BrdU-positive cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. The present study demonstrates an upregulatory effect of Phox2a and Phox2b on the expression of DBH and NET in noradrenergic neurons of rat brains, an effect not previously shown in adult animals. Phox2 genes may play an important role in maintaining the function of the noradrenergic neurons after birth, and regulation of Phox2 gene expression may have therapeutic utility in aging or disorders involving degeneration of noradrenergic neurons.
1,2-diacylglycerol lipase alpha (DAGL) is responsible for the biosynthesis and release of 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endocannabinoid in the brain. Although its expression has been detected in discrete regions, we showed here an integrated description of the distribution of DAGL mRNA and protein in the rat forebrain using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. As novelty, we described the distribution of DAGL protein expression in the olfactory system, the rostral migratory stream, neocortex, septum, thalamus, and hypothalamus. Similar DAGL immunostaining pattern was also found in the brain of wild-type, but not of DAGL knockout mice. Immunohistochemical data were correlated by the identification of DAGL mRNA expression, for instance, in the somata of specific cells in olfactory structures, rostral migratory stream and neocortex, cells in some septal-basal-amygdaloid areas and the medial habenula, and magnocellular cells of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. This widespread neuronal distribution of DAGL is consistent with multiple roles for endocannabinoids in synaptic plasticity, including presynaptic inhibition of neurotransmitter release. We discuss our comparative analysis of the forebrain expression patterns of DAGL and other components of the endocannabinoid signaling system, including the CB(1) receptor, monoacylglyceride lipase (MAGL), and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), providing some insight into the potential physiological and behavioral roles of this system.
In all species studied, afferents from semicircular canals and otolith organs converge on central neurons in the brainstem. However, the spatial and temporal relationships between converging inputs and how these contribute to vestibular behaviors is not well understood. In the current study, we used discrete rotational and translational motion stimuli to characterize canal- and otolith-driven response components of convergent non-eye movement (NEM) neurons in the vestibular nuclear complex of alert pigeons. When compared to afferent responses, convergent canal signals had similar gain and phase ranges but exhibited greater spatial variability in their axes of preferred rotation. Convergent otolith signals also had similar mean gain and phase values to the afferent population but were spatially well-matched with the corresponding canal signals, cell-by-cell. However, neither response component alone nor a simple linear combination of these components was sufficient to predict actual net responses during combined canal-otolith stimulation. We discuss these findings in the context of previous studies of pigeon vestibular behaviors, and we compare our findings to similar studies in other species.
Exercise has been shown to impact brain plasticity and function by involving the action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF); however, mechanisms involved are poorly understood. Two types of BDNF coexist in the brain, the precursor (proBDNF) and its mature product (mBDNF), which preferentially bind specific receptors and exert distinct functions. It is crucial to understand how exercise affects crucial steps in the BDNF processing and signaling to evaluate therapeutic applications. We found that 7 days of voluntary exercise increased both pro and mature BDNF in the rat hippocampus. Exercise also increased the activity of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), a serine proteinase shown to facilitate proBDNF cleavage into mBDNF. The blockade of tPA activity reduced the exercise effects on proBDNF and mBDNF. The tPA blocking also inhibited the activation of TrkB receptor, and the TrkB signaling downstream effectors phospho-ERK, phospho-Akt, and phospho-CaMKII. The blocking of tPA also counteracted the effects of exercise on the plasticity markers phospho-synapsin I and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43). These results indicate that the effects of exercise on hippocampal plasticity are dependent on BDNF processing and subsequent TrkB signaling, with important implications for neuronal function.
Recent studies have demonstrated nuclear factor-B (NF-B) and high-mobility group box1 (HMGB1) associated with the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia. We isolated Curculigoside A, the major bioactive compound present in Curculigo orchioides. The objectives of this study were to determine the effects of Curculigoside A on cultured neuronal cell line, SH-SY5Y in vitro and experimental ischemic stroke in vivo. For oxygen-glucose deprivation and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) stimulated SH-SY5Y cell line in vitro, SH-SY5Y cells were pre-incubated with Curculigoside A. For in vivo experiment, rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 1 h, then followed by reperfusion for 23 h. Treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with Curculigoside A reduced the oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis, blocked TNF--induced NF-B and IB- phosphorylation, and decreased HMGB1 expression. At doses higher than 10 mg/kg, Curculigoside A produced a significant neuroprotective potential in rats with ischemia and reperfusion (I/R). Curculigoside A (20 mg/kg) demonstrated significant neuroprotective activity even after delayed administration at 1 h, 3 h, and 5 h after I/R. Curculigoside A 20 mg/kg attenuated histopathological damage, decreased cerebral Evans Blue extravasation, inhibited NF-B activation and reduced HMGB1 expression. These data show that Curculigoside A protects brain against I/R injury with a favorable therapeutic time-window by alleviating cerebral I/R injury and attenuating blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown, and its protective effects may involve HMGB1 and NF-B signaling pathway.
The toxicity of amyloid  (A) is highly associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), which has a high incidence in elderly people worldwide. While the current treatment for moderate and severe AD includes blockage of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), the molecular mechanisms of its effect are still poorly understood. Herein, we report that a single i.p. administration of the selective and competitive (NMDAR) antagonist LY235959 reduced A neurotoxicity by preventing the down-regulation of glial glutamate transporters (glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1)), the decrease in glutamate uptake, and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by A(1-40). Importantly, the blockage of NMDAR restored the A(1-40)-induced synaptic dysfunction and cognitive impairment. However, LY235959 failed to prevent the inflammatory response associated with A(1-40) treatment. Altogether, our data indicate that the acute administration of A promotes oxidative stress, a decrease in glutamate transporter expression, and neurotoxicity. Our results reinforce the idea that NMDAR plays a critical regulatory action in A toxicity and they provide further pre-clinical evidence for the potential role of the selective and competitive NMDAR antagonists in the treatment of AD.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is characterized by the impairment of the magnocellular/dorsal visual system. In this study, we explored how fragile X protein (FMRP) expression may affect visual functions in healthy participants. The percentage of FMRP-positive lymphocytes was measured using a rapid antibody test in blood smears of 100 male volunteers. CGG triplet expansion was also determined. Results revealed that participants with fewer FMRP-positive lymphocytes exhibited lower performances on tests biasing information processing toward the magnocellular pathway and dorsal visual stream (contrast sensitivity at low spatial/high temporal frequency and motion coherence). It was not observed in the case of tests biasing information processing toward the parvocellular pathway and ventral stream (contrast sensitivity at high spatial/low temporal frequency and form coherence). These results suggest that healthy persons with lower peripheral FMRP expression display a visual phenotype similar to that described in patients with FXS.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is the most common of the inherited ataxias. We have suggested that people with FRDA may have impairment in cognitive and/or psychomotor capacity either due to disturbance of projections of the cerebellum to the cortex, direct cortical pathology or perhaps both. To further explore this possibility, we used a movement task incorporating Fitts' Law, a robust description of the relationship between movement time and accuracy in goal-directed aiming movements. By manipulating task difficulty, according to target size and distance, we were able to quantify processes related to motor planning in 10 individuals with FRDA and 10 matched control participants. Compared to control participants, people with FRDA were significantly disadvantaged in terms of movement time to targets with an increasing index of difficulty. Successful completion of this task requires both preplanning of movement and online error detection and correction. The cerebellum and its connections to the frontal cortex via cerebro-ponto-cerebello-thalamo-cerebral loops are fundamental to both processes. These results lend further support to our contention that in FRDA these loops are impaired, reflecting a failure to access prefrontal/anterior regions necessary for effective management of preplanning of movement and online error correction.
Learning and memory in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is a complex behavior with many parallels to mammalian learning and memory. Although many neurotransmitters including acetylcholine, dopamine, glutamate, and GABA have previously been demonstrated to be involved in aversive olfactory learning and memory, the role of serotonin has not been well defined. Here, we present the first evidence of the involvement of individual serotonin receptors in olfactory learning and memory in the fly. We initially followed a pharmacological approach, utilizing serotonin receptor agonists and antagonists to demonstrate that all serotonin receptor families present in the fly are necessary for short-term learning and memory. Isobolographic analysis utilizing combinations of drugs revealed functional interactions are occurring between 5-HT(1A)-like and 5-HT(2), and 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(7) receptor circuits in mediating short-term learning and memory. Examination of long-term memory suggests that 5-HT(1A)-like receptors are necessary for consolidation and important for recall, 5-HT(2) receptors are important for consolidation and recall, and 5-HT(7) receptors are involved in all three phases. Importantly, we have validated our pharmacological results with genetic experiments and showed that hypomorph strains for 5-HT(2)Dro and 5-HT(1B)Dro receptors, as well as knockdown of 5-HT(7)Dro mRNA, significantly impair performance in short-term memory. Our data highlight the importance of the serotonin system and individual serotonin receptors to influence olfactory learning and memory in the fly, and position the fly as a model system to study the role of serotonin in cognitive processes relevant to mammalian CNS function.
Functional studies indicate that the dopamine D5 receptor is involved in synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. However, previous anatomical studies have detected D5 receptor labelling primarily on the soma and main dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells and on dendritic spines in monkey but not in rats. In order to get a better understanding of putative dopamine function in the hippocampus, we quantified the D5 receptor immunoreactivity on the pyramidal cell somas and on spines and dendrites in stratum radiatum and stratum oriens in the hippocampal CA1 region of rats by quantitative immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy. The quantitative immunogold results revealed a higher labelling density on dendritic spines, notably at their synaptic membranes, compared to pyramidal cell somas and dendrites. Hence, dopamine could have effects on spines as well as on somas and dendrites. The labelling density was similar on spines in stratum oriens and stratum radiatum, but the presence of labelling varied between the spines within each stratum, indicating that the effect of dopamine could be diverse between different spines.
In the hippocampal formation many neuromodulators are possibly implied in the synaptic plasticity such as the long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of afferent fibers. We investigated the involvement of locally synthesized neural 17-estradiol (nE(2)) in the induction of HFS-LTP in hippocampal slices from male rats by stimulating the Schaffer collateral fibers and recording the evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) in the CA1 region. We demonstrated that either the blockade of nE(2) synthesis by the aromatase inhibitor letrozole, or the antagonism of E(2) receptors (ERs) by ICI 182,780 did not prevent the induction of HFS-LTP, but reduced its amplitude by 60%, without influencing its maintenance. Moreover, letrozole and ICI 182,780 did not affect the first short-term post-tetanic component of LTP and the paired-pulse facilitation (PPF). These findings demonstrate that nE(2) plays an important role in the induction phase of HFS-dependent LTP. Since the basal responses were not affected by the blocking agents, we suggest that the synthesis of nE(2) is induced or enhanced by HFS through aromatase activation. In this context, the local production of nE(2) seems to be a very effective mechanism to modulate the amplitude of LTP.
Activation of microglia is regulated by controlling both its population size (through modulation of proliferation/death) and the production of inflammatory mediators. Retinoids control cellular proliferation, differentiation, and death. Natural retinoids have been shown to exhibit anti-inflammatory actions against activated microglia. However, the synthetic forms, which are regarded to be more stable in their actions, have not been explored for their capacity to modulate microglial activation, proliferation, and/or trigger cell death. The aim of the current study was to address these issues by using a model, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated primary cultures of rat microglia, and the stable synthetic retinoid, 6-[3-adamantyl-4-hydroxyphenyl]-2-napthalene carboxylic acid (AHPN). Morphological observations of cluster of differentiation (CD) 11b (CD11b)-positive cells suggested that low concentration of AHPN (i.e. 5 M) reduced LPS (1 g/ml, 24 h)-activated morphology of microglia possibly toward a lower activated state, while attenuating nitrite production and the level of its synthesizing enzyme, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), as well as the chemokine, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1). The mechanisms behind these anti-inflammatory actions likely involved decreased activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) as shown by the attenuated phosphorylation of its p65 subunit. In addition, fluorescence-activated cell sorting revealed that AHPN reduced the immunophenotypic marker of activation, CD68. LPS-mediated increase in cell number was reduced by low concentration AHPN, which resulted from inhibition of proliferation, based on decreased labeling for Ki-67 and reduced protein expression of cyclin D1, and not cell death. Higher concentrations of AHPN (50-100 M) attenuated activation and cell number; however, the release of lactate dehydrogenase and appearance of annexin V and propidium iodide-positive cells suggested that cell death was its primary cause for reduced microglial activity. Overall, the current study shows that synthetic retinoids, such as AHPN, at low concentration attenuate microglial activation-associated responses, possibly via the inhibition of their cell proliferation without triggering cell death.
In Na(+) appetite neurobiology, it is essential to investigate whether endogenous opioids modulate the output of the neural substrates that are involved in both the detection and integration of Na(+) deficiency and the motivational aspect of Na(+) intake. Thus, evaluating the recruitment dynamics of enkephalin (ENK)-containing and/or mu-opioid receptor (-OR)-expressing neurons in close correlation with the hydromineral state of the rat might provide useful information regarding the role of the opioid system in regulating the central network that controls water and Na(+) intake. Furosemide was used to deplete both fluid volume and the Na(+) content of the extracellular fluid (ECF) compartment when combined with water repletion and a short-term Na(+)-free diet. Na(+) restoration in the ECF compartment was achieved by providing unrestricted access to both saline (0.3 M NaCl) and water. Combining in situ hybridization (against ENK and -OR mRNA) and immunohistochemistry (against Fos) revealed a specific pattern of hypovolemia-induced Fos expression in the enkephalinergic subpopulations of the central amygdala, in the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and in the nucleus accumbens shell. Hypovolemia also induced transient Fos expression in -OR-expressing neurons in the same nuclei and in the median preoptic nucleus and subfornical organ. However, this specific hydromineral state did not activate the ENK and/or -OR-expressing neurons in the lateral parabrachial nucleus or in the medial nucleus of the solitary tract. These results implicate the ENK/-OR system as a putative facilitator of Na(+) intake in discrete regions of the forebrain, possibly by modulating the hedonic and reward value of Na(+) by increasing ENK release in these regions.
GABA(A) receptors mediating tonic inhibitory currents are present in neurons from hippocampus, cerebellum, sensory cortex and thalamus. These receptors located at peri- and extra-synaptic sites are constituted mainly by (4/6) and (5) subunits which confer them high affinity for GABA and low desensitization. Immunohistochemical and in vitro hybridization studies have shown the expression of these subunits, while functional studies have reported the presence of GABAergic tonic currents in spinal dorsal horn neurons. However, the presence of this inhibitory current has not been documented in motoneurons. In addition, we previously reported that the monosynaptic reflex is facilitated by furosemide, an antagonist of the (4/6) GABA(A) receptors, without affecting the dorsal root potential, which suggests the presence of a GABAergic tonic inhibitory current in motoneurons. The aim of this work was to investigate the presence of high affinity GABA(A) receptors in motoneurons. By intracellular recordings made with sharp electrodes and the whole-cell patch clamp recording technique we show here that the membrane input resistance and the monosynaptic excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSPs) are significantly increased by bicuculline. Likewise, the depression of the EPSPs and the input membrane resistance normally induced by muscimol was partially reverted by 20 M bicuculline and abolished when the concentration of the antagonist was raised to 100 M. Last, bicuculline at low concentration did not affect the holding current as occur with the high concentration that block the tonic inhibitory GABAergic current. Together these results suggest that the excitability in motoneurons may be tonically inhibited by high affinity GABA(A) receptors.
Recent research has proposed that proprioceptive deficits may exist in Parkinson's disease (PD); however, proprioception has not been studied in those who experience freezing of gait (FOG). Proprioception was investigated through stimulation of proprioceptive receptors via patellar tendon vibration. In a force matching task to either 10% or 30% maximal voluntary contraction, response to vibration with and without vision of a force target was compared between 15 PD with FOG (PD-FOG), 16 PD without FOG (PD non-FOG), and 15 non-PD control participants (Controls). In a 15-s trial, vision of the target was provided for the first 10 s but in the last 5 s, four conditions were possible: (i) vision, no vibration; (ii) vision, vibration; (iii) no vision, no vibration; or (iv) no vision, vibration. The expected healthy response to vibration was an overshoot of the target. Controls and PD non-FOG did not perform significantly different with or without: vibration or vision. PD-FOG performed similarly to Controls and PD non-FOG in the baseline condition (i). Errors by PD-FOG on the other conditions (ii-iv) were significantly different from the baseline condition but were not significantly different from each other. The PD-FOG group significantly undershot the target when vibration was added [F((2,36))=4.8376, P&lt;0.02] and when vision was removed [F((2,36))=4.8376, P&lt;0.02]. It is suggested that any deviation from normal sensory availability contributes to severe deficits in PD-FOG.
In previous studies, we demonstrated that acute stress induces microglial activation, without inducing any inflammatory responses; however, the effect of acute stress on astroglia, another glial cell subtype in the brain, remains to be elucidated. We determined the effect of acute stress on astroglia, particularly in terms of morphological changes and inflammatory properties. In contrast to microglia, the morphology of astroglia was not altered following a 2-h period of acute stress. Interestingly, the number of astroglia immunoreactive to interleukin 1 beta (IL-1) significantly increased in several brain regions including the hippocampus, hypothalamus, amygdala, and periaqueductal gray following the acute stress. Confocal microscopy revealed that IL-1 is exclusively co-localized in astroglia, and not in neurons or microglia. The present study demonstrates that exposing rats to acute stress increases IL-1 immunoreactivity in astroglia in specific regions of the brain, and the mechanism of astroglial response to acute stress clearly differs from that of microglial response. Thus, astroglia may play important roles in neuroimmunomodulation through IL-1 during times of acute stress.
Regular and moderate exercise has been considered an interesting neuroprotective strategy. Although the mechanisms by which physical exercise alters brain function are not clear, it appears that neuroprotective properties of exercise could be related to chromatin remodeling, specifically the induction of histone acetylation through modulation of histone deacetylases (HDAC) and histone acetyltransferases (HAT) activities. The aim of the present work was to investigate the effect of exercise on HDAC and HAT activities in rat whole hippocampus at different times after treadmill. Adult male Wistar rats were assigned to non-exercised (sedentary) and exercised groups on different protocols: a single session of treadmill exercise (running for 20 min) and a chronic treadmill protocol (running once daily for 20 min, for 2 weeks). The effects of exercise on HDAC and HAT activities were measured immediately, 1 h and 18 h after the single session or the last training session of chronic treadmill exercise using specific assay kits. The single session of treadmill exercise reduced HDAC activity, increased HAT activity and increased the HAT/HDAC balance in rat hippocampus immediately and 1 h after exercise, an indicative of histone hyperacetylation status. The acetylation balance was also influenced by the circadian rhythm, since the HAT/HDAC ratio was significantly decreased in the early morning in all groups when compared to the afternoon. These data support the hypothesis that exercise neuroprotective effects may be related, at least in part, to acetylation levels through modulation of HAT and HDAC activities. We also demonstrated circadian changes in the HAT and HDAC activities and, consequently, in the acetylation levels.
Delta opioid receptor (DOR) is essential for neuronal survival against hypoxic/ischemic damages. However, current understanding on how DOR activation affects astrocytic functions under ischemia remains incomplete. The present study investigated the astroglial responses to [d-Ala2, d-Leu5] enkephalin (DADLE) (a selective DOR agonist)-induced DOR activation after global cerebral ischemia. Adult male rats were preimplanted with intracerebral cannula and subjected to global ischemia for 10 min. The rats were divided into four groups: normal group (without any procedure), sham group (sham procedure with intracerebroventricular injection of ACSF), I/R group (ischemia procedure with intracerebroventricular injection of ACSF) and DAD-treated group (ischemia procedure with intracerebroventricular injection of DADLE). Hippocampal CA1 neuronal survival and activation of astrocytes were measured in the animals at 72 h post-ischemia. The distribution and phenotypes of p-Akt and active caspase-3 were also determined. The ischemic injury resulted in a significant neuronal loss and an increase in the dying astrocytes in the hippocampal CA1 region as compared with those in the sham animals (200.722.7/mm(2) vs. 6.63.1/mm(2), P&lt;0.001). Improved neuronal survival in the DAD-treated animals was evident, which was accompanied by less dying astrocytes and enhanced astrocytes reaction with more active astrocytes than that in the I/R group (267.613.2/mm(2) vs. 157.018.1/mm(2), P&lt;0.01) and a significantly increased immunoreactivity of p-Akt. However, the active caspase-3 positive cells were also evident in DAD-treated group (313.023.1/mm(2)) and significantly increased as compared with those of the sham group (159.015.8/mm(2), P&lt;0.001) or I/R group (193.626.2/mm(2), P&lt;0.01). Most of the active caspase-3-expressing cells were colabeled with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astrocytes marker. We conclude that the post-ischemic treatment with DADLE promotes beneficial astrocytes activation and induces astroglial apoptosis 72 h after reperfusion which may be involved in reducing their harmful effect to neurons survival.
Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) during an emotional Stroop task were measured in two groups of participants: 14 participants who had experienced the great Sichuan earthquake (earthquake group) and 14 participants who did not experience the earthquake (control group). ERP data showed that negative words elicited a more negative P2 than positive words in the earthquake group. Moreover, negative words also elicited a more negative ERP deflection (N280-380 effect) than positive words in the earthquake group, while this effect was not found in the control group. We suggest that the N280-380 effect may reflect heightened emotional arousal to negative words due to personal experience of a traumatic event. Dipole analysis localized the N280-380 to the parahippocampal gyrus and the cuneus, which we suggest may be related to the automatic recollection of the traumatic experience.
Alpha-2 adrenergic receptors (A2AR) regulate multiple brain functions and are enriched in developing brain. Studies demonstrate norepinephrine (NE) plays a role in regulating brain maturation, suggesting it is important in A2AR development. To investigate this we employed models of NE absence and excess during brain development. For decreases in NE we used N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP4), a specific noradrenergic neurotoxin. Increased noradrenergic terminal density was produced by methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) treatment. A2AR density was assayed with [(3)H]RX821002 autoradiography. DSP4 lesions on postnatal day (PND) 3 produce A2AR decreases in many regions by PND 5. A2AR recover to control levels by PND 15 and 25 and there is no further change in total receptor density. We also assayed A2AR in brains lesioned with DSP4 on PND 13, 23, 33 and 43 and harvested 22 days post-lesion. A2AR levels remain similar to control at each of these time points. We examined A2AR functionality and high affinity state with epinephrine-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS and [(125)I]p-iodoclonidine autoradiography, respectively. On PND 25, control animals and animals lesioned with DSP4 on PND 3 have similar levels of [(35)S]GTPS incorporation and no change in high affinity state. This is in contrast to increases in A2AR high affinity state produced by DSP4 lesions of mature brain. We next investigated A2AR response to increases in norepinephrine levels produced by MAM. In contrast to DSP4 lesions, increasing NE results in a large increase in A2AR. Animals treated with MAM on gestational day 14 had cortical [(3)H]RX821002 binding 100-200% greater than controls on PND 25, 35, 45, 55 and 65. These data indicate that NE regulation of A2AR differs in developing and mature brain and support the idea that NE regulates A2AR development and this has long term effects on A2AR function.
Obesity and stress-related psychiatric disorders are frequently comorbid. However, our understanding of the relationship between diet, everyday life stress and psychiatric disorders is limited. Although the ability of stress to increase the likelihood to develop obesity and its comorbidities in a feed-forward loop has been studied there is a dearth of studies especially at the behavioural level investigating the feedback hypothesis, that is, the consequences of high-fat diet consumption on chronic stress-induced alterations. The effects of unpredictable chronic psychosocial stress on anxiety-like behaviour in the light-dark box, depressive-like behaviour in the forced swim test, hedonic behaviour in the female urine sniffing test and social avoidance in the social interaction test were investigated in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. Changes in plasma levels of leptin, insulin and corticosterone were also assessed. A clear dissociation in behaviours was observed in mice subjected to diet-induced obesity coupled with chronic stress, with anxiety- and depressive-like behaviour observed in mice on a low- but not on a high-fat diet exposed to chronic social stress. On the other hand, social avoidance and anhedonic behaviour was present following stress independent of diet. Moreover, the effect of chronic stress in lowering leptin levels was most apparent in mice on a high-fat diet. Plasma insulin levels however where only decreased in mice on high- but not low-fat diet. In conclusion, long-term exposure to high-fat diet selectively and robustly protects against some of the behavioural sequelae of chronic unpredictable social stressors. These data show that there is a clear discrimination in the nature of stress-induced behavioural effects sensitive to protection by high-fat diet. Moreover, these results illustrate the strong influence of dietary components on stress-induced psychological factors and thereby emphasize the importance of the brain-gut-axis as a point of future therapeutic intervention.
SynGAP is a Ras GTPase activating protein present at the postsynaptic density (PSD) in quantities matching those of the core scaffold protein PSD-95. SynGAP is reported to inhibit synaptic accumulation of AMPA receptors. Here, we characterize by immunogold electron microscopy the distribution of SynGAP at the PSD under basal and depolarizing conditions in rat hippocampal neuronal cultures. The PSD core, extending up to 40 nm from the postsynaptic membrane, typically shows label for SynGAP, while half of the synapses exhibit additional labeling in a zone 40-120 nm from the postsynaptic membrane. Upon depolarization with high K(+), labeling for SynGAP significantly decreases at the core of the PSD and concomitantly increases at the 40-120 nm zone. Under the same depolarization conditions, label for PSD-95, the presumed binding partner of SynGAP, does not change its localization at the PSD. Depolarization-induced redistribution of SynGAP is reversible and also occurs upon application of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA). Activity-induced movement of SynGAP could vacate sites in the PSD core allowing other elements to bind to these sites, such as transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs), and simultaneously facilitate access of SynGAP to CaMKII and Ras, elements of a regulatory cascade.
Cholinergic inputs from the medial septum are projected to pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 region and release acetylcholine (ACh) from their terminals. The cholinergic inputs are considered to be integrated with sensory inputs and to play a crucial role in learning and memory. Meanwhile, it has been reported that the relative timing between pre- and post-synaptic spiking determines the direction and extent of synaptic changes in a critical temporal window, a process known as spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). Positive timing where excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) precedes the postsynaptic action potential induces long-term potentiation (LTP) while negative timing where EPSP follows the action potential induces long-term depression (LTD). To investigate the influence of muscarinic activation by cholinergic inputs on synaptic plasticity, STDP-inducing stimuli were applied during the muscarinic induction of a slow EPSP followed by repetitive stimulation in the stratum oriens. As a result, LTP was facilitated and LTD was abolished by the muscarinic activation. Furthermore, interestingly, LTP was also facilitated and LTD was switched to LTP with an increase in ACh concentration following application of the cholinesterase inhibitor eserine. These results indicate that the orientation of plasticity was shifted for potentiation by muscarinic activation. On the other hand, the application of excess ACh concentration completely suppressed STDP, LTP and LTD. In addition, STDP was suppressed in the presence of atropine, a muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist. Taken together, the findings suggest that synaptic plasticity modulation depends on the amount of cholinergic inputs. The modulation of synaptic plasticity by muscarinic activation might be an important stage in the integration of top-down and bottom-up information in hippocampal CA1 neurons.
Progesterone treatment of mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis has shown beneficial effects in the spinal cord according to enhanced clinical, myelin and neuronal-related parameters. In the present work, we report progesterone effects in a model of primary demyelination induced by the intraspinal injection of lysophospatidylcholine (LPC). C57Bl6 adult male mice remained steroid-untreated or received a single 100 mg progesterone implant, which increased circulating steroid levels to those of mouse pregnancy. Seven days afterwards mice received a single injection of 1% LPC into the dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord. A week after, anesthetized mice were perfused and paraffin embedded sections of the spinal cord stained for total myelin using Luxol Fast Blue (LFB) histochemistry, for myelin basic protein (MBP) immunohistochemistry and for determination of OX-42+ microglia/macrophages. Cryostat sections were also prepared and stained for oligodendrocyte precursors (NG2+ cells) and mature oligodendrocytes (CC1+ cells). A third batch of spinal cords was prepared for analysis of the microglial marker CD11b mRNA using qPCR. Results showed that progesterone pretreatment of LPC-injected mice decreased by 50% the area of demyelination, evaluated by either LFB staining or MBP immunostaining, increased the density of NG2+ cells and of mature, CC1+ oligodendrocytes and decreased the number of OX-42+ cells, respect of steroid-untreated LPC mice. CD11b mRNA was hyperexpressed in LPC-treated mice, but significantly reduced in LPC-mice receiving progesterone. These results indicated that progesterone antagonized LPC injury, an effect involving (a) increased myelination; (b) stimulation of oligodendrocyte precursors and mature oligodendrocytes, and (c) attenuation of the microglial/macrophage response. Thus, use of a focal demyelination model suggests that progesterone exerts promyelinating and anti-inflammatory effects at the spinal cord level.
Repeated brief maternal separation (i.e. 15 min daily, MS15) of rat pups during the first one to two postnatal weeks enhances active maternal care received by the pups and attenuates their later behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stress. In previous work, we found that MS15 also alters the developmental assembly and later structure of central neural circuits that control autonomic outflow to the viscera, suggesting that MS15 may alter central visceral circuit responses to stress. To examine this, juvenile rats with a developmental history of either MS15 or no separation (NS) received microinjection of retrograde neural tracer, FluoroGold (FG), into the hindbrain dorsal vagal complex (DVC). After 1 week, FG-injected rats and surgically intact littermates were exposed to either a 15-min restraint stress or an unrestrained control condition, and then perfused 1 h later. Brain tissue sections from surgically intact littermates were processed for Fos alone or in combination with phenotypic markers to examine stress-induced activation of neurons within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and hindbrain DVC. Compared to NS controls, MS15 rats displayed less restraint-induced Fos activation within the dorsolateral BNST (dBNST), the caudal PVN, and noradrenergic neurons within the caudal DVC. To examine whether these differences corresponded with altered neural inputs to the DVC, sections from tracer-injected rats were double-labeled for FG and Fos to quantify retrogradely labeled neurons within hypothalamic and limbic forebrain regions of interest, and the proportion of these neurons activated after restraint. Only the dBNST displayed a significant effect of postnatal experience on restraint-induced Fos activation of DVC-projecting neurons. The distinct regional effects of MS15 on stress-induced recruitment of neurons within hypothalamic, limbic forebrain, and hindbrain regions has interesting implications for understanding how early life experience shapes the functional organization of stress-responsive circuits.
Rotenone, a widely used pesticide and an environmental risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD), induces nigrostriatal injury, Lewy body-like inclusions, and Parkinsonian symptoms in rat models for PD. Our previous data indicated that glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) overexpression and glycolytic inhibition were co-current in rotenone-induced PC12 (rat adrenal pheochromocytoma cells) cell death. However, whether GAPDH overexpression plays any role in dopaminergic neurodegeneration in vivo remains unknown. In this study, we have found that GAPDH overexpression and GAPDH-positive Lewy body-like aggregates in nigral dopaminergic neurons while nigral GAPDH glycolytic activity decreases in rotenone-based PD animal models. Furthermore, GAPDH knockdown reduces rotenone toxicity significantly in PC12. These in vitro and in vivo data suggest that GAPDH contributes to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, possibly representing a new molecular target for neuroprotective strategies and alternative therapies for PD.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes synaptic plasticity via an enhancement in expression of specific synaptic proteins. Recent results suggest that the neuronal monocarboxylate transporter MCT2 is a postsynaptic protein critically involved in synaptic plasticity and long-term memory. To investigate in vivo whether BDNF can modulate the expression of MCT2 as well as other proteins involved in synaptic plasticity, acute injection of BDNF was performed in mouse dorsal hippocampal CA1 area. Using immunohistochemistry, it was found that MCT2 expression was enhanced in part of the CA1 area and in the dentate gyrus 6 h after a single intrahippocampal injection of BDNF. Similarly, expression of the immediate early genes Arc and Zif268 was enhanced in the same hippocampal areas, in accordance with their role in synaptic plasticity. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the significant enhancement in MCT2 protein expression. In contrast, no changes were observed for the glial monocarboxylate transporters MCT1 and MCT4. When other synaptic proteins were investigated, it was found that postsynaptic density 95 (PSD95) and glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) protein levels were significantly enhanced while no effect could be detected for synaptophysin, synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP25), CaMKII and GluR1. These results demonstrate that MCT2 expression can be upregulated together with other key postsynaptic proteins in vivo under conditions related to synaptic plasticity, further suggesting the importance of energetics for memory formation.
Changes in cellular and synaptic plasticity related to learning and memory are accompanied by both upregulation and downregulation of the expression levels of proteins. Both de novo protein synthesis and post-translational modification of existing proteins have been proposed to support the induction and maintenance of memory underlying learning. However, little is known regarding the identity of proteins regulated by learning that are associated with the early stages supporting the formation of memory over time. In this study we have examined changes in protein abundance at two different times following one-trial in vitro conditioning of Hermissenda using two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), quantification of differences in protein abundance between conditioned and unpaired controls, and protein identification with tandem mass spectrometry. Significant regulation of protein abundance following one-trial in vitro conditioning was detected 30 min and 3 h post-conditioning. Proteins were identified that exhibited statistically significant increased or decreased abundance at both 30 min and 3 h post-conditioning. Proteins were also identified that exhibited a significant increase in abundance only at 30 min, or only at 3 h post-conditioning. A few proteins were identified that expressed a significant decrease in abundance detected at both 30 min and 3 h post-conditioning, or a significant decrease in abundance only at 3 h post-conditioning. The proteomic analysis indicates that proteins involved in diverse cellular functions such as translational regulation, cell signaling, cytoskeletal regulation, metabolic activity, and protein degradation contribute to the formation of memory produced by one-trial in vitro conditioning. These findings support the view that changes in protein abundance over time following one-trial in vitro conditioning involve dynamic and complex interactions of the proteome.
Microglial cells exhibit Notch-1 signaling expression which is enhanced upon activation. We reported previously that enhanced Notch-1 expression in activated microglia modulates production of proinflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide (NO). Furthermore, Notch-1 modulates transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B). This study was aimed to investigate if NF-B reciprocally modulates Notch signaling in BV-2 cells. In this connection, the cells were pretreated with caffeic acid phenethyl ester (Cape) followed by stimulating the cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cape+LPS treatment resulted in reduced translocation of NF-B into the nucleus. Concomitantly, NF-B DNA binding activity and the mRNA and protein expression levels of NF-B/p65, Notch-1, intracellular domain of Notch-1 receptor (NICD), Hes-1, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) along with nitrite level were significantly reduced. Additionally, flow cytometry analysis showed a decrease in expression levels of NF-B/p65, Notch-1, NICD but an increase in that of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (Stat3). Furthermore, nuclear Hes-1, phosphorylated Stat3 (p-Stat3) and recombination signal-binding protein 1 for J-Kappa (RBP-JK) expression levels were significantly suppressed. The present results suggest that Cape inhibits NF-B activation through suppressing its interaction with DNA. Cape-induced reduction of Hes-1 may be attributed to decreased interaction between NICD and RBP-JK whose levels were reduced concurrently. Hes-1 reduction may lead to decreased production of inflammatory cytokines and NO. It is concluded that NF-B can modulate Notch-1 signaling. Both pathways operate synergistically for production of proinflammatory cytokines and NO in activated microglia.
Mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) has been recognized as an important protein to regulate reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. The absence of UCP2 has the potential to promote ROS accumulation and thereby induces oxidative damages and inflammatory response. Increasing evidence strongly reveals that depression is accompanied by oxidative stress, so the present study was to investigate the impacts of UCP2 on the etiology of depression. Wild-type and UCP2 knockout mice were used to establish chronic mild stress (CMS)-induced anhedonia model of depression. The results showed that CMS led to more severe depressive responses in UCP2 knockout mice, characterized by exacerbated depression-like behaviors, increased corticosterone level and significant loss of weight. Moreover, CMS resulted in a higher mortality in UCP2 knockout mice. Our further study showed that UCP2 knockout enhanced CMS-induced activation of nuclear factor B (NF-B) p65 and increased mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) in hypothalamus. And the levels of TNF- of serum and spleen in UCP2 knockout mice are remarkably enhanced by CMS, even under basal conditions. Therefore, our findings suggest that UCP2 knockout-induced inflammation may contribute to the development of depressive symptoms.
Glutamate is the major mediator of excitatory signalling in the mammalian central nervous system, but it has recently been shown to play a role in the transduction of sensory input at the periphery and in peripheral neuropathies. New advances in research have demonstrated that rat peripheral sensory terminals and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) express molecules involved in glutamate signalling, including high-affinity membrane-bound glutamate transporters (GLAST [glutamate aspartate transporter], GLT1 [glutamate transporter 1], EAAC1 [excitatory aminoacid transporter 1]) and that alterations in their expression and/or functionality can be implicated in several models of peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain and hyperalgesia. Here we describe, through immunoblotting, immunofluorescence assays and -counter analysis of [(3)H] l-glutamate uptake, the expression, distribution and activity of the glutamate transporters in in vitro cultures of embryonic dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons, sensory neurons+satellite cells and satellite cells. In this work we demonstrated that glutamate transporters are expressed in all cultures with a peculiar pattern of distribution. Even if GLAST is strongly detected in satellite cells, it is slightly expressed also in sensory neurons. GLT1 immunostaining is very weak in DRG neurons, but it was evident in the satellite cells. Finally, EAAC1 is localized in the soma and in the neuritis of sensory neurons, while it is not detectable in satellite cells. Moreover, all the cell cultures showed a strong sodium-energy-dependent glutamate uptake activity and it is more marked in neurons alone or in co-culture with satellite cells compared to satellite cells alone. Finally, we show that the complete or partial pharmacological inhibition of glutamate transporters virtually completely or partially abolish glutamate uptake in all cell culture. These results, that demonstrate that functionally active glutamate transporters can be studied in dorsal root ganglia cell cultures, provide further evidence for a role of glutamatergic transport in the peripheral nervous system and will be useful for testing whether any changes occur in in vitro models of peripheral nervous system damage.
Our results, as well as those of others, have indicated that 17-estradiol (E2) exerts its nongenomic effects in neuronal cells by affecting plasma membrane Ca(2+) flux. In neuronal cells mitochondria possess Ca(2+) buffering properties as they both sequester and release Ca(2+). The goal of this study was to examine the rapid non-genomic effect of E2 on mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport in hippocampal synaptosomes from ovariectomised rats. In addition, we aimed to determine if, and to what extent, E2 receptors participated in mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport modulation by E2 in vitro. E2-specific binding and Ca(2+) transport was monitored. At physiological E2 concentrations (0.1-1.5 nmol/L), specific E2 binding to mitochondria isolated from hippocampal synaptosomes was detected with a B(max.) and K(m) of 37.62.6 fmol/mg protein and 0.690.14 nmol/L of free E2, respectively. The main mitochondrial Ca(2+) influx mechanism is the Ruthenium Red-sensitive uniporter driven by mitochondrial membrane potential. Despite no effect of E2 on Ca(2+) influx, a physiological E2 concentration (0.5 nmol/L) protected mitochondrial membrane potential and consequently Ca(2+) influx from the uncoupling agent carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone (1 mol/L). In neuronal cells the predominant mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux mechanism is the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. E2 caused Ca(2+) efflux inhibition (by 46%) coupled with increased affinity of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger for Na(+). Using E2 receptor (ER and ER) antagonists and agonists, we confirmed ER's involvement in E2-induced mitochondrial membrane potential protection as well as Ca(2+) efflux inhibition. In summary, our results indicate that the non-genomic neuromodulatory role of E2 in rat hippocampus is achieved by affecting mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport via, in part, mitochondrial ER.
Neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression are frequently associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the degeneration of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons and reductions in acetylcholine that occur in AD have been identified as potential mediators of these secondary neuropsychiatric symptomologies. Indeed, removal of cholinergic innervation to the hippocampus via selective immunolesions of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons induces dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and decreases glucocorticoid receptor expression (GR). A subsequent study showed that loss of cholinergic input decreases the activity of the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A (PKAc) and lessens the interaction of protein kinase A (PKA) with GR. Because cross-coupling between nuclear factor-B (NF-B) p65 and GR depends on PKA signaling, the present study was conducted to evaluate the status of NF-B as well as interactions of PKA with NF-B in the hippocampus following cholinergic denervation. Expression of cytosolic NF-B p65 was diminished and IB was degraded in the hippocampus of cholinergic immunolesioned rats compared to the controls. Immunolesions also increased NF-B p65 Ser276 phosphorylation, as well as interactions between PKAc and NF-B p65. These results indicate that loss of cholinergic input to the hippocampus results in decreased PKA activity and increased NF-B activity. Such altered signaling may contribute to psychiatric symptoms, including depression, in patients with AD.
Recent studies have shown that electrical stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) facilitates locomotion in control rats, and rats were made akinetic by dopaminergic blockade via haloperidol or dopamine depletion by the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. These findings suggest that PH stimulation might be a promising treatment for akinesia associated with dopamine loss in Parkinson's disease. The present study further examined the positive effects of PH stimulation on behavior by characterizing its potential facilitatory effects on tasks that require skilled movements. Rats were trained to reach for food pellets with a forelimb (skilled reaching) or press a bar in an operant conditioning task for food. PH stimulation in undrugged rats not only facilitated locomotion in each of the tasks, but also impaired performance of the skilled movement components of the tasks. Haloperidol reduced locomotion and skilled movement, and PH stimulation only restored locomotion. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that PH stimulation selectively facilitates locomotor behavior and may have limited use in restoring impairments in skilled movements and consummatory behavior that results from dopaminergic depletion.
Partial hearing loss is known to cause increased spontaneous activity at several stages of the central auditory pathways, and this phenomenon has been suggested as a possible neural substrate for tinnitus, a phantom hearing sensation. One recent study in guinea pig has suggested that approximately 6 weeks after acoustic trauma, the increased spontaneous activity in inferior colliculus is not intrinsically generated in the central nucleus but is dependent on afferent input from the cochlea. This was unexpected in view of the fact that tinnitus in human patients can persist after severing of the auditory nerve. In this study, we show that when recovery time after acoustic trauma is extended to 8 and 12 weeks, cochlear ablation does not significantly decrease the increased spontaneous activity measured in the inferior colliculus. This result demonstrates for the first time that central hyperactivity that develops after acoustic trauma transitions from an early stage when it is dependent on continued peripheral afferent input to a later stage in which the hyperactivity is intrinsically generated within the central nervous system.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) regulate neurogenesis in brain, but the mechanisms remain unknown. In this study, we investigated the effect of mGluR5 on the proliferation of human embryonic neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs), the expression of cyclin D1 and the activation of signaling pathways of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). Results showed that mGluR5 agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine hydrate (DHPG) increased the proliferation of NPCs by increasing cell activity, diameter of neurospheres and cell division, while mGluR5 siRNA and antagonist 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl) pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP) decreased the NPC proliferation. The mRNA and protein expressions of cyclin D1 increased with DHPG treatment and decreased after siRNA or MPEP treatment. It was also found that activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) signaling pathways were involved in the proliferation of NPCs. After DHPG treatment, p-ERK1/2 and p-JNK2 levels increased, and meanwhile p-p38 level decreased; but p-ERK1/2 and p-JNK2 levels decreased after siRNA or MPEP treatment, and p-p38 level increased. Our findings demonstrated that mGluR5 promoted the proliferation of human embryonic cortical NPCs and increased cyclin D1 expression with the changes in phosphorylation of MAPKs signaling pathways in vitro, suggesting a novel mechanism for pharmacological study of treatment for ischemic brain injury and neurodegenerative disorders.
Parkinson's disease (PD), characterized by selective midbrain nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration, is consistently associated with moderate systemic mitochondrial dysfunction. Downstream degeneration of spinal cord has also been suggested in PD, although the mechanisms have not been much investigated. In the present study, two mitochondrial toxicants, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) and rotenone were tested in ventral spinal cord (VSC 4.1) motoneuronal cells. Cell death was assessed by morphological and biochemical means to discern a lower apoptosis-inducing concentration and lethal concentration of 50% cell death (LC(50)), which were subsequently compared in further cytoprotection experiments. Mitochondrial toxicants dose-dependently induced increase in intracellular free Ca(2+) level, which was conducive for increased expression and activities of Ca(2+)-activated neutral protease calpain and downstream caspase-3. Thus, mitochondrial damage triggered apoptotic mechanisms in spinal cord motoneurons. Inhibition of calpain by calpeptin significantly attenuated damaging effects of MPP(+) and rotenone on motoneurons, especially at low apoptosis-inducing concentrations of toxicants and partly at their LC(50), as demonstrated by absence of DNA ladder formation and decrease in terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells. Cytoprotection by calpeptin was observed with marked decreases in Bax: Bcl-2 ratio and activities of calpain and caspase-3, which affirmed the role of mitochondrial dysfunction and involvement of intrinsic pathway in mediation of apoptosis. These findings strongly suggested that parkinsonian toxicants MPP(+) and rotenone at low doses induced cascade of cell-damaging effects in spinal cord motoneurons, thus, highlighting the possibility of induction of apoptotic mechanisms in these cells, when subjected to mitochondrial stress. Cytoprotection rendered by calpeptin further validated the involvement of calpain in apoptosis and suggested calpain inhibition as a potential neuroprotective strategy.
The BK channel is a Ca(2+) and voltage-gated conductance responsible for shaping action potential waveforms in many types of neurons. Type II BK channels are differentiated from type I channels by their pharmacology and slow gating kinetics. The 4 accessory subunit confers type II properties on BK  subunits. Empirically derived properties of BK channels, with and without the 4 accessory subunit, were obtained using a heterologous expression system under physiological ionic conditions. These data were then used to study how BK channels alone (type I) and with the accessory 4 subunit (type II) modulate action potential properties in biophysical neuron models. Overall, the models support the hypothesis that it is the slower kinetics provided by the 4 subunit that endows the BK channel with type II properties, which leads to broadening of action potentials and, secondarily, to greater recruitment of SK channels reducing neuronal excitability. Two regions of parameter space distinguished type II and type I effects; one where the range of BK-activating Ca(2+) was high (&gt;20 M) and the other where BK-activating Ca(2+) was low (0.4-1.2 M). The latter required an elevated BK channel density, possibly beyond a likely physiological range. BK-mediated sharpening of the spike waveform associated with the lack of the 4 subunit was sensitive to the properties of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels due to electrogenic effects on spike duration. We also found that depending on Ca(2+) dynamics, type II BK channels may have the ability to contribute to the medium AHP, a property not generally ascribed to BK channels, influencing the frequency-current relationship. Finally, we show how the broadening of action potentials conferred by type II BK channels can also indirectly increase the recruitment of SK-type channels decreasing the excitability of the neuron.
Stress is a risk factor for the development of affective disorders, including depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and other anxiety disorders. However, not all individuals who experience either chronic stress or traumatic acute stress develop such disorders. Thus, other factors must confer a vulnerability to stress, and exposure to early-life stress may be one such factor. In this study we examined prenatal stress (PNS) as a potential vulnerability factor that may produce stable changes in central stress response systems and susceptibility to develop fear- and anxiety-like behaviors after adult stress exposure. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were immobilized for 1 h daily during the last week of pregnancy. Controls were unstressed. The male offspring were then studied as adults. As adults, PNS or control rats were first tested for shock-probe defensive burying behavior, then half from each group were exposed to a combined chronic plus acute prolonged stress (CAPS) treatment, consisting of chronic intermittent cold stress (4 C, 6 h/d, 14 days) followed on day 15 by a single session of sequential acute stressors (social defeat, immobilization, cold swim). After CAPS or control treatment, different groups were tested for open field exploration, social interaction, or cued fear conditioning and extinction. Rats were sacrificed at least 5 days after behavioral testing for measurement of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in specific brain regions, and plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone. Shock-probe burying, open field exploration and social interaction were unaffected by any treatment. However, PNS elevated basal corticosterone, decreased GR protein levels in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, and decreased TH mRNA expression in noradrenergic neurons in the dorsal pons. Further, rats exposed to PNS plus CAPS showed attenuated extinction of cue-conditioned fear. These results suggest that PNS induces vulnerability to subsequent adult stress, resulting in an enhanced fear-like behavioral profile, and dysregulation of brain noradrenergic and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) activity.
Older human listeners demonstrate perceptual deficits in temporal processing even when audibility has been controlled. These age-related auditory deficits in temporal processing are thought to originate in the central auditory pathway. Precise temporal processing is necessary to detect and discriminate auditory cues such as modulation frequency, modulation depth and envelope shape which are critical for perception of speech and environmental sounds. This study aims to further understanding of temporal processing in aging using non-invasive electrophysiological measurements. Amplitude modulation following responses (AMFRs) and frequency modulation following responses (FMFRs) were recorded from aged (92-95-weeks old) and young (9-12-weeks old) Fischer-344 (F-344) rats for sinusoidally amplitude modulated (sAM) tones, sinusoidally frequency modulated (sFM) tones and ramped and damped amplitude modulation (AM) stimuli which differ in their envelope shapes. The modulation depth for the sAM and sFM stimuli and envelope shape for the ramped and damped stimuli were systematically varied. There was a monotonic decrease in AMFR and FMFR amplitudes with decreases in modulation depth across age for sAM and sFM stimuli. There was no significant difference between the response amplitudes of the young and aged animals for the largest modulation depths. However, a reduction in modulation depth resulted in a significant decrease in the response amplitudes and higher modulation detection thresholds for sAM and sFM stimuli with age. The aged animals showed significantly lower response amplitudes for ramped stimuli but not for damped stimuli. Cross correlating the responses with the ramped, symmetric, or damped stimulus envelopes revealed a decreased fidelity in encoding envelope shapes with age. These results indicate that age related temporal processing deficits become apparent only with reduced modulation depths or when discriminating envelope shapes. This has implications for psychophysical or diagnostic testing as well as for constraining potential cellular and network mechanisms responsible for these deficits.
A variety of evidence has a connection with hippocampal neurogenesis in the pathophysiology of depression. However, whether other neurogenic regions in the adult central nervous system would likewise be involved is a highly interesting question. The olfactory bulb (OB) is one of the post-developmental neurogenesis areas in the adult mammalian brain. Clinical studies have shown a decreased olfactory sensitivity in depressed patients, and a recent study disclosed cases of reduced OB volume in acute major depression, indicating the OB may be also affected. Here, animal models are superior to human studies, which may provide further insight into such complex processes. We therefore investigated OB neurogenesis using a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rat model of depression. Considering the functional analysis of adult neurogenesis which has been carried out at the synaptic level as well as animal behavior level, we detected pre-synaptic and olfactory function in the OB of rats after 4 weeks of chronic stress. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis showed a dramatic reduction of immature neurons marked by polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule and doublecortin as well as mature neurons labeled by neuronal nuclei. Moreover, chronic stress down-regulated the expression of synaptophsin but up-regulated syntaxin in the OB, as demonstrated by Western blot, whereas a significant variation at the mRNA level was lacking. Notably, in the rat model of depression, both a decreased OB volume and olfactory dysfunction were present at the same time, which is consistent with clinical findings in depressed patients. In summary, reduced OB neurogenesis and pre-synaptic dysfunction were observed in the rat model, which may at least in part correspond to the reduced OB volume and olfactory malfunction in patients suffering from depression.
In this paper, we aimed to study the semantic association of ecologically unrelated synchronous audio-visual information in cognitive integration. A moving particle, which speed varied, was taken as a visual stimulus, while a simple tone, which frequency varied, was used as an auditory stimulus, both were synchronously presented to subjects in the form of a video. Behavioral results confirmed our hypothesis that the moving particle with varied speed and the simple tone with varied frequency were highly associated. Event-related potential (ERP) results showed that an N400 effect and a late posterior negativity (LPN) were elicited under the Incongruent condition as compared to the Congruent condition. It was further determined that there was semantic association between ecologically unrelated synchronous audio-visual information in cognitive integration. We considered that the N400 effect in our results reflected the process that stimulus-driven activities are bound together through a temporal semantic network (TSN) to form multimodal representations, while the state of this temporal semantic network was determined by both long-term learned association among stimuli and short-term experience of incoming information. The LPN might reflect the process that the human brain searches and retrieves context-specifying information in order to make a judgment, and the context-specifying information might have originated from the long-term learned association stored in the brain.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) plays a crucial role in stress responses and its mRNA is induced in the brain by stress load; however, the precise role of IL-1 in higher brain functions and their abnormalities is largely unknown. Here, we report that IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) knockout (KO) mice, which lack IL-1Ra molecules that antagonize the IL-1 receptor, displayed anti-depression-like phenotypes in the tail suspension test (TST) and forced-swim test (FST) only at a young stage (8 weeks), whereas the phenotypes disappeared at later stages (20 and 32 weeks). These anti-depression-like phenotypes were reversed by administration of adrenergic receptor (AR) antagonists against the AR(1), AR(2), and AR subtypes. Although the contents of 5-HT, norepinephrine (NE), and dopamine (DA), which are known to be associated with major symptoms of psychiatric disorders, were not significantly different in the hippocampus or cerebral cortex between IL-1Ra KO and their wild-type (WT) littermate mice, the mRNA expression level of the AR(1A) subtype was significantly changed in the cerebral cortex. Interestingly, the change in expression of the AR(1A) subtype was correlated with an age-dependent alteration in the TST and FST in IL-1Ra KO mice. Furthermore, mild immobilization stress loaded on C57BL/6J male mice caused similar anti-depression-like phenotypes in the TST and FST to those observed in mutant mice. These results suggest that sustained activation of IL-1 signaling induced by gene manipulation in mutant mice affects the expression of the AR(1A) subtype and that modification of adrenergic signaling by the IL-1 system may ultimately cause significant psychiatric abnormalities such as depression, and this mutant mouse could be regarded as a model animal of depression that specifically appears in children and adolescents.
Food intake is regulated according to circadian activity, metabolic needs and the hedonic value of food. Rodents placed on a fixed feeding schedule show behavioral and physiological anticipation of mealtime referred to as food-anticipatory activity (FAA). FAA is driven by the food-entrainable oscillator (FEO), whose anatomical substrate is not yet known. Recent data have shown that restricted feeding schedules for regular chow and daily limited access to palatable food in free-feeding rats activate distinct brain regions during FAA. The combination of a deprivation regimen and scheduled access to palatable food may give rise to a more global anticipatory mechanism because the temporal cycles of energy balance would be strongly modulated by the incentive properties of palatable food; however, the neuronal response to this combined treatment is not yet known. The present study investigated how adding palatable sucrose to feeding schedules affects the pattern of brain c-fos mRNA expression during FAA (0-3 h) and 1 h following feeding. The rats maintained on scheduled chow access increased their daily chow intake, while the rats maintained on scheduled sucrose and chow mainly increased their daily sucrose intake. Adding sucrose to scheduled feeding displaced c-fos mRNA expression from the dorsomedial and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei and posterior lateral hypothalamus (LH) to the prefrontal cortex, lateral septum, nucleus accumbens and anterior LH. During refeeding, the rats on scheduled sucrose demonstrated higher activation of the nucleus of the solitary tract. The present results suggest that palatable sucrose combined with restricted feeding schedules activate a distinct neuronal network compared to neuronal activation produced by scheduled access to regular chow. These data provide evidence that the brain may contain different food-oscillatory systems and that food palatability may shift the neuronal activity from the medial hypothalamus to the limbic and reward-related areas even at the negative metabolic state.
We investigated functional organization of the vagus nerve (N. X)- and glossopharyngeal nerve (N. IX)-related nuclei in the embryonic rat brainstem and compared their development and spatial distribution patterns, using multiple-site optical recording with a fast voltage-sensitive dye, NK2761. Intact brainstem preparations with N. X and N. IX attached were dissected from E13-E16 rat embryos, and electrical responses evoked by N. X/N. IX stimulation were optically recorded from many loci of the stained preparations. We analyzed optical waveforms and separated fast and slow optical signals corresponding to the antidromic/orthodromic action potentials and the excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), respectively. We constructed contour line maps of signal amplitudes and identified motor and sensory nuclei of N. X and N. IX. In the N. X-related motor nucleus (the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve: DMNV), the fast signals were distributed in multiple-peak patterns, suggesting that the neurons and/or their activity are not distributed uniformly within the motor nuclei at early developmental stages. In the sensory nucleus (the nucleus of the tractus solitarius: NTS), the EPSPs were first detected from E15 in normal physiological solution for both N. X and N. IX. The N. IX-related NTS partially overlapped with the N. X-related NTS, but the peak locations were different between these two nerves. The results obtained in this study suggest that functional organization of the N. X- and N. IX-related nuclei changes dynamically with development in the embryonic rat brainstem.
Ca(v)2.1 channels (P/Q-type) play a prominent role in controlling neurotransmitter release. Transgenic mice in which the 1A pore-forming subunit of Ca(v)2.1 channels is ablated (KO) provide a powerful tool to study Ca(v)2.1 function in synaptic transmission in vivo. Whole-cell patch clamp was used to measure inhibitory glycinergic postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) from the lateral superior olive (LSO). Comparing wild-type (WT) and KO mice, we investigated the relevance of P/Q-type calcium channels at a glycinergic synapse mediated by multiple types of Ca(2+) channels, in opposition to synapses where only this type of Ca(2+) channels are in charge of transmitter release. We found that in KO mice, N-type and L-type Ca(2+) channels control synaptic transmission, resulting in a functional but reduced glycinergic transmitter release. Pair pulse facilitation of synaptic currents is retained in KO mice, even when synaptic transmission is driven by either N or L-type calcium channels alone, in contrast with lack of this phenomenon in other synapses which are exclusively mediated by P/Q-type channels. Thus, pointing a difference between P/Q- and N-type channels present in single or multiple types of calcium channels driven synapses. Significant alterations in short-term synaptic plasticity were observed. KO mice exhibited a stronger short term depression (STD) of IPSCs during repetitive stimulation at high frequency and recovered with a larger time constant compared to WT mice. Finally, transmitter release at the LSO synapse from KO mice was strongly modulated by presynaptic GTP-binding protein-coupled receptor -aminobutyric acid type B (GABA(B)).
Patients suffering from depression frequently display hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) resulting in elevated cortisol levels. One main symptom of this condition is anhedonia. There is evidence that exercise training can be used as a rehabilitative intervention in the treatment of depressive disorders. In this scenario, the aim of the present study was to assess the effect of an aerobic exercise training protocol on the depressive-like behavior, anhedonia, induced by repeated dexamethasone administration. The study was carried out on adult male Wistar rats randomly divided into four groups: the &quot;control group&quot; (C), &quot;exercise group&quot; (E), &quot;dexamethasone group&quot; (D) and the &quot;dexamethasone plus exercise group&quot; (DE). The exercise training consisted of swimming (1 h/d, 5 d/wk) for 3 weeks, with an overload of 5% of the rat body weight. Every day rats were injected with either dexamethasone (D/DE) or saline solution (C/E). Proper positive controls, using fluoxetine, were run in parallel. Decreased blood corticosterone levels, reduced adrenal cholesterol synthesis and adrenal weight (HPA disruption), reduced preference for sucrose consumption and increased immobility time (depressive-like behavior), marked hippocampal DNA oxidation, increased IL-10 and total brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF; pro-plus mature-forms) and a severe loss of body mass characterized the dexamethasone-treated animals. Besides increasing testosterone blood concentrations, the swim training protected depressive rats from the anhedonic state, following the same profile as fluoxetine, and also from the dexamethasone-induced impaired neurochemistry. The data indicate that physical exercise could be a useful tool in preventing and treating depressive disorders.
Electroclinical investigations in human patients and experimental studies from genetic models demonstrated that spike-and-wave discharges (SWDs) associated with absence seizures have a cortical onset. In the Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rat from Strasbourg (GAERS), SWDs are initiated by the paroxysmal discharges of ictogenic pyramidal neurones located in the deep layers of the somatosensory cortex. However, the cellular and synaptic mechanisms that control the ictal discharges of seizure-initiating neurones remain unclear. Here, by the means of in vivo paired electroencephalographic (EEG) and intracellular recordings in the GAERS cortical focus, we explored the participation of the intracortical inhibitory system in the control of paroxysmal activities in ictogenic neurones. We found that their firing during EEG paroxysms was interrupted by the occurrence of hyperpolarizing synaptic events that reversed in polarity below action potential threshold. Intracellular injection of Cl(-) dramatically increased the amplitude of the paroxysmal depolarizations and the number of generated action potentials, strongly suggesting that the inhibitory synaptic potentials were mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Consistently, we showed that intracellularly recorded GABAergic interneurones fired, during seizures, shortly after (+8 ms) the discharge of ictogenic neurones and displayed a rhythmic bursting that coincided with the inhibitory synaptic events in neighbouring pyramidal ictogenic cells. In contrast with other forms of epilepsy, our findings suggest that paroxysmal activities in the cortical pyramidal cells initiating absence seizures are negatively controlled by a feedback Cl(-)-mediated inhibition likely resulting from the fast recurrent activation of intracortical GABAergic interneurones by the ictogenic cells themselves.
The olfactory glomerulus is the locus of information transfer between olfactory sensory neurons and output neurons of the olfactory bulb. Juxtaglomerular cells (JGCs) may influence intraglomerular processing by firing plateau potentials that support multiple spikes. It is unclear what inward currents mediate this firing pattern. In previous work, we characterized potassium currents of JGCs. We focus here on the inward currents using whole cell current clamp and voltage recording in a rat in vitro slice preparation, as well as computer simulation. We first showed that sodium current was not required to mediate plateau potentials. Voltage clamp characterization of calcium current (I(Ca)) determined that I(Ca) consisted of a slow activating, rapidly inactivating ((10%-90% rise) 6-8 ms, (inactivation) 38-77 ms) component I(cat1), similar to T-type currents, and a sustained ((inactivation)&gt;500 ms) component I(cat2), likely composed of L-type and P/Q-type currents. We used computer simulation to test their roles in plateau potential firing. We robustly modeled I(cat1) and I(cat2) to Hodgkin-Huxley schemes (m(3)h and m(2), respectively) and simulated a JGC plateau potential with six conductances: calcium currents as above, potassium currents from our prior study (A-type I(kt1), D-type I(kt2), delayed rectifier I(kt3)), and a fast sodium current (I(Na)). We demonstrated that I(cat1) was required for mediating the plateau potential, unlike I(Na) and I(cat2), and its (inactivation) determined plateau duration. We also found that I(kt1) dictated plateau potential shape more than I(kt2) and I(kt3). The influence of these two transient and opposing conductances suggests a unique mechanism of plateau potential physiology.
Traumatic injury to the brain initiates an increase in astrocyte and microglial infiltration as part of an inflammatory response to injury. Increased astrogliosis around the injury impedes regeneration of axons through the injury, while activated microglia release inflammatory mediators. The persistent inflammatory response can lead to local progressive cell death. Modulating the astrocyte and microglial response to traumatic injury therefore has potential therapeutic benefit in brain repair. We examine the modulatory effect of a single bolus of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) in combination on astrocytes and microglia to acute cerebral injury. A combination of VEGF and PDGF (20 pg) was injected into the striatum of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The effects of treatment were assessed by quantitative immunofluorescence microscopy analyzing astrocytes and microglia across the stab injury over time. Treatment delayed the onset of astrogliosis in the centre and edge of the stab injury up to day 5; however, increased astrogliosis at areas remote to the stab injury up to day 5 was observed. A persistent astrocytic response was observed in the centre and edge of the stab injury up to day 60. Treatment altered microglia cell morphology and numbers across the stab injury, with a decrease in ramified microglia, but an increase in activated and phagocytic microglia up to day 5 after stab injury. The increased microglial response from 10 until day 60 was comprised of the ramified morphology. Thus, VEGF and PDGF applied at the same time as a stab injury to the brain initially delayed the inflammatory response up to day 5 but evoked a persistent astrogliosis and microglial response up to 60 days.
Odor identity is encoded by the activity of olfactory bulb glomeruli, which receive primary sensory input and transfer it to projection neurons. Juxtaglomerular cells (JGCs) may influence glomerular processing via firing of long lasting plateau potentials. Though inward currents have been investigated, little is known regarding potassium current contribution to JGC plateau potentials. We pursued study of these currents, with the overarching goal of creating components for a computational model of JGC plateau potential firing. In conditions minimizing calcium-activated potassium current (I(K(Ca))), we used whole cell voltage clamp and in vitro slice preparations to characterize three potassium currents in rat JGCs. The prominent component I(kt1) displayed rapid kinetics ((10%-90% rise), 0.6-2 ms; (inactivation), 5-10 ms) and was blocked by high concentration 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) (5 mM) and tetramethylammonium (TEA) (40 mM). It had half maximal activation at -10 mV (V()max) and little inactivation at rest. I(kt2), with slower kinetics ((10%-90% rise), 11-15 ms; (inactivation), 100-300 ms), was blocked by low concentration 4-AP (0.5 mM) and TEA (5 mM). The V()max was 0 mV and inactivation was also minimal at rest. Sustained current I(kt3) showed sensitivity to low concentration 4-AP and TEA, and had V()max of +10 mV. Further experiments, in conditions of physiologic calcium buffering, suggested that I(K(Ca)) contributed to I(kt3) with minimal effect on plateau potential evolution. We transformed these characterizations into Hodgkin-Huxley models that robustly mimicked experimental data. Further simulation demonstrated that I(kt1) would be most efficiently activated by plateau potential waveforms, predicting a critical role in shaping JGC firing. These studies demonstrated that JGCs possess a unique potassium current profile, with delayed rectifier (I(kt3)), atypical A-current (I(kt1)), and D-current (I(kt2)) in accordance with known expression patterns in olfactory bulb (OB) glomeruli. Our simulations also provide an initial framework for more integrative models of JGC plateau potential firing.
Neurons are highly susceptible to oxidative stress and oxidation of cytoskeletal proteins is considered one of the first steps of neurodegeneration. Protein glutathionylation is a key event in the redox regulation of protein function and constitutes a sensor of tissue oxidative stress in patho-physiological conditions. In this study, we analyzed for the first time tubulin glutathionylation and its relation to neurites degeneration. For this purpose, we exposed motoneuronal cells to the physiological oxidant glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and we analyzed the extent and morphology of axonal changes caused by protein glutathionylation in these cells. Then we studied the effect of glutathionylation on the distribution of stable and dynamic microtubules in the same cells. Our results indicate that oxidative stress conditions determined by an increased intracellular level of oxidized glutathione may cause an alteration of the cytoskeleton organization and function leading to axon degeneration. These findings might contribute to understand the sequence of pathogenic events involved in the axonal degeneration that characterizes many diseases of the nervous system associated with oxidative stress.
Ghrelin, an orexigenic hormone produced by the stomach, increases food intake and enhances the locomotor and rewarding effects of cocaine. Consistent with these behavioral effects, ghrelin increases dopamine cell activity in the mesolimbic system resulting in elevated levels of dopamine release and turnover in target regions such as the ventral striatum. In the current study, we examined the psychostimulant effects of acute and daily cocaine in mice with targeted deletion of the ghrelin gene (ghrelin knockout; KO) and that of their wild-type (WT) littermates. We hypothesized that ghrelin-KO mice would be hyporesponsive to the effects of cocaine as reflected in attenuated locomotor activity following both acute and chronic injections, and that this would be correlated with striatal dopamine and dopamine metabolite concentrations. Results show that the locomotor stimulating effect of cocaine (10 mg/kg) was decreased in ghrelin-KO mice as compared with their WT littermates. In addition, repeated daily injection of cocaine resulted in gradual increases in locomotor activity in WT mice, an effect that was attenuated in ghrelin-KO mice. These behavioral effects were correlated with changes in dopamine utilization in the striatum of WT mice that were not seen in ghrelin-KO mice unless these were pretreated with ghrelin. These data suggest that ghrelin is important for normal function of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, potentially modulating both dopamine release and reuptake.
Human neural progenitor cells differentiated from human embryonic stem cells offer a potential cell source for studying neurodegenerative diseases and for drug screening assays. Previously, we demonstrated that human neural progenitors could be maintained in a proliferative state with the addition of leukemia inhibitory factor and basic fibroblast growth factor. Here we demonstrate that 96 h after removal of basic fibroblast growth factor the neural progenitor cell culture was significantly altered and cell replication halted. Fourteen days after the removal of basic fibroblast growth factor, most cells expressed microtubule-associated protein 2 and TUJ1, markers characterizing a post-mitotic neuronal phenotype as well as neural developmental markers Cdh2 and Gbx2. Real-time PCR was performed to determine the ionotropic receptor subunit expression profile. Differentiated neural progenitors express subunits of glutamatergic, GABAergic, nicotinic, purinergic and transient receptor potential receptors. In addition, sodium and calcium channel subunits were also expressed. Functionally, virtually all the hNP cells tested under whole-cell voltage clamp exhibited delayed rectifier potassium channel currents and some differentiated cells exhibited tetrodotoxin-sensitive, voltage-dependent sodium channel current. Action potentials could also be elicited by currents injection under whole-cell current clamp in a minority of cells. These results indicate that removing basic fibroblast growth factor from the neural progenitor cell cultures leads to a post-mitotic state, and has the capability to produce excitable cells that can generate action potentials, a landmark characteristic of a neuronal phenotype. This is the first report of an efficient and simple means of generating human neuronal cells for ionotropic receptor assays and ultimately for electrically active human neural cell assays for drug discovery.
Many quantitative animal studies examining the possible relationship between hippocampal neuronal loss and the development of epilepsy have examined only the dorsal hippocampus. The ventral hippocampus, however, represents the more homologous structure to the anterior hippocampus in humans, which is the area associated with the maximal damage in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. This study tested the hypothesis that the ventral hippocampus has greater neuronal injury than the dorsal hippocampus in an animal model of chemoconvulsant-status epilepticus at postnatal day 20. Status epilepticus was induced in postnatal day 20 Sprague-Dawley rat pups with the chemoconvulsant lithium-pilocarpine and brain tissue was examined with Fluoro-Jade B. Horizontal sections (n=7) favoring a visualization of the ventral hippocampus showed marked Fluoro-Jade B staining in CA1, CA3, and hilar region. Coronal sections favoring a visualization of the dorsal hippocampus did not consistently show as robust a staining pattern in these regions. In coronal sections where both the dorsal and ventral hippocampus could be viewed, greater staining was always seen in ventral versus dorsal hippocampus. Quantitative analysis of cell counts demonstrated a significant difference between ventral and dorsal hippocampus in CA1 and CA3, but not hilus. These results demonstrate that in ventral hippocampus, lithium pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus consistently results in hippocampal neuronal injury in postnatal day 20 rats. This study shows the importance of including the ventral hippocampus in any analysis of seizure-induced hippocampal neuronal injury, and raises concerns about the accuracy of studies quantifying hippocampal neuronal loss when only the dorsal hippocampus is examined.
Vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs), a family of angiogenic factors, are upregulated by nerve injuries. To clarify the extracellular signals involved in VEGF production in the brain, the effects of endothelins (ETs), a family of vasoconstricting peptides, were examined. I.c.v. administration of 500 pmol/d Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1, an ET(B) receptor agonist, increased the level of VEGF-A mRNA in the rat cerebrum, whereas those of VEGF-B, placental growth factor (PLGF), angiopoietin (ANG)-1, and ANG-2 mRNAs were not largely affected by Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET. The ET-induced increases in cerebrum VEGF-A mRNA were reduced by coadministration of 1 nmol/d BQ788, an ET(B) antagonist. Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1 also stimulated the production of VEGF-A proteins in the cerebrum. Immunohistochemical observations in the cerebrum of Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1-infused rats showed that glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes had VEGF-A immunoreactivity. Neurons, microglia, and brain capillary endothelial cells in the Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1-infused rats did not show VEGF-A reactivity. The i.c.v. administration of Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1 stimulated tyrosine phosphorylations of VEGF-R1 and R2 receptors in the rat cerebrum, whereas expression levels of total VEGF-R1 and R2 proteins were not largely changed. Immunoreactivity of tyrosine-phosphorylated VEGF-R1 was selectively shown in GFAP-positive astrocytes in the cerebrum of Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1-infused rats. Tyrosine-phosphorylated VEGF-R2 proteins were present in astrocytes and brain capillary endothelial cells. These findings indicate that activation of brain ET(B) receptors increases production of VEGF-A and stimulates VEGF receptor signaling in the brain.
In rats, hedonic ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) is a validated model of positive affect and is best elicited by rough-and-tumble play. Here we report that modulation of GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors (NMDAR) in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) is involved in positive emotional learning. Rough and tumble play increased both GluN1 and GluN2B NMDAR subunit mRNA and protein levels in the frontal cortex. GLYX-13, a GluN2B-preferring, NMDAR glycine-site partial agonist (1 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly increased positive emotional learning whereas the GluN2B receptor-specific antagonist, ifenprodil (10 mg/kg, i.p.), inhibited positive emotional learning. Animals selectively bred for low rates of hedonic USVs were returned to wild-type levels of positive emotional learning following GLYX-13 treatment. MPFC microinjections of GLYX-13 (0.1-10 g/side) significantly increased rates of positive emotional learning. Thus GluN2B-containing NMDARs may be involved in positive emotional learning in the MPFC by similar mechanisms as spatial/temporal learning in the hippocampus.
Stress and genetic predisposition are two of the major risk factors for a variety of psychiatric illnesses. Inbred mouse strains are considered useful tools in dissecting the genetic basis of complex disorders. Indeed, mice of the C57BL/6 and BALB/c strains, differing markedly in anxiety behaviours, are among the most widely used in psychopharmacological research. However, there is a paucity of studies investigating the impact of social stress in these two strains. Moreover, whether these two mouse strains exhibit different sensitivities to chronic social defeat stress remains poorly studied. Thus in this study we compared the impact of repeated (10 days) social defeat stress on a variety of behavioural and endocrine parameters including social interaction, locomotor activity, plasma corticosterone, body weight and stress-related physiological parameters in both mouse strains. Given that the duration of stress exposure may differentially affect such responses we also compared stressors of short (Social Defeat-Short; SD-S) and of long (Social Defeat-Long; SD-L) duration. Our results show that although mice from both strains were defeated in both social defeat paradigms, only BALB/c mice displayed social interaction impairments following SD-S, whereas both strains were behaviourally sensitive to SD-L. Moreover, both strains also differed in some of the physiological alterations induced by social defeat stress. Specifically, SD-S did not induce any change in corticosterone levels in either of the two strains, whereas SD-L was able to induce significant changes in C57BL/6 mice only. SD-S induced differential effects on bodyweight gain in both strains, increasing it in C57BL/6 and decreasing it in BALB/c mice, whereas SD-L had no effect. On the other hand, exposure to SD-S resulted in cardiac hypertrophy in C57BL/6 mice and SD-L induced spleen hypertrophy and thymus atrophy in BALB/c mice in addition to decreasing faecal output. Overall, the innately anxious BALB/c mice were more sensitive to social stress than C57BL/6, with differential behavioural and physiological alterations emerging as a function of stress severity. These data suggest different coping strategies to social interaction stress between the two mouse strains. The genetic basis of this stress-resilience/susceptibility warrants further investigation.
Spreading depression (SD) is a wave of coordinated cellular depolarization that propagates slowly throughout brain tissue. SD has been associated with migraine aura, and related events have been implicated in the enlargement of some brain injuries. Selective disruption of astrocyte oxidative metabolism has previously been shown to increase the propagation rate of SD in vivo, but it is currently unknown whether astrocyte glycogen stores make significant contributions to the onset or propagation of SD. We examined SD in acutely-prepared murine hippocampal slices, using either localized microinjections of KCl or oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) as stimuli. A combination of glycogenolysis inhibitors 1,4-dideoxy-1,4-imino-d-arabinitol (DAB) and 1-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) increased the propagation rates of both high K(+)-SD and OGD-SD. Consistent with these observations, exposure to l-methionine-dl-sulfoximine (MSO) increased slice glycogen levels and decreased OGD-SD propagation rates. Effects of glycogen depletion were matched by selective inhibition of astrocyte tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity by fluoroacetate (FA). Prolonged exposure to reduced extracellular glucose (2 mM) has been suggested to deplete slice glycogen stores, but significant modification SD of propagation rate was not observed with this treatment. Furthermore, decreases in OGD-SD latency with this preexposure paradigm appeared to be due to depletion of glucose, rather than glycogen availability. These results suggest that astrocyte glycogen stores contribute to delaying the advancing wavefront of SD, including during the severe metabolic challenge of OGD. Approaches to enhance astrocyte glycogen reserves could be beneficial for delaying or preventing SD in some pathologic conditions.

A 70-year-old male was admitted with a 2-week progressive course of severe cognitive impairment, scoring three on the Mini Mental State Examination. MRI of the brain showed confluent hyperintense areas in T2/FLAIR in the periventricular and subcortical white matter, extending to right parietal cortex and basal ganglia. Intra-arterial angiography was unremarkable. A targeted stereotactic brain biopsy disclosed a leukocytoclastic vasculitis. The patient improved on steroids. Leukocytoclastic vasculitis adds to the spectrum of histopathologic subtypes of primary angiitis of the central nervous system.
X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is a rare inherited metabolic disorder, in which accumulation of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) results in damage to the central nervous system. As the disease is X-linked, males are affected severely, but female carriers may also present with neurological symptoms. We report the case of a young adult female, who presented with episodic sensorimotor symptoms. Although she was a heterozygous female carrier of X-ALD, subsequent investigations confirmed a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of a female X-ALD carrier in which the clinical features were more consistent with co-existent MS than ALD-related pathology. The case serves as a reminder that alternative, more common diagnoses should also be considered in carriers of rare neurological syndromes.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NST), located in the dorsomedial medulla, is the site of visceral sensory modulation of a variety of homeostatic reflexes. Given recent advancements in the understanding of active regulation of synaptic information flow by astrocytes, we sought to determine whether afferent sensory inputs to NST neurons also activates NST astrocytes. Using confocal, live-cell calcium imaging of brainstem slices, we investigated the possibility that stimulation of vagal sensory afferents, the major sensory input into the NST, activated NST astrocytes, as indicated by increases in astrocytic intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca](i)). Astrocytes and neurons were preloaded with the calcium reporter dye Calcium Green, and astrocytes were selectively stained by sulforhodamine 101. Electrical stimulation of vagal afferent axons produced rapid increases in [Ca](i) in NST astrocytes as well as neurons. Surprisingly, this effect on astrocytes was blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX and was unaffected by antagonism of NMDA and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Bath application of AMPA also activated astrocytes. This activation was dependent on extracellular Ca influx through both typical AMPA receptors and calcium-permeable AMPA receptors. This AMPA-mediated Ca influx was further amplified by actions of the ryanodine receptor by way of calcium-induced calcium release. Our immunohistochemical staining of NST cells further verified the presence of the AMPAR subunit GluR1 on astrocytes. These observations suggest that NST astrocytes may be active participants in the regulation of autonomic reflexes even in the normal, healthy state.
Eps15 homology domain-containing proteins (EHDs) are conserved ATPases implicated in membrane remodeling. Recently, EHD1 was found to be enriched at synaptic release sites, suggesting a possible involvement in the trafficking of synaptic vesicles. We have investigated the role of an EHD1/3 ortholog (l-EHD) in the lamprey giant reticulospinal synapse. l-EHD was detected by immunogold at endocytic structures adjacent to release sites. In antibody microinjection experiments, perturbation of l-EHD inhibited synaptic vesicle endocytosis and caused accumulation of clathrin-coated pits with atypical, elongated necks. The necks were covered with helix-like material containing dynamin. To test whether l-EHD directly interferes with dynamin function, we used fluid-supported bilayers as in vitro assay. We found that l-EHD strongly inhibited vesicle budding induced by dynamin in the constant presence of GTP. l-EHD also inhibited dynamin-induced membrane tubulation in the presence of GTPS, a phenomenon linked with dynamin helix assembly. Our in vivo results demonstrate the involvement of l-EHD in clathrin/dynamin-dependent synaptic vesicle budding. Based on our in vitro observations, we suggest that l-EHD acts to limit the formation of long, unproductive dynamin helices, thereby promoting vesicle budding.
Performance evaluation is a critical feature of motor learning. In the vocal system, it requires the integration of auditory feedback signals with vocal motor commands. The network activity that supports such integration is unknown, but it has been proposed that vocal performance evaluation occurs offline. Recording from NIf, a sensorimotor structure in the avian song system, we show that short bouts of singing in adult male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) induce persistent increases in firing activity and coherent oscillations in the fast gamma range (90-150 Hz). Single units are strongly phase locked to these oscillations, which can last up to 30 s, often outlasting vocal activity by an order of magnitude. In other systems, oscillations often are triggered by events or behavioral tasks but rarely outlast the event that triggered them by more than 1 s. The present observations are the longest reported gamma oscillations triggered by an isolated behavioral event. In mammals, gamma oscillations have been associated with memory consolidation and are hypothesized to facilitate communication between brain regions. We suggest that the timing and persistent nature of NIf's fast gamma oscillations make them well suited to facilitate the integration of auditory and vocal motor traces associated with vocal performance evaluation.
The SRY-box (Sox) transcription factors regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation, but their signaling targets are largely unknown. We have identified a major signal transduction pathway regulated by Sox containing gene 17 (Sox17) in the oligodendrocyte lineage. Microarray analysis in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) after Sox17 attenuation revealed upregulated genes associated with cell cycle control and activation of the Wingless and integration site (Wnt)/-catenin pathway. Sox17 knockdown also increases the levels of cyclin D1, Axin2, and activated -catenin. In OPCs, the expression pattern of Sox17, cyclin D1, and secreted Frizzled-related protein-1 in the presence of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) was coordinately accelerated by addition of thyroid hormone, indicating differentiation-induced regulation of Sox17 targets. In developing white matter, decreased total -catenin, activated -catenin, and cyclin D1 levels coincided with the peak of Sox17 expression, and immunoprecipitates showed a developmentally regulated interaction among Sox17, T-cell transcription factor 4, and -catenin proteins. In OPCs, PDGF stimulated phosphorylation of glycogen synthase 3 and the Wnt coreceptor LRP6, and enhanced -catenin-dependent gene expression. Sox17 overexpression inhibited PDGF-induced TOPFLASH and cyclin D1 promoter activity, and decreased endogenous cyclin D1, activated -catenin, as well as total -catenin levels. Recombinant Sox17 prevented Wnt3a from repressing myelin protein expression, and inhibition of Sox17-mediated proteasomal degradation of -catenin blocked myelin protein induction. These results indicate that Sox17 suppresses cyclin D1 expression and cell proliferation by directly antagonizing -catenin, whose activity in OPCs is stimulated not only by Wnt3a, but also by PDGF. Our identification of downstream targets of Sox17 thus defines signaling pathways and molecular mechanisms in OPCs that are regulated by Sox17 during cell cycle exit and the onset of differentiation in oligodendrocyte development.
The mesolimbic dopamine projection from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is critical in mediating reward-related behaviors, but the precise role of dopamine in this process remains unknown. We completed a series of studies to examine whether coincident changes occur in NAc cell firing and rapid dopamine release during goal-directed behaviors for sucrose and if so, to determine whether the two are causally linked. We show that distinct populations of NAc neurons differentially encode sucrose-directed behaviors, and using a combined electrophysiology/electrochemistry technique, further show that it is at those locations that rapid dopamine signaling is observed. To determine causality, NAc cell firing was recorded during selective pharmacological inactivation of dopamine burst firing using the NMDA receptor antagonist, AP-5. We show that phasic dopamine selectively modulates excitatory but not inhibitory responses of NAc neurons during sucrose-seeking behavior. Thus, rapid dopamine signaling does not exert global actions in the NAc but selectively modulates discrete NAc microcircuits that ultimately influence goal-directed actions.
Dopaminergic signaling and plasticity are essential to numerous CNS functions and pathologies, including movement, cognition, and addiction. The amphetamine- and cocaine-sensitive dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) tightly controls extracellular DA concentrations and half-life. DAT function and surface expression are not static but are dynamically modulated by membrane trafficking. We recently demonstrated that the DAT C terminus encodes a PKC-sensitive internalization signal that also suppresses basal DAT endocytosis. However, the cellular machinery governing regulated DAT trafficking is not well defined. In work presented here, we identified the Ras-like GTPase, Rin (for Ras-like in neurons) (Rit2), as a protein that interacts with the DAT C-terminal endocytic signal. Yeast two-hybrid, GST pull down and FRET studies establish that DAT and Rin directly interact, and colocalization studies reveal that DAT/Rin associations occur primarily in lipid raft microdomains. Coimmunoprecipitations demonstrate that PKC activation regulates Rin association with DAT. Perturbation of Rin function with GTPase mutants and shRNA-mediated Rin knockdown reveals that Rin is critical for PKC-mediated DAT internalization and functional downregulation. These results establish that Rin is a DAT-interacting protein that is required for PKC-regulated DAT trafficking. Moreover, this work suggests that Rin participates in regulated endocytosis.
Traditionally, the medial temporal lobe (MTL) was linked to explicit or declarative memory in associative learning. However, recent studies have reported MTL involvement even when volunteers are not consciously aware of the learned contingencies. Therefore, the mechanism of the MTL-related learning process cannot be described sufficiently by the explicit/implicit distinction, and the underlying process in the MTL for associative learning needs a more functional characterization. A possible feature that would allow a functional specification also for implicit learning is the nature of the material that is learned. Given that implicit memory tasks often comprise a combination of perceptual and motor learning, we hypothesized that implicit learning of the perceptual but not the motor component entails MTL activation in these studies. To directly test this hypothesis, we designed a purely perceptual and a purely motor variant of the serial reaction time task. In two groups of human volunteers, behavioral results clearly showed that both variants were learned without awareness. Neuronal recordings using fMRI revealed that bilateral hippocampal activation was observed only for implicit learning of the perceptual sequence, not for the motor sequence. This dissociation clearly shows that the functional role of the hippocampus for learning is determined by the domain of the learned association and that the function of the medial temporal lobe system is the processing of contingencies between perceptual features regardless of the explicit or implicit nature of the ensuing memory.
Stimulation of synaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) induces neuroprotection, while extrasynaptic NMDARs promote excitotoxic cell death. Neuronal expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is enhanced by synaptic NMDARs, and although this enzyme mediates neuronal functions, COX-2 is also regarded as a key modulator of neuroinflammation and is thought to exacerbate excitotoxicity via overproduction of prostaglandins. This raises an apparent paradox: synaptic NMDARs are pro-survival yet are essential for robust neuronal COX-2 expression. We hypothesized that stimulation of extrasynaptic NMDARs converts COX-2 signaling from a physiological to a potentially pathological process. We combined HPLC-electrospray ionization-tandem MS-based mediator lipidomics and unbiased image analysis in mouse dissociated and organotypic cortical cultures to uncover that synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDARs differentially modulate neuronal COX-2 expression and activity. We show that synaptic NMDARs enhance neuronal COX-2 expression, while sustained synaptic stimulation limits COX-2 activity by suppressing cellular levels of the primary COX-2 substrate, arachidonic acid (AA). In contrast, extrasynaptic NMDARs suppress COX-2 expression while activating phospholipase A, which enhances AA levels by hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids. Thus, sequential activation of synaptic then extrasynaptic NMDARs maximizes COX-2-dependent prostaglandin synthesis. We also show that excitotoxic events only drive induction of COX-2 expression through abnormal synaptic network excitability. Finally, we show that nonenzymatic lipid peroxidation of arachidonic and other polyunsaturated fatty acids is a function of network activity history. A new paradigm emerges from our results suggesting that pathological COX-2 signaling associated with models of stroke, epilepsy, and neurodegeneration requires specific spatiotemporal NMDAR stimulation.


The ability to recall discrete memories is thought to depend on the formation of attractor states in recurrent neural networks. In such networks, representations can be reactivated reliably from subsets of the cues that were present when the memory was encoded, at the same time as interference from competing representations is minimized. Theoretical studies have pointed to the recurrent CA3 system of the hippocampus as a possible attractor network. Consistent with predictions from these studies, experiments have shown that place representations in CA3 and downstream CA1 tolerate small changes in the configuration of the environment but switch to uncorrelated representations when dissimilarities become larger. However, the kinetics supporting such network transitions, at the subsecond timescale, is poorly understood. Here we show in rats that instantaneous transformation of the spatial context does not change the hippocampal representation all at once but is followed by temporary bistability in the discharge activity of CA3 ensembles. Rather than sliding through a continuum of intermediate activity states, the CA3 network undergoes a short period of competitive flickering between preformed representations of the past and present environment before settling on the latter. Network flickers are extremely fast, often with complete replacement of the active ensemble from one theta cycle to the next. Within individual cycles, segregation is stronger towards the end, when firing starts to decline, pointing to the theta cycle as a temporal unit for expression of attractor states in the hippocampus. Repetition of pattern-completion processes across successive theta cycles may facilitate error correction and enhance discriminative power in the presence of weak and ambiguous input cues.
A basic difficulty for the nervous system is integrating locally ambiguous sensory information to form accurate perceptions about the outside world. This local-to-global problem is also fundamental to motor control of the arm, because complex mechanical interactions between shoulder and elbow allow a particular amount of motion at one joint to arise from an infinite combination of shoulder and elbow torques. Here we show, in humans and rhesus monkeys, that a transcortical pathway through primary motor cortex (M1) resolves this ambiguity during fast feedback control. We demonstrate that single M1 neurons of behaving monkeys can integrate shoulder and elbow motion information into motor commands that appropriately counter the underlying torque within about 50 milliseconds of a mechanical perturbation. Moreover, we reveal a causal link between M1 processing and multi-joint integration in humans by showing that shoulder muscle responses occurring 50 milliseconds after pure elbow displacement can be potentiated by transcranial magnetic stimulation. Taken together, our results show that transcortical processing through M1 permits feedback responses to express a level of sophistication that rivals voluntary control; this provides neurophysiological support for influential theories positing that voluntary movement is generated by the intelligent manipulation of sensory feedback.


Understanding the etiology of developmental brain disorders such as schizophrenia is critical for achieving advances in treatment and requires new research strategies that control for individual variation in genetic background, environmental challenges, and expression of phenotype. SYSGENET, a European systems genetics network for the study of complex genetic human diseases with mouse genetic reference populations, brought together in Helsinki a cross-disciplinary group of clinical and basic scientists and mouse geneticists to debate, formulate, and prioritize a strategy for future research based on mouse models. The main conclusions of this meeting are summarized here.


Fractional anisotropy anomalies occurring in the white matter tracts in the brains of depressed patients may reflect microstructural changes underlying the pathophysiology of this disorder. We conducted a meta-analysis of fractional anisotropy abnormalities occurring in major depressive disorder using voxel-based diffusion tensor imaging studies. Using the Embase, PubMed and Google Scholar databases, 89 relevant data sets were identified, of which 7 (including 188 patients with major depressive disorder and 221 healthy controls) met our inclusion criteria. Authors were contacted to retrieve any additional data required. Coordinates were extracted from clusters of significant white matter fractional anisotropy differences between patients and controls. Relevant demographic, clinical and methodological variables were extracted from each study or obtained directly from authors. The meta-analysis was carried out using Signed Differential Mapping. Patients with depression showed decreased white matter fractional anisotropy values in the superior longitudinal fasciculus and increased fractional anisotropy values in the fronto-occipital fasciculus compared to controls. Using quartile and jackknife sensitivity analysis, we found that reduced fractional anisotropy in the left superior longitudinal fasciculus was very stable, with increases in the right fronto-occipital fasciculus driven by just one study. In conclusion, our meta-analysis revealed a significant reduction in fractional anisotropy values in the left superior longitudinal fasciculus, which may ultimately play an important role in the pathology of depression.

The trace of fear has been elusive and difficult to discern in the human brain. Researchers have come up with a clever new way to track it down.

When and how infants begin to discriminate noxious from innocuous stimuli is a fundamental question in neuroscience [1]. However, little is known about the development of the necessary cortical somatosensory functional prerequisites in the intact human brain. Recent studies of developing brain networks have emphasized the importance of transient spontaneous and evoked neuronal bursting activity in the formation of functional circuits [2, 3]. These neuronal bursts are present during development and precede the onset of sensory functions [4, 5]. Their disappearance and the emergence of more adult-like activity are therefore thought to signal the maturation of functional brain circuitry [2, 4]. Here we show the changing patterns of neuronal activity that underlie the onset of nociception and touch discrimination in the preterm infant. We have conducted noninvasive electroencephalogram (EEG) recording of the brain neuronal activity in response to time-locked touches and clinically essential noxious lances of the heel in infants aged 28-45weeks gestation. We show a transition in brain response following tactile and noxious stimulation from nonspecific, evenly dispersed neuronal bursts to modality-specific, localized, evoked potentials. The results suggest that specific neural circuits necessary for discrimination between touch and nociception emerge from 35-37weeks gestation in the human brain.




BACKGROUND: The ventrolateral thalamus (Vim, ventral intermediate nucleus) is the traditional target for neurosurgical treatment of essential tremor (ET). The target has, however, varied substantially among different neurosurgeons. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the thalamus and posterior subthalamic area (PSA) in relation to electrode location. METHODS: 36 (17Vim / 19 PSA) patients, with 44 DBS electrodes, were included in this retrospective study. The effect of stimulation was evaluated with standardized settings for each contact using items from the essential tremor rating scale (ETRS). RESULTS: When each contact was evaluated regarding the treated hand with standardized stimulation, the electrode contact providing the best effect in the individual patient was in 54% located in the zona incerta (Zi) or radiation prelemniscalis (raprl) and in 12 % the Vim. 40 contacts provided a tremor reduction of &gt;90%. Of these, 43% were located in the PSA and 18% in the Vim according to the Schaltenbrandt atlas. 37 of these 40 contacts were found in the PSA group. CONCLUSION: More contacts yielding an optimal effect were found in the PSA group than in the Vim. Many patients operated upon in the Vim got the best effect in a contact located in the PSA. This might suggest that the PSA is a more efficient target than the Vim.

Patients with striate cortex damage and clinical blindness retain the ability to process certain visual properties of stimuli that they are not aware of seeing. Here we investigated the neural correlates of residual visual perception for dynamic whole-body emotional actions. Angry and neutral emotional whole-body actions were presented in the intact and blind visual hemifield of a cortically blind patient with unilateral destruction of striate cortex. Comparisons of angry vs. neutral actions performed separately in the blind and intact visual hemifield showed in both cases increased activation in primary somatosensory, motor, and premotor cortices. Activations selective for intact hemifield presentation of angry compared with neutral actions were located subcortically in the right lateral geniculate nucleus and cortically in the superior temporal sulcus, prefrontal cortex, precuneus, and intraparietal sulcus. Activations specific for blind hemifield presentation of angry compared with neutral actions were found in the bilateral superior colliculus, pulvinar nucleus of the thalamus, amygdala, and right fusiform gyrus. Direct comparison of emotional modulation in the blind vs. intact visual hemifield revealed selective activity in the right superior colliculus and bilateral pulvinar for angry expressions, thereby showing a selective involvement of these subcortical structures in nonconscious visual emotion perception.
Telomere repeat-binding factor 2 (TRF2) is critical for telomere integrity in dividing stem and somatic cells, but its role in postmitotic neurons is unknown. Apart from protecting telomeres, nuclear TRF2 interacts with the master neuronal gene-silencer repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor (REST), and disruption of this interaction induces neuronal differentiation. Here we report a developmental switch from the expression of TRF2 in proliferating neural progenitor cells to expression of a unique short nontelomeric isoform of TRF2 (TRF2-S) as neurons establish a fully differentiated state. Unlike nuclear TRF2, which enhances REST-mediated gene repression, TRF2-S is located in the cytoplasm where it sequesters REST, thereby maintaining the expression of neuronal genes, including those encoding glutamate receptors, cell adhesion, and neurofilament proteins. In neurons, TRF2-S-mediated antagonism of REST nuclear activity is greatly attenuated by either overexpression of TRF2 or administration of the excitatory amino acid kainic acid. Overexpression of TRF2-S rescues kainic acid-induced REST nuclear accumulation and its gene-silencing effects. Thus, TRF2-S acts as part of a unique developmentally regulated molecular switch that plays critical roles in the maintenance and plasticity of neurons.
White matter lesions (WML) are a clinically significant, common feature of the aging brain and have been associated with cognitive decline and depression. They are a manifestation of cerebral small vessel disease, which is associated with the progression of vascular dementia. Recent research has been focused on identifying biomarkers which may have a correlation with WML. Previous population based studies have indicated a relation between the serum level of the acute phase protein, C-reactive protein (CRP), and WML. However no previous studies have demonstrated its expression and relation to WML in brain tissue itself. Here we use the rodent model of permanent bilateral common carotid artery ligation (BCCAL) to assess CRP expression during chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH). Our results show that CRP is up-regulated at the mRNA and protein levels in brain tissue from BCCAL animals. The expression of CRP mRNA was upregulated on day 3 following surgery. Because previous studies, as well as the present study, have shown that microglial activity is prominent after the third day of CCH, we sought to determine the role of microglia in CRP expression. Results indicate that cultured microglia express mRNA and protein for CRP and this expression is increased when cells are treated with interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) or a combination of the two.. This finding could indicate a possible role for CRP in the progression of small vessel disease in the brain and provide a therapeutic target.
Despite intensive investigation for decades, the principle of higher-order organization of mitotic chromosomes is unclear. Here, I describe a novel model that emphasizes a critical role of interactions of homologous DNA repeats (repetitive elements; repetitive sequences) in mitotic chromosome architecture. According to the model, DNA repeats are assembled, via repeat interactions (pairing), into compact core structures that govern the arrangement of chromatins in mitotic chromosomes. Tandem repeat assemblies form a chromosomal axis to coordinate chromatins in the longitudinal dimension, while dispersed repeat assemblies form chromosomal nodes around the axis to organize chromatins in the halo. The chromosomal axis and nodes constitute a firm skeleton on which non-skeletal chromatins can be anchored, folded, and supercoiled.
'Ciliopathies' are an emerging class of genetic multisystemic human disorders that are caused by a multitude of largely unrelated genes that affect ciliary structure/function. They are unified by shared clinical features, such as mental retardation, cystic kidney, retinal defects and polydactyly, and by the common localization of the protein products of these genes at or near the primary cilium of cells. With the realization that many previously disparate conditions are a part of this spectrum of disorders, there has been tremendous interest in the function of cilia in developmental signaling and homeostasis. Ciliopathies are mostly inherited as simple recessive traits, but phenotypic expressivity is under the control of numerous genetic modifiers, putting these conditions at the interface of simple and complex genetics. In this review, we discuss the ever-expanding ciliopathy field, which has three interrelated goals: developing a comprehensive understanding of genes mutated in the ciliopathies and required for ciliogenesis; understanding how the encoded proteins work together in complexes and networks to modulate activity and structure-function relationships; and uncovering signaling pathways and modifier relationships.
Ethanol and other addictive drugs affect many intracellular phosphorylation and dephosphorylation cascades. These cascades are thought to be highly important in the regulation of neuronal activity. The present experiments characterized the regulation of three key signaling molecules, DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP regulated phosphoprotein, 32kDa), Akt kinase and ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2) in ethanol-preferring AA (Alko, alcohol) and ethanol-avoiding ANA (Alko, non-alcohol) rat lines. Radioactive in situ hybridization was used in drug nave animals and Western blotting after acute ethanol administration in striatum, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. The mRNA levels of DARPP-32 in striatal areas were higher in ANA rats than in AA rats. There was no difference in the striatal enriched phosphatase (STEP61), the downstream target of DARPP-32 expression between the rat lines. Ethanol (1.5g/kg) increased phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at threonine 34 in both AA and in ANA rats indicating that acute ethanol activates DARPP-32 similarly in these rat lines. The expression of Akt kinase was higher in the CA1 of hippocampus in ANA than in AA rats and acute ethanol activated Akt in hippocampus in ANA but not in AA rats. No significant alterations in the regulation of ERK1/2 were found in either rat line. Our findings suggest that DARPP-32 and Akt are regulated by ethanol and differences in the regulation of these molecules might contribute to the dramatically different ethanol drinking patterns seen in AA and ANA rats.
Infusions of lipids into the small intestine potently suppress ongoing feeding. Prior work has identified potential roles for gut extrinsic vagal and non-vagal sensory innervation in mediating the ability of gut lipid infusions to reduce food intake, but the local biochemical processes underlying gut lipid sensing at the level of the small intestine remain unclear. This manuscript will summarize recent progress in the identification and characterization of several candidate gut lipid sensing molecules important in the negative feedback control of ingestion, including the fatty acid translocase CD36, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-), and the fatty acid ethanolamide oleoylethanolamide (OEA). In addition, this manuscript addresses a larger role for gut lipid sensing in the overall control of energy availability by modulating not only food intake but also hepatic glucose production.
Despite a strong male bias in both basic and clinical research, it is becoming increasingly accepted that the ovarian hormone estradiol plays an important role in the control of food intake in females. Estradiol's feeding inhibitory effect occurs in a variety of species, including women, but the underlying mechanism has been studied most extensively in rats and mice. Accordingly, much of the data reviewed here is derived from the rodent literature. Adult female rats display a robust decrease in food intake during estrus and ovariectomy promotes hyperphagia and weight gain, both of which can be prevented by a physiological regimen of estradiol treatment. Behavioral analyses have demonstrated that the feeding inhibitory effect of estradiol is mediated entirely by a decrease in meal size. In rats, estradiol appears to exert this action indirectly via interactions with peptide and neurotransmitter systems implicated in the direct control of meal size. Here, I summarize research examining the neurobiological mechanism underlying estradiol's anorexigenic effect. Central estrogen receptors (ERs) have been implicated and activation of one ER subtype in particular, ER, appears both sufficient and necessary for the estrogenic control of food intake. Future studies are necessary to identify the critical brain areas and intracellular signaling pathways responsible for estradiol's anorexigenic effect. A clearer understanding of the estrogenic control of food intake is prerequisite to elucidating the biological factors that contribute to obesity and eating disorders, both of which are more prevalent in women, compared to men.
Emotions are closely tied to changes in autonomic (i.e., visceral motor) function, and interoceptive sensory feedback from body to brain exerts powerful modulatory control over motivation, affect, and stress responsiveness. This manuscript reviews evidence that early life experience can shape the structure and function of central visceral circuits that underlie behavioral and physiological responses to emotive and stressful events. The review begins with a general discussion of descending autonomic and ascending visceral sensory pathways within the brain, and then summarizes what is known about the postnatal development of these central visceral circuits in rats. Evidence is then presented to support the view that early life experience, particularly maternal care, can modify the developmental assembly and structure of these circuits in a way that impacts later stress responsiveness and emotional behavior. The review concludes by presenting a working hypothesis that endogenous cholecystokinin signaling and subsequent recruitment of gastric vagal sensory inputs to the caudal brainstem may be an important mechanism by which maternal care influences visceral circuit development in rat pups. Early life experience may contribute to meaningful individual differences in emotionality and stress responsiveness by shaping the postnatal developmental trajectory of central visceral circuits.
Increased evidence shows that normal stem cells may contribute to cancer development and progression by acting as cancer-initiating cells through their interactions with abnormal environmental elements. We postulate that normal stem cells and cancer stem cells (CSC) possess similar mechanisms of self-renewal and differentiation. CSC can be the key to the elaboration of anti-cancer-based therapy. In this article, we focus on a controversial new theme relating to CSC. Tumorigenesis may have a critical stage characterized as a &quot;therapeutic window&quot;, which can be identified by association of molecular, biochemical and biological events. Identifying such a stage can allow the production of more effective therapies (e.g. manipulated stem cells) to treat several cancers. More importantly, confirming the existence of a similar therapeutic window during the conversion of normal stem cells to malignant CSC may lead to targeted therapy specifically against CSC. This conversion information may be derived from investigating the biological behaviour of both normal stem cells and cancerous stem cells. Currently, there is little knowledge about the cellular and molecular mechanisms that govern the initiation and maintenance of CSC. Studies on co-evolution and interdependence of cancer with normal tissues may lead to a useful treatment paradigm of cancer. The crosstalk between normal stem cells and cancer formation may converge developmental stages of different types of stem cells (e.g. normal stem cells, CSC and embryonic stem cells). The differential studies of the convergence may result in novel therapies for treating cancers.
Postsynaptic spines at CA3-CA1 synapses differ in glutamate receptor composition according to the hemispheric origin of CA3 afferents. To study the functional consequences of this asymmetry, we used optogenetic tools to selectively stimulate axons of CA3 pyramidal cells originating in either left or right mouse hippocampus. We found that left CA3 input produced more long-term potentiation at CA1 synapses than right CA3 input as a result of differential expression of GluN2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors.

Expression of contextual anxiety in a previously shocked context is a widely used model of anxiety, with the main behavioral measures being freezing or startle amplitude. There is extensive evidence that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) is involved in several anxiety paradigms, e.g., BST lesions disrupt contextual freezing. Surprisingly, studies investigating the effect on startle potentiation in a conditioned context are still lacking in the literature. In the present study, we found that post-training bilateral electrolytic lesions in the BST completely disrupted the expression of contextual anxiety, as quantified with combined measurements of startle amplitude and freezing.
Anxiety is a growing public health concern that has been shown to impair both sleep and learning, and these associations have been extensively studied in recent years. In the rodent model, oftentimes various foot-shock paradigms are employed to induce stress, and subsequent sleep recordings and/or learning task results are analyzed. Previous studies have focused primarily on an individual animal's response to stress following individual stressor exposure, thereby emulating only an isolated condition. The goal of this study was to investigate the effects of socialization on stress response, and the resultant effects on sleep architecture and aversive learning. A pair-housing/pair-exposure paradigm was utilized, and the effects of unavoidable foot-shock-induced stress on sleep architecture and aversive learning were examined. The results of the present study indicate a large, positive impact of cohabitation and shared stressful experience, as rats failed to develop sleep disturbances or learning deficits. While these results indicate the benefits and importance of companionship, the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon is yet to be elucidated.
Rodent spatial cognition studies allow links to be made between neural and behavioural phenomena, and much is now known about the encoding and use of horizontal space. However, the real world is three dimensional, providing cognitive challenges that have yet to be explored. Motivated by neural findings suggesting weaker encoding of vertical than horizontal space, we examined whether rats show a similar behavioural anisotropy when distributing their time freely between vertical and horizontal movements. We found that in two- or three-dimensional environments with a vertical dimension, rats showed a prioritization of horizontal over vertical movements in both foraging and detour tasks. In the foraging tasks, the animals executed more horizontal than vertical movements and adopted a &quot;layer strategy&quot; in which food was collected from one horizontal level before moving to the next. In the detour tasks, rats preferred the routes that allowed them to execute the horizontal leg first. We suggest three possible reasons for this behavioural bias. First, as suggested by Grobety and Schenk, it allows minimisation of energy expenditure, inasmuch as costly vertical movements are minimised. Second, it may be a manifestation of the temporal discounting of effort, in which animals value delayed effort as less costly than immediate effort. Finally, it may be that at the neural level rats encode the vertical dimension less precisely, and thus prefer to bias their movements in the more accurately encoded horizontal dimension. We suggest that all three factors are related, and all play a part.
MicroRNAs are key regulators of transcriptome plasticity and have been implicated with the pathogenesis of brain diseases. Here, we employed massive parallel sequencing and provide, at an unprecedented depth, the complete and quantitative miRNAome of the mouse hippocampus, the prime target of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using integrative genetics, we identify miR-34c as a negative constraint of memory consolidation and show that miR-34c levels are elevated in the hippocampus of AD patients and corresponding mouse models. In line with this, targeting miR-34 seed rescues learning ability in these mouse models. Our data suggest that miR-34c could be a marker for the onset of cognitive disturbances linked to AD and indicate that targeting miR-34c could be a suitable therapy.
Rod and cone photoreceptor neurons utilize discrete PDE6 enzymes that are crucial for phototransduction. Rod PDE6 is composed of heterodimeric catalytic subunits (), while the catalytic core of cone PDE6 (') is a homodimer. It is not known if variations between PDE6 subunits preclude rod PDE6 catalytic subunits from coupling to the cone phototransduction pathway. To study this issue, we generated a cone-dominated mouse model lacking cone PDE6 (Nrl(-/-) cpfl1). In this animal model, using several independent experimental approaches, we demonstrated the expression of rod PDE6 () and the absence of cone PDE6 (') catalytic subunits. The rod PDE6 enzyme expressed in cone cells is active and contributes to the hydrolysis of cGMP in response to light. In addition, rod PDE6 expressed in cone cells couples to the light signaling pathway to produce S-cone responses. However, S-cone responses and light-dependent cGMP hydrolysis were eliminated when the -subunit of rod PDE6 was removed (Nrl(-/-) cpfl1 rd). We conclude that either rod or cone PDE6 can effectively couple to the cone phototransduction pathway to mediate visual signaling. Interestingly, we also found that functional PDE6 is required for trafficking of M-opsin to cone outer segments.
Transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels are Ca(2+)-permeable nonselective cation channels implicated in diverse physiological functions, including smooth muscle contractility and synaptic transmission. However, lack of potent selective pharmacological inhibitors for TRPC channels has limited delineation of the roles of these channels in physiological systems. Here we report the identification and characterization of ML204 as a novel, potent, and selective TRPC4 channel inhibitor. A high throughput fluorescent screen of 305,000 compounds of the Molecular Libraries Small Molecule Repository was performed for inhibitors that blocked intracellular Ca(2+) rise in response to stimulation of mouse TRPC4 by -opioid receptors. ML204 inhibited TRPC4-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) rise with an IC(50) value of 0.96 m and exhibited 19-fold selectivity against muscarinic receptor-coupled TRPC6 channel activation. In whole-cell patch clamp recordings, ML204 blocked TRPC4 currents activated through either -opioid receptor stimulation or intracellular dialysis of guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate (GTPS), suggesting a direct interaction of ML204 with TRPC4 channels rather than any interference with the signal transduction pathways. Selectivity studies showed no appreciable block by 10-20 m ML204 of TRPV1, TRPV3, TRPA1, and TRPM8, as well as KCNQ2 and native voltage-gated sodium, potassium, and calcium channels in mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons. In isolated guinea pig ileal myocytes, ML204 blocked muscarinic cation currents activated by bath application of carbachol or intracellular infusion of GTPS, demonstrating its effectiveness on native TRPC4 currents. Therefore, ML204 represents an excellent novel tool for investigation of TRPC4 channel function and may facilitate the development of therapeutics targeted to TRPC4.
UNC-45A is a molecular chaperone targeted to non-muscle myosins and is essential for cell division. Here, we show that UNC-45A mRNA and protein expression was elevated in human breast carcinomas and cell lines derived from breast carcinoma metastases. Moreover, small hairpin RNA knockdowns of endogenously overexpressed UNC-45A in the most metastatic cell line led to significant decreases in the rates of cell proliferation and invasion, concomitant with reduction in the interaction of myosin II with actin filaments. Exploring the mechanism of these findings further, we found that UNC-45A is alternatively expressed at the mRNA and protein levels as two isoforms. The two isoforms differ only by a proline-rich 15-amino-acid sequence near the amino-terminus. In the increased expression with metastatic activity, the ratio of the isoform mRNAs remained constant, but the 929-amino-acid protein isoform showed increases up to about 3-fold in comparison to the 944-amino-acid isoform. The differential accumulation was explained by cellular labeling experiments that showed that the 944 isoform is degraded at a 5-fold greater rate than the 929 isoform and that this degradation required the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Chemically diverse oxysterols were prepared and evaluated for cytotoxicity, aiming to push forward potency and selectivity. They were tested against seven cancer (HT-29, HepG2, A549, PC3, LAMA-84, MCF-7, and SH-SY5Y) and two noncancerous cell lines (ARPE-19 and BJ). The influence of the oxidation pattern on rings A and B was studied. Oxygen functionalities on ring B, such as oxo, oxime, acetamide, acetate, and alkoxy, were evaluated. Most oxysterols were cytotoxic in the low micromolar range, with emphasis to the tetrols 14 and 34, the 6 methoxy and acetoxy derivatives 21 and 45, and the oxime 28. In general, the oxysterols were more toxic to cancer cells and a set of compounds (9, 14, 21, 28, 45) with very high selectivity was identified. The cytotoxicity of 3-acetates was lower than that of the parent alcohols, although incubation for a longer period rendered them equally cytotoxic, pointing them as potential prodrugs of oxysterols.
In this study, we investigated whether visual salience influences the competition between potential targets during reach planning. Participants initiated rapid pointing movements toward multiple potential targets, with the final target being cued only after the reach was initiated. We manipulated visual salience by varying the luminance of potential targets. Across two separate experiments, we demonstrate that initial reach trajectories are directed toward more salient targets, even when there are twice as many targets (and therefore twice the likelihood of the final target appearing) on the opposite side of space. We also show that this salience bias is time-dependent, as evidenced by the return of spatially averaged reach trajectories when participants were given an additional 500-ms preview of the target display prior to the cue to move. This study shows both when and to what extent task-irrelevant luminance differences affect the planning of reaches to multiple potential targets.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and amygdala are thought to participate in reversal learning, a process in which cue-outcome associations are switched. However, current theories disagree on whether OFC directs reversal learning in the amygdala. Here, we show that during reversal of cues' associations with rewarding and aversive outcomes, neurons that respond preferentially to stimuli predicting aversive events update more quickly in amygdala than OFC; meanwhile, OFC neurons that respond preferentially to reward-predicting stimuli update more quickly than those in the amygdala. After learning, however, OFC consistently differentiates between impending reinforcements witha shorter latency than the amygdala. Finally, analysis of local field potentials (LFPs) reveals a disproportionate influence of OFC on amygdala that emerges after learning. We propose that reversal learning is supported by complex interactions between neural circuits spanning the amygdala and OFC, rather than directed by any single structure.
Neural networks in the spinal cord control two basic features of locomotor movements: rhythm generation and pattern generation. Rhythm generation is generally considered to be dependent on glutamatergic excitatory neurons. Pattern generation involves neural circuits controlling left-right alternation, which has been described in great detail, and flexor-extensor alternation, which remains poorly understood. Here, we use a mouse model in which glutamatergic neurotransmission has been ablated in the locomotor region of the spinal cord. The isolated invitro spinal cord from these mice produces locomotor-like activity-when stimulated with neuroactive substances-with prominent flexor-extensor alternation. Under these conditions, unlike in control mice, networks of inhibitory interneurons generate the rhythmic activity. In the absence of glutamatergic synaptic transmission, the flexor-extensor alternation appears to be generated by Ia inhibitory interneurons, which mediate reciprocal inhibition from muscle proprioceptors to antagonist motor neurons. Our study defines a minimal inhibitory network that is needed to produce flexor-extensor alternation during locomotion.
The specification of spinal interneuron and motor neuron identities initiates within progenitor cells, while motor neuron subtype diversification is regulated by hierarchical transcriptional programs implemented postmitotically. Here we find that mice lacking GDE2, a six-transmembrane protein that triggers motor neuron generation, exhibit selective losses ofdistinct motor neuron subtypes, specifically in defined subsets of limb-innervating motor pools that correlate with the loss of force-generating alpha motor neurons. Mechanistically, GDE2 is expressed by postmitotic motor neurons but utilizes extracellular glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase activity to induce motor neuron generation by inhibiting Notch signaling in neighboring motor neuron progenitors. Thus, neuronal GDE2 controls motor neuron subtype diversity through a non-cell-autonomous feedback mechanism that directly regulates progenitor cell differentiation, implying that subtype specification initiates within motor neuron progenitor populations prior to their differentiation into postmitotic motor neurons.
Progranulin (GRN) mutations cause frontotemporal dementia (FTD), but GRN's function in the CNS remains largely unknown. To identify the pathways downstream of GRN, we used weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) to develop a systems-level view of transcriptional alterations in a human neural progenitor model of GRN-deficiency. This highlighted key pathways such as apoptosis and ubiquitination in GRN deficient human neurons, while revealing an unexpected major role for the Wnt signaling pathway, which was confirmed by analysis of gene expression data from postmortem FTD brain. Furthermore, we observed that the Wnt receptor Fzd2 was one of only a few genes upregulated at 6 weeks in a GRN knockout mouse, and that FZD2 reduction caused increased apoptosis, while its upregulation promoted neuronal survival in vitro. Together, these in vitro and in vivo data point to an adaptive role for altered Wnt signaling in GRN deficiency-mediated FTD, representing a potential therapeutic target.
KIBRA has recently been identified as a gene associated with human memory performance. Despite the elucidation of the role of KIBRA in several diverse processes in nonneuronal cells, the molecular function of KIBRA in neurons is unknown. We found that KIBRA directly binds to the protein interacting with C-kinase 1 (PICK1) and forms a complex with-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptors (AMPARs), the major excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the brain. KIBRA knockdown accelerates the rate of AMPAR recycling following N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-induced internalization. Genetic deletion of KIBRA in mice impairs both long-term depression and long-term potentiation at hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. Moreover, KIBRA knockout mice have severe deficits in contextual fear learning and memory. These results indicate that KIBRA regulates higher brain function by regulating AMPAR trafficking and synaptic plasticity.
Fundamental to behavior is the capacity to distinguish beneficial from detrimental environmental stimuli. In this issue of Neuron, a new study by Morrison etal. shows that underlying these processes are qualitatively different dynamical interactions between brain structures involved in processing the value of environmental stimuli.
Contrave is an investigational fixed-dose combination drug of naltrexone and bupropion currently in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of obesity. Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc. has demonstrated efficacy of their product and is currently addressing FDA safety concerns and deciding future actions.
The cell membranes in the hair bundle of an auditory hair cell confront a difficult task as the bundle oscillates in response to sound: for efficient mechanotransduction, all the component stereocilia of the hair bundle must move essentially in unison, shearing at their tips yet maintaining contact without membrane fusion. One mechanism by which this cohesion might occur is counterion-mediated attachment between glycan components of apposed stereociliary membranes. Using capillary electrophoresis, we showed that the stereociliary glycocalyx acts as a negatively charged polymer brush. We found by force-sensing photomicrometry that the stereocilia formed elastic connections with one another to various degrees depending on the surrounding ionic environment and the presence of N-linked sugars. Mg(2+) was a more potent mediator of attachment than was Ca(2+). The forces between stereocilia produced chaotic stick-slip behavior. These results indicate that counterion-mediated interactions in the glycocalyx contribute to the stereociliary coherence that is essential for hearing.

Glutamate signaling in prefrontal cortex and ventral tegmental area plays an important role in the molecular and behavioral plasticity associated with addiction to drugs of abuse. The current study investigated the expression and postsynaptic density redistribution of glutamate receptors and synaptic scaffolding proteins in dorsomedial and ventromedial prefrontal cortex and ventral tegmental area after cocaine self-administration. After 14 days of extended-access (6h/day) cocaine self-administration, rats were exposed to one of three withdrawal regimen for 10 days. Animals either stayed in home cages (Home), returned to self-administration boxes with the levers withdrawn (Box), or underwent extinction training (Extinction). Extinction training was associated with significant glutamatergic plasticity. In dorsomedial prefrontal cortex of the Extinction group, there was an increase in postsynaptic density GluR1, PSD95, and actin proteins; while postsynaptic density mGluR5 protein decreased and there was no change in NMDAR1, Homer1b/c, or PICK1 proteins. These changes were not observed in ventromedial prefrontal cortex or ventral tegmental area. In ventral tegmental area, Extinction training reversed the decreased postsynaptic density NMDAR1 protein in the Home and Box withdrawal groups. These data suggest that extinction of drug seeking is associated with selective glutamatergic plasticity in prefrontal cortex and ventral tegmental area that include modulation of receptor trafficking to postsynaptic density.
In the retina, light onset hyperpolarizes photoreceptors and depolarizes ON bipolar cells at the sign inverting photoreceptor-ON bipolar cell synapse. Transmission at this synapse is mediated by a signaling cascade comprised of mGluR6, a G-protein containing G(o), and the cation channel TRP melastatin 1 (TRPM1). This system is thought to be common to both the rod- and ON-cone-driven pathways, which control vision under scotopic and photopic conditions, respectively. In this study, we present evidence that the rod pathway is uniquely susceptible to modulation by PKC at the rod-rod bipolar cell synapse. Decreased production of DAG (an activator of PKC) by inhibition of PIP (phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate) hydrolysis caused depression of the TRPM1 current. Conversely, addition of a DAG analog, 2-acetyl-1-oleoyl-sn-glycerol (OAG), potentiated the current in rod bipolar cells but not in ON-cone bipolar cells. The potentiating effects of OAG were absent both in mutant mice that lack PKC expression and in wild-type mice in which enzymatic activity of PKC was pharmacologically inhibited. In addition, we found that, like other members of the TRPM subfamily, TRPM1 current is susceptible to voltage-independent inhibition by intracellular magnesium, and that modulation by PKC relieves this inhibition, as the potentiating effects of OAG are absent in low intracellular magnesium. We conclude that activation of PKC initiates a modulatory mechanism at the rod-rod bipolar cell synapse whose function is to reduce inhibition of the TRPM1 current by magnesium, thereby increasing the gain of transmission at this synapse.
The ability of extending axons to navigate using combinations of extracellular cues is essential for proper neural network formation. One intracellular signaling molecule that integrates convergent signals from both extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and growth factors is focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Analysis of FAK function shows that it influences a variety of cellular activities, including cell motility, proliferation, and differentiation. Recent work in developing neurons has shown that FAK and Src function downstream of both attractive and repulsive growth factors, but little is known about the effectors or cellular mechanisms that FAK controls in growth cones on ECM proteins. We report that FAK functions downstream of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and laminin in the modulation of point contact dynamics, phosphotyrosine signaling at filopodial tips, and lamellipodial protrusion. BDNF stimulation accelerates paxillin-containing point contact turnover and formation. Knockdown of FAK function either with a FAK antisense morpholino or by expression of FRNK, a dominant-negative FAK isoform, blocks all aspects of the response to BDNF, including the acceleration of point contact dynamics. On the other hand, expression of specific FAK point mutants can selectively disrupt distinct aspects of the response to BDNF. We also show that growth cone turning depends on both signaling cascades tested here. Finally, we provide the first evidence that growth cone point contacts are asymmetrically regulated during turning to an attractive guidance cue.
AMPA receptor (AMPAR) plasticity at glutamatergic synapses in the mesoaccumbal dopaminergic pathway has been implicated in persistent cocaine-induced behavioral responses; however, the precise mechanism underlying these changes remains unknown. Utilizing cocaine psychomotor sensitization, we have examined phosphorylation of GluA1 at key residues serine 845 (S845) and S831, as well as GluA1 cell surface levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of cocaine-preexposed mice and the role of brain-specific Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 L-type Ca channels (LTCCs), therein. We found higher basal levels of S845 phospho-GluA1 (P-GluA1) and cell surface GluA1 in the NAc following protracted withdrawal from cocaine exposure, changes that occur independently of LTCCs. In contrast, we found that a cocaine challenge that elicits expression of the cocaine-sensitized response increases S831 P-GluA1 that further increases surface GluA1 beyond the higher basal levels. Intra-NAc pharmacological manipulations indicate that the Ca(v)1.2-activated CaM kinase II (CaMKII) mediates cocaine-induced increase in S831 P-GluA1 and that both Ca(v)1.2-activated CaMKII and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) mediate the increase in GluA1 cell surface levels specific to the sensitized response. Experiments using adenoassociated viral vectors expressing Ca(v)1.3 and ERK2 siRNA further indicate that recruitment of the Ca(v)1.2 pathway in the NAc is dependent on ventral tegmental area Ca(v)1.3 LTCCs and ERK2. Together, these results identify candidate pathways that mediate cocaine-induced AMPAR plasticity in the NAc and provide a mechanism linking LTCCs and GluA1 plasticity to cocaine-induced persistent behavioral changes.
It has been intensely debated whether visual stimuli are processed to the point of semantic analysis in the absence of awareness. In the present study, we measured the extent to which the meaning of a stimulus was registered using the N400 component of human event-related potentials (ERPs), a highly sensitive index of the semantic mismatch between a stimulus and the context in which it is presented. Observers judged the semantic relatedness of a context and target word while ERPs were recorded under continuous flash suppression (Experiments 1 and 2) and binocular rivalry (Experiment 3). Finally, we parametrically manipulated the visibility of the target word by increasing the contrast between the target word and the suppressive stimulus presented to the other eye (Experiment 4). We found that the amplitude of the N400 was attenuated with increasing suppression depth and was absent whenever the observers could not discriminate the meaning of suppressed words. We discuss these findings in the context of single-process models of consciousness, which can account for a large body of empirical evidence obtained from visual masking, attentional manipulations, and, now, interocular suppression paradigms.
The cation-chloride cotransporter NKCC1 plays a fundamental role in the central and peripheral nervous systems by setting the value of intracellular chloride concentration. Following peripheral nerve injury, NKCC1 phosphorylation-induced chloride accumulation contributes to neurite regrowth of sensory neurons. However, the molecules and signaling pathways that regulate NKCC1 activity remain to be identified. Functional analysis of cotransporter activity revealed that inhibition of endogenously produced cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), with anti-mouse IL-6 antibody or in IL-6/ mice, prevented chloride accumulation in a subset of axotomized neurons. Nerve injury upregulated the transcript and protein levels of IL-6 receptor in myelinated, TrkB-positive sensory neurons of murine lumbar dorsal root ganglia. Expression of phospho-NKCC1 was observed mainly in sensory neurons expressing IL-6 receptor and was absent from IL-6/ dorsal root ganglia. The use of IL-6 receptor blocking-function antibody or soluble IL-6 receptor, together with pharmacological inhibition of Janus kinase, confirmed the role of neuronal IL-6 signaling in chloride accumulation and neurite growth of a subset of axotomized sensory neurons. Cell-specific expression of interleukin-6 receptor under pathophysiological conditions is therefore a cellular response by which IL-6 contributes to nerve regeneration through neuronal NKCC1 phosphorylation and chloride accumulation.
The mechanisms governing the recruitment of functional glutamate receptors at nascent excitatory postsynapses following initial axon-dendrite contact remain unclear. We examined here the ability of neurexin/neuroligin adhesions to mobilize AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) at postsynapses through a diffusion/trap process involving the scaffold molecule PSD-95. Using single nanoparticle tracking in primary rat and mouse hippocampal neurons overexpressing or lacking neuroligin-1 (Nlg1), a striking inverse correlation was found between AMPAR diffusion and Nlg1 expression level. The use of Nlg1 mutants and inhibitory RNAs against PSD-95 demonstrated that this effect depended on intact Nlg1/PSD-95 interactions. Furthermore, functional AMPARs were recruited within 1 h at nascent Nlg1/PSD-95 clusters assembled by neurexin-1 multimers, a process requiring AMPAR membrane diffusion. Triggering novel neurexin/neuroligin adhesions also caused a depletion of PSD-95 from native synapses and a drop in AMPAR miniature EPSCs, indicating a competitive mechanism. Finally, both AMPAR level at synapses and AMPAR-dependent synaptic transmission were diminished in hippocampal slices from newborn Nlg1 knock-out mice, confirming an important role of Nlg1 in driving AMPARs to nascent synapses. Together, these data reveal a mechanism by which membrane-diffusing AMPARs can be rapidly trapped at PSD-95 scaffolds assembled at nascent neurexin/neuroligin adhesions, in competition with existing synapses.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established therapeutic modality for the treatment of movement disorders and an emerging therapeutic approach for the treatment of disorders of mood and thought. For example, recently we have shown that DBS of the fornix may ameliorate cognitive decline associated with dementia. However, like other applications of DBS, the mechanisms mediating these clinical effects are unknown. As DBS modulates neurophysiological activity in targeted brain regions, DBS might influence cognitive function via activity-dependent regulation of hippocampal neurogenesis. Using stimulation parameters analogous to clinical high-frequency DBS, here we addressed this question in mice. We found that acute stimulation of the entorhinal cortex (EC) transiently promoted proliferation in the dentate gyrus (DG). Cells generated as a consequence of stimulation differentiated into neurons, survived for at least several weeks, and acquired normal dentate granule cell (DGC) morphology. Importantly, stimulation-induced promotion of neurogenesis was limited to the DG and not associated with changes in apoptotic cell death. Using immunohistochemical approaches, we found that, once sufficiently mature, these stimulation-induced neurons integrated into hippocampal circuits supporting water-maze memory. Finally, formation of water-maze memory was facilitated 6 weeks (but not 1 week) after bilateral stimulation of the EC. The delay-dependent nature of these effects matches the maturation-dependent integration of adult-generated DGCs into dentate circuits supporting water-maze memory. Furthermore, because the beneficial effects of EC stimulation were prevented by blocking neurogenesis, this suggests a causal relationship between stimulation-induced promotion of adult neurogenesis and enhanced spatial memory.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) frequently produces impairments of attention in humans. These can result in a failure to maintain consistent goal-directed behavior. A predominantly right-lateralized frontoparietal network is often engaged during attentionally demanding tasks. However, lapses of attention have also been associated with increases in activation within the default mode network (DMN). Here, we study TBI patients with sustained attention impairment, defined on the basis of the consistency of their behavioral performance over time. We show that sustained attention impairments in patients are associated with an increase in DMN activation, particularly within the precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, the interaction of the precuneus with the rest of the DMN at the start of the task, i.e., its functional connectivity, predicts which patients go on to show impairments of attention. Importantly, this predictive information is present before any behavioral evidence of sustained attention impairment, and the relationship is also found in a subgroup of patients without focal brain damage. TBI often results in diffuse axonal injury, which produces cognitive impairment by disconnecting nodes in distributed brain networks. Using diffusion tensor imaging, we demonstrate that structural disconnection within the DMN also correlates with the level of sustained attention. These results show that abnormalities in DMN function are a sensitive marker of impairments of attention and suggest that changes in connectivity within the DMN are central to the development of attentional impairment after TBI.
Lipocalin 2 (Lcn2) plays an important role in defense against bacterial infection by interfering with bacterial iron acquisition. Although Lcn2 is expressed in a number of aseptic inflammatory conditions, its role in these conditions remains unclear. We examined the expression and role of Lcn2 after spinal cord injury (SCI) in adult mice by using a contusion injury model. Lcn2 expression at the protein level is rapidly increased 12-fold at 1 d after SCI and decreases gradually thereafter, being three times as high as control levels at 21 d after injury. Lcn2 expression is strongly induced after contusion injury in astrocytes, neurons, and neutrophils. The Lcn2 receptor (Lcn2R), which has been shown to influence cell survival, is also expressed after SCI in the same cell types. Lcn2-deficient (Lcn2/) mice showed significantly better locomotor recovery after spinal cord contusion injury than wild-type (Lcn2/) mice. Histological assessments indicate improved neuronal and tissue survival and greater sparing of myelin in Lcn2/ mice after contusion injury. Flow cytometry showed a decrease in neutrophil influx and a small increase in the monocyte population in Lcn2/ injured spinal cords. This change was accompanied by a reduction in the expression of several pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines as well as inducible nitric oxide synthase early after SCI in Lcn2/ mice compared with wild-type animals. Our results, therefore, suggest a role for Lcn2 in regulating inflammation in the injured spinal cord and that lack of Lcn2 reduces secondary damage and improves locomotor recovery after spinal cord contusion injury.
Reliable neuronal spiking is critical for a myriad of computations performed by neural circuits. This is particularly evident for sound localization cues in the auditory brainstem circuits that detect timing and intensity differences of sounds arriving at two ears. The calyx of Held-principal neuron synapse in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) in this circuit is traditionally viewed as a reliable relay, which converts contralateral excitatory inputs to inhibitory outputs to ipsilateral superior olive neurons that code interaural timing and intensity differences. However, recent studies demonstrated large variability in the incidence of postsynaptic spike failures at this synapse, challenging the view that this synapse is a fail-safe relay. Using combined imaging and paired recordings in mature (P16-P19) mouse brainstem slices, we show that spike failure rates of MNTB neurons are strongly correlated with differences in gross morphology of the calyx terminal and quantal properties under standard in vitro- and in vivo-like conditions. MNTB neurons innervated by calyces with simple morphologies (mainly digits) express strong short-term synaptic depression and a high incidence of spike failures after high-frequency stimulation. Conversely, MNTB neurons innervated by structurally complex calyces (digits and numerous bouton-like swellings) exhibit initial facilitation followed by slow depression and very few spike failures. Our results indicate that the calyx of Held-MNTB synapse is likely organized as a structural and functional continuum, in that correlated heterogeneities in calyx morphology and short-term plasticity serve as a filter for regulating the inhibition delivered to superior olive neurons during sound localization.



The National Center of Competence in Research project &quot;SYNAPSY&quot; aims at identifying certain mechanisms of psychiatric and cognitive disorders, in order to improve the understanding and the genesis of such pathologies, and to promote the development of better diagnostic tools and of new therapeutic approaches. It provides an excellent opportunity for clinical psychiatrists and neuroscientists to develop a synergic mode of collaboration. On the basis of questions stemming from clinical practice and in the frame of patients cohorts, various research projects in neuroscience should lead to progresses that may have a considerable impact on clinical practice.

Long-term potentiation (LTP) is an important process underlying learning and memory in the brain. At CA3-CA1 synapses in the hippocampus, three discrete forms of LTP (LTP1, 2, and 3) can be differentiated on the basis of maintenance and induction mechanisms. However, the relative roles of pre- and post-synaptic expression mechanisms in LTP1, 2, and 3 are unknown. Neurotransmitter release in the expression of LTP1, 2, and 3 was measured via FM 1-43 destaining from CA3 terminals in hippocampal slices from male Wistar rats (7-8 wk). No difference in vesicle turnover rate was observed for LTP1 up to 160 min following induction by one train of theta-burst stimulation (1TBS). A presynaptic enhancement was found for LTP2 at 160 min after induction by 4TBS, and for LTP3 at both 80 and 160 min after induction by 8TBS. Inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) signaling blocked both LTP2 and LTP3 maintenance and the associated enhanced release. LTP2 maintenance and its presynaptic expression were dependent on protein synthesis, but not gene transcription. LTP3 maintenance was dependent on both translation and transcription, but like LTP2, the enhanced release only required translation. These data considerably strengthen the mechanistic separation of LTP1, 2, and 3, supporting a model of multiple, discrete forms of LTP at CA3-CA1 synapses rather than different temporal phases.
Accumulating evidence implicates pesticides such as paraquat in the development of Parkinson's disease (PD). Indeed, paraquat exposure is associated with an increased risk of PD and when administered to rodents the pesticide recapitulates many of the neuropathological and behavioural features of the disease. However, it is unclear whether any sexual dimorphism exists in the in vivo murine response to paraquat intoxication, since most studies have used exclusively males. Accordingly, we sought to determine the impact of repeated paraquat exposure on a range of neural and behavioural outcomes in female C57BL/6J mice. The present investigation revealed that the female mice were largely resistant to the paraquat-induced nigrostriatal dopamine changes and locomotor deficits that were reported previously in males. Similarly, in contrast to the reductions of hippocamapal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) previously reported in paraquat treated male mice, the herbicide actually increased levels of the trophic factor in females. Yet, similar to our previous findings in males, paraquat increased norepinephrine utilization within the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of the female mice. However, these changes did not translate into anxiety- or- depression-like behaviours in the open field test, as the females actually seemed to show enhanced exploration. Consistent with reports of a greater incidence of PD in males, these data suggest that female mice may be less susceptible than males to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic and motor effects of environmental toxins. The augmented hippocampal BDNF and noradrenergic changes observed could conceivably act to buffer female mice against some of the deleterious behavioural effects of parquat.
Recent studies have supported the hypothesis that pregnancy and parturition are associated with altered sensitivity of brain dopamine systems. An increased behavioral sensitivity to a direct-acting D1/D2 receptor agonist (apomorphine) has also been observed several weeks after lactation, suggesting that these adaptations are long-lasting. To further characterize this phenomenon, the effects of reproductive experience on behavioral sensitization to an indirect-acting dopamine agonist (amphetamine) in female rats were studied. In two separate experiments, nulliparous and primiparous (12-16 weeks post-weaning) female rats were pretreated with amphetamine (1.0 or 5.0mg/kg) or vehicle (saline) once daily for 5 consecutive days. After 10 days of withdrawal, all animals were challenged with a low dose of amphetamine (25% of pretreatment dose). Locomotor activity was measured following each drug or vehicle administration. Locomotor sensitization to amphetamine challenge was observed in all animals pretreated with 1mg/kg, regardless of reproductive experience. In contrast, primiparous animals pretreated with 5mg/kg amphetamine displayed a significantly larger locomotor response to the challenge compared to nulliparous controls. The findings indicate enhanced behavioral sensitization to amphetamine in reproductively experienced rats, and confirm previous reports of lasting adaptations of dopamine systems following pregnancy and lactation.
Alterations in neurotransmitters and its receptors expression induce brain injury during neonatal hypoxic insult. Molecular processes regulating the serotonergic receptors play an important role in the control of respiration under hypoxic insult. The present study focused on the serotonergic regulation of neonatal hypoxia and its resuscitation methods. Receptor binding assays and gene expression studies were done to evaluate the changes in 5HT(2A) receptors and its transporter in the corpus striatum of hypoxic neonatal rats and hypoxic rats resuscitated with glucose, oxygen and epinephrine. Total 5HT and 5HT(2A) receptor number was increased in hypoxic neonates along with an up regulation of 5HT(2A) receptor and 5HT transporter gene. The enhanced striatal 5HT(2A) receptors modulate the ventilatory response to hypoxia. Immediate glucose resuscitation was found to ameliorate the receptor and transporter alterations. Hypoxia induced ATP depletion mediated reduction in blood glucose levels can be encountered by glucose administration and oxygenation helps in overcoming the anaerobic condition. The adverse effect of immediate oxygenation and epinephrine supplementation was also reported. This has immense clinical significance in establishing a proper resuscitation for the management of neonatal hypoxia.
Background: There is increasing evidence for functional interactions of the auditory and the motor system in music perception. Based on that we hypothesized that altered music perception in patients with a movement disorder, here Huntington's disease (HD), compared to controls should be present. Additionally, there should be also a relation between areas associated with the assessment of musical rhythms and measures of movement deterioration in patients.Methods: Manifest (HD) and premanifest HD (pHD), as well as healthy controls underwent an examination with auditory functional MRI (fMRI) with presentation of music and syllables as stimuli. Additionally, motor performance was assessed in tasks with different complexity and related to fMRI-data.Results: There was a significant interaction of type of stimuli (music, syllables) and group (HD, phD, controls). During music processing when compared to blocks with syllables only, HDs revealed hyperactivations, especially in cerebellar structures,. In contrast, these structures were stronger activated during syllable presentation in pHDs and controls, when compared to HD and music processing. Increased cerebellar activations during music processing in HDs were related to more severe voluntary and involuntary movement dysfunction. No correlations were observed with activations after syllable presentation. Generally, no relations were found in pHDs.Conclusion: The results suggest modulation of auditory music processing in a movement disorder, which seems to relate to severity of movement deterioration.
Key to successful retina regeneration in zebrafish are Mller glia (MG) that respond to retinal injury by dedifferentiating into a cycling population of retinal progenitors. Although recent studies have identified several genes involved in retina regeneration, the signaling mechanisms underlying injury-dependent MG proliferation have remained elusive. Here we report that canonical Wnt signaling controls the proliferation of MG-derived retinal progenitors. We found that injury-dependent induction of Ascl1a suppressed expression of the Wnt signaling inhibitor, Dkk, and induced expression of the Wnt ligand, Wnt4a. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of Wnt signaling suppressed injury-dependent proliferation of MG-derived progenitors. Remarkably, in the uninjured retina, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) inhibition was sufficient to stimulate MG dedifferentiation and the formation of multipotent retinal progenitors that were capable of differentiating into all major retinal cell types. Importantly, Ascl1a expression was found to contribute to the multipotential character of these progenitors. Our data suggest that Wnt signaling and GSK-3 inhibition, in particular, are crucial for successful retina regeneration.
The cerebellum has a medial, cortico-nuclear zone consisting of the cerebellar vermis and the fastigial nucleus. Functionally, this zone is concerned with whole-body posture and locomotion. The vermis classically is thought to be included within the &quot;spinocerebellum&quot; and to receive somatic sensory input from ascending spinal pathways. In contrast, the lateral zone of the cerebellum is included in the &quot;cerebro-cerebellum&quot; because it is densely interconnected with the cerebral cortex. Here we report the surprising result that a portion of the vermis receives dense input from the cerebral cortex. We injected rabies virus into lobules VB-VIIIB of the vermis and used retrograde transneuronal transport of the virus to define disynaptic inputs to it. We found that large numbers of neurons in the primary motor cortex and in several motor areas on the medial wall of the hemisphere project to the vermis. Thus, our results challenge the classical view of the vermis and indicate that it no longer should be considered as entirely isolated from the cerebral cortex. Instead, lobules VB-VIIIB represent a site where the cortical motor areas can influence descending control systems involved in the regulation of whole-body posture and locomotion. We argue that the projection from the cerebral cortex to the vermis is part of the neural substrate for anticipatory postural adjustments and speculate that dysfunction of this system may underlie some forms of dystonia.
Glucocorticoids are a family of hormones that coordinate diverse physiological processes in responding to stress. Prolonged glucocorticoid exposure over weeks has been linked to dendritic atrophy and spine loss in fixed tissue studies of adult brains, but it is unclear how glucocorticoids may affect the dynamic processes of dendritic spine formation and elimination in vivo. Furthermore, relatively few studies have examined the effects of stress and glucocorticoids on spines during the postnatal and adolescent period, which is characterized by rapid synaptogenesis followed by protracted synaptic pruning. To determine whether and to what extent glucocorticoids regulate dendritic spine development and plasticity, we used transcranial two-photon microscopy to track the formation and elimination of dendritic spines in vivo after treatment with glucocorticoids in developing and adult mice. Corticosterone, the principal murine glucocorticoid, had potent dose-dependent effects on dendritic spine dynamics, increasing spine turnover within several hours in the developing barrel cortex. The adult barrel cortex exhibited diminished baseline spine turnover rates, but these rates were also enhanced by corticosterone. Similar changes occurred in multiple cortical areas, suggesting a generalized effect. However, reducing endogenous glucocorticoid activity by dexamethasone suppression or corticosteroid receptor antagonists caused a substantial reduction in spine turnover rates, and the former was reversed by corticosterone replacement. Notably, we found that chronic glucocorticoid excess led to an abnormal loss of stable spines that were established early in life. Together, these findings establish a critical role for glucocorticoids in the development and maintenance of dendritic spines in the living cortex.

Altered oligodendrocyte structure and function is implicated in major psychiatric illnesses, including low cell number and reduced oligodendrocyte-specific gene expression in major depressive disorder (MDD). These features are also observed in the unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) rodent model of the illness, suggesting that they are consequential to environmental precipitants; however, whether oligodendrocyte changes contribute causally to low emotionality is unknown. Focusing on 2'-3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (Cnp1), a crucial component of axoglial communication dysregulated in the amygdala of MDD subjects and UCMS-exposed mice, we show that altered oligodendrocyte integrity can have an unexpected functional role in affect regulation. Mice lacking Cnp1 (knockout, KO) displayed decreased anxiety- and depressive-like symptoms (i.e., low emotionality) compared with wild-type animals, a phenotypic difference that increased with age (3-9 months). This phenotype was accompanied by increased motor activity, but was evident before neurodegenerative-associated motor coordination deficits ( 9-12 months). Notably, Cnp1(KO) mice were less vulnerable to developing a depressive-like syndrome after either UCMS or chronic corticosterone exposure. Cnp1(KO) mice also displayed reduced fear expression during extinction, despite normal amygdala c-Fos induction after acute stress, together implicating dysfunction of an amygdala-related neural network, and consistent with proposed mechanisms for stress resiliency. However, the Cnp1(KO) behavioral phenotype was also accompanied by massive upregulation of oligodendrocyte- and immune-related genes in the basolateral amygdala, suggesting an attempt at functional compensation. Together, we demonstrate that the lack of oligodendrocyte-specific Cnp1 leads to resilient emotionality. However, combined with substantial molecular changes and late-onset neurodegeneration, these results suggest the low Cnp1 seen in MDD may cause unsustainable and maladaptive molecular compensations contributing to the disease pathophysiology.
Fear conditioning and extinction represent basic forms of associative learning with considerable clinical relevance and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of anxiety disorders. There is considerable inter-individual variation in the ability to acquire and extinguish conditioned fear reactions and the study of genetic variants has recently become a focus of research. In this review, we give an overview of the existing genetic association studies on human fear conditioning and extinction in healthy individuals and of related studies on cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) and exposure, as well as pathology development after trauma. Variation in the serotonin transporter (5HTT) and the catechol-o-methyltransferase (COMT) genes has consistently been associated with effects in pre-clinical and clinical studies. Interesting new findings, which however require further replication, have been reported for genetic variation in the dopamine transporter (DAT1) and the pituitary adenylate cyclase 1 receptor (ADCYAP1R1) genes, whereas the current picture is inconsistent for variation in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene. We end with a discussion of the findings and their limitations, as well as future directions that we hope will aid the field to develop further.

A goal of behavioral neuroscience is to identify underlying neurobiological factors that regulate specific behaviors. Using animal models to accomplish this goal, many methodological strategies require invasive techniques to manipulate the intensity of the behavior of interest (e.g., lesion methods, pharmacological manipulations, microdialysis techniques, genetically-engineered animal models). The utilization of a comparative species approach allows researchers to take advantage of naturally occurring differences in response strategies existing in closely related species. In our lab, we use two species of the Peromyscus genus that differ in paternal responses. The male California deer mouse (Peromyscus californicus) exhibits the same parental responses as the female whereas its cousin, the common deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) exhibits virtually no nurturing/parental responses in the presence of pups. Of specific interest in this article is an exploration of the neurobiological factors associated with the affiliative social responses exhibited by the paternal California deer mouse. Because the behavioral neuroscience approach is multifaceted, the following key components of the study will be briefly addressed: the identification of appropriate species for this type of research; data collection for behavioral analysis; preparation and sectioning of the brains; basic steps involved in immunocytochemistry for the quantification of vasopressin-immunoreactivity; the use of neuroimaging software to quantify the brain tissue; the use of a microsequencing video analysis to score behavior and, finally, the appropriate statistical analyses to provide the most informed interpretations of the research findings.
Respiratory compromise due to phrenic motor neuron loss is a debilitating consequence of a large proportion of human traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) cases (1) and is the ultimate cause of death in patients with the motor neuron disorder, amyotrophic laterals sclerosis (ALS) (2). ALS is a devastating neurological disorder that is characterized by relatively rapid degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons. Patients ultimately succumb to the disease on average 2-5 years following diagnosis because of respiratory paralysis due to loss of phrenic motor neuron innnervation of the diaphragm (3). The vast majority of cases are sporadic, while 10% are of the familial form. Approximately twenty percent of familial cases are linked to various point mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene on chromosome 21 (4). Transgenic mice (4,5) and rats (6) carrying mutant human SOD1 genes ((G93A, G37R, G86R, G85R)) have been generated, and, despite the existence of other animal models of motor neuron loss, are currently the most highly used models of the disease. Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a heterogeneous set of conditions resulting from physical trauma to the spinal cord, with functional outcome varying according to the type, location and severity of the injury (7). Nevertheless, approximately half of human SCI cases affect cervical regions, resulting in debilitating respiratory dysfunction due to phrenic motor neuron loss and injury to descending bulbospinal respiratory axons (1). A number of animal models of SCI have been developed, with the most commonly used and clinically-relevant being the contusion (8). Transplantation of various classes of neural precursor cells (NPCs) is a promising therapeutic strategy for treatment of traumatic CNS injuries and neurodegeneration, including ALS and SCI, because of the ability to replace lost or dysfunctional CNS cell types, provide neuroprotection, and deliver gene factors of interest (9). Animal models of both ALS and SCI can model many clinically-relevant aspects of these diseases, including phrenic motor neuron loss and consequent respiratory compromise (10,11). In order to evaluate the efficacy of NPC-based strategies on respiratory function in these animal models of ALS and SCI, cellular interventions must be specifically directed to regions containing therapeutically relevant targets such as phrenic motor neurons. We provide a detailed protocol for multi-segmental, intraspinal transplantation of NPCs into the cervical spinal cord ventral gray matter of neurodegenerative models such as SOD1(G93A) mice and rats, as well as spinal cord injured rats and mice (11).
Visual attention can select spatial locations, features and objects. Theories of object-based attention claim that attention enhances the representation of all parts of an object, even parts that are not task relevant. We recorded neuronal activity in area V1 of macaque monkeys and observed an automatic spread of attention to image elements outside of the attentional focus when they were bound to an attended stimulus by Gestalt criteria.
Anatomic and physiologic studies have suggested a model in which neurons of the piriform cortex receive convergent input from random collections of glomeruli. In this model, odor representations can only be afforded behavioral significance upon experience. We have devised an experimental strategy that permits us to ask whether the activation of an arbitrarily chosen subpopulation of neurons in piriform cortex can elicit different behavioral responses dependent upon learning. Activation of a small subpopulation of piriform neurons expressing channelrhodopsin at multiple loci in the piriform cortex, when paired with reward or shock, elicits either appetitive or aversive behavior. Moreover, we demonstrate that different subpopulations of piriform neurons expressing ChR2 can be discriminated and independently entrained to elicit distinct behaviors. These observations demonstrate that the piriform cortex is sufficient to elicit learned behavioral outputs in the absence of sensory input. These data imply that the piriform does not use spatial order to map odorant identity or behavioral output.



The proteolytic enzyme -secretase (BACE1) plays a central role in the synthesis of the pathogenic -amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. SAR studies of the S2' region of the BACE1 ligand binding pocket with pyrazolyl and thienyl P2' side chains are reported. These analogs exhibit low nanomolar potency for BACE1, and demonstrate &gt;50- to 100-fold selectivity for the structurally related aspartyl proteases BACE2 and cathepsin D. Small groups attached at the nitrogen of the P2' pyrazolyl moiety, together with the P3 pyrimidine nucleus projecting into the S3 region of the binding pocket, are critical components to ligand's potency and selectivity. P2' thiophene side chain analogs are highly potent BACE1 inhibitors with excellent selectivity against cathepsin D, but only modest selectivity against BACE2. The cell-based activity of these new analogs tracked well with their increased molecular binding with EC(50) values of 0.07-0.2 M in the ELISA assay for the most potent analogs.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) is a ligand-activated nuclear receptor, thought to play a role in energy metabolism, glucose homeostasis and microglia-mediated neuroinflammation. A novel benzimidazole series of centrally penetrant PPAR partial agonists has been identified. The optimization of PPAR activity and in vivo pharmacokinetics leading to the identification of GSK1997132B a potent, metabolically stable and centrally penetrant PPAR partial agonist, is described.
The discovery, of a series of 2-Cl-5-heteroaryl-benzamide antagonists of the P2X(7) receptor via parallel medicinal chemistry is described. Initial analogs suffered from poor metabolic stability and low Vd(ss). Multi parametric optimization led to identification of pyrazole 39 as a viable lead with excellent potency and oral bioavailability. Further attempts to improve the low Vd(ss) of 39 via introduction of amines led to analogs 40 and 41 which maintained the favorable pharmacology profile of 39 and improved Vd(ss) after iv dosing. But these analogs suffered from poor oral absorption, probably driven by poor permeability.
The rapid period of growth and development that occurs prenatally renders the brain vulnerable to experiences that may disrupt cortical plasticity. Although there is extensive literature examining anatomical changes in fully matured brain, there has been very little investigation of younger offspring. The current study used an indirect prenatal bystander stress and analyzed neuroanatomical changes in postnatal day 21 (P21) Long Evans rats. Dendritic architecture (dendritic length, branch order, and spine density) along with cell quantification (neuron and glia) was generated for layer 3 pyramidal cells of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC/Cg3), orbital prefrontal cortex (OFC/AID), and CA1 of the hippocampus. We found that prenatal bystander stress significantly altered the complexity and length of dendritic arbor, the density of excitatory spines and the actual volume of neuronal and glial cell numbers in the mPFC, OFC, and CA1 of developing rat offspring. Neuroanatomical changes of this extent occurring at such a critical time period will likely impact healthy maturation of the brain and long-term development.
Haloperidol (HP) is a widely prescribed antipsychotic drug used for the treatment of mental disorders. However, while providing therapeutic benefits, this drug also causes serious extrapyramidal side effects, such as tardive dyskinesia (TD). Upon chronic administration, HP causes behavioural supersensitivity to dopamine D2 receptor agonists, as well as the development of vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), in an animal model of human TD. Currently, a prevailing hypothesis to account for these behavioural abnormalities implicates oxidative stress. This study was undertaken to examine whether the free radical trapping agent, -phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN), can prevent the development of behavioural supersensitivity to dopamine D2 receptor agonists and the development of VCMs. Additionally, the study examined whether increased synthesis of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) can result from HP-induced oxidative stress. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with HP in conjunction with PBN, or its vehicle, for 4weeks. After a 24-hour washout period, behavioural observations were recorded along with the estimation of lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzyme activities. The free radical trapping agent, PBN, prevented the development of behavioural supersensitivity, reduced lipid peroxidation and prevented the reduction of antioxidant enzyme activities. AIF concentrations at the mRNA and protein levels remained unchanged; therefore increased AIF gene expression is unlikely to be involved in HP-induced oxidative stress. The findings of the present study suggest the involvement of striatal free radicals in the development of behavioural supersensitivity, and free radical trapping agents, such as PBN, as possible options for the treatment of extrapyramidal side effects in humans.
Vertebrate Hox clusters contain protein-coding genes that regulate body axis development and microRNA (miRNA) genes whose functions are not yet well understood. We overexpressed the Hox cluster microRNA miR-196 in zebrafish embryos and found four specific, viable phenotypes: failure of pectoral fin bud initiation, deletion of the 6th pharyngeal arch, homeotic aberration and loss of rostral vertebrae, and reduced number of ribs and somites. Reciprocally, miR-196 knockdown evoked an extra pharyngeal arch, extra ribs, and extra somites, confirming endogenous roles of miR-196. miR-196 injection altered expression of hox genes and the signaling of retinoic acid through the retinoic acid receptor gene rarab. Knocking down rarab mimicked the pectoral fin phenotype of miR-196 overexpression, and reporter constructs tested in tissue culture and in embryos showed that the rarab 3'UTR is a miR-196 target for pectoral fin bud initiation. These results show that a Hox cluster microRNA modulates development of axial patterning similar to nearby protein-coding Hox genes, and acts on appendicular patterning at least in part by modulating retinoic acid signaling.
In the nervous system, neurons form in different regions, then they migrate and occupy specific positions. We have previously shown that RP2/sib, a well-studied neuronal pair in the Drosophila ventral nerve cord (VNC), has a complex migration route. Here, we show that the Hem protein, via the WAVE complex, regulates migration of GMC-1 and its progeny RP2 neuron. In Hem or WAVE mutants, RP2 neuron either abnormally migrates, crossing the midline from one hemisegment to the contralateral hemisegment, or does not migrate at al and fail to send out its axon projection. We report that Hem regulates neuronal migration through stabilizing WAVE. Since Hem and WAVE normally form a complex, our data argues that in the absence of Hem, WAVE, which is presumably no longer in a complex, becomes susceptible to degradation. We also find that Abelson tyrosine kinase affects RP2 migration in a similar manner as Hem and WAVE, and appears to operate via WAVE. However, while Abl negatively regulates the levels of WAVE, it regulates migration via regulating the activity of WAVE. Our results also show that during the degradation of WAVE, Hem function is opposite to that of and downstream of Abl.
The UNC-45 family of molecular chaperones is expressed in metazoan organisms from Caenorhabditis elegans to humans. The UNC-45 protein is essential in C. elegans for early body-wall muscle cell development and A-band assembly. We show that the myosin-binding UCS domain of UNC-45 alone is sufficient to rescue lethal unc-45 null mutants arrested in embryonic muscle development and temperature-sensitive loss-of-function unc-45 mutants defective in worm A-band assembly. Removal of the Hsp90-binding TPR domain of UNC-45 does not affect rescue. Similar results were obtained with overexpression of the same fragments in wild-type nematodes when assayed for diminution of myosin accumulation and assembly. Titration experiments show that, on a per molecule basis, UCS has greater activity in C. elegans muscle in vivo than full-length UNC-45 protein, suggesting that UNC-45 is inhibited by either the TPR domain or its interaction with the general chaperone Hsp90. In vitro experiments with purified recombinant C. elegans Hsp90 and UNC-45 proteins show that they compete for binding to C. elegans myosin. Our in vivo genetic and in vitro biochemical experiments are consistent with a novel inhibitory role for Hsp90 with respect to UNC-45 action.
Neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals is under the tight control of various metabotropic receptors. We report here that in addition to the regulation of Ca(2+) channel activity, metabotropic GABA(B) receptors (GABA(B)Rs) at murine hippocampal glutamatergic synapses utilize an inhibitory pathway that directly targets the synaptic vesicle release machinery. Acute application of the GABA(B)R agonist baclofen rapidly and reversibly inhibits vesicle fusion, which occurs independently of the SNAP-25 C-terminus. Using applications of hypertonic sucrose solutions, we find that the size of the readily releasable pool remains unchanged by GABA(B)R activation, but the sensitivity of primed vesicles to hypertonic stimuli appears lowered as the response amplitudes at intermediate sucrose concentrations are smaller and release kinetics are slowed. These data show that presynaptic GABA(B)Rs can inhibit neurotransmitter release directly by increasing the energy barrier for vesicle fusion.
Pectoral fins are known to play important roles in swimming for many adult fish; however, their functions in fish larvae are unclear. We examined routine pectoral fin movement during rhythmic forward swimming and used genetic ablation to test hypotheses of fin function in larval zebrafish. Fins were active throughout bouts of slow swimming. Initiation was characterized by asymmetric fin abduction that transitioned to alternating rhythmic movement with first fin adduction. During subsequent swimming, fin beat amplitude decreased while tail beat amplitude increased over swimming speeds ranging from 1.47 to 4.56 body lengths per second. There was no change in fin or tail beat frequency with speed (means  s.d.: 28.23.5 and 29.61.9 Hz, respectively). To examine potential roles of the pectoral fins in swimming, we compared the kinematics of finless larvae generated with a morpholino knockdown of the gene fgf24 to those of normal fish. Pectoral fins were not required for initiation nor did they significantly impact forward rhythmic swimming. We investigated an alternative hypothesis that the fins function in respiration. Dye visualization demonstrated that pectoral fin beats bring distant fluid toward the body and move it caudally behind the fins, disrupting the boundary layer along the body's surface, a major site of oxygen absorption in larvae. Larval zebrafish also demonstrated more fin beating in low oxygen conditions. Our data reject the hypothesis that the pectoral fins of larval zebrafish have a locomotor function during slow, forward locomotion, but are consistent with the hypothesis that the fins have a respiratory function.
Inflammation is secondary to protein accumulation in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Emerging evidence indicate sustained inflammatory responses, involving microglia and astrocytes in animal models of neurodegeneration. It is unknown whether inflammation is beneficial or detrimental to disease progression and how inflammatory responses are induced within the CNS. Persistence of an inflammatory stimulus or failure to resolve sustained inflammation can result in pathology, thus, mechanisms that counteract inflammation are indispensable. Here we review studies on inflammation mediated by innate and adaptive immunity in the early stages of neurodegeneration and highlight important areas for future investigation.
One family is described with a novel SCN4A mutation, causing cold-aggravated myotonia without weakness. One affected family member had a normal needle electromyography at room temperature. Myotonic discharges were only discovered after cooling of the tested muscles.
FTY720 (fingolimod) has demonstrated efficacy in multiple sclerosis (MS). We evaluated the effects of FTY720 on progressive disability, viral load, and antibody responses in mice infected with Theiler's murine encephalomyocarditis virus (TMEV). FTY720 and phosphorylated FTY720 (FTY720-P) were detected in the brain after intraperitoneal injection of the drug. Bioactivity of FTY720 was confirmed by reduced numbers of mononuclear cells in the spleen and blood after treatment. No significant differences were found in disability progression, viral load, and serum antibody responses between the FTY720-treated versus the PBS-treated mice. There was less production of IgG within the CNS in the FTY-treated group on some measures.

The particular vulnerability of the developing nervous system for low-level exposure to chemicals is well established. It has been argued that some degree of developmental neurotoxicity was found for a large number of industrial chemicals. However, for only few of these, namely inorganic lead, arsenic, organic mercury and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), human evidence is available to suggest that these may cause neurodevelopmental adversity and may, thus, be involved in contributing to neurodevelopmental disorders like autism, attention-deficit disorder, mental retardation or cerebral palsy. The focus of this overview is on PCBs and inorganic lead as developmental neurotoxicants at environmental levels of exposure. The adverse effects of inorganic lead on the developing brain have long been studied, and much emphasis has been on subtle degrees of mental retardation in terms of intelligence (IQ). The evidence is consistent, but the effect sizes are typically small. Research interest has also been devoted to studying aspects of &quot;attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder&quot; (ADHD) in children in relation to environmental exposure to lead in both cross-sectional and case-control studies. More recently, we have also studied core elements of ADHD according to ICD-10 and DSM-IV in relation to environmental exposure to lead, mercury and aluminum in asymptomatic school children in Romania. Both, performance measures (several attention tasks) and questionnaire-based behavior ratings from parents and teachers showed that lead, but not Hg or Al, was consistently and adversely associated with core elements of ADHD. These findings in asymptomatic children nicely fit into the overall pattern of observations and suggest that, apart from genetic influences, low-level exposure to lead contributes to this neurodevelopmental disorder. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent organic pollutants with lipophilic properties. Due to their persistence, they are still present in environmental media at potentially harmful concentrations, although production and use of PCBs was already banned in the early 1980s. Several prospective cohort studies-including our Dsseldorf study-have demonstrated that pre- and early postnatal exposure to PCBs is associated with deficit or retardation of mental and/or motor development, even after adjusting for maternal intelligence and developmental effects of the quality of the home environment. The pathophysiology is still unclear, although interference with thyroid metabolism during brain development is being discussed. Based on these reviews, three aspects, namely pre- vs. postnatal impact, effect scaling for comparative purposes, and integration of neurobehavioral findings into clinical and neuroscience contexts, are outlined as lessons learned from neurodevelopmental observations in children environmentally exposed to lead or PCBs.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor type 1 (TRPV1) is a non-selective cation channel expressed in both the peripheral and the central nervous systems. To quantitatively determine TRPV1 protein levels in native rat tissues, novel monoclonal antibodies were raised against full-length recombinant human TRPV1 protein and utilized to develop a sandwich ELISA assay. Monoclonal antibody 10E3-1A2 specifically recognized TRPV1 protein and the recognition epitope was determined to reside in amino acids 45-58 of human and rat TRPV1. Using the TRPV1 polyclonal antibody ABRK4 as the capturing antibody and the monoclonal antibody 10E3-1A2 as the detection antibody, a sandwich ELISA that detected both human and rat TRPV1 protein was established. Recombinant human TRPV1 heterologously expressed in mammalian HEK293-F cells, which showed high ligand-binding affinity, was purified by TRPV1 monoclonal antibody affinity chromatography and used as protein standard to quantify TRPV1 protein levels. This ELISA detected TRPV1 protein as low as 1.5ng/ml (15pM), and was able to determine TRPV1 protein levels in native rat tissues such as DRG and spinal cord. This is the first TRPV1 sandwich ELISA that determines the abundance of TRPV1 protein in different tissues. It provides a powerful tool to quantify changes of TRPV1 protein levels in pathological states.
The spatial distribution of synaptic inputs on the dendritic tree of a neuron can have significant influence on neuronal function. Consequently, accurate anatomical reconstructions of neuron morphology and synaptic localization are critical when modeling and predicting physiological responses of individual neurons. Historically, generation of three-dimensional (3D) neuronal reconstructions together with comprehensive mapping of synaptic inputs has been an extensive task requiring manual identification of putative synaptic contacts directly from tissue samples or digital images. Recent developments in neuronal tracing software applications have improved the speed and accuracy of 3D reconstructions, but localization of synaptic sites through the use of pre- and/or post-synaptic markers has remained largely a manual process. To address this problem, we have developed an algorithm, based on 3D distance measurements between putative pre-synaptic terminals and the post-synaptic dendrite, to automate synaptic contact detection on dendrites of individually labeled neurons from 3D immunofluorescence image sets. In this study, the algorithm is implemented with custom routines in Matlab, and its effectiveness is evaluated through analysis of primary sensory afferent terminals on motor neurons. Optimization of algorithm parameters enabled automated identification of synaptic contacts that matched those identified by manual inspection with low incidence of error. Substantial time savings and the elimination of variability in contact detection introduced by different users are significant advantages of this method.
ATP signalling in the CNS is mediated by a three-part system comprising the actions of ATP (and ADP) at P2 receptors (P2Rs), adenosine (ADO) at P1 receptors (P1Rs), and ectonucleotidases that degrade ATP into ADO. ATP excites preBtzinger complex (preBtC) inspiratory rhythm-generating networks where its release attenuates the hypoxic depression of breathing. Its metabolite, ADO, inhibits breathing through unknown mechanisms that may involve the preBtC. Our objective is to understand the dynamics of this signalling system and its influence on preBtC networks. We show that the preBtC of mouse and rat is sensitive to P2Y(1) purinoceptor (P2Y(1)R) activation, responding with a &gt;2-fold increase in frequency. Remarkably, the mouse preBtC is insensitive to ATP. Only after block of A(1) ADORs is the ATP-evoked, P2Y(1)R-mediated frequency increase observed. This demonstrates that ATP is rapidly degraded to ADO, which activates inhibitory A(1)Rs, counteracting the P2Y(1)R-mediated excitation. ADO sensitivity of mouse preBtC was confirmed by a frequency decrease that was absent in rat. Differential ectonucleotidase activities are likely to contribute to the negligible ATP sensitivity of mouse preBtC. Real-time PCR analysis of ectonucleotidase isoforms in preBtC punches revealed TNAP (degrades ATP to ADO) or ENTPDase2 (favours production of excitatory ADP) as the primary constituent in mouse and rat, respectively. These data further establish the sensitivity of this vital network to P2Y(1)R-mediated excitation, emphasizing that individual components of the three-part signalling system dramatically alter network responses to ATP. Data also suggest therapeutic potential may derive from methods that alter the ATP-ADO balance to favour the excitatory actions of ATP.
We investigated the mechanisms responsible for increased blood pressure and sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) caused by 2-3 days dehydration (DH) both in vivo and in situ preparations. In euhydrated (EH) rats, systemic application of the AT(1) receptor antagonist Losartan and subsequent pre-collicular transection (to remove the hypothalamus) significantly reduced thoracic (t)SNA. In contrast, in DH rats, Losartan, followed by pre-collicular and pontine transections, failed to reduce tSNA, whereas transection at the medulla-spinal cord junction massively reduced tSNA. In DH but not EH rats, selective inhibition of the commissural nucleus tractus solitarii (cNTS) significantly reduced tSNA. Comparable data were obtained in both in situ and in vivo (anaesthetized/conscious) rats and suggest that following chronic dehydration, the control of tSNA transfers from supra-brainstem structures (e.g. hypothalamus) to the medulla oblongata, particularly the cNTS. As microarray analysis revealed up-regulation of AP1 transcription factor JunD in the dehydrated cNTS, we tested the hypothesis that AP1 transcription factor activity is responsible for dehydration-induced functional plasticity. When AP1 activity was blocked in the cNTS using a viral vector expressing a dominant negative FosB, cNTS inactivation was ineffective. However, tSNA was decreased after pre-collicular transection, a response similar to that seen in EH rats. Thus, the dehydration-induced switch in control of tSNA from hypothalamus to cNTS seems to be mediated via activation of AP1 transcription factors in the cNTS. If AP1 activity is blocked in the cNTS during dehydration, sympathetic activity control reverts back to forebrain regions. This unique reciprocating neural structure-switching plasticity between brain centres emphasizes the multiple mechanisms available for the adaptive response to dehydration.
Selective attention to motion direction can modulate the strength of direction-selective sensory responses regardless of their spatial locations. Although such spatially global modulation is thought to be a general property of feature-based attention, few studies have examined visual features other than motion. Here, we used an adaptation protocol combined with attentional instructions to assess whether attention to orientation, a prominent feature in early visual processing, also exhibit such spatially global modulation. We adapted observers to an orientation by cuing them to attend to the orientation in a compound grating that was presented at a peripheral location. We then assessed the size of the tilt aftereffect at three locations that were never stimulated by the adapter. Attending to orientation produced a tilt aftereffect in these locations, indicating that attention modulated orientation-selective mechanisms in remote locations from the adapter. Furthermore, there was no difference in the magnitude of the tilt aftereffect for test stimuli that were located at different distances and hemifields to the adapter. These results suggest that attention to orientation spreads uniformly across the visual field. Thus, spatially global modulation seems to be a general property of feature-based attention, and it provides a flexible mechanism to modulate feature salience across the visual field.
Partially isolated cortex (&quot;undercut&quot;) is an animal model of posttraumatic epileptogenesis. The surgical procedure involves cutting through the sensorimotor cortex and the underneath white matter (undercut) so that a specific region of the cerebral cortex is largely isolated from the neighboring cortex and subcortical regions(1-3). After a latency of two or more weeks following the surgery, epileptiform discharges can be recorded in brain slices from rodents(1); and electrical or behavior seizures can be observed in vivo from other species such as cat and monkey(4-6). This well established animal model is efficient to generate and mimics several important characteristics of traumatic brain injury. However, it is technically challenging attempting to make precise cortical lesions in the small rodent brain with a free hand. Based on the procedure initially established in Dr. David Prince's lab at the Stanford University(1), here we present an improved technique to perform a surgery for the preparation of this model in mice and rats. We demonstrate how to make a simple surgical device and use it to gain a better control of cutting depth and angle to generate more precise and consistent results. The device is easy to make, and the procedure is quick to learn. The generation of this animal model provides an efficient system for study on the mechanisms of posttraumatic epileptogenesis.
The evidence for a role of the striatum in the acquisition of uncued instrumental responding is ambiguous. It has been shown that post-session infusions of anisomycin into the core of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) impaired instrumental acquisition, but pre-training lesions of the NAcc suggest that it is not necessary. Recently, we demonstrated that the infusion of anisomycin into the anterior cingulate cortex impaired instrumental acquisition indirectly through a taste aversion. Thus, we hypothesized that post-session anisomycin infusions into the NAcc affected instrumental acquisition through an effect on reinforcer valuation. For the dorsal striatum, both post-session infusions of anisomycin and pre-training lesion studies suggest that neither the dorsolateral nor the dorsomedial striatum is necessary for the acquisition of instrumental responding. However, it has not been attempted to block plasticity in both regions concurrently, and we hypothesized that both regions independently contribute to acquisition through goal-directed and habitual learning. In the current experiments, we first replicated the effect of unprotected post-session anisomycin infusions into the NAcc on instrumental acquisition. Subsequently, we investigated the effect of protein synthesis inhibition in the NAcc and dorsomedial and dorsolateral striatum concurrently on instrumental acquisition, critically controlling for effects on reinforcer valuation. The anisomycin infusions induced an aversive state, but did not affect instrumental acquisition.

Sleep deprivation (SD) can give rise to faltering attention but the mechanics underlying this remain uncertain. Using a covert attention task that required attention to a peripheral target location, we compared the effects of attention and SD on baseline activity prior to visual stimulation as well as on stimulus-evoked activity. Volunteers were studied after a night of normal sleep (RW) and a night of SD. Baseline signal elevations evoked by preparatory attention in the absence of visual stimulation were attenuated within rFEF, rIPS (sparing SEF) and all retinotopically mapped visual areas during SD, indicative of impaired endogenous attention. In response to visual stimuli, attention modulated activation in higher cortical areas and extrastriate cortex (hV4, ventral occipital areas) after RW. SD attenuated rFEF, rIPS, V3a and VO stimulus-evoked activation regardless of whether stimuli were attended. Notably, the modulation of stimulus-evoked activation by attention was not affected by SD unlike for the preparatory period, suggesting a reduced number, but still functional circuits during SD. Deficits in endogenous attention in SD dominate in the preparatory period, whereas changes in stimulus-related activation arise from an interaction between compromised fronto-parietal top-down control of attention and reduced sensitivity of extrastriate visual cortex to top-down or bottom-up inputs.
A reliable measure is one we can trust in the long run. Thus, the reliability of measurements is as important as their validity. Here we investigated the reliability of brain electrical visual evoked responses to faces and noise textures. For the first time, we provide reliability measures for the full time course of event-related potentials (ERPs). Our analyses were also performed on a R(2)(t) metric that reflects results from single-trial analyses, therefore providing the first reliability analysis of ERP single-trial analyses. Results show that ERPs and R(2)(t) are highly reliable (cross-correlation ~0.9, lag ~4/6ms, intra-class correlation ~0.9) but also idiosyncratic: ERPs and R(2)(t) are highly reproducible within subjects, who differ reliably from each other and the grand average across subjects. Consequently, grand averages, although highly reliable, can be misleading because they might not reflect the actual brain dynamic of any subjects.
Aberrant signalling through central 5-HT(2C) receptor pathways has been implicated in various psychiatric disorders but this has not been amenable to experimental investigation in the absence of a valid in-vivo biomarker of functional 5-HT(2C) neurotransmission. One approach is drug-challenge pharmaco-magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI). We have previously shown that intravenous administration of the 5-HT(2C) agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) elicits increases in blood oxygenation dependent signal (BOLD) in regions consistent with the distribution of 5-HT(2C) receptors. In the current study we determined whether BOLD signal responses to mCPP could be blocked by pre-treatment with a 5-HT(2C) antagonist. Healthy male volunteers received oral mirtazapine, 5-HT(2)/5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, or placebo 90min prior to intravenous mCPP challenge phMRI. BOLD signal increases following mCPP infusion occurred in areas known to be rich in 5-HT(2C) receptors such as the substantia nigra, hypothalamus, pallidum and amygdala. These responses were attenuated by mirtazapine pre-treatment. The results suggest that mCPP-challenge phMRI produces reliable patterns of response that are mediated by 5-HT(2C) receptors; these responses may therefore be useful in-vivo measures of 5-HT(2C) function in psychiatric disorders.

The human inferior parietal lobule (IPL) is a multimodal brain region, subdivided in several cytoarchitectonic areas which are involved in neural networks related to spatial attention, language, and higher motor processing. Tracer studies in macaques revealed differential connectivity patterns of IPL areas as the respective structural basis. Evidence for comparable differential fibre tracts of human IPL is lacking. Here, anatomical connectivity of five cytoarchitectonic human IPL areas to 64 cortical targets was investigated using probabilistic tractography. Connection likelihood was assessed by evaluating the number of traces between seed and target against the distribution of traces from that seed to voxels in the same distance as the target. The main fibre tract pattern shifted gradually from rostral to caudal IPL: Rostral areas were predominantly connected to somatosensory and superior parietal areas while caudal areas more strongly connected with auditory, anterior temporal and higher visual cortices. All IPL areas were strongly connected with inferior frontal, insular and posterior temporal areas. These results showed striking similarities with connectivity patterns in macaques, providing further evidence for possible homologies between these two species. This shift in fibre tract pattern supports a differential functional involvement of rostral (higher motor functions) and caudal IPL (spatial attention), with probable overlapping language involvement. The differential functional involvement of IPL areas was further supported by hemispheric asymmetries of connection patterns which showed left-right differences especially with regard to connections to sensorimotor, inferior frontal and temporal areas.
This is the final paper in a Comments and Controversies series dedicated to &quot;The identification of interacting networks in the brain using fMRI: Model selection, causality and deconvolution&quot;. We argue that discovering effective connectivity depends critically on state-space models with biophysically informed observation and state equations. These models have to be endowed with priors on unknown parameters and afford checks for model Identifiability. We consider the similarities and differences among Dynamic Causal Modeling, Granger Causal Modeling and other approaches. We establish links between past and current statistical causal modeling, in terms of Bayesian dependency graphs and Wiener-Akaike-Granger-Schweder influence measures. We show that some of the challenges faced in this field have promising solutions and speculate on future developments.
For decades, the main ways to study the effect of one part of the nervous system upon another have been either to stimulate or lesion the first part and investigate the outcome in the second. This article describes a fundamentally different approach to identifying causal connectivity in neuroscience: a focus on the predictability of ongoing activity in one part from that in another. This approach was made possible by a new method that comes from the pioneering work of Wiener (1956) and Granger (1969). The Wiener-Granger method, unlike stimulation and ablation, does not require direct intervention in the nervous system. Rather, it relies on the estimation of causal statistical influences between simultaneously recorded neural time series data, either in the absence of identifiable behavioral events or in the context of task performance. Causality in the Wiener-Granger sense is based on the statistical predictability of one time series that derives from knowledge of one or more others. This article defines Wiener-Granger Causality, discusses its merits and limitations in neuroscience, and outlines recent developments in its implementation.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is increasingly used to study functional connectivity in large-scale brain networks that support cognitive and perceptual processes. We face serious conceptual, statistical and data analysis challenges when addressing the combinatorial explosion of possible interactions within high-dimensional fMRI data. Moreover, we need to know, and account for, the physiological mechanisms underlying our signals. We argue here that (i) model selection procedures for connectivity should include consideration of more than just a few brain structures, (ii) temporal precedence - and causality concepts based on it - are essential in dynamic models of connectivity and (iii) undoing the effect of hemodynamics on fMRI data (by deconvolution) can be an important tool. However, it is crucially dependent upon assumptions that need to be verified.
Emerging preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that pregnenolone may be a promising novel therapeutic candidate in schizophrenia. Pregnenolone is a neurosteroid with pleiotropic actions in rodents that include the enhancement of learning and memory, neuritic outgrowth, and myelination. Further, pregnenolone administration results in elevations in downstream neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone, a molecule with neuroprotective effects that also increases neurogenesis, decreases apoptosis and inflammation, modulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and markedly increases GABA(A) receptor responses. In addition, pregnenolone administration elevates pregnenolone sulfate, a neurosteroid that positively modulates NMDA receptors. There are thus multiple mechanistic possibilities for pregnenolone as a potential therapeutic agent in schizophrenia, including the amelioration of NMDA receptor hypofunction (via metabolism to pregnenolone sulfate) and the mitigation of GABA dysregulation (via metabolism to allopregnanolone). Additional evidence consistent with a therapeutic role for pregnenolone in schizophrenia includes neurosteroid changes following administration of certain antipsychotics in rodent models. For example, clozapine elevates pregnenolone levels in rat hippocampus, and these increases may potentially contribute to its superior antipsychotic efficacy [Marx et al. (2006a) Pharmacol Biochem Behav 84:598-608]. Further, pregnenolone levels appear to be altered in postmortem brain tissue from patients with schizophrenia compared to control subjects [Marx et al. (2006c) Neuropsychopharmacology 31:1249-1263], suggesting that neurosteroid changes may play a role in the neurobiology of this disorder and/or its treatment. Although clinical trial data utilizing pregnenolone as a therapeutic agent in schizophrenia are currently limited, initial findings are encouraging. Treatment with adjunctive pregnenolone significantly decreased negative symptoms in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder in a pilot proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial, and elevations in pregnenolone and allopregnanolone post-treatment with this intervention were correlated with cognitive improvements [Marx et al. (2009) Neuropsychopharmacology 34:1885-1903]. Another pilot randomized controlled trial recently presented at a scientific meeting demonstrated significant improvements in negative symptoms, verbal memory, and attention following treatment with adjunctive pregnenolone, in addition to enduring effects in a small subset of patients receiving pregnenolone longer-term [Savitz (2010) Society of Biological Psychiatry Annual Meeting New Orleans, LA]. A third pilot clinical trial reported significantly decreased positive symptoms and extrapyramidal side effects following adjunctive pregnenolone, in addition to increased attention and working memory performance [Ritsner et al. (2010) J Clin Psychiatry 71:1351-1362]. Future efforts in larger cohorts will be required to investigate pregnenolone as a possible therapeutic candidate in schizophrenia, but early efforts are promising and merit further investigation. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Studies in experimental animals have revealed important roles of neuroactive steroids in the control of central nervous system functions during physiological and pathological conditions, suggesting that they may represent good candidates for the development of neuroprotective strategies for neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. Even if the characterization of the roles played by neuroactive steroids in humans is still at the beginning, several data are already available showing that they may be synthesized within the human CNS. Among the different enzymes, a prominent role is dedicated to aromatase that synthesizes estradiol whose neuroprotective effects have been described in experimental animals. Neuroactive steroid levels are modified by neurodegenerative conditions (i.e. Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, multiple sclerosis) or in other mental diseases (i.e. schizophrenia), and may have an important role in physiological conditions, as the reorganization of grey and white matter during human puberty and adolescence or as a consequence of emotional responses. The interaction of some neuroactive steroids (i.e., allopregnanolone and isopregnanolone) with GABA-A receptor is particularly important in mood disorders. The presumptive role of estradiol and progesterone in neuroprotection is here discussed by comparing contradictory data that have been collected in humans. In conclusion, the state of the art of our knowledge of the role of neuroactive steroids in the normal and pathological human brain suggests several lines of future therapeutic developments in the treatments of neurological, neurodegenerative and affective disorders. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Cognitive aging affects episodic memory and executive functions, and these vulnerable domains are postulated to be modulated by endogenous and exogenous estrogen exposures. In midlife and late-life women without dementia, estrogen effects on cognition can be examined through associations with concentrations of serum estrone and estradiol and through clinical trials of estrogen-containing hormone therapy. To this end, we reviewed published studies including at least 100 women (larger studies are less prone to publication bias) addressing associations between estrogen levels and performance on neuropsychological tests of episodic memory or executive functions (including working memory; seven studies), or that reported results of placebo-controlled clinical trials of hormone therapy with objective measures within these cognitive domains (eight studies). Results were considered separately for midlife and late-life (age65 years) women. There were no consistent associations between endogenous serum estrogen concentrations and episodic memory or executive functions in naturally menopausal midlife women or in older postmenopausal women. Clinical trial findings suggested no substantial impact of exogenous estrogens on episodic memory or executive functions over time frames of up to several years. A quantitative synthesis of clinical trial results supported the inference of absence of effect. This overall conclusion of no substantial effect on episodic memory or executive functions might reassure women concerned by potential adverse cognitive consequences of menopause or of relatively short-term midlife hormone therapy. There was no apparent window of opportunity during which exogenous hormones might benefit near-term cognition, but included studies provided limited power to identify such a window. Conclusions are tempered by small numbers of studies, imprecise estimates of long-term estrogen exposures, and narrow range of neuropsychological tests. Long-term (late-life) cognitive consequence of midlife estrogen exposures are poorly addressed by current data, as are cognitive consequences of surgical menopause and cognitive consequences of exogenous estrogens during the menopause transition. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
In the past few decades it has become clear that estrogen signaling plays a much larger role in modulating the cognitive centers of the brain than previously thought possible. We have developed a nonhuman primate (NHP) model to investigate the relationships between estradiol (E) and cognitive aging. Our studies of cyclical E treatment in ovariectomized (OVX) young and aged rhesus monkeys have revealed compelling cognitive and synaptic effects of E in the context of aging. Delayed response (DR), a task that is particularly dependent on integrity of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) area 46 revealed the following: (1) that young OVX rhesus monkeys perform equally well whether treated with E or vehicle (V), and (2) that aged OVX animals given E perform as well as young adults with or without E, whereas OVX V-treated aged animals display significant DR impairment. We have analyzed the structure of layer III pyramidal cells in area 46 in these same monkeys. We found both age and treatment effects on these neurons that are consistent with behavioral data. Briefly, reconstructions of pyramidal neurons in area 46 from these monkeys showed that cyclical E increased the density of small, thin spines in both young and aged monkeys. However, this effect of E was against a background of age-related loss of small, thin spines, leaving aged V-treated monkeys with a particularly low density of these highly plastic spines, and vulnerable to cognitive decline. Our current interpretation is that E not only plays a critically important role in maintaining spine number, but also enables synaptic plasticity through a cyclical increase in small highly plastic spines that may be stabilized in the context of learning. Interestingly, recent studies demonstrate that chronic E is less effective at inducing spinogenesis than cyclical E. We have begun to link certain molecular attributes of excitatory synapses in area 46 to E effects and cognitive performance in these monkeys. Given the importance of synaptic estrogen receptor  (ER-) in rat hippocampus, we focused our initial studies on synaptic ER- in area 46. Three key findings have emerged from these studies: (1) synaptic ER- is present in axospinous synapses in area 46; (2) it is stable across treatment and age groups (which is not the case in rat hippocampus); and (3) the abundance and distribution of synaptic ER- is a key correlate of individual variation in cognitive performance in certain age and treatment groups. These findings have important implications for the design of hormone treatment strategies for both surgically and naturally menopausal women. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Some peripheral steroids penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB), providing at least substances for the CNS steroid metabolome. That is why the predictive value of the peripheral steroids appears to be comparable with that of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) steroids. The concentrations of the CSF steroids are pronouncedly lower in comparison with the ones in circulation. The available data indicate that the levels of pregnenolone sulfate substantially increase in the rat brain tissue after the administration of pregnenolone into the circulation. In the human circulation there are about two orders of magnitude higher levels of pregnenolone sulfate compared to the free pregnenolone. Our data show insignificant correlation between CSF and serum pregnenolone, but a borderline one between CSF pregnenolone and serum pregnenolone sulfate. Therefore in humans, the circulating pregnenolone sulfate might be of an importance for pregnenolone concentration in the CNS. In contrast to free pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) in the CSF correlates with both unconjugated and conjugated DHEA in the serum. These data as well as the low C17-hydroxylase-C17,20-lyase activity in the CNS might indicate that DHEA levels in the CNS are influenced by peripheral levels of DHEA and its sulfate. According to the information, available part of the neurosteroids may be synthesized de novo in the CNS, but substantial part of the steroid metabolites may be also synthesized in the CNS from the steroid precursors or directly transported through BBB from the periphery. The processes mentioned above may be complimentary in some cases. Brain synthesis may provide minimal level of neurosteroids, which are indispensable for the CNS functions. Thus, brain steroids of peripheral origin may reflect various physiological situations or even pathologies. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Some women have negative mood symptoms, caused by progestagens in hormonal contraceptives or sequential hormone therapy or by progesterone in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, which may be attributed to metabolites acting on the GABA-A receptor. The GABA system is the major inhibitory system in the adult CNS and most positive modulators of the GABA-A receptor (benzodiazepines, barbiturates, alcohol, GABA steroids), induce inhibitory (e.g. anesthetic, sedative, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic) effects. However, some individuals have adverse effects (seizures, increased pain, anxiety, irritability, aggression) upon exposure. Positive GABA-A receptor modulators induce strong paradoxical effects including negative mood in 3%-8% of those exposed, while up to 25% have moderate symptoms. The effect is biphasic: low concentrations induce an adverse anxiogenic effect while higher concentrations decrease this effect and show inhibitory, calming properties. The prevalence of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is also 3%-8% among women in fertile ages, and up to 25% have more moderate symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Patients with PMDD have severe luteal phase-related symptoms and show changes in GABA-A receptor sensitivity and GABA concentrations. Findings suggest that negative mood symptoms in women with PMDD are caused by the paradoxical effect of allopregnanolone mediated via the GABA-A receptor, which may be explained by one or more of three hypotheses regarding the paradoxical effect of GABA steroids on behavior: (1) under certain conditions, such as puberty, the relative fraction of certain GABA-A receptor subtypes may be altered, and at those subtypes the GABA steroids may act as negative modulators in contrast to their usual role as positive modulators; (2) in certain brain areas of vulnerable women the transmembrane Cl(-) gradient may be altered by factors such as estrogens that favor excitability; (3) inhibition of inhibitory neurons may promote disinhibition, and hence excitability. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Neurosteroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), pregnenolone (PREG), and their sulfates (DHEAS and PREGS) display multiple effects on the central nervous system. Specifically, neurosteroids have various functions associated with neuroprotection, response to stress, mood regulation, and cognitive performance. In addition, neurosteroid levels are altered in stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders. This review focuses on the alterations of these neurosteroids in schizophrenia and on their association with clinical and neurocognitive manifestations. As described henceforth, findings from clinical studies have revealed that PREG, DHEA, and their sulfates might be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, and in some of its manifestations. Clinical trials for the evaluation of these neurosteroids face challenges in terms of experimental design, dosing strategy, data analysis, and interpretation. The review concludes with a list of suggested topics for future research. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Gonadal hormones are known to influence the regulation of emotional responses and affective states. Whereas fluctuations in progesterone and estradiol are associated with increased vulnerability for mood disorders, testosterone is mainly associated with social dominance, aggressive, and antisocial behavior. Here, we review recent functional neuroimaging studies that have started to elucidate how these hormones modulate the neural circuitry that is important for emotion regulation, which includes the amygdala and the medial prefrontal (mPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). The amygdala is thought to generate emotional responses, and the prefrontal brain regions to regulate those responses. Overall, studies that have investigated women during different phases of the menstrual cycle suggest that progesterone and estradiol may have opposing actions on the amygdala and prefrontal cortex. In addition, the influence of exogenous progesterone appears to be dose-dependent. Endogenous testosterone concentrations are generally positively correlated to amygdala and OFC responses, and exogenous testosterone increases amygdala reactivity. Whereas the administration of progesterone increases amygdala reactivity and its connectivity with the mPFC, testosterone administration increases amygdala reactivity but decreases its connectivity with the OFC. We propose that this opposing influence on amygdala-prefrontal coupling may contribute to the divergent effects of progesterone and testosterone on emotion regulation and behavioral inhibition, respectively, which may promote the differential vulnerability to various psychiatric disorders between women and men. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Steroid hormones (e.g. estrogens, androgens, progestagens) which are synthesized de novo or metabolized within the CNS are called neurosteroids. There is substantial evidence from animal studies suggesting that these steroids can affect brain function by modulating neurotransmission, and influence neuronal survival, neuronal and glial differentiation and myelination in the CNS by regulating gene expression of neurotrophic factors and anti-inflammatory molecules. Indeed, evidence is emerging that expression of the enzymes responsible for the synthesis of neurosteroids changes in neurodegenerative diseases. Some of these changes may contribute to the pathology, while others, conversely, may represent an attempted rescue program in the diseased brain. Here we review the data on changes in neurosteroid levels and neurosteroid synthesis pathways in the human brain in three neurodegenerative conditions, Alzheimers's (AD) and Parkinson's (PD) diseases and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and the extent to which these findings may implicate protective or pathological roles for neurosteroids in the course of these diseases.Some neurosteroids can modulate neurotransmitter activity, for example, the pregnane steroids allopregnanolone and 35-tetrahydro-deoxycorticosterone which are potent positive allosteric modulators of ionotropic GABA-A receptors. Therefore, neurosteroid-modulated GABA-A receptor subunit alterations found in AD and PD will also be discussed. These data imply an involvement of neurosteroid changes in the neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory processes and suggest that they may deserve further investigation as potential therapeutic agents in AD, PD and MS. Finally, suggestions for therapeutic strategies will be included. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Despite decades of laboratory research and clinical trials, a safe and effective treatment for traumatic brain injury has yet to reach clinical practice. The failure is due in part to the prevalence of a reductionist philosophy and research praxis that targets a single receptor mechanism, gene, or brain locus. This approach fails to account for the fact that traumatic brain injury is a very complex disease caused by a cascade of systemic toxic events in the brain and throughout the body. Attention is now turning to pleiotropic drugs that act on multiple genomic, proteomic, and metabolic pathways to enhance morphological and functional outcomes after brain injury. Of the agents now in clinical trial, the neurosteroid progesterone appears to hold considerable promise. Many still assume that progesterone is &quot;just a female hormone&quot; with limited, if any, neuroprotective properties, but this view is outdated. This review will survey the evidence that progesterone has salient pleiotropic properties as a neuroprotective agent in a variety of central nervous system injury models. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Several studies have shown that fluctuating levels of sex hormones (estrogen and progesterone) can affect fundamental principles of brain organization, including functional cerebral asymmetries (FCAs) and interhemispheric interactions. The majority of findings come from studies investigating younger women tested during distinct hormonal phases of the menstrual cycle, an approach that does not necessarily allow for conclusions about the causal relationship between hormonal changes and functional brain organization. An alternative approach is to manipulate the hormonal status of participants directly. This research focuses on the effects of hormone therapy (HT) on FCAs and interhemispheric interactions in postmenopausal women. Functional brain organization was tested in postmenopausal women using either estrogen therapy or combined estrogen plus gestagen therapy. The results are then compared to age- and IQ-matched postmenopausal women not taking HT. The results indicate HT-related modulations in both FCAs and interhemispheric interaction. In contrast to normally cycling women, however, it seems that HT, and especially estrogen therapy, after menopause affects intrahemispheric processing rather than interhemispheric crosstalk. The findings indicate a faster and more pronounced age-related decline in intrahemispheric relative to interhemispheric processing which seems to be accompanied by a higher sensitivity to HT. Aging processes together with differences in the hormonal status (exogenous changes as a result of HT vs. endogenous changes during the menstrual cycle) may also explain divergent (cognitive) behavioral outcomes in postmenopausal women and younger women. Taken together, the findings suggest that the female brain retains its plasticity even after reproductive age and remains susceptible to the effects of sex hormones throughout the lifetime. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
In the past decades considerable evidence has emerged that so-called neuroactive steroids do not only act as transcriptional factors in the regulation of gene expression but may also alter neuronal excitability through interactions with specific neurotransmitter receptors such as the GABA(A) receptor. In particular, 3-reduced neuroactive steroids such as allopregnanolone or allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone have been shown to act as positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(A) receptor and to play an important role in the pathophysiology of depression and anxiety. During depression, the concentrations of 3,5-tetrahydroprogesterone and 3,5-tetrahydroprogesterone are decreased, while the levels of 3,5-tetrahydroprogesterone, a stereoisomer of 3,5-tetrahydroprogesterone, which may act as an antagonist for GABAergic steroids, are increased. Antidepressant drugs such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or mirtazapine apparently have an impact on key enzymes of neurosteroidogenesis and have been shown to normalize the disequilibrium of neuroactive steroids in depression by increasing 3-reduced pregnane steroids and decreasing 3,5-tetrahydroprogesterone. Moreover, 3-reduced neuroactive steroids have been demonstrated to possess antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects both in animal and human studies for themselves. In addition, the translacator protein (18 kDa) (TSPO), previously called peripheral benzodiazepine receptor, is the key element of the mitochondrial import machinery supplying the substrate cholesterol to the first steroidogenic enzyme (P450scc), which transforms cholesterol into pregnenolone, the precursor of all neurosteroids. TSPO ligands increase neurosteroidogenesis and are a target of novel anxiolytic drugs producing anxiolytic effects without causing the side effects normally associated with conventional benzodiazepines such as sedation or tolerance. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common neurodegenerative disease associated with aging, is still an incurable condition. Although in vitro evidence strongly indicates that estrogens exert neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects, the role of this class of hormones in the treatment of AD is still a debated issue. In 2000 a new gene, named seladin-1 (for SELective Alzheimer's Disease INdicator-1), was identified and found to be down regulated in vulnerable brain regions in AD. Seladin-1 was considered a novel neuroprotective factor, because of its anti-apoptotic activity. Subsequently, it was demonstrated that seladin-1 has also enzymatic activity [3--hydroxysterol delta-24-reductase, (DHCR24)], which catalyzes the synthesis of cholesterol from desmosterol. The amount of membrane cholesterol may play an important role both in protecting neuronal cells against toxic insults and in inhibiting the production of -amyloid. We demonstrated that seladin-1 overexpression increases the amount of membrane cholesterol and induces resistance against -amyloid aggregates in neuroblastoma cells, whereas a specific inhibitor of DHCR24 increased cell vulnerability. We also hypothesized that seladin-1 might be a mediator of the neuroprotective effects of estrogens. We first demonstrated that, in human fetal neuroepithelial cells (FNC), 17-estradiol, raloxifene, and tamoxifen exert protective effects against -amyloid toxicity and oxidative stress. In addition, these molecules significantly increased the expression of seladin-1 and the amount of cell cholesterol. Then, we showed that, upon seladin-1 silencing, the protective effects of estrogens were abolished, thus indicating this factor as a fundamental mediator of estrogen-mediated neuroprotection, at least in FNC cells. Furthermore, we detected the presence of functionally active half-palindromic estrogen responsive elements upstream the coding region of the seladin-1 gene. Overall, our results indicate that seladin-1 may be viewed as a multi-faceted protein, which conjugates both the neuroprotective properties of estrogens and the important functions of cholesterol in maintaining brain homeostasis. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Puberty is an important period during development hallmarked by increases in sex steroid levels. Human neuroimaging studies have consistently reported that in typically developing pubertal children, cortical and subcortical gray matter is decreasing, whereas white matter increases well into adulthood. From animal studies it has become clear that sex steroids are capable of influencing brain organization, both during the prenatal period as well as during other periods characterized by massive sex steroid changes such as puberty. Here we review structural neuroimaging studies and show that the changes in sex steroids availability during puberty and adolescence might trigger a period of structural reorganization of grey and white matter in the developing human brain. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Estradiol biosynthesis is catalyzed by the enzyme aromatase, the product of the CYP19A1 gene. Aromatase is expressed in the brain, where it is involved not only in the control of neuroendocrine events and reproduction, but also in the regulation of neural development, synaptic plasticity and cell survival. In this review we summarize the existing data related with the detection of aromatase in human brain, with particular emphasis in the so-called &quot;non-primary reproductive&quot; areas. Besides hypothalamus, amygdala and preoptic/septal areas, aromatase is expressed in certain regions of basal forebrain, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, cerebellum and brainstem of the human brain. Aromatase in human brain is produced by neurons, but there is also an astrocyte subpopulation that constitutively expresses the enzyme. The use of different methodological approaches, including the in vivo analysis by positron emission tomography of human subjects, has permitted to draw a general map of human brain aromatase, but the detailed distribution map is still far to be completed. On the other hand, despite the fact that there is only one aromatase protein, there are multiple mRNA transcripts that differ in the 5'-untranslated region, where regulatory elements reside. To date, some of the aromatase transcripts characteristic of cerebral cortex, as well as of human cell lines of neural origin, have been identified. This characteristic may confer tissue or even region-specific regulation of the expression and therefore it is conceivable to develop selective aromatase modulators to regulate the expression of the enzyme in the human brain. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroactive Steroids: Focus on Human Brain.
Polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases are a group of nine neurodegenerative disorders caused by an unstable CAG expansion in the codifying region of their respective associated genes. However, each polyQ disease displays a different symptomatic and pathoanatomic profile and the proteins involved share no homology outside the polyQ tract. This suggests that the other regions of the proteins and the cellular functions they mediate are important in defining disease progression and specificity. Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), the most common form of spinocerebellar ataxia worldwide, is a progressive and ultimately fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by polyQ expansion in ataxin-3 (atx3), a conserved and ubiquitous protein known to bind polyubiquitin chains and to function as a deubiquitinating enzyme. Atx3 has been linked to protein homeostasis maintenance, transcription, cytoskeleton regulation and myogenesis, but its precise biologic function remains a mystery, limiting the understanding of the mechanisms by which the mutated protein leads to the selective neuronal death profile observed in MJD patients. A number of recent evidence support the idea that the toxic entities behind neuronal demise may be either the dysfunctional expanded atx3 or the soluble amyloid-like oligomers formed by self-assembly of the aggregation-prone mutated protein. Expanded atx3 pathogenicity is likely the result of a series of events implicating both atx3 dysfunction and aggregation, possibly involving both full-length atx3 and polyQ-containing fragments that may act as seeds for protein aggregation. A deeper understanding of polyQ protein biology, the way the expansion alters their features, and the consequences of these changes for cell functioning and survival are sure to be of critical importance for developing future treatment of polyQ diseases.
Inflammation protects from dangerous stimuli, restoring normal tissue homeostasis. Inflammatory response in the nervous system (&quot;neuroinflammation&quot;) has distinct features, which are shared in several diseases. The retina is an immune-privileged site, and the tight balance of immune reaction can be disrupted and lead to age-related macular disease (AMD) and to its peculiar sign, the druse. Excessive activation of inflammatory and immunological cascade with subsequent induction of damage, persistent activation of resident immune cells, accumulation of byproducts that exceeds the normal capacity of clearance giving origin to a chronic local inflammation, alterations in the activation of the complement system, infiltration of macrophages, T-lymphocytes and mast-cells from the bloodstream, participate in the mechanisms which originate the drusen. In addition, aging of the retina and AMD involve also para-inflammation, by which immune cells react to persistent stressful stimuli generating low-grade inflammation, aimed at restoring function and maintaining tissue homeostasis by varying the set point in relation to the new altered conditions. This mechanism is also seen in the normal aging retina, but, in the presence of noxious stimuli as in AMD, it can become chronic and have an adverse outcome. Finally, autophagy may provide new insights to understand AMD pathology, due to its contribution in the removal of defective proteins. Therefore, the AMD retina can represent a valuable model to study neuroinflammation, its mechanisms and therapy in a restricted and controllable environment. Targeting these pathways could represent a new way to treat and prevent both exudative and dry forms of AMD.

A series of experiments investigated the extent to which the spatial orientation of a signal line affects discrimination of its trajectory from the random trajectories of background noise lines. The orientation of the signal line was either parallel (iso-) or orthogonal (ortho-) to its motion direction and it was identical in all respects to the noise (orientation, length and speed) except for its motion direction, rendering the signal line indistinguishable from the noise on a frame-to-frame basis. We found that discrimination of ortho-trajectories was generally better than iso-trajectories. Discrimination of ortho-trajectories was largely immune to the effects of spatial jitter in the trajectory, and to variations in step size and line-length. Discrimination of iso-trajectories was reliable provided that step-size was not too short and did not exceed line length, and that the trajectory was straight. The new result that trajectory discrimination in moving line elements is modulated by line orientation suggests that ortho- and iso-trajectory discrimination rely upon two distinct mechanisms: iso-motion discrimination involves a 'motion-streak' process that combines motion information with information about orientation parallel to the motion trajectory, while ortho-motion discrimination involves extended trajectory facilitation in a network of receptive fields with orthogonal orientation tuning.


Inhibitory interneurons constitute 20% of auditory cortical cells and are essential for shaping sensory processing. Connectivity patterns of interneurons in relation to functional organization principles are not well understood. We contrasted the connection patterns of parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells in two functionally distinct cortical regions: the tonotopic, narrowly frequency-tuned module [central narrow band (cNB)] of cat central primary auditory cortex (AI) and the nontonotopic, broadly tuned second auditory field (AII). Interneuronal connectivity patterns and laminar distribution were identified by combining a retrograde tracer (wheat-germ agglutinin apo-horseradish peroxidase colloidal gold) with labeling of the Ca(2+) binding protein parvalbumin (Pv), a marker for the GABAergic interneurons usually described physiologically as fast-spiking neurons. In AI, parvalbumin-positive (Pv+) cells constituted 13% of the retrograde labeled cells in the immediate vicinity of the injection site, compared to 10% in AII. The retrograde labeling of Pv+ cells along isofrequency countours was confined to the cNB. The spatial spread of labeled excitatory neurons in AI was more than twice that found for Pv+ cells. By contrast, in the AII, the spread of Pv+ cells was nearly equal to that of excitatory neurons. The retrograde labeling of Pv+ cells was anisotropic in AI and isotropic in AII. This demonstration of inhibitory networks in auditory cortex reveals that the connections of cat GABAergic AI and AII cells follow different anatomical plans and thus contribute differently to the shaping of neural response properties. The finding that local connectivity of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in AI is closely aligned with spectral integration properties demonstrates the critical role of inhibition in creating distinct processing modules in AI.
Human episodic memory is supported by networks of white matter tracts that connect frontal, temporal, and parietal regions. Degradation of white matter microstructure is increasingly recognized as a general mechanism of cognitive deterioration with aging. However, atrophy of gray matter regions also occurs and, to date, the potential role of specific white matter connections has been largely ignored. Changes to frontotemporal tracts may be important for the decline of episodic memory; while frontotemporal cooperation is known to be critical, the precise pathways of interaction are unknown. Diffusion-weighted MRI tractography was used to reconstruct three candidate fasciculi known to link components of memory networks: the fornix, the parahippocampal cingulum, and the uncinate fasciculus. Age-related changes in the microstructure of these tracts were investigated in 40 healthy older adults between the ages of 53 and 93 years. The relationships between aging, microstructure, and episodic memory were assessed for each individual tract. Age-related reductions of mean fractional anisotropy and/or increased mean diffusivity were found in all three tracts. However, age-related decline in recall was specifically associated with degradation of fornix microstructure, consistent with the view that this tract is important for episodic memory. In contrast, a decline in uncinate fasciculus microstructure was linked to impaired error monitoring in a visual object-location association task, echoing the effects of uncinate transection in monkeys. These results suggest that degradation of microstructure in the fornix and the uncinate fasciculus make critical but differential contributions to the mechanisms underlying age-related cognitive decline and subserve distinct components of memory.
There is a growing consensus in behavioral neuroscience that the brain makes simple choices by first assigning a value to the options under consideration and then comparing them. Two important open questions are whether the brain encodes absolute or relative value signals, and what role attention might play in these computations. We investigated these questions using a human fMRI experiment with a binary choice task in which the fixations to both stimuli were exogenously manipulated to control for the role of visual attention in the valuation computation. We found that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the ventral striatum encoded fixation-dependent relative value signals: activity in these areas correlated with the difference in value between the attended and the unattended items. These attention-modulated relative value signals might serve as the input of a comparator system that is used to make a choice.
Valproic acid (VPA) is among the most teratogenic of commonly prescribed anticonvulsants, increasing the risk in humans of major malformations and impaired cognitive development. Likewise, rats exposed prenatally to VPA exhibit a variety of neuroanatomical and behavioral abnormalities. Previous work has shown that pyramidal neuron physiology in young VPA-exposed animals is marked by two strong abnormalities: an impairment in intrinsic neuronal excitability and an increase in NMDA synaptic currents. In this study, we investigated these abnormalities across postnatal development using whole-cell patch recordings from layer 2/3 neurons of medial prefrontal cortex. We found that both abnormalities were at a peak soon after birth but were gradually corrected as animals matured, to the extent that normal excitability and NMDA currents had been restored by early adolescence. The manner in which this correction happened suggested coordination between the two processes. Using computational models fitted to the physiological data, we argue that the two abnormalities trade off against each other, with the effects on network activity of the one balancing the effects of the other. This may constitute part of the nervous system's homeostatic response to teratogenic insult: an attempt to maintain stability despite a strong challenge.
Neurophysiological studies suggest that clozapine may facilitate -aminobutyric acid (GABAergic) neurotransmission. Therefore, we studied the interaction between clozapine and the GABAB receptor (GABABR). We showed that clozapine, and not N-desmethylclozapine, which is a metabolite of clozapine, increased the binding of the GABABR antagonist, [H]-CGP54626A, at GABABRs. Linear regression analysis showed that the correlation between the dose of clozapine and the increase of [H]-CGP54626A binding was significant. The curve of specific [H]-CGP54626A binding in competition with different concentrations of GABA was left shifted in the presence of clozapine. With HEK293 cells overexpressing GABABR, we showed that clozapine had a significant increase of [H]-CGP54626A binding at GABABR1 subunit, which provided a clue of the potential therapeutic target of clozapine.

Dendrites and axons show precise targeting and spacing patterns for proper reception and transmission of information in the nervous system. Self-avoidance promotes complete territory coverage and nonoverlapping spacing between processes from the same cell [1, 2]. Neurons that lack Drosophila Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule 1 (Dscam1) show aberrant overlap, fasciculation, and accumulation of dendrites and axons, demonstrating a role in self-recognition and repulsion leading to self-avoidance [3-11]. Fasciculation and accumulation of processes suggested that Dscam1 might promote process spacing by counterbalancing developmental signals that otherwise promote self-association [9, 12]. Here we show that Dscam1 functions to counter Drosophila sensory neuron dendritic targeting signals provided by secreted Netrin-B and Frazzled, a netrin receptor. Loss of Dscam1 function resulted in aberrant dendrite accumulation at a Netrin-B-expressing target, whereas concomitant loss of Frazzled prevented accumulation and caused severe deficits in dendritic territory coverage. Netrin misexpression was sufficient to induce ectopic dendritic targeting in a Frazzled-dependent manner, whereas Dscam1 was required to prevent ectopic accumulation, consistent with separable roles for these receptors. Our results suggest that Dscam1-mediated self-avoidance counters extrinsic signals that are required for normal dendritic patterning, but whose action would otherwise favor neurite accumulation. Counterbalancing roles for Dscam1 may be deployed in diverse contexts during neural circuit formation.
Drosophila neural stem cells, larval brain neuroblasts (NBs), align their mitotic spindles along the apical/basal axis during asymmetric cell division (ACD) to maintain the balance of self-renewal and differentiation. Here, we identified a protein complex composed of the tumor suppressor anastral spindle 2 (Ana2), a dynein light-chain protein Cut up (Ctp), and Mushroom body defect (Mud), which regulates mitotic spindle orientation. We isolated two ana2 alleles that displayed spindle misorientation and NB overgrowth phenotypes in larval brains. The centriolar protein Ana2 anchors Ctp to centrioles during ACD. The centriolar localization of Ctp is important for spindle orientation. Ana2 and Ctp localize Mud to the centrosomes and cell cortex and facilitate/maintain the association of Mud with Pins at the apical cortex. Our findings reveal that the centrosomal proteins Ana2 and Ctp regulate Mud function toorient the mitotic spindle during NB asymmetric division.
Directed membrane trafficking is believed to be crucial for axon development during neuronal morphogenesis. However, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we report a role of Lgl1, the mammalian homolog of Drosophila tumor suppressor Lethal giant larvae, in controlling membrane trafficking underlying axonal growth. We find that Lgl1 is associated with plasmalemmal precursor vesicles and enriched in developing axons. Lgl1 upregulation promoted axonal growth, whereas downregulation attenuated it as well as directional membrane insertion. Interestingly, Lgl1 interacted with and activated Rab10, a small GTPase that mediates membrane protein trafficking, by releasing GDP dissociation inhibitor (GDI) from Rab10. Furthermore, Rab10 lies downstream of Lgl1 in axon development and directional membrane insertion. Finally, both Lgl1 and Rab10 are required for neocortical neuronal polarization invivo. Thus, the Lgl1 regulation of Rab10 stimulates the trafficking of membrane precursor vesicles, whose fusion with the plasmalemma is crucial for axonal growth.


Stereopsis, the perception of depth based on the disparity of the images projected to the retinas of the two eyes, is an important process in our three-dimensional world; however, 3-5% of the population is stereoblind or has seriously impaired stereovision. Here we provide evidence for the recovery of stereopsis through perceptual learning, the repetitive practice of a demanding visual task, in human adults long deprived of normal binocular vision. We used a training paradigm that combines monocular cues that were correlated perfectly with the disparity cues. Following perceptual learning (thousands of trials) with stereoscopic gratings, five adults who initially were stereoblind or stereoanomalous showed substantial recovery of stereopsis, both on psychophysical tests with stimuli that contained no monocular cues and on clinical testing. They reported that depth &quot;popped out&quot; in daily life, and enjoyed 3D movies for the first time. After training, stereo tests with dynamic random-dot stereograms and band-pass noise revealed the properties of the recovered stereopsis: It has reduced resolution and precision, although it is based on perceiving depth by detecting binocular disparity. We conclude that some human adults deprived of normal binocular vision can recover stereopsis at least partially.
Forward genetic screens have been highly successful in revealing roles of genes and pathways in complex biological events. Traditionally these screens have focused on isolating mutants with the greatest phenotypic deviance, with the hopes of discovering genes that are central to the biological event being investigated. Behavioral screens in mice typically use simple activity-based assays as endophenotypes for more complex emotional states of the animal. They generally set the selection threshold for a putative mutant at 3 SDs (z score of 3) from the average behavior of normal animals to minimize false-positive results. Behavioral screens using a high threshold for detection have generally had limited success, with high false-positive rates and subtle phenotypic differences that have made mapping and cloning difficult. In addition, targeted reverse genetic approaches have shown that when genes central to behaviors such as open field behavior, psychostimulant response, and learning and memory tasks are mutated, they produce subtle phenotypes that differ from wild-type animals by 1 to 2 SDs (z scores of 1 to 2). We have conducted a second-generation (G2) dominant N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) screen especially designed to detect subtle behavioral mutants for open field activity and psychostimulant response behaviors. We successfully detect mutant lines with only 1 to 2 SD shifts in mean response compared with wild-type control animals and present a robust statistical and methodological framework for conducting such forward genetic screens. Using this methodology we have screened 229 ENU mutant lines and have identified 15 heritable mutant lines. We conclude that for screens in mice that use activity-based endophenotypic measurements for complex behavioral states, this G2 screening approach yields better results.
Autism and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) typically arise from a mixture of environmental influences and multiple genetic alterations. In some rare cases, such as Timothy syndrome (TS), a specific mutation in a single gene can be sufficient to generate autism or ASD in most patients, potentially offering insights into the etiology of autism in general. Both variants of TS (the milder TS1 and the more severe TS2) arise from missense mutations in alternatively spliced exons that cause the same G406R replacement in the Ca(V)1.2 L-type calcium channel. We generated a TS2-like mouse but found that heterozygous (and homozygous) animals were not viable. However, heterozygous TS2 mice that were allowed to keep an inverted neomycin cassette (TS2-neo) survived through adulthood. We attribute the survival to lowering of expression of the G406R L-type channel via transcriptional interference, blunting deleterious effects of mutant L-type channel overactivity, and addressed potential effects of altered gene dosage by studying Ca(V)1.2 knockout heterozygotes. Here we present a thorough behavioral phenotyping of the TS2-neo mouse, capitalizing on this unique opportunity to use the TS mutation to model ASD in mice. Along with normal general health, activity, and anxiety level, TS2-neo mice showed markedly restricted, repetitive, and perseverative behavior, altered social behavior, altered ultrasonic vocalization, and enhanced tone-cued and contextual memory following fear conditioning. Our results suggest that when TS mutant channels are expressed at levels low enough to avoid fatality, they are sufficient to cause multiple, distinct behavioral abnormalities, in line with the core aspects of ASD.
Fetal hypoxia is a common risk factor that has been associated with a range of CNS disorders including epilepsy, schizophrenia, and autism. Cellular and molecular mechanisms through which hypoxia may damage the developing brain are incompletely understood but are likely to involve disruption of the laminar organization of the cerebral cortex. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive lipid capable of cortical influences via one or more of six cognate G protein-coupled receptors, LPA(1-6), several of which are enriched in fetal neural progenitor cells (NPCs). Here we report that fetal hypoxia induces cortical disruption via increased LPA(1) signaling involving stereotyped effects on NPCs: N-cadherin disruption, displacement of mitotic NPCs, and impaired neuronal migration, as assessed both ex vivo and in vivo. Importantly, genetic removal or pharmacological inhibition of LPA(1) prevented the occurrence of these hypoxia-induced phenomena. Hypoxia resulted in overactivation of LPA(1) through selective inhibition of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 expression and activation of downstream pathways including G(i) and Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1. These data identify stereotyped and selective hypoxia-induced cerebral cortical disruption requiring LPA(1) signaling, inhibition of which can reduce or prevent disease-associated sequelae, and may take us closer to therapeutic treatment of fetal hypoxia-induced CNS disorders and possibly other forms of hypoxic injury.
Single cortical neurons in the mammalian brain receive signals arising from multiple sensory input channels. Dendritic integration of these afferent signals is critical in determining the amplitude and time course of the neurons' output signals. As of yet, little is known about the spatial and temporal organization of converging sensory inputs. Here, we combined in vivo two-photon imaging with whole-cell recordings in layer 2 neurons of the mouse vibrissal cortex as a means to analyze the spatial pattern of subthreshold dendritic calcium signals evoked by the stimulation of different whiskers. We show that the principle whisker and the surrounding whiskers can evoke dendritic calcium transients in the same neuron. Distance-dependent attenuation of dendritic calcium transients and the corresponding subthreshold depolarization suggest feed-forward activation. We found that stimulation of different whiskers produced multiple calcium hotspots on the same dendrite. Individual hotspots were activated with low probability in a stochastic manner. We show that these hotspots are generated by calcium signals arising in dendritic spines. Some spines were activated uniquely by single whiskers, but many spines were activated by multiple whiskers. These shared spines indicate the existence of presynaptic feeder neurons that integrate and transmit activity arising from multiple whiskers. Despite the dendritic overlap of whisker-specific and shared inputs, different whiskers are represented by a unique set of activation patterns within the dendritic field of each neuron.
Human song exhibits great structural diversity, yet certain aspects of melodic shape (how pitch is patterned over time) are widespread. These include a predominance of arch-shaped and descending melodic contours in musical phrases, a tendency for phrase-final notes to be relatively long, and a bias toward small pitch movements between adjacent notes in a melody [Huron D (2006) Sweet Anticipation: Music and the Psychology of Expectation (MIT Press, Cambridge, MA)]. What is the origin of these features? We hypothesize that they stem from motor constraints on song production (i.e., the energetic efficiency of their underlying motor actions) rather than being innately specified. One prediction of this hypothesis is that any animals subject to similar motor constraints on song will exhibit similar melodic shapes, no matter how distantly related those animals are to humans. Conversely, animals who do not share similar motor constraints on song will not exhibit convergent melodic shapes. Birds provide an ideal case for testing these predictions, because their peripheral mechanisms of song production have both notable similarities and differences from human vocal mechanisms [Riede T, Goller F (2010) Brain Lang 115:69-80]. We use these similarities and differences to make specific predictions about shared and distinct features of human and avian song structure and find that these predictions are confirmed by empirical analysis of diverse human and avian song samples.
Glutamate transporters clear synaptically released glutamate to maintain precise communication between neurons and limit glutamate neurotoxicity. Although much progress has been made on the topology, structure, and function of these carriers, few studies have addressed large-scale structural motions collectively associated with substrate transport. Here we show that a series of single cysteine substitutions in the helical hairpin HP2 of excitatory amino acid transporter 1 form intersubunit disulfide cross-links within the trimer. After cross-linking, substrate uptake, but not substrate-activated anion conductance, is completely inhibited in these mutants. These disulfide bridges link residue pairs &gt; 40  apart in the outward-facing crystal structure, and can be explained by concerted subunit movements predicted by the anisotropic network model (ANM). The existence of these global motions is further supported by the observation that single cysteine substitutions at the extracellular part of the transmembrane domain 8 can also be cross-linked by copper phenanthroline as predicted by the ANM. Interestingly, the transport domain in the un-cross-linked subunit of the trimer assumes an inward-facing orientation, suggesting that individual subunits potentially undergo separate transitions between outward- and inward-facing forms, rather than an all-or-none transition of the three subunits, a mechanism also supported by ANM-predicted intrinsic dynamics. These results shed light on how large collective motions contribute to the functional dynamics of glutamate transporters.
This paper aims to bridge progress in neuroscience involving sophisticated quantitative analysis of behavior, including the use of robust control, with other relevant conceptual and theoretical frameworks from systems engineering, systems biology, and mathematics. Familiar and accessible case studies are used to illustrate concepts of robustness, organization, and architecture (modularity and protocols) that are central to understanding complex networks. These essential organizational features are hidden during normal function of a system but are fundamental for understanding the nature, design, and function of complex biologic and technologic systems.
This article considers visual perception, the nature of the information on which perceptions seem to be based, and the implications of a wholly empirical concept of perception and sensory processing for vision science. Evidence from studies of lightness, brightness, color, form, and motion all indicate that, because the visual system cannot access the physical world by means of retinal light patterns as such, what we see cannot and does not represent the actual properties of objects or images. The phenomenology of visual perceptions can be explained, however, in terms of empirical associations that link images whose meanings are inherently undetermined to their behavioral significance. Vision in these terms requires fundamentally different concepts of what we see, why, and how the visual system operates.
Higher brain function depends on task-dependent information flow between cortical regions. Converging lines of evidence suggest that interactions between cortical regions and the central thalamus play a key role in establishing the dynamic patterns of functional connectivity that normally support these processes. In patients with chronic disturbances of cognitive function due to severe brain injury, dysfunction of this circuitry likely plays a crucial role in pathogenesis. However, assaying thalamocortical interactions is challenging even in healthy subjects and more so in severely impaired patients. To approach this problem, we apply a dynamical-systems approach to motivate an analysis of the electroencephalogram (EEG). We begin with a model for a single thalamocortical module [Robinson PA, Rennie CJ, Rowe DL (2002) Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 65:041924; Robinson PA, Rennie CJ, Wright JJ, Bourke PD (1998) Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 58:3557-3571]. When two such modules interact via shared thalamic inhibition, multistable behavior emerges; each mode is characterized by a different pattern of coherence between cortical regions. This observation suggests that changing patterns of cortical coherence are a hallmark of normal thalamocortical dynamics. In a preliminary study, we test this idea by analyzing the EEG of a patient with chronic brain injury, who has a marked improvement in behavior and frontal brain metabolism in response to zolpidem. The analysis shows that following zolpidem administration, changing patterns of coherence are identified between the frontal lobes and between frontal and distant brain regions. These observations support the role of the central thalamus in the organization of patterns of cortical interactions and suggest how indexes of thalamocortical dynamics can be extracted from the EEG.

Ongoing epidemiological studies estimate that greater than 60% of the adult US population may be categorized as either overweight or obese. There is a growing appreciation that the complications of obesity extend to the central nervous system (CNS) and may result in increased risk for neurological co-morbidities like depressive illness. One potential mechanistic mediator linking obesity and depressive illness is the adipocyte derived hormone leptin. We previously demonstrated that lentivirus-mediated downregulation of hypothalamic insulin receptors increases body weight, adiposity and plasma leptin levels, which is consistent with features of the metabolic syndrome. Using this novel model of obesity, we examined performance in the forced swim test (FST), the sucrose preference test and the elevated plus maze (EPM), approaches that are often used as measures of depressive-like and anxiety-like behaviors, in rats that received third ventricular injections of either an insulin receptor antisense lentivirus (hypo-IRAS) or a control lentivirus (hypo-Con). Hypo-IRAS rats exhibited significant increases in immobility time and corresponding decreases in active behaviors in the FST and exhibited anhedonia as measured by decreased sucrose intake compared to hypo-Con rats. Hypo-IRAS rats also exhibited increases in anxiety-like behaviors in the EPM. Plasma, hippocampal and amygdalar brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels were reduced in hypo-IRAS rats, suggesting that the obesity/hyperleptinemic phenotype may elicit this behavioral phenotype through modulation of neurotrophic factor expression. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis for an increased risk for mood disorders in obesity, which may be related to decreased expression of hippocampal and amygdalar BDNF.
Studies of executive control often reveal significant limitations in nonhuman primate performance relative to that of humans. In the present study, 24 socially housed baboons were tested on a computerized version of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST) to assess individual differences in executive control. In a second experiment, the same baboons completed a version of the WCST with paired-relational stimuli rather than those that varied on a single dimension to evaluate their set-shifting abilities with abstract relations (same/different). All baboons completed the required shifts on the traditional WCST, but only 12 baboons succeeded in making relational shifts. Age was found to be a significant factor in the level of success on both tasks with younger baboons (mean age 4 years) outperforming older, albeit not aged, baboons (mean age 11.5 years). These results implicate an earlier decline in executive control processes for nonhuman primates with more pronounced effects for cognitive flexibility of abstract relations.
Rats deprived of social contact with other rats at a young age experience a form of prolonged stress that leads to long-lasting changes in behavioral profile. Such isolation is thought to be anxiogenic for these normally gregarious animals, and the abnormal reactivity of isolated rats to environmental stimuli is thought to be a product of prolonged stress. We now show that isolation of rats at weaning reduced immobility time in the forced swim test, decreased sucrose intake and preference, and down-regulated both brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated protein (Arc) in the hippocampus. In the Morris water maze, isolated rats showed a reduced latency to reach the hidden platform during training, indicative of an improved learning performance, compared with group-housed rats. The cumulative search error during place training trials indicated a reliable difference between isolated and group-housed rats on days 4 and 5. The probe trial revealed a significant decrease of the average proximity to the target location in the isolated rats suggesting an improvement in spatial memory. Isolated rats also showed an increase in the plasma level of corticosterone on the 5th day of training and increased expression of BDNF and Arc in the hippocampus on both days 1 and 5. These results show that social isolation from weaning in rats results in development of depressive-like behavior but has a positive effect on spatial learning, supporting the existence of a facilitating effect of stress on cognitive function.
In humans, the hippocampus plays a critical role in the formation of episodic memories. Although non-human animals are unable to report whether they also re-experience past events, at least some birds and mammals exhibit 'episodic-like' memory characterized by an ability to recall what happened where and when. In mammals, the hippocampus interacts closely with virtually the entire neocortex to form episodic-like memories. The hippocampus receives highly processed information from high-order association areas, and thereby the rest of the neocortex. Distinct neurophysiological hippocampal rhythms (theta and sharp-wave ripples) coordinate activity between the hippocampus and high-order association areas during the encoding and retrieval of information contributing to episodic-like memories. Although recent studies have demonstrated that food hoarding birds are able to remember what food they hid where and when, neuroanatomical and neurophysiological studies suggest that there may be a fundamental difference between episodic-like memory in birds and mammals. In contrast to the mammalian hippocampus, the avian hippocampus only receives visual and olfactory input; most high-order association areas in the avian brain involved in performing functions similar to those performed by neocortical association areas do not project to the hippocampus or structures providing it with direct input. Consistent with this neuroanatomical difference, mammalian-like rhythms involved in communicating between the hippocampus and neocortical high-order association areas have not been found in birds. Collectively, this suggests that information contributing to episodic-like memory is more limited and processed in a different manner in birds when compared to mammals.
The organic pesticide rotenone is a neurotoxin suspected to cause Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms by selectively targeting and compromising the survival of dopaminergic neurons. Rotenone in rodent models reproduces key features of human PD by impairing the mitochondrial electron transport chain, leading to intracellular alpha-synuclein aggregates and functional impairments typical for PD. The present study characterized the dose-response relationship of standard rotenone concentrations in motor impairments in a rat model. Rats received a single medial forebrain bundle injection of 4, 8, or 12g of rotenone. Animals were assessed in skilled limb use, skilled and non-skilled walking and exploratory activity as well as drug-induced rotation. The results revealed rotational bias and stable impairments in skilled walking and gross motor function up to five weeks post injection. However, transient motor deficits facilitated rapid improvement of skilled reaching success. Mainly the temporal aspects of skilled and non-skilled motor performance were responsive to different rotenone concentrations. By contrast, drug-induced rotation and nigral TH+ cell loss were not influenced by different rotenone doses. Rats infused with 8g and 12g seemed to have reached a ceiling effect in motor deficits as they were not distinguishable in behavioral measures. Most strikingly, the stereological and morphological analyses revealed non-specific toxicity of vehicle and rotenone infusions that caused macroscopic lesions beyond nigral boundaries. These findings suggest that sensitivity of comprehensive motor tests to subtle modulation of dopamine function is independent of dopamine cell loss per se. Furthermore, caution is advised concerning non-specific toxicity of rotenone and vehicle substances in experimental animal models.
Exaggerated recall for fear-provoking events leads to abnormal behaviors. We hypothesized that tuberoinfundibular-peptide-of-39-residues (TIP39) modulates fear memory by limiting long-term consequences of aversive experiences. We now show that mice lacking TIP39 signaling display enhanced fear-recall, anxiety and depression-like behavior 2 weeks after a traumatic event. We suggest that TIP39 modulates long-term fear recall and that mice lacking TIP39 or its receptor are tools for investigating fear-related psychopathologies.

Upon retrieval, fear memories are rendered labile and prone to modification, necessitating a restabilization process of reconsolidation to persist further. This process is also crucial for modulating both strength and content of an existing memory and forms a promising therapeutic target for fear-related disorders. However, the molecular and cellular mechanism of adaptive reconsolidation still remains obscure. Here we show that retrieval of fear memory induces a biphasic temporal change in GluA2-containing AMPA-type glutamate receptor (AMPAR) membrane expression and synaptic strength in the mouse dorsal hippocampus. Blockade of retrieval-induced, regulated, GluA2-dependent endocytosis enhanced subsequent expression of fear. In addition, this blockade prevented the loss of fear response after reconsolidation-update of fear memory content in the long-term. Thus, endocytosis of GluA2-containing AMPARs allows plastic changes at the synaptic level that exerts an inhibitory constraint on memory strengthening and underlies the loss of fear response by reinterpretation of memory content during adaptive reconsolidation.
The range of natural inputs encoded by a neuron often exceeds its dynamic range. To overcome this limitation, neural populations divide their inputs among different cell classes, as with rod and cone photoreceptors, and adapt by shifting their dynamic range. We report that the dynamic behavior of retinal ganglion cells in salamanders, mice and rabbits is divided into two opposing forms of short-term plasticity in different cell classes. One population of cells exhibited sensitization-a persistent elevated sensitivity following a strong stimulus. This newly observed dynamic behavior compensates for the information loss caused by the known process of adaptation occurring in a separate cell population. The two populations divide the dynamic range of inputs, with sensitizing cells encoding weak signals and adapting cells encoding strong signals. In the two populations, the linear, threshold and adaptive properties are linked to preserve responsiveness when stimulus statistics change, with one population maintaining the ability to respond when the other fails.



Behavioral studies show that no-longer-relevant information, although presumably removed from working memory (WM), still engenders proactive interference (PI). However, the timing of selecting items within WM and resolving PI is relatively unknown. To assess this, we recorded ERPs during WM from 20 young adults. In all conditions, a 4-digit display was followed by a cue indicating which digits to remember. In the selection condition, 2 digits were cued. The reaction time difference between the intrusion probe, a match of a to-be-rejected digit, and the non-intrusion probe, which did not match any of the 4 digits, was reliable, indicating a robust effect of PI. In the neutral-2 (remember 2 digits) and -4 (remember all 4) conditions, participants maintained the digits following the cue. Relative to neutral-4, selection elicited larger positivity at parietal sites (approximately 260ms) and negativity at frontal sites (approximately 420ms). Relative to the non-intrusion probe ERP, that to the intrusion probe was more negative over frontal scalp (approximately 500ms). We conclude that initial selection occurs over parietal cortex and reflects top-down attention to task relevant items, whereas the subsequent negativity may reflect inhibition of no-longer-relevant items over frontal cortex. The probe-locked ERPs suggest that the frontal negativity (approximately 500ms) reflects the final resolution of PI.
Astrocytes respond to inflammatory stimuli and may be important modulators of the inflammatory response in the nervous system. This study aimed first to assess how astrocytes in primary culture behave in response to inflammatory stimuli concerning intracellular Ca(2+) responses, expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, actin filament organization, and expression of cytokines. In a cell culture model with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), astrocyte response was assessed first in the acute phase and then after incubation with LPS for 1-48 h. The concentration curve for LPS-stimulated Ca(2+) responses was bell-shaped, and the astrocytes expressed TLR4, which detects LPS and evokes intracellular Ca(2+) transients. After a long incubation with LPS, TLR4 was up-regulated, LPS-evoked Ca(2+) transients were expressed as oscillations, Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase was down-regulated, and the actin filaments were disorganized. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) release was increased after 24 h in LPS. A second aim was to try to restore the LPS-induced changes in astrocytes with substances that may have dose-dependent anti-inflammatory properties. Naloxone and ouabain were tested separately in ultralow or high concentrations. Both substances evoked intracellular Ca(2+) transients for all of the concentrations from 10(-15) up to 10(-4) M. Neither substance blocked the TLR4-evoked Ca(2+) responses. Naloxone and ouabain prevented the LPS-induced down-regulation of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and restored the actin filaments. Ouabain, in addition, reduced the IL-1 release from reactive astrocytes. Notably, ultralow concentrations (10(-12) M) of naloxone and ouabain showed these qualities. Ouabain seems to be more potent in these effects of the two tested substances.

Cortical layers are ubiquitous structures throughout neocortex that consist of highly recurrent local networks. In recent years, significant progress has been made in our understanding of differences in response properties of neurons in different cortical layers, yet there is still a great deal left to learn about whether and how neuronal populations encode information in a laminar-specific manner. Existing multi-electrode array techniques, although informative for measuring responses across many millimeters of cortical space along the cortical surface, are unsuitable to approach the issue of laminar cortical circuits. Here, we present our method for setting up and recording individual neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) across cortical layers of primary visual cortex (V1) utilizing multi-contact laminar electrodes (Figure 1; Plextrode U-Probe, Plexon Inc). The methods included are recording device construction, identification of cortical layers, and identification of receptive fields of individual neurons. To identify cortical layers, we measure the evoked response potentials (ERPs) of the LFP time-series using full-field flashed stimuli. We then perform current-source density (CSD) analysis to identify the polarity inversion accompanied by the sink-source configuration at the base of layer 4 (the sink is inside layer 4, subsequently referred to as granular layer). Current-source density is useful because it provides an index of the location, direction, and density of transmembrane current flow, allowing us to accurately position electrodes to record from all layers in a single penetration.
A century of neurology and neuroscience shows that seeing words depends on ventral occipital-temporal (VOT) circuitry. Typically, reading is learned using high-contrast line-contour words. We explored whether a specific VOT region, the visual word form area (VWFA), learns to see only these words or recognizes words independent of the specific shape-defining visual features. Word forms were created using atypical features (motion-dots, luminance-dots) whose statistical properties control word-visibility. We measured fMRI responses as word form visibility varied, and we used TMS to interfere with neural processing in specific cortical circuits, while subjects performed a lexical decision task. For all features, VWFA responses increased with word-visibility and correlated with performance. TMS applied to motion-specialized area hMT+ disrupted reading performance for motion-dots, but not line-contours or luminance-dots. A quantitative model describes feature-convergence in the VWFA and relates VWFA responses to behavioral performance. These findings suggest how visual feature-tolerance in the reading network arises through signal convergence from feature-specialized cortical areas.
Part of the inflammatory response in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the upregulation of the inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) resulting in increased NO production. NO contributes to cell signaling by inducing posttranslational protein modifications. Under pathological conditions there is a shift from the signal transducing actions to the formation of protein tyrosine nitration by secondary products like peroxynitrite and nitrogen dioxide. We identified amyloid  (A) as an NO target, which is nitrated at tyrosine 10 (3NTyr(10)-A). Nitration of A accelerated its aggregation and was detected in the core of A plaques of APP/PS1 mice and AD brains. NOS2 deficiency or oral treatment with the NOS2 inhibitor L-NIL strongly decreased 3NTyr(10)-A, overall A deposition and cognitive dysfunction in APP/PS1 mice. Further, injection of 3NTyr(10)-A into the brain of young APP/PS1 mice induced -amyloidosis. This suggests a disease modifying role for NOS2 in AD and therefore represents a potential therapeutic target.
Compared to the developing visual system, where neuronal plasticity has been well characterized at multiple levels, little is known about plasticity in the adult, particularly within subcortical structures. We made intraocular injections of 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB) in adult cats to block visual responses in On-center retinal ganglion cells and examined the consequences on visual responses in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus. In contrast to current views of retinogeniculate organization, which hold that On-center LGN neurons should become silent with APB, we find that 50% of On-center neurons rapidly develop Off-center responses. The time course of these emergent responses and the actions of APB in the retina indicate the plasticity occurs within the LGN. These results suggest there is greater divergence of retinogeniculate connections than previously recognized and that functionally silent, nonspecific retinal inputs can serve as a substrate for rapid plasticity in the adult.
Neural synchronization plays an important role in information flow in the nervous system under healthy and pathological conditions. In this issue of Neuron, Gittis etal. show that reorganization of striatal microcircuits promotes synchronous activity and may underlie the pathological network oscillations at the root of motor symptoms described in Parkinson's disease.
The human motor system continuously adapts to changes in the environment by comparing differences between the brain's predicted outcome of a certain behavior and the observed outcome. This discrepancy signal triggers a sensory-motor error and it is assumed that the cerebellum is a key structure in updating this error and associated feedforward commands. Using fMRI, the aim of the present study was to determine the main cerebellar structures that are involved in the processing of sensory-motor errors and in updating feedforward commands when simply catching a falling ball without displacement of the hand. Subjects only grasped the ball with their fingers when receiving it in their hand. By contrasting functional imaging signal obtained in conditions in which it was possible and impossible to predict the weight of the ball, we aimed to highlight sensory-motor error processing which we expected to be more marked in the conditions without prediction (less accurate feedforward process or more important feedback corrections) with respect to conditions with prediction (more accurate feedforward process or less important feedback corrections). When catching a falling ball and the possibility of prediction about the ball weight was manipulated, our results showed that both the right and left cerebellum is engaged in processing sensory-motor errors. It may also be involved in updating feedforward motor commands, perhaps on a trial by trial basis. In addition, when subjects were blindfolded, we observed a similar network but centered in a more anterior portion of the right cerebellum and we noted the presence of a cerebellar-thalamo-prefrontral network that may be involved in cognitive prediction (rather than sensory prediction) about ball weight.
Sleep loss strongly affects brain function and may even predispose susceptible individuals to psychiatric disorders. Since a recurrent lack of sleep frequently occurs during adolescence, it has been implicated in the rise in depression incidence during this particular period of life. One mechanism through which sleep loss may contribute to depressive symptomatology is by affecting hippocampal function. In this study, we examined the effects of sleep loss on hippocampal integrity at young age by subjecting adolescent male rats to chronic sleep restriction (SR) for 1 month from postnatal day 30 to 61. They were placed in slowly rotating drums for 20 h per day and were allowed 4 h of rest per day at the beginning of the light phase. Anxiety was measured using an open field and elevated plus maze test, while saccharine preference was used as an indication of anhedonia. All tests were performed after 1 and 4 weeks of SR. We further studied effects of SR on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity, and at the end of the experiment, brains were collected to measure hippocampal volume and neurogenesis. Behavior of the SR animals was not affected, except for a transient suppression of saccharine preference after 1 week of SR. Hippocampal volume was significantly reduced in SR rats compared to home cage and forced activity controls. This volume reduction was not paralleled by reduced levels of hippocampal neurogenesis and could neither be explained by elevated levels of glucocorticoids. Thus, our results indicate that insufficient sleep may be a causal factor in the reductions of hippocampal volume that have been reported in human sleep disorders and mood disorders. Since changes in HPA activity or neurogenesis are not causally implicated, sleep disturbance may affect hippocampal volume by other, possibly more direct mechanisms.
Diabetic cognitive dysfunction (DCD), usually accompanied with chronically elevated glucocorticoids and hippocampal astrocytic alterations, is one of the most serious complications in patients with type-1 diabetes. However, the role for chronically elevated glucocorticoids and hippocampal astrocytic activations in DCD remains to be elucidated, and it is not clear whether astrocytic N-myc downstream-regulated gene 2 (NDRG2, involved in cell differentiation and development) participated in DCD. In the present study, three months after streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type-1 diabetes onset, rats showed cognitive impairments in Morris water maze test as well as elevated corticosterone level. Diabetic rats also presented down-regulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP, a key indicator of astrocytic reactivity) and NDRG2 in hippocampus revealed by immunohistochemistry staining, real-time PCR and Western blot. Moreover, the diabetic cognitive impairments were ameliorated by 9-day glucocorticoids receptor (GR) blockade with RU486, and the down-regulation of hippocampal NDRG2 and GFAP in diabetic animals was also attenuated by 9-day GR blockade. These results suggest that glucocorticoids-GR system is crucial for DCD, and that astrocytic reactivity and NDRG2 are involved in these processes. Thus, inhibiting GR activation in the hippocampus may be a novel therapeutic strategy for treating DCD.
Narcolepsy results from disruption of orexin neurons in the hypothalamus that play a key role in maintenance of the arousal state. Underlying mechanisms leading to selective loss of orexin neurons remain unknown. On the other hand, endoplasmic reticulum stress, namely, conditions associated with impairment of endoplasmic reticulum functions such as proper folding and sorting of newly synthesized proteins, is implicated in pathogenesis of several types of neurodegenerative disorders. Here we found that application of endoplasmic reticulum stress inducers such as tunicamycin (that prevents protein N-glycosylation) and thapsigargin (that inhibits Ca-ATPase) to organotypic slice cultures of the hypothalamus caused preferential loss of orexin-immunoreactive neurons, as compared to melanin-concentrating hormone- or calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive neurons. The decrease in orexin-immunoreactive neurons at early time points (6-24 h) was not accompanied by induction of cell death as indicated by the absence of caspase-3 activation and no significant change in the number of NeuN-positive cells, whereas sustained treatment with tunicamycin for 72 h induced cell death. At 24-h treatment, tunicamycin and thapsigargin did not decrease expression of prepro-orexin mRNA, suggesting that post-transcriptional mechanisms were responsible for depletion of orexin peptides. In addition, inhibition of axonal transport by colchicine and inhibition of proteasomal activity by MG132 significantly prevented the decrease in orexin immunoreactivity by tunicamycin. Comparative examinations of expression of unfolded protein response-related proteins revealed that C/EBP-homologous protein (a transcription factor that promotes induction of apoptosis) as well as phosphorylated form of RNA-dependent protein kinase-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (a protein kinase that mediates inhibition of protein translation) was expressed more prominently in orexin neurons than in melanin-concentrating hormone neurons, in response to tunicamycin. These results indicate that orexin neurons are particularly sensitive to endoplasmic reticulum stress, which may be relevant to pathogenic events in narcolepsy.
The transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) is a key player in synaptic plasticity and learning. Phosphorylation of CREB induced by neuronal activity leads to gene transcription, a process thought to contribute to memory formation. We have previously reported that increasing CREB activity in glutamatergic CA1 pyramidal neurons or in dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells is sufficient to enhance hippocampal-dependent memory formation. This enhancement correlates with an increase in CA1 glutamatergic synaptic plasticity. However, the effects of increasing CREB activity on DG glutamatergic plasticity have not been investigated. To address this issue, we boosted CREB-dependent transcription in DG granule cells in vivo via viral mediated expression of a constitutively active form of CREB (CREBCA). Using in vitro extracellular field recordings of infected slices, we observed an increase in long-term potentiation (LTP) while short-term plasticity and basic synaptic transmission remained unaffected. These data demonstrate that boosting CREB activity in DG granule cells is sufficient to enhance LTP and suggest that this enhancement participates in the formation of better memories.
The expression and role of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) in the rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord was evaluated in the lumbar 5 ventral rhizotomy (L5 VR) model of neuropathic pain. MCP-1 protein expression in the L4/L5 DRG neurons following L5 VR peaked after 3 days, and then declined. Immunohistochemistry showed that no MCP-1 immunoreactivity was observed in the spinal cord after L5 VR, while enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) revealed a small but significant increase in MCP-1 protein content. L5 VR resulted in robust and prolonged mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Administration of anti-MCP-1 neutralizing antibody before and at early time points after L5 VR resulted in a significant attenuation of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, while post-treatment had a weaker effect on established neuropathic pain. Extensive colocalization of tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) and MCP-1 was observed in the L5 DRG following L5 VR, and treatment with TNFR1 antisense oligonucleotide reduced L5 VR-induced MCP-1 expression in L5 DRG neurons and neuropathic pain behaviors. MCP-1/chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2 signaling has been proposed as a major regulator of macrophage trafficking. In contrast to the effect on pain behaviors, however, intrathecal administration of anti-MCP-1 neutralizing antibody had no effect on the L5 VR-induced increase in ED-1-immunoreactive macrophages in the L5 DRG and the distal stump of the transected L5 ventral root. These data indicate that increased MCP-1 in DRG neurons might participate in the initiation, rather than the maintenance, of neuropathic pain induced by L5 VR. Furthermore, increased MCP-1 in the DRG is induced by TNF-/TNFR1 and has no effect on the infiltration of macrophages into the DRG following L5 VR.
Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, resulting from cerebral ischemia may be related to decreased levels of anti-apoptotic factors, such as serine/threonine kinase (Akt), phosphorylated Akt (pAkt), pBAD, and Bcl-2, and increased levels of pro-apoptotic factors, such as BAD, caspase 9, and caspase 3 activities. In this study, we investigated the effects of low-energy laser (660 nm) irradiation (LLI) on the levels and activity of various anti- and pro-apoptotic factors following ischemia. Transient cerebral ischemia was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by unilateral occlusion of the middle cerebral artery for 1 h, followed by reperfusion. LLI was then directed on the cerebrum for varying lengths of duration (1, 5, or 10 min at an energy density of 2.64 J/cm, 13.2 J/cm, and 24.6 J/cm, respectively). The expression levels of Akt, pAkt, BAD, pBAD, Bcl-2, caspase 9, and caspase 3 activities were measured 4 days after injury. The levels of Akt, pAkt, Bcl-2, and pBAD were significantly increased following laser irradiation. In addition, LLI significantly decreased caspase 9 and caspase 3 activities caused by ischemia-reperfusion. LLI may protect the brain by upregulating Akt, pAkt, pBAD, and Bcl-2 expression and downregulating caspase 9 and caspase 3 expression following transient cerebral ischemia. This modality is a promising protective therapeutic intervention after strokes or other ischemic events.
The hippocampus maintains the remarkable ability to generate new neurons throughout the lifespan. Progenitor cells in the subgranular zone give rise mainly to granule cells that migrate to the granule cell layer and become mature, functionally integrated neurons. Numerous factors are capable of regulating the proliferation and survival of new neurons in the adult hippocampus. Corticosterone is one of the most potent factors. Stress results in a significant decrease in the number of dividing cells and exogenous corticosterone administration produces a similar result. Conversely, removal of circulating glucocorticoids via adrenalectomy has been shown to dramatically increase cell proliferation. However, no studies have examined the long-term effects of adrenalectomy on cell proliferation in the hippocampus. In addition to increasing cell proliferation in the hippocampus, chronic adrenalectomy induces ongoing cell death in the dentate gyrus. In order to determine the time course of cell proliferation and cell death in the dentate gyrus following corticosterone removal we examined the dentate gyrus of rats at several time points following adrenalectomy. We analyzed the number of proliferating cells based on Ki67 labeling and visualized cell death using Fluoro-Jade B. Here we show that although cell proliferation is initially enhanced by adrenalectomy, but the increase is transient; it is no longer apparent by 4 weeks after adrenalectomy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that cell death is pronounced by 3 days after adrenalectomy and continues for at least 23 weeks.
Midkine (MK), a neurotrophic factor with important roles in survival and differentiation of dopaminergic neurons, is upregulated in different brain areas after administration of different drugs of abuse suggesting MK could modulate drugs of abuse-induced pharmacological or neuroadaptative effects. To test this hypothesis, we have studied the effects of amphetamine administration in MK genetically deficient (MK-/-) and wild-type (MK+/+) mice. In conditioning studies, we found that amphetamine induces conditioned place preference (CPP) similarly in both MK-/- and MK+/+ mice. In immunohistochemistry studies, we found that amphetamine (10 mg/kg, four times, every 2 h) causes a similar striatal dopaminergic denervation in both MK-/- and MK+/+ mice. However, we detected a significant increase of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells in the striatum of amphetamine-treated MK-/- mice compared to MK+/+ mice, suggesting an enhanced amphetamine-induced astrocytosis in absence of endogenous MK. Interestingly, the levels of expression of the MK receptor, receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase (RPTP) /, in the striatum were not found to be changed by the drug administration or the mouse genotype. In a similar manner the phosphorylation levels of RPTP / substrates with important roles in survival of dopaminergic neurons, Fyn kinase and TrkA, and of the MAP kinases ERK1/2, were unaffected by the drug or the genotype. The data clearly suggest that endogenous MK limits amphetamine-induced astrocytosis through Fyn-, TrkA- and ERK1/2-independent mechanisms and identify previously unexpected functional differences between MK and pleiotrophin, the only other member of the MK family of growth factors, in the modulation of effects of drugs of abuse.
The principal site that generates both rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and wakefulness is located in the mesopontine reticular formation, whereas non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep is primarily dependent upon the functioning of neurons that are located in the preoptic region of the hypothalamus. In the present study, we were interested in determining whether the occurrence of NREM might also depend on the activity of mesopontine structures, as has been shown for wakefulness and REM sleep. Adult cats were maintained in one of the following states: quiet wakefulness (QW), alert wakefulness (AW), NREM, or REM sleep induced by microinjections of carbachol into the nucleus pontis oralis (REM-carbachol). Subsequently, they were euthanized and single-labeling immunohistochemical studies were undertaken to determine state-dependent patterns of neuronal activity in the brainstem based upon the expression of the protein Fos. In addition, double-labeling immunohistochemical studies were carried out to detect neurons that expressed Fos as well as choline acetyltransferase, tyrosine hydroxylase, or GABA. During NREM, only a few Fos-immunoreactive cells were present in different regions of the brainstem; however, a discrete cluster of Fos+ neurons was observed in the caudolateral parabrachial region (CLPB). The number of Fos+ neurons in the CLPB during NREM was significantly greater (67.910.9, P&lt;0.0001) compared with QW (8.06.7), AW (5.24.2), or REM-carbachol (8.04.7). In addition, there was a positive correlation (R=0.93) between the time the animals spent in NREM and the number of Fos+ neurons in the CLPB. Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the CLPB were neither cholinergic nor catecholaminergic; however, about 50% of these neurons were GABAergic. We conclude that a group of GABAergic and unidentified neurons in the CLPB are active during NREM and likely involved in the control of this behavioral state. These data open new avenues for the study of NREM, as well as for the explorations of interactions between these neurons that are activated during NREM and cells of the adjacent pontine tegmentum that are involved in the generation of REM sleep.
A substantial array of respiratory, cardiovascular, visceral and somatic afferents are relayed via the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) to the brainstem (and forebrain). Despite some degree of overlap within the NTS, specificity is maintained in central respiratory reflexes driven by second order afferent relay neurons in the NTS. While the topographic arrangement of respiratory-related afferents targeting the NTS has been extensively investigated, their higher order brainstem targets beyond the NTS has only rarely been defined with any precision. Nonetheless, the various brainstem circuits serving blood gas homeostasis and airway protective reflexes must clearly receive a differential innervation from the NTS in order to evoke stimulus appropriate behavioral responses. Accordingly, we have examined the question of which specific NTS nuclei project to particular compartments within the ventral respiratory column (VRC) of the ventrolateral medulla. Our analyses of NTS labeling after retrograde tracer injections in the VRC and the nearby neuronal groups controlling autonomic function indicate a significant distinction between projections to the Btzinger complex and preBtzinger complex compared to the remainder of the VRC. Specifically, the caudomedial NTS, including caudal portions of the medial solitary nucleus and the commissural division of NTS project relatively densely to the region of the retrotrapezoid nucleus and rostral ventrolateral medullary nucleus as well as to the rostral ventral respiratory group while avoiding the intervening Btzinger and preBtzinger complexes. Area postrema appears to demonstrate a pattern of projections similar to that of caudal medial and commissural NTS nuclei. Other, less pronounced differential projections of lateral NTS nuclei to the various VRC compartments are additionally noted.
Connectivity of cortical pyramidal neurons is layer-specific in the primary visual cortex (V1) and this is thought to be reflected in different receptive field (RF) properties of layer 4 and layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons (L4Ps and L2/3Ps, respectively). However, it remains unclear how the two cell populations convert incoming visually driven synaptic inputs into action potential (AP) outputs. Here I compared postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) and AP responses of L4Ps and L2/3Ps in the binocular portion of rat V1 by intrinsic optical imaging (IOI)-targeted whole-cell recordings followed by anatomical identification and dendritic reconstructions. L2/3Ps had about 2-fold longer dendritic branches and a higher number of branch points and endings in their apical portions. Functionally, L2/3Ps had more hyperpolarized resting potentials and lower rates of spontaneous APs (medians: 0.07 vs. 0.60 AP/s). PSP responses to optimally oriented moving bars were comparable in terms of amplitude (16.00.9 vs. 17.31.1 mV for L2/3Ps and L4Ps, respectively), reliability and size of the RF. The modulated component of subthreshold responses of L4Ps to optimal sinusoidal drifting gratings was larger and their PSP onset latency in response to bars flashed in the cell's RF center were shorter (60 vs. 86 ms). In contrast to the similarities of PSP responses to moving bars, AP responses of L2/3Ps were more sparse (medians: 0.7 vs. 2.9 APs/stimulus passage), less reliable, but sharper in terms of angular size. Based on the differences of subthreshold inputs, I conclude that L4Ps may receive mostly thalamic inputs, whereas L2/3Ps may receive both thalamic and cortical inputs from layer 4. The comparable subthreshold responses to moving bars are converted by L2/3Ps into sparser but sharper AP outputs possibly by cell-type-specific AP-generating mechanisms or differences in visually driven inhibitory inputs.
Little is known on the role of neuronal structures for spatial navigation. Our goal was to examine how Parkinson's disease (PD) and cerebellar ataxia, as human lesion models of the basal ganglia and cerebellum, affect spatial navigation round a circular walking path, blindfolded. Twelve subjects with idiopathic PD (ON and OFF medication), eight subjects with cerebellar ataxia and a control group of 20 age-matched healthy subjects participated. All groups performed well when walking around the circle with eyes open. In the eyes-closed condition, control subjects overshot the outlined trajectory but returned to their initial position, thus walking a further distance with eyes closed than with eyes open. When OFF medication, PD subjects navigated a larger radius than controls with eyes closed. When ON levodopa, PD subjects walked a similar distance as controls but with even larger errors in endpoint. Surprisingly, cerebellar patients navigated the circular walking task in the eyes closed condition with even more accuracy (i.e. following the outlined circle) than control and PD subjects. We conclude that blindfolded navigation around a previously seen circle requires intact basal ganglia, but not cerebellar input.
A negative event-related potential (ERP) component, known as N170, can be readily recorded over the posterior left brain region when skilled readers are presented with visual words. This left-lateralized word-related N170 has been attributed either to linguistic processes, particularly phonological processing, or to the role of orthographic regularity, emphasizing a perceptual origin. This debate, however, is difficult to resolve in the context of alphabetic scripts because of the tight relations between orthography and phonology. In contrast, Chinese characters have arbitrary mappings between orthographic and sound forms, making it possible to tease apart these two properties of visual words. We therefore addressed this issue by examining ERP responses to Chinese characters and three types of structurally matched but unpronounceable stimuli: pseudo-characters, false-characters, and stroke combinations. A content-irrelevant color matching task was adopted to minimize potentially different top-down modulations across stimulus types. Results show that, relative to false-characters and stroke combinations, real- and pseudo-characters evoked greater N170 in the left posterior brain region. Critically, despite being unpronounceable, pseudo-characters produced the same amplitude and left-lateralized N170, just as real-characters. These results provide strong evidence that orthography rather than phonology serves as the main driver for the enhanced and left-lateralized N170 to visual words.
The glutamate-nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway mediates many responses to activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, including modulation of some types of learning and memory. The glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway is modulated by GABAergic neurotransmission. Activation of GABA(A) receptors reduces the function of the pathway. Several neurosteroids modulate the activity of GABA(A) and/or NMDA receptors, suggesting that they could modulate the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway. The aim of this work was to assess, by in vivo microdialysis, the effects of several neurosteroids with different effects on GABA(A) and NMDA receptors on the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in cerebellum in vivo. To assess the effects of the neurosteroids on the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway, they were administered through the microdialysis probe before administration of NMDA and the effects on NMDA-induced increase in extracellular cGMP were analyzed. We also assessed the effects of the neurosteroids on basal levels of extracellular cGMP. To assess the effects of neurosteroids on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and on NMDA-induced activation of NOS, we also measured the effects of the neurosteroids on extracellular citrulline. Pregnanolone and tetrahydrodeoxy-corticosterone (THDOC) behave as agonists of GABA(A) receptors and completely block NMDA-induced increase in cGMP. Pregnanolone but not THDOC also reduced basal levels of extracellular cGMP. Pregnenolone did not affect extracellular cGMP or its increase by NMDA administration. Pregnenolone sulfate increased basal extracellular cGMP and potentiated NMDA-induced increase in cGMP, behaving as an enhancer of NMDA receptors activation. Allopregnanolone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate behave as antagonists of NMDA receptors, increasing basal cGMP and blocking completely NMDA-induced increase in cGMP. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate seems to do this by activating sigma receptors. These data support the concept that, at physiological concentrations, different neurosteroids may rapidly modulate, in different ways and by different mechanisms, the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway and, likely, some forms of learning and memory modulated by this pathway.
Peripheral orthopaedic surgery induces a profound inflammatory response. This includes a substantial increase in cytokines and, especially, in the level of interleukin (IL)-1 in the hippocampus, which has been shown to impair hippocampal-dependent memory in mice. We have employed two tests of contextual remote memory to demonstrate that the inflammatory response to surgical insult in mice also results in impairment of remote memory associated with prefrontal cortex (PFC). We have also found that, under the conditions presented in the social interaction test, peripheral orthopaedic surgery does not increase anxiety-like behaviour in our animal model. Although such surgery induces an increase in the level of IL-1 in the hippocampus, it fails to do so in the PFC. Peripheral orthopaedic surgery also results in a reduction in the level of hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and this may contribute, in part, to the memory impairment found after such surgery. Our data suggest that a reduction in the level of hippocampal BDNF and an increase in the level of hippocampal IL-1 following surgery may affect the transference of fear memory in the mouse brain.
Kainate-mediated excitotoxicity of organotypic spinal cord cultures is an in vitro model advantageous to investigate basic mechanisms of acute spinal injury and its pharmacological neuroprotection. Using such cultures, the putative neuroprotective agent riluzole applied at 5 M (plasma therapeutic concentration) was studied for its ability to prevent neurotoxicity evoked by 1 h administration of kainate. We monitored real-time release of glutamate, release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (cell damage marker), occurrence of cell pyknosis, the number of surviving neurons and motoneurons, and cell culture metabolic activity. Co-applied riluzole strongly blocked the kainate-evoked early rise in extracellular glutamate (via calcium dependent or independent processes) and suppressed LDH release (limited to &lt;20% of total). Although there were no significant cell losses within the first h after kainate washout, pyknosis, fewer neurons and motoneurons were observed 24 h later. MTT assay demonstrated that surviving cells were metabolically competent. Co-application of kainate and tetrodotoxin also failed to protect spinal cord slices 24 h later. When riluzole application begun at kainate washout and continued for 24 h, significant neuroprotection was observed for neurons in the central and dorsal regions, while ventral horn cells (including motoneurons) were not protected. Our data suggest that riluzole neuroprotection against excitotoxicity was feasible, although it paradoxically required delayed drug administration, and was not extended to the ventral horn. We propose that riluzole was acting on yet-unidentified processes downstream of glutamate release and receptor activation. Deciphering their identity and role in cell death mechanisms may be an important goal to develop neuroprotection.
The tetraspan membrane proteins of the synaptogyrin and synaptophysin type are abundant and evolutionary conserved synaptic vesicle membrane proteins whose functions are poorly defined. Their depletion does not interfere with proper neuronal development and basic neuronal function. In the search for their function we use the genetic model organism Caenorhabditis elegans in which, in contrast to vertebrates, the synaptogyrin but not the synaptophysin orthologue is predominant in neurons. Employing fluorescent reporter constructs we find that synaptogyrin is expressed in all GABAergic neurons and most, though not all other neurons. Subjecting animals either lacking or overexpressing synaptogyrin to the epileptogenic GABA antagonist pentylenetetrazole reveals increased sensitivity in comparison to the wild-type. Detailed analyses further uncover mildly altered motility, slightly reduced sensitivity to the acetylcholine esterase inhibitor aldicarb and decreased recruitment of synaptobrevin but not of RAB-3 to synapses. Furthermore, synthetic phenotypes are observed with mutants of the synaptic vesicle recycling machinery, notably with synaptotagmin, synaptojanin and endophilin rather than with mutants involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Taken together, these observations assign a distinct modulatory and redundant neuronal function to synaptogyrin.
Recently, functional and potent RNA interference (RNAi) has been reported in peripheral nerve axons transfected with short-interfering RNA (siRNA). In addition, components of RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) have been identified in axotomized sciatic nerve fibers as well as in regenerating dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons in vitro. Based on these observations, and on the fact that siRNA and microRNA (miRNA) share the same effector enzymes, we hypothesized that the endogenous miRNA biosynthetic pathway would respond to peripheral nerve injury. To answer this question, we investigated changes in the expression of miRNA biosynthetic enzymes following peripheral nerve crush injury in mice. Here, we show that several pivotal miRNA biosynthetic enzymes are expressed in an injury-regulated pattern in sciatic nerve in vivo, and in DRG axons in vitro. Moreover, the sciatic nerve lesion induced expression of mRNA-processing bodies (P-bodies), which are the local foci of mRNA degradation in DRG axons. In addition, a group of injury-regulated miRNAs was identified by miRNA microarray and validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) and in situ hybridization analyses. Taken together, our data support the hypothesis that the peripheral nerve regeneration processes may be regulated by miRNA pathway.
Histamine has long been recognised as a classical inducer of pruritus. However, the specific mechanism of histamine-induced itch has still not been fully understood. The H1 and H4 receptor appear to be key components in the induction of itch. The specific role of the H3 receptor in histamine-induced itch remains unclear. The aim of our study was to investigate the role of the four known histamine receptors (H1-4) in acute itch in mice. Intradermal injection of the selective H3R inverse agonist pitolisant induced strong itch in mice. Pitolisant (50 nmol/injection)-induced pruritus could be completely blocked by a combined treatment with the H1R antagonist cetirizine (15 mg/kg) and the H4R antagonist JNJ 7777120 (15 mg/kg), whereas the H2R antagonist ranitidine (15 mg/kg) failed to inhibit the scratch response. Next, expression and function of histamine receptors on sensory neurons isolated from dorsal root ganglia of mice were investigated. As the itch sensation results from the excitation of sensory nerves in the skin, we further focused on skin specific sensory neurons. Therefore, neurons were retrograde labelled from the skin by means of a fluorescent tracer. Expression of H1R, H3R and H4R on skin innervating sensory neurons was detected. By single-cell calcium imaging, it was demonstrated that histamine induces a calcium increase in a subset of (skin-specific) sensory neurons via activation of the H1R and H4R as well as inhibition of the H3R. It is assumed that the decreased threshold in response to H3R antagonism activates H1R and H4R on sensory neurons, which in turn results in the excitation of histamine-sensitive afferents and therefore elicits the sensation of itch.
The dyslexia-associated gene DCDC2 is a member of the DCX family of genes known to play roles in neurogenesis, neuronal migration, and differentiation. Here we report the first phenotypic analysis of a Dcdc2 knockout mouse. Comparisons between Dcdc2 knockout mice and wild-type (wt) littermates revealed no significant differences in neuronal migration, neocortical lamination, neuronal cilliogenesis or dendritic differentiation. Considering previous studies showing genetic interactions and potential functional redundancy among members of the DCX family, we tested whether decreasing Dcx expression by RNAi would differentially impair neurodevelopment in Dcdc2 knockouts and wild-type mice. Consistent with this hypothesis, we found that deficits in neuronal migration, and dendritic growth caused by RNAi of Dcx were more severe in Dcdc2 knockouts than in wild-type mice with the same transfection. These results indicate that Dcdc2 is not required for neurogenesis, neuronal migration or differentiation in mice, but may have partial functional redundancy with Dcx.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is involved in neurodegenerative diseases, and the KDEL (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu motif) receptor (KDELR) plays a key role in ER quality control and in the ER stress response. The subcellular distribution of KDELR is dynamic and related to its ligand binding status and its expression level. Here, we show that KDELR mRNA is upregulated upon thapsigargin treatment, which induces ER stress. Moreover, overexpressed KDELR partially redistributes to the lysosome and activates autophagy. The R169N mutant, a ligand binding-defective form of KDELR, and D193N, a transport-defective form of KDELR, both fail to trigger autophagy. Overexpression of KDELR activates extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs). Both the activation of ERKs and autophagy induced by KDELR could be blocked by PD98059, an inhibitor of mitogen extracellular kinase 1 (MEK1). The overexpression of some neurodegenerative disease-related proteins, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-linked G93A superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), Parkinson's disease-associated A53T alpha-synuclein and Huntington's disease-related expanded huntingtin, increase the mRNA levels of KDELR. Moreover, the overexpressed KDELR promotes the clearance of these disease proteins through autophagy. Taken together, our data provide evidence that KDELR, as a novel inducer of autophagy, participates in the degradation of misfolded neurodegenerative disease-related proteins.
In many species social behaviors are dependent on integration of chemosensory and hormonal cues. Many chemosensory stimuli are detected by the vomeronasal organ, which projects to many regions that contain steroid receptors, including the medial amygdala. In male hamsters, testosterone is known to acutely increase in response to chemosensory stimulation, and can facilitate sexual behavior by direct action within the medial amygdala. Conspecific stimuli activate the anterior (MeA) and posterior (MeP) medial amygdala, while heterospecific stimuli activate only MeA. Chemosensory stimuli with different social significance differentially activate the dorsal and ventral subdivisions of MeA and MeP. Therefore, it is likely that steroids differentially facilitate stimulation of the medial amygdala by various chemosensory stimuli. We used Fos expression to examine activation of androgen receptor (AR)-containing cells in the medial amygdala by heterospecific and conspecific stimuli in intact male hamsters and castrated males with testosterone (T)-replacement. The number of AR-immunoreactive (-ir) cells was significantly different from control and between stimuli in intact males, but not in T-replaced castrates. Fos activation was similar in all animals. The results are consistent with a change in number of AR-ir cells in intact animals due to acute increases in testosterone caused by chemosignals.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-7 receptor began to be cloned and pharmacologically characterized close to 20 years ago. It couples positively via G-proteins to adenylyl cyclase and activation of this receptor increases neuronal excitability, and several studies have shown that degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway leads to an impairment of 5-HT system. Here we reported that systemic and local administration of 5-HT receptor agonist AS 19 produced excitation, inhibition and no change in the firing rate of pyramidal neurons in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of normal and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In normal rats, the mean response of the pyramidal neurons to AS 19 by systemic and local administration in mPFC was excitatory. The inhibitory effect by systemic administration of AS 19 was reversed by GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxinin. Systemic administration of picrotoxinin excited all the neurons examined in normal rats, and after treatment with picrotoxinin, the local administration of AS 19 further increased the firing rate of the neurons. In the lesioned rats, systemic administration of AS 19, at the same doses, also increased the mean firing rate of the pyramidal neurons. However, cumulative dose producing excitation in the lesioned rats was higher than that of normal rats. Systemic administration of AS 19 produced inhibitory effect in the lesioned rats, which was partially reversed by picrotoxinin. The local administration of AS 19, at the same dose, did not change the firing rate of the neurons in the lesioned rats. Systemic administration of picrotoxinin and the local administration of AS 19 did not affect the firing rate of the neurons in the lesioned rats. These results indicate that activity of mPFC pyramidal neurons is regulated through activation of 5-HT receptor by direct or indirect action, and degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway leads to decreased response of these neurons to AS 19, suggesting dysfunction and/or down-regulation of 5-HT receptor on the pyramidal neurons and GABA interneurons in the lesioned rats.
This investigation sought to determine if aging affected adaptations of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) to exercise training. Twenty young adult (8 months) and 20 aged (24 months) rats were assigned to either a program of treadmill exercise, or sedentary conditions. Following the 10-week experimental period, rats were euthanized, and soleus and plantaris muscles were removed and frozen. Longitudinal sections of the muscles were fluorescently stained to visualize pre-synaptic nerve terminals and post-synaptic endplates on both slow- and fast-twitch fibers. Images were collected with confocal microscopy and quantified. Muscle cross-sections were histochemically stained to assess muscle fiber profiles (size and fiber type). Our analysis of NMJs revealed a high degree of specificity and sensitivity to aging, exercise training, and their interaction. In the soleus, slow-twitch NMJs demonstrated significant (P  0.05) training-induced adaptations in young adult, but not aged rats. In the fast-twitch NMJs of the soleus, aging, but not training, was associated with remodeling. In the plantaris, aging, but not training, remodeled the predominant fast-twitch NMJs, but only pre-synaptically. In contrast, the slow-twitch NMJs of the plantaris displayed morphologic adaptations to both aging and exercise in pre- and post-synaptic components. Muscle fiber profiles indicated that changes in NMJ size were unrelated to adaptations of their fibers. Our data show that aging interferes with the ability of NMJs to adapt to exercise training. Results also reveal complexity in the coordination of synaptic responses among different muscles, and different fiber types within muscles, in their adaptation to aging and exercise training.
Neuroinflammation mediated by microglia is a pathological hallmark of many CNS disorders. Cell lines derived from inbred C57Bl/6 and outbred ICR/CD1 mice (BV-2 and N9 respectively), are often used to study microglial inflammatory activities. Although many studies demonstrate different responses of these cell lines to the same stimulus, no comparisons have been done in vivo. Because inbreeding reduces resistance to pathogens and parasites, we hypothesized that microglia from outbred ICR/CD1 mice would have a stronger response to centrally administered LPS than microglia from inbred C57Bl/6 mice. The evaluation of gene expression in freshly isolated CD11b+ cells from brain revealed that microglia from ICR/CD1 mice were more pro-inflammatory than those from C57Bl/6 mice, although these differences did not appear to result from alterations in the expression levels of the LPS receptors TLR4 or CD14. Notably, the timing of inflammatory gene expression did not correlate with CD11b+ cell proliferation/infiltration. The highest expression of TNF, IL-6 and iNOS occurred 3 h after LPS injection when the number of CD11b+ cells was not changed. Whereas the expression of these pro-inflammatory genes had returned to basal by 48 h when the highest number of CD11b+ cells in the brain was found, the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 was still significantly up-regulated. This is important because the increased presence of CD11b+ cells in the CNS is often used as an indicator of neuroinflammation. While LPS did not affect the expression of the growth factors VEGF or BDNF, we observed that mechanical injury (caused by intraparenchymal injection) induced distinct patterns of microglial activation characterized by increased expression of VEGF and down-regulation of BDNF. It remains to be determined which type of microglia is more beneficial/detrimental to the CNS, but our data suggest that genetic traits determining microglial properties may have profound effect on many CNS pathologies.
Objective: High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), an active receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE), functions as a potent proinflammatory cytokine-like factor that contributes to the pathogenesis of vasculature. Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with accelerated development of both microvascular and macrovascular disease and increases the risk of ischemic stroke. Using a model of streptozotocin-induced type-1 diabetes (T1DM) in rats, we investigated the changes in HMGB and RAGE and tested the effects of Niaspan, a slow release form of niacin, on the expression of pro-inflammatory proteins in rats after stroke. Research design and methods: T1DM rats were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and treated without or with Niaspan (40 mg/kg) daily for 14 days after MCAo. Non-streptozotocin rats (WT) were also subjected to MCAo. Immunostaining for inflammatory mediators including HMGB1, RAGE, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) immunostaining (n=8/group) and Western blotting (n=4/group) were performed. Results: Compared to WT-MCAo rats, T1DM-MCAo rats showed an increased expression of HMGB1 (0.820.07 vs. 1.810.98, P&lt;0.05), RAGE (1.310.22 vs. 3.770.72, P&lt;0.05), MMP-9 (0.740.08 vs. 1.610.09, P&lt;0.05) and TLR4 (2.850.22 vs. 6.720.44, P&lt;0.05) after stroke. Niaspan treatment significantly attenuated the expression of HMGB1 (1.800.98 vs. 1.310.01, P&lt;0.05), RAGE (3.770.71 vs. 1.780.45, P&lt;0.05), MMP-9 (1.610.09 vs. 0.970.07, P&lt;0.05) and TLR4 (6.720.44 vs. 2.280.43, P&lt;0.05) in the ischemic brain in T1DM-MCAo rats. Conclusions: T1DM increases HMGB1/RAGE, TLR4 and MMP-9 expression after stroke. Niaspan treatment of stroke in T1DM rats inhibits HMGB1/RAGE, TLR4 and MMP-9 expression which may contribute to the reduced inflammatory response after stroke in T1DM rats.
Previously selected amyloid beta recognizing heavy chain antibody fragments (VHH) affinity binders derived from the Camelid heavy chain antibody repertoire were tested for their propensity to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) using an established in vitro BBB co-culture system. Of all tested VHH, ni3A showed highest transmigration efficiency which is, in part, facilitated by a three amino acid substitutions in its N-terminal domain. Additional studies indicated that the mechanism of transcellular passage of ni3A is by active transport. As VHH ni3A combines the ability to recognize amyloid beta and to cross the BBB, it has potential as a tool for non-invasive in vivo imaging and as efficient local drug targeting moiety in patients suffering from cerebral amyloidosis such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA).
The behavioral phenotype of a transgenic mouse overexpressing a galanin receptor 2 (GalR2)-enhanced, green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-construct under the platelet-derived growth factor-B promoter, and of controls, was assessed in various behavioral tests, such as the Porsolt forced swim test, as well as the open field, elevated plus maze and passive avoidance tests. In addition, the distribution of GalR2-EGFP expressing cell bodies and processes was studied in the brain of these mice using histochemical methods. Three age groups of the transgenic mice demonstrated decreased levels of immobility in the forced swim test, indicative of antidepressive-like behavior and/or increased stress resistance. Anxiety-like behaviors, measured in two different tests, did not differ between the GalR2-overexpressing and the wild-type mice, nor did motor activity levels, emotional learning or memory behaviors. High levels of GalR2 mRNA and protein expression were observed in the presubiculum, subiculum, cingulate cortex, retrosplenial granular and agranular cortices, subregions of prefrontal cortex, and the olfactory bulb, regions which are directly or indirectly implicated in depression-like behavior. These results may contribute to the understanding of the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder and the role of GalR2 in the regulation of mood, and suggest a potential therapeutic effect by targeting the GalR2 for treatment of depressive disorders.
G-protein coupled receptors interact to provide additional regulatory mechanisms for neurotransmitter signaling. Adenosine A(2A) receptors are expressed at a high density in striatal neurons, where they closely interact with dopamine D receptors and modulate effects of dopamine and responses to psychostimulants. A(2A) receptors are expressed at much lower densities in other forebrain neurons but play a more prominent yet opposing role to striatal receptors in response to psychostimulants in mice. It is, therefore, possible that A(2A) receptors expressed at low levels elsewhere in the brain may also regulate neurotransmitter systems and modulate neuronal functions. Dopamine D receptors play an important role in autoinhibition of neuronal firing in dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and dopamine release in other brain areas. Here, we examined the effect of A(2A) receptor deletion on D receptor-mediated inhibition of neuronal firing in dopamine neurons in the VTA. Spontaneous activity of dopamine neurons was recorded in midbrain slices, and concentration-dependent effects of the dopamine D receptor agonist, quinpirole, was compared between wild-type and A(2A) knockout mice. The potency of quinpirole applied in single concentrations and the expression of D receptors were not altered in the VTA of the knockout mice. However, quinpirole applied in stepwise escalating concentrations caused significantly reduced maximal inhibition in A(2A) knockout mice, indicating an enhanced agonist-induced desensitization of D receptors in the absence of A(2A) receptors. The A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS21680, did not exert any effect on dopamine neuron firing or response to quinpirole, revealing a novel non-pharmacological interaction between adenosine A(2A) receptors and dopaminergic neurotransmission in midbrain dopamine neurons. Altered D receptor desensitization may result in changes in dopamine neuron firing rate and pattern and dopamine release in other brain areas in response to persistent dopamine release and administration of psychostimulants.
We have previously shown that the growth hormone (GH)/prolactin (PRL) axis has a significant role in regulating neuroprotective and/or neurorestorative mechanisms in the brain and that these effects are mediated, at least partly, via actions on neural stem cells (NSCs). Here, using NSCs with properties of neurogenic radial glia derived from fetal human forebrains, we show that exogenously applied GH and PRL promote the proliferation of NSCs in the absence of epidermal growth factor or basic fibroblast growth factor. When applied to differentiating NSCs, they both induce neuronal progenitor proliferation, but only PRL has proliferative effects on glial progenitors. Both GH and PRL also promote NSC migration, particularly at higher concentrations. Since human GH activates both GH and PRL receptors, we hypothesized that at least some of these effects may be mediated via the latter. Migration studies using receptor-specific antagonists confirmed that GH signals via the PRL receptor promote migration. Mechanisms of receptor signaling in NSC proliferation, however, remain to be elucidated. In summary, GH and PRL have complex stimulatory and modulatory effects on NSC activity and as such may have a role in injury-related recovery processes in the brain.
Visual perception is influenced at early processing stages by geometric spatiotemporal context regularities (consistent with the &quot;vision-as-inference&quot; view) and by attention, yet little is known about the interaction between these two influences on visual processing. Here, we investigate the temporal dynamics of the interaction between attention and spatiotemporal context regularity in target detection using event-related potentials (ERP). Spatial attention was withdrawn from the context by a secondary task in Experiment 1, and the role of task-relevance was explored in Experiment 2 by including a passive viewing condition. The ERP correlates of spatiotemporal regularity reported in an earlier study were replicated in single task (Experiment 1) and active viewing (Experiment 2): P1 and N1 peak-latency was shorter when the target was preceded by a context. Latency first differentiated between the two context conditions at N1, where latency was shortest for targets preceded by a context with both spatial and temporal regularities (compared with temporal regularity only). In dual task and passive viewing, this N1 latency-shift was abolished. Comparisons of &quot;low-attention&quot; (dual task or passive viewing) with &quot;high-attention&quot; conditions (single task or active viewing) revealed that attention only shortened N1 peak-latency when the target was preceded by stimulus sequences with spatial and temporal regularity. P1 latency was unaffected by manipulation of top-down attention factors. Attentional factors are likely to modulate influences of spatiotemporal context through re-afferent projections at later stages of visual processing in regions of extrastriate cortex associated with the generators of the N1 waveform.
In this project, we examined peripheral -opioid receptor (DOR)-mediated anti-hyperalgesic responses in the context of an acute orofacial muscle pain condition in both male and female rats. We also investigated whether the ATP-sensitive K+ channel (KATP), a downstream target of OR signaling, contributes to DOR-mediated anti-hyperalgesic responses. Local pretreatment of the masseter with a DOR agonist, [D-Pen, D-Pen]-enkephalin (DPDPE), dose-dependently attenuated capsaicin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity in both male and female rats. However, there were sex differences in the potency of local DPDPE in that a 10-fold higher dose of DPDPE was required in female rats to produce the level of anti-hyperalgesia achieved in male rats. The sex differences in the DPDPE effect may not be fully explained by DOR expression level since there was no significant sex difference in DOR mRNA levels in trigeminal ganglia (TG). Finally, pretreatment of the masseter with the KATP antagonist, glibenclamide, significantly blocked the effects of DPDPE in male rats suggesting that the peripheral DOR effect is mediated by the KATP. These studies revealed novel information about sex differences with regards to peripherally localized DOR-mediated anti-hyperalgesia under an orofacial muscle pain condition.
Peripheral nerve injury often results in neuropathic pain that is manifested as hyperalgesia, and allodynia. Several studies suggest a functional role for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the development or maintenance of neuropathic pain, but such a contribution remains unclear. In our current study, we found that intraplantar injection of the NOS substrate L-arginine or NO donor 3-morpholino-synonimine (SIN-1) produced mechanical hypersensitivity that lasted more than 24 h. Following L5 spinal nerve ligation (L5 SNL), immunoreactivity for nNOS in the ipsilateral L5 but not L4 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) was dramatically increased in mainly small- and medium-sized neurons and non-neuronal cells. L5 SNL caused increased nNOS immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral sciatic nerve, mainly in Schwann cells and the ipsilateral glabrous hind paw skin, mainly on the basement membrane. Furthermore, total nNOS protein and mRNA in the ipsilateral sciatic nerve and hind paw skin were markedly upregulated following nerve injury. Intraplantar injection of the NOS inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) or the non-specific NOS inhibitor L-N(G)-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) effectively suppressed SNL-induced mechanical allodynia. Collectively, these data suggest that in the periphery nNOS upregulation induced by peripheral nerve injury contributes to mechanical hypersensitivity during the maintenance phase of neuropathic pain. Blocking nNOS signaling in the periphery may thus be a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Many psychiatric disorders are characterized by cognitive and emotional alterations that are related to abnormal function of the frontal cortex (FC). FC is involved in working memory and decision making and is activated following exposure to a novel environment. The serotonin 2A receptor (5-HT(2A)R) is highly expressed in the FC where its activation induces hallucinations, while blockade of 5-HT(2A)Rs contributes to the therapeutic effects of atypical antipsychotic drugs. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the involvement of 5-HT(2A)R in FC activation following exposure to a novel environment. As an output of FC activation we measured expression of activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc). Novelty-exposure (open-field arena) robustly up-regulated FC Arc mRNA expression (160%) in mice compared to home-cage controls. This response was inhibited with the 5-HT(2A)R antagonists ketanserin and MDL100907, but not with the selective 5-HT(2C)R antagonist SB242084. Novelty-exposure also induced Arc mRNA expression in hippocampus (150%), but not in cerebellum or brainstem. Pretreatment with 5-HT(2A)R antagonist ketanserin did not repress the Arc induction in hippocampus, indicating that the involvement of 5-HT(2A)R in this response is restricted to the FC. Similarly, the novelty-induced stress as determined by increasing levels of plasma corticosterone, was not influenced by 5-HT(2A)R antagonism suggesting that Arc mRNA and stress are activated via distinct mechanisms. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the induction of Arc in the FC following exposure to a novel environment is dependent on the 5-HT(2A)R, and that the simultaneous release of corticosterone is regulated via another system independent of 5-HT(2A)R activation.
Brain function depends on a crucial feature: The ability of individual neurons to share packets of information, known as quantal transmission. Given the sheer number of tasks the brain has to deal with, this information sharing must be extremely rapid. Synapses are specialized points of contact between neurons, where fast transmission takes place. Though the basic elements and functions of the synapse had been established since the 1950s, the molecular basis for regulation of fast synaptic transmitter release was not known 20 years ago. However, around 1990, crucial discoveries were made by Richard Scheller, James Rothman, and Thomas Sdhof, leading a few years later to the formulation of the SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) hypothesis and a new understanding of the molecular events controlling vesicular release of transmitter in synapses. The 2010 Kavli Prize in neuroscience was awarded to these three researchers, &quot;for their work to reveal the precise molecular basis of the transfer of signals between nerve cells in the brain.&quot;
Folic acid (folate) is a vitamin of the B-complex group that is essential for cell replication. Folate is a major determinant of one-carbon metabolism, in which S-adenosylmethionine donates methyl groups that are crucial for neurological function. Many roles for folic acid have been reported, including neuroprotective and antidepressant properties. On the other hand, increased concentrations of corticoids have proven neurotoxic effects and hypersecretion of glucocorticoids has been linked to different mood disorders. The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential protective effect of folic acid on dexamethasone-induced cellular death in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line and the possible intracellular signaling pathway involved in such effect. Exposure to 1 mM dexamethasone for 48 h caused a significant reduction of cell viability measured as 3-[4,5 dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction. Exposure of SH-SY5Y cells for 72 h to increasing concentrations of folate (1-300 M) was not cytotoxic. However, pretreatment with folate (10-300 M) reduced dexamethasone-induced toxicity in a significant manner. To explore the putative intracellular signaling pathways implicated in the protective effect of folate we used different protein kinase inhibitors. The protective effect of folic acid on dexamethasone-induced neurotoxicity was reversed by the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt, LY294002), Ca/Calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII, KN-93), and protein kinase A (PKA, H-89) inhibitors, but not the mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK1/2, PD98059) and protein kinase C (PKC, chelerythrine) inhibitors. In conclusion, the results of this study show that folic acid can protect against dexamethasone-induced neurotoxicity and its protective mechanism is related to a signaling pathway that involves PI3K/Akt, CaMKII, and PKA.
The regulation of energy metabolism by the central nervous system during endurance exercise was examined. We conducted respiratory gas analysis by functionally paralyzing the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), the lateral hypothalamic area, and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus with local anaesthetic (lidocaine) during treadmill running at a velocity that allowed for efficient fatty acid oxidation. Our results showed that only the lidocaine treatment of the VMH attenuated fatty acid oxidation during endurance exercise. The monoaminergic neural activities at these nuclei during in vivo microdialysis in rats under the same conditions indicated a significant increase in the extracellular concentration of noradrenaline in all nuclei. Similarly, a significant increase in dopamine occurred at some points during exercise, but no change in serotonin concentration occurred regardless of exercise. Disruption of noradrenergic projections to the VMH by 6-hydroxydopamine attenuated the enhancement of fat oxidation during running. Blocker treatments clarified that noradrenergic inputs to the VMH are mediated by -adrenoceptors. These data indicate that information about peripheral tissues status is transmitted via noradrenergic projections originating in the medulla oblongata, which may be an important contribution by the VMH and its downstream mechanisms to enhanced fatty acid oxidation during exercise.
Folic acid fortification to pregnant women is suggested to mask vitamin B deficiency leading to adverse neurologic consequences. The present study examines the effect of maternal folic acid supplementation at normal and excess levels both in the presence and absence of vitamin B on levels and expression of brain neurotrophins in Wistar Albino rats. Pregnant female rats were assigned to six dietary groups with varying levels of folic acid and vitamin B, that is, (NFB: 2 mg folic acid+B; NFBD: 2 mg folic acid-B; EFB: 8 mg folic acid+B; EFBD: 8 mg folic acid-B; NFBDO: 2 mg folic acid-B+DHA and EFBDO: 8 mg folic acid-B+DHA). On day 20 of gestation pup brain samples were collected to assess protein and mRNA levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF). Brain BDNF protein and mRNA levels were reduced (P&lt;0.01 for both) in the EFBD group as compared to control. However, NGF protein levels were reduced (P&lt;0.05) only in the EFBD group in comparison to EFB and control. Maternal supplementation of DHA improved pup brain NGF protein levels only in the NFBDO (P&lt;0.05) and EFBDO (P&lt;0.05) groups compared to NFBD and EFBD respectively. Our results suggest that maternal micronutrients during pregnancy play an important role in regulating protein and mRNA levels of neurotrophins. Maternal DHA supplementation to a micronutrient imbalanced diet could ameliorate the negative effects only for NGF but not for BDNF.




Styrene oxide (SO) (C8H8O), the major metabolite of styrene (C6H5CH=CH2), is widely used in industrial applications. Styrene and SO are neurotoxic and cause damaging effects on the auditory system. However, little is known about their concentration-dependent electrophysiological and morphological effects. We used spontaneously active auditory cortex networks (ACNs) growing on microelectrode arrays (MEA) to characterize neurotoxic effects of SO. Acute application of 0.1 to 3.0mM SO showed concentration-dependent inhibition of spike activity with no noticeable morphological changes. The spike rate IC50 (concentration inducing 50% inhibition) was 511  60M (n = 10). Subchronic (5hr) single applications of 0.5mM SO also showed 50% activity reduction with no overt changes in morphology. The results imply that electrophysiological toxicity precedes cytotoxicity. Five-hour exposures to 2mM SO revealed neuronal death, irreversible activity loss, and pronounced glial swelling. Paradoxical &quot;protection&quot; by 40M bicuculline suggests binding of SO to GABA receptors.
The increase of cytosolic free Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](c)) due to NMDA receptor activation is a key step for spinal cord synaptic plasticity by altering cellular signal transduction pathways. We focus on this plasticity as a cause of persistent pain. To provide a mechanism for these classic findings, we report that [Ca(2+)](c) does not trigger synaptic plasticity directly but must first enter into mitochondria. Interfering with mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake during a [Ca(2+)](c) increase blocks induction of behavioral hyperalgesia and accompanying downstream cell signaling, with reduction of spinal long-term potentiation (LTP). Furthermore, reducing the accompanying mitochondrial superoxide levels lessens hyperalgesia and LTP induction. These results indicate that [Ca(2+)](c) requires downstream mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake with consequent production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) for synaptic plasticity underlying chronic pain. These results suggest modifying mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake and thus ROS as a type of chronic pain therapy that should also have broader biologic significance.
A long-term goal of tissue engineering is to exploit the ability of supporting materials to govern cell-specific behaviors. Instructive scaffolds code such information by modulating (via their physical and chemical features) the interface between cells and materials at the nanoscale. In modern neuroscience, therapeutic regenerative strategies (i.e., brain repair after damage) aim to guide and enhance the intrinsic capacity of the brain to reorganize by promoting plasticity mechanisms in a controlled fashion. Direct and specific interactions between synthetic materials and biological cell membranes may play a central role in this process. Here, we investigate the role of the material's properties alone, in carbon nanotube scaffolds, in constructing the functional building blocks of neural circuits: the synapses. Using electrophysiological recordings and rat cultured neural networks, we describe the ability of a nanoscaled material to promote the formation of synaptic contacts and to modulate their plasticity.
Vesicular Zn(2+) regulates postsynaptic neuronal excitability upon its corelease with glutamate. We previously demonstrated that synaptic Zn(2+) acts via a distinct metabotropic zinc-sensing receptor (mZnR) in neurons to trigger Ca(2+) responses in the hippocampus. Here, we show that physiological activation of mZnR signaling induces enhanced K(+)/Cl(-) cotransporter 2 (KCC2) activity and surface expression. As KCC2 is the major Cl(-) outward transporter in neurons, Zn(2+) also triggers a pronounced hyperpolarizing shift in the GABA(A) reversal potential. Mossy fiber stimulation-dependent upregulation of KCC2 activity is eliminated in slices from Zn(2+) transporter 3-deficient animals, which lack synaptic Zn(2+). Importantly, activity-dependent ZnR signaling and subsequent enhancement of KCC2 activity are also absent in slices from mice lacking the G-protein-coupled receptor GPR39, identifying this protein as the functional neuronal mZnR. Our work elucidates a fundamentally important role for synaptically released Zn(2+) acting as a neurotransmitter signal via activation of a mZnR to increase Cl(-) transport, thereby enhancing inhibitory tone in postsynaptic cells.
The relationship between blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI (fMRI) signal and the underlying neural electrical activity in humans is a topic of intense interest to systems neuroscience. This relationship has generally been assumed to be invariant regardless of the brain region and the cognitive task being studied. We critically evaluated these assumptions by comparing the BOLD-fMRI response with local field potential (LFP) measurements during visually cued common noun and verb generation in 11 humans in whom 1210 subdural electrodes were implanted. As expected, power in the mid-gamma band (60-120 Hz) correlated positively (r(2) = 0.16, p &lt; 10(-16)) and power in the beta band (13-30 Hz) correlated negatively (r(2) = 0.09, p &lt; 10(-16)) with the BOLD signal change. Beta and mid-gamma band activity independently explain different components of the observed BOLD signal. Importantly, we found that the location (i.e., lobe) of the recording site modulates the relationship between the electrocorticographic (ECoG) signal and the observed fMRI response (p &lt; 10(-16), F(21,1830) = 52.7), while the type of language task does not. Across all brain regions, ECoG activity in the gamma and beta bands explains 22% of the fMRI response, but if the lobar location is considered, 28% of the variance can be explained. Further evaluation of this relationship at the level of individual gyri provides additional evidence of differences in the BOLD-LFP relationship by cortical locus. This spatial variability in the relationship between the fMRI signal and neural activity carries implications for modeling of the hemodynamic response function, an essential step for interregional fMRI comparisons.
Recent studies indicate that the descending serotonin (5-HT) system from the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) in the brainstem and the 5-HT(3) receptor subtype in the spinal dorsal horn are involved in enhanced descending pain facilitation after tissue and nerve injury. However, the mechanisms underlying the activation of the 5-HT(3) receptor and its contribution to facilitation of pain remain unclear. In the present study, activation of spinal 5-HT(3) receptor by intrathecal injection of a selective 5-HT(3) receptor agonist, SR57227, induced spinal glial hyperactivity, neuronal hyperexcitability, and pain hypersensitivity in rats. We found that there was neuron-to-microglia signaling via chemokine fractalkine, microglia to astrocyte signaling via the cytokine IL-18, astrocyte to neuronal signaling by IL-1, and enhanced activation of GluN (NMDA) receptors in the spinal dorsal horn. In addition, exogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor-induced descending pain facilitation was accompanied by upregulation of CD11b and GFAP expression in the spinal dorsal horn after microinjection in the RVM, and these events were significantly prevented by functional blockade of spinal 5-HT(3) receptors. Enhanced expression of spinal CD11b and GFAP after hindpaw inflammation was also attenuated by molecular depletion of the descending 5-HT system by intra-RVM Tph-2 shRNA interference. Thus, these findings offer new insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms at the spinal level responsible for descending 5-HT-mediated pain facilitation during the development of persistent pain after tissue and nerve injury. New pain therapies should focus on prime targets of descending facilitation-induced glial involvement, and in particular the blocking of intercellular signaling transduction between neuron and glia.
We investigated how rapidly the reward-predicting properties of visual cues are signaled in the human brain and the extent these reward prediction signals are contextually modifiable. In a magnetoencephalography study, we presented participants with fractal visual cues that predicted monetary rewards with different probabilities. These cues were presented in the temporal context of a preceding novel or familiar image of a natural scene. Starting at 100 ms after cue onset, reward probability was signaled in the event-related fields (ERFs) over temporo-occipital sensors and in the power of theta (5-8 Hz) and beta (20-30 Hz) band oscillations over frontal sensors. While theta decreased with reward probability beta power showed the opposite effect. Thus, in humans anticipatory reward responses are generated rapidly, within 100 ms after the onset of reward-predicting cues, which is similar to the timing established in non-human primates. Contextual novelty enhanced the reward anticipation responses in both ERFs and in beta oscillations starting at 100 ms after cue onset. This very early context effect is compatible with a physiological model that invokes the mediation of a hippocampal-VTA loop according to which novelty modulates neural response properties within the reward circuitry. We conclude that the neural processing of cues that predict future rewards is temporally highly efficient and contextually modifiable.
One fundamental unanswered question in the field of polyglutamine diseases concerns the pathophysiology of neuronal dysfunction. Is there dysfunction in a specific neuronal population or circuit initially that contributes the onset of behavioral abnormalities? This study used a systems-level approach to investigate the functional integrity of the excitatory cerebellar cortical circuitry in vivo from several transgenic ATXN1 mouse lines. We tested the hypotheses that there are functional climbing fiber (CF)-Purkinje cell (PC) and parallel fiber (PF)-PC circuit abnormalities using flavoprotein autofluorescence optical imaging and extracellular field potential recordings. In early-symptomatic and symptomatic animals expressing ATXN1[82Q], there is a marked reduction in PC responsiveness to CF activation. Immunostaining of vesicular glutamate transporter type 2 demonstrated a decrement in CF extension on PC dendrites in symptomatic ATXN1[82Q] mice. In contrast, responses to PF stimulation were relatively normal. Importantly, the deficits in CF-PC synaptic transmission required expression of pathogenic ataxin-1 (ATXN1[82Q]) and for its entrance into the nucleus of PCs. Loss of endogenous mouse Atxn1 had no discernible effects. Furthermore, the abnormalities in CF-PC synaptic transmission were ameliorated when mutant transgene expression was prevented during postnatal cerebellar development. The results demonstrate the preferential susceptibility of the CF-PC circuit to the effects of ATXN1[82Q]. Further, this deficit likely contributes to the abnormal motor phenotype of ATXN1[82Q] mice. For polyglutamine diseases generally, the findings support a model whereby specific neuronal circuits suffer insults that alter function before cell death.
There is pharmacological evidence that group II and III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) function as activity-dependent autoreceptors, inhibiting transmission in supraspinal sites. These receptors are expressed by peripheral nociceptors. We investigated whether mGluRs function as activity-dependent autoreceptors inhibiting pain transmission to the rat CNS, particularly transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1)-induced activity. Blocking peripheral mGluR activity by intraplantar injection of antagonists LY341495 [(2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid] (LY) (20, 100 m, group II/III), APICA [(RS)-1-amino-5-phosphonoindan-1-carboxylic acid] (100 m, group II), or UBP1112 (-methyl-3-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine) (30 m, group III) increased capsaicin (CAP)-induced nociceptive behaviors and nociceptor activity. In contrast, group II agonist APDC [(2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate] (0.1 m) or group III agonist l-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (l-AP-4) (10 m) blocked the LY-induced increase. Ca(2+) imaging in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells confirmed LY enhanced CAP-induced Ca(2+) mobilization, which was blocked by APDC and l-AP-4. We hypothesized that excess glutamate (GLU) released by high intensity and/or prolonged stimulation endogenously activated group II/III, dampening nociceptor activation. In support of this, intraplantar GLU + LY produced heat hyperalgesia, and exogenous GLU + LY applied to nociceptors produced enhanced nociceptor activity and thermal sensitization. Intraplantar Formalin, known to elevate extracellular GLU, enhanced pain behaviors in the presence of LY. LY alone produced no pain behaviors, no change in nociceptor discharge rate or heat-evoked responses, and no change in cytosolic Ca(2+) in DRG cells, demonstrating a lack of tonic inhibitory control. Group II/III mGluRs maintain an activity-dependent autoinhibition, capable of significantly reducing TRPV1-induced activity. They are endogenously activated after high-frequency and/or prolonged nociceptor stimulation, acting as built-in negative modulators of TRPV1 and nociceptor function, reducing pain transmission to the CNS.

It was recently shown that expert face perception relies on the extraction of horizontally oriented visual cues. Picture-plane inversion was found to eliminate horizontal, suggesting that this tuning contributes to the specificity of face processing. The present experiments sought to determine the spatial frequency (SF) scales supporting the horizontal tuning of face perception. Participants were instructed to match upright and inverted faces that were filtered both in the frequency and orientation domains. Faces in a pair contained horizontal or vertical ranges of information in low, middle, or high SF (LSF, MSF, or HSF). Our findings confirm that upright (but not inverted) face perception is tuned to horizontal orientation. Horizontal tuning was the most robust in the MSF range, next in the HSF range, and absent in the LSF range. Moreover, face inversion selectively disrupted the ability to process horizontal information in MSF and HSF ranges. This finding was replicated even when task difficulty was equated across orientation and SF at upright orientation. Our findings suggest that upright face perception is tuned to horizontally oriented face information carried by intermediate and high SF bands. They further indicate that inversion alters the sampling of face information both in the orientation and SF domains.

Fetal hydrocephalus (FH), characterized by the accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid, an enlarged head, and neurological dysfunction, is one of the most common neurological disorders of newborns. Although the etiology of FH remains unclear, it is associated with intracranial hemorrhage. Here, we report that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a blood-borne lipid that activates signaling through heterotrimeric guanosine 5'-triphosphate-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors, provides a molecular explanation for FH associated with hemorrhage. A mouse model of intracranial hemorrhage in which the brains of mouse embryos were exposed to blood or LPA resulted in development of FH. FH development was dependent on the expression of the LPA(1) receptor by neural progenitor cells. Administration of an LPA(1) receptor antagonist blocked development of FH. These findings implicate the LPA signaling pathway in the etiology of FH and suggest new potential targets for developing new treatments for FH.
Styryl dyes are widely used to study synaptic vesicle (SV) recycling in neurons; vesicles are loaded with dye during endocytosis, and dye is subsequently released via exocytosis. During putative kiss-and-run exocytosis, efflux of dye from individual SVs has been proposed to occur via two sequential steps: dissociation from the membrane followed by permeation through a small fusion pore. To improve our understanding of the kinetics of efflux of dye from vesicles during kiss-and-run events, we examined the rates of efflux of different dyes through nanometer-scale pores formed in membranes by the toxins melittin and -hemolysin; these pores approximate the size of fusion pores measured in neuroendocrine cells. We found that the axial diameter of each dye was a crucial determinant for permeation. Moreover, the two dyes with the largest cross-sectional areas were completely unable to pass through pores formed by a mutant -hemolysin that has a slightly smaller pore than the wild-type toxin. The overall time constant for efflux (seconds) of each dye was orders of magnitude slower than the time constant for dissociation from membranes (milliseconds). Thus, the permeation step is rate-limiting, and this observation was further supported by atomistic molecular dynamics simulations. Together, the data reported here help provide a framework for interpreting dye destaining rates from secretory vesicles.
4-[(18)F]Fluorophenol is a versatile synthon for the synthesis of more complex radiopharmaceuticals bearing a 4-[(18)F]fluorophenoxy moiety. In order to prepare 4-[(18)F]fluorophenol in no-carrier-added (n.c.a.) form only a nucleophilic labelling method starting from [(18)F]fluoride is suitable. In this paper a new, two step radiosynthesis starting from 4-benzyloxyphenyl-(2-thienyl)iodonium bromide and [(18)F]fluoride with subsequent deprotection is described, yielding n.c.a. [(18)F]fluorophenol in 34 to 36% radiochemical yield.


Titus Lucretius Carus was an ancient Roman philosopher of the Epicurean school whose epic poem On the Nature of Things described numerous aspects of the natural world. In fact, much contemporary scientific understanding is consistent with or inspired by his work. Among Lucretius's contributions to neurology were his descriptions of epileptic seizures, sleep, and his theory of vision. This report identifies how Lucretius's description of human motion recognized the fundamental principles understood by contemporary neurologists and neuroscientists, namely the importance of the mind and intelligence in determining whether to move, in the initiation of motion and its effect on the rest of the body; the importance of mental imagery and perception of the motor task's nature and workload in addition to the necessary systemic changes occurring in parallel with the muscle activity. Lucretius was the first commentator to introduce into Epicurean poetry the concept of such a mechanism consisting of a logical order of processes which are still consistent with modern concepts.
Hearing loss often results in tinnitus and auditory cortical map changes, leading to the prevailing view that the phantom perception is associated with cortical reorganization. However, we show here that tinnitus is mediated by a cortical area lacking map reorganization. High-frequency hearing loss results in two distinct cortical regions: a sensory-deprived region characterized by a decrease in inhibitory synaptic transmission and a normal hearing region showing increases in inhibitory and excitatory transmission and map reorganization. Hearing-lesioned animals displayed tinnitus with a pitch in the hearing loss range. Furthermore, drugs that enhance inhibition, but not those that reduce excitation, reversibly eliminated the tinnitus behavior. These results suggest that sensory deprivation-induced homeostatic down-regulation of inhibitory synapses may contribute to tinnitus perception. Enhancing sensory input through map reorganization may plausibly alleviate phantom sensation.
A prominent aqueous cavity is formed by the junction of three identical subunits in the excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) family. To investigate the effect of this structure on the interaction of ligands with the transporter, we recorded currents in voltage-clamped Xenopus oocytes expressing EAATs and used concentration jumps to measure binding and unbinding rates of a high-affinity aspartate analog that competitively blocks transport (-2-fluorenyl-aspartylamide; 2-FAA). The binding rates of the blocker were approximately one order of magnitude slower than l-Glu and were not significantly different for EAAT1, EAAT2, or EAAT3, but 2-FAA exhibited higher affinity for the neuronal transporter EAAT3 as a result of a slower dissociation rate. Unexpectedly, the rate of recovery from block was increased by l-Glu in a saturable and concentration-dependent manner, ruling out a first-order mechanism and suggesting that following unbinding, there is a significant probability of ligand rebinding to the same or neighboring subunits within a trimer. Consistent with such a mechanism, coexpression of wild-type subunits with mutant (R447C) subunits that do not bind glutamate or 2-FAA also increased the unblocking rate. The data suggest that electrostatic and steric factors result in an effective dissociation rate that is approximately sevenfold slower than the microscopic subunit unbinding rate. The quaternary structure, which has been conserved through evolution, is expected to increase the transporters' capture efficiency by increasing the probability that following unbinding, a ligand will rebind as opposed to being lost to diffusion.
Characterizing the genetic programs that specify development and evolution of the cerebral cortex is a central challenge in neuroscience. Stem cells in the transient embryonic ventricular and subventricular zones generate neurons that migrate across the intermediate zone to the overlying cortical plate, where they differentiate and form the neocortex. It is clear that not one but a multitude of molecular pathways are necessary to progress through each cellular milestone, yet the underlying transcriptional programs remain unknown. Here, we apply differential transcriptome analysis on microscopically isolated cell populations, to define five transcriptional programs that represent each transient embryonic zone and the progression between these zones. The five transcriptional programs contain largely uncharacterized genes in addition to transcripts necessary for stem cell maintenance, neurogenesis, migration, and differentiation. Additionally, we found intergenic transcriptionally active regions that possibly encode unique zone-specific transcripts. Finally, we present a high-resolution transcriptome map of transient zones in the embryonic mouse forebrain.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway is essential for neuronal degeneration in multiple contexts but also regulates neuronal homeostasis. It remains unclear how neurons are able to dissociate proapoptotic JNK signaling from physiological JNK activity. In this paper, we show that the mixed lineage kinase dual leucine zipper kinase (DLK) selectively regulates the JNK-based stress response pathway to mediate axon degeneration and neuronal apoptosis without influencing other aspects of JNK signaling. This specificity is dependent on interaction of DLK with the scaffolding protein JIP3 to form a specialized JNK signaling complex. Local activation of DLK-based signaling in the axon results in phosphorylation of c-Jun and apoptosis after redistribution of JNK to the cell body. In contrast, regulation of axon degeneration by DLK is c-Jun independent and mediated by distinct JNK substrates. DLK-null mice displayed reduced apoptosis in multiple neuronal populations during development, demonstrating that prodegenerative DLK signaling is required in vivo.
Although GPRC5B and GPRC5C are categorized into the G protein-coupled receptor family C, including glutamate receptors, GABA receptors, and taste receptors, their physiological functions remain unknown. Since both receptors are expressed in the brain and evolutionarily conserved from fly to human, it is conceivable that they have significant biological roles particularly in the central nervous system (CNS). We generated GPRC5B- and GPRC5C-deficient mice to examine their roles in the CNS. Both homozygous mice were viable, fertile, and showed no apparent histological abnormalities, though GPRC5B-deficient mice resulted in partial perinatal lethality. We demonstrated that the expressions of GPRC5B and GPRC5C are developmentally regulated and differentially distributed in the brain. GPRC5B-deficient mice exhibited altered spontaneous activity pattern and decreased response to a new environment, while GPRC5C-deficient mice have no apparent behavioral deficits. Thus, GPRC5B has important roles for animal behavior controlled by the CNS. In contrast, GPRC5C does not affect behavior, though it has a high sequence similarity to GPRC5B. These findings suggest that family C, group 5 (GPRC5) receptors in mammals are functionally segregated from their common ancestor.
Orientation in the environment can draw on a variety of cognitive strategies. We asked 634 healthy volunteers to perform a comprehensive battery administered through an internet website (www.gettinglost.ca), testing different orientation strategies in virtual environments to determine the effect of age and gender upon these skills. Older participants (46-67years of age) performed worse than younger participants (18-30 or 31-45years of age) in all orientation skills assessed, including landmark recognition, integration of body-centered information, forming association between landmarks and body turns, and the formation and use of a cognitive map. Among all tests, however, the ability to form cognitive maps resulted to be the significant factor best at predicting the individuals' age group. Gender effects were stable across age and dissociated for task, with males better than females for cognitive map formation and use as well as for path reversal, an orientation task that does not require the processing of visual landmarks during navigation. We conclude that age-related declines in navigation are common across all orientation strategies and confirm gender-specific effects in different spatial domains.
In order to examine the direct acute effect of erythropoietin (EPO) perfusion on synaptic plasticity and transmitter release probability in hippocampal slices, one month old mice were decapitated and hippocampal slices were prepared. The effect of EPO perfusion (50U/ml) on the basic synaptic transmission of hippocampal slices was examined. In addition, paired-pulse facilitation (PPF with inter stimulus intervals ISI of 50, 100 and 200ms), long term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) were recorded using high (HFS) and low (LFS) frequency stimulations. EPO-perfusion depressed significantly the slope of the fEPSP. The PPF ratio was increased significantly when compared with pre-EPO-perfusion. Stimulation of the control slices with LFS (1Hz) depressed significantly the slope of the fEPSP (77.73.85% of the baseline responses). Intermediate stimulation frequency (10Hz) produced no significant changes, while HFS (100Hz) induced significant potentiation of the responses (142.387.72%). In EPO-perfused slices significant bigger responses were obtained (1Hz, 101.125.69%, 10Hz, 123.242.68, and 100Hz, 216.4120.1) when compared to the control slices. These results suggest that erythropoietin decreases the excitatory neurotransmitter release probability and may in this way protect the synapses from toxic levels of glutamate. Erythropoietin perfusion increased the expression of long-term potentiation in the hippocampus which is considered as basic cellular model for learning and memory.
Recent publications in Cell Stem Cell (Son etal., 2011; Ambasudhan etal., 2011), PNAS (Pfisterer etal., 2011), and Nature (Caiazzo etal., 2011; Pang etal., 2011; Yoo etal., 2011) report that functional neurons can be directly generated from human fibroblast cells without going through the pluripotent state.
Mitochondria are central organelles in cellular energy metabolism, apoptosis, and aging processes. A signaling network regulating these functions was recently shown to include soluble adenylyl cyclase as a local source of the second messenger cAMP in the mitochondrial matrix. However, a mitochondrial cAMP-degrading phosphodiesterase (PDE) necessary for switching off this cAMP signal has not yet been identified. Here, we describe the identification and characterization of a PDE2A isoform in mitochondria from rodent liver and brain. We find that mitochondrial PDE2A is located in the matrix and that the unique N terminus of PDE2A isoform 2 specifically leads to mitochondrial localization of this isoform. Functional assays show that mitochondrial PDE2A forms a local signaling system with soluble adenylyl cyclase in the matrix, which regulates the activity of the respiratory chain. Our findings complete a cAMP signaling cascade in mitochondria and have implications for understanding the regulation of mitochondrial processes and for their pharmacological modulation.
Traditional magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) applies small amplitude vibration to tissues. Thus currently MRE measures only the small deformation behaviour of tissues. MRE has the potential to estimate the strain-varying shear modulus of soft tissues, if applied at different static strains, which may allow prediction of the large-strain behaviour of tissues. This study uses MRE of bovine liver specimens under various levels of static compressive pre-strain up to 30%. Storage and loss moduli measured using MRE increased non-linearly with static compressive pre-strain, and exponential models fit well to these data to describe this relationship (R(2)&gt;0.93). Based on these models, a 10% linear compression of liver would result in a 47% overestimate of the 'true' storage modulus of the uncompressed tissue. The results of this study have implications for MRE transducer design and interpretation of results from in vivo MRE studies.
As asthma physiopathology is complex and not fully understood to date; it is expected that new key mediators are still to be unveiled in this disease. The main objective of this study was to discover potential new target proteins with a molecular weight &gt;20 kDa by using two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) on lung parenchyma extracts from control or allergen-exposed mice (ovalbumin). Two different mouse models leading to the development of acute airway inflammation (5 days allergen exposure) and airway remodeling (10 weeks allergen exposure) were used. This experimental setting allowed the discrimination of 33 protein spots in the acute inflammation model and 31 spots in the remodeling model displaying a differential expression. Several proteins were then identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF MS. Among those differentially expressed proteins, PDIA6, GRP78, Annexin A6, hnRPA3, and Enolase display an increased expression in lung parenchyma from mice exposed to allergen for 5 days. Conversely, Apolipoprotein A1 was shown to be decreased after allergen exposure in the same model. Analysis on lung parenchyma of mice exposed to allergens for 10 weeks showed decreased calreticulin levels. Changes in the levels of those different mediators were confirmed by Western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. Interestingly, alveolar macrophages isolated from lungs in the acute inflammation model displayed enhanced levels of GRP78. Moreover, intratracheal instillation of anti-GRP78 siRNA in allergen-exposed animals led to a decrease in eosinophilic inflammation and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. This study unveils new mediators of potential importance that are up- and down-regulated in asthma. Among up-regulated mediators, GRP-78 appears as a potential new therapeutic target worthy of further investigations.

Localized translation and the requisite trafficking of the mRNA template play significant roles in the nervous system including the establishment of dendrites and axons, axon path-finding, and synaptic plasticity. We provide a brief review on the regulation of localizing mRNA in mammalian neurons through critical post-translational modifications of the factors involved. These examples highlight the relationship between mRNA trafficking and the translational regulation of trafficked mRNAs and provide insight into how extracellular signals target these events during signal transduction.


Multiple cell death pathways are activated in cerebral ischaemia. Much of the initial injury, especially in the core of the infarct where cerebral blood flow is severely reduced, is necrotic and secondary to severe energy failure. However, there is considerable evidence that delayed cell death continues for several days, primarily in the penumbral region. As reperfusion therapies grow in number and effectiveness, restoration of blood flow early after injury may lead to a shift towards apoptosis. It is important to elucidate what are the key mediators of apoptotic cell death after stroke, as inhibition of apoptosis may have therapeutic implications. There are two well described pathways that lead to apoptotic cell death; the caspase pathway and the more recently described caspase-independent pathway triggered by poly-ADP-ribose polymers (PARP) activation. Caspase-induced cell death is initiated by release of mitochondrial cytochrome c, formation of the cytosolic apoptosome, and activation of endonucleases leading to a multitude of small randomly cleaved DNA fragments. In contrast caspase-independent cell death is secondary to activation of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF). Mitochondrial AIF translocates to the nucleus, where it induces peripheral chromatin condensation, as well as characteristic high-molecular-weight (50 kbp) DNA fragmentation. Although caspase-independent cell death has been recognized for some time and is known to contribute to ischaemic injury, the upstream triggering events leading to activation of this pathway remain unclear. The two major theories are that ischaemia leads to nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) depletion and subsequent energy failure, or alternatively that cell death is directly triggered by a pro-apoptotic factor produced by activation of the DNA repair enzyme PARP. PARP activation is robust in the ischaemic brain producing variable lengths of poly-ADP-ribose (PAR) polymers as byproducts of PARP activation. PAR polymers may be directly toxic by triggering mitochondrial AIF release independently of NAD+ depletion. Recently, sex differences have been discovered that illustrate the importance of understanding these molecular pathways, especially as new therapeutics targeting apoptotic cell death are developed. Cell death in females proceeds primarily via caspase activation whereas caspase-independent mechanisms triggered by the activation of PARP predominate in the male brain. This review summarizes the current literature in an attempt to clarify the roles of NAD+ and PAR polymers in caspase-independent cell death, and discuss sex specific cell death to provide an example of the possible importance of these downstream mediators.
In this study, we systematically review the scientific literature on the effect of color on object recognition. Thirty-five independent experiments, comprising 1535 participants, were included in a meta-analysis. We found a moderate effect of color on object recognition (d=0.28). Specific effects of moderator variables were analyzed and we found that color diagnosticity is the factor with the greatest moderator effect on the influence of color in object recognition; studies using color diagnostic objects showed a significant color effect (d=0.43), whereas a marginal color effect was found in studies that used non-color diagnostic objects (d=0.18). The present study did not permit the drawing of specific conclusions about the moderator effect of the object recognition task; while the meta-analytic review showed that color information improves object recognition mainly in studies using naming tasks (d=0.36), the literature review revealed a large body of evidence showing positive effects of color information on object recognition in studies using a large variety of visual recognition tasks. We also found that color is important for the ability to recognize artifacts and natural objects, to recognize objects presented as types (line-drawings) or as tokens (photographs), and to recognize objects that are presented without surface details, such as texture or shadow. Taken together, the results of the meta-analysis strongly support the contention that color plays a role in object recognition. This suggests that the role of color should be taken into account in models of visual object recognition.
Face recognition is a complex skill that requires the integration of facial features across the whole face, e.g., holistic processing. It is unclear whether, and to what extent, other species process faces in a manner that is similar to humans. Previous studies on the inversion effect, a marker of holistic processing, in nonhuman primates have revealed mixed results in part because many studies have failed to include alternative image categories necessary to understand whether the effects are truly face-specific. The present study re-examined the inversion effect in rhesus monkeys and chimpanzees using comparable testing methods and a variety of high quality stimuli including faces and nonfaces. The data support an inversion effect in chimpanzees only for conspecifics' faces (expert category), suggesting face-specific holistic processing similar to humans. Rhesus monkeys showed inversion effects for conspecifics, but also for heterospecifics' faces (chimpanzees), and nonfaces images (houses), supporting important species differences in this simple test of holistic face processing.
Of the acetylcholine muscarinic receptors, the type 1 (M1) and type 2 (M2) receptors are expressed at the highest levels in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus, brain regions important for cognition. As equivocal findings of age-related changes of M1 and M2 in the nonhuman primate brain have been reported, we first assessed age-related changes in M1 and M2 in the PFC and hippocampus using saturation binding assays. Maximum M1 receptor binding, but not affinity of M1 receptor binding, decreased with age. In contrast, the affinity of M2 receptor binding, but not maximum M2 receptor binding, increased with age. To determine if in the elderly cognitive performance is associated with M1 or M2 function, we assessed muscarinic function in elderly female rhesus macaques in vivo using a scopolamine challenge pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging and in vitro using saturation binding assays. Based on their performance in a spatial maze, the animals were classified as good spatial performers (GSP) or poor spatial performers (PSP). In the hippocampus, but not PFC, the GSP group showed a greater change in T(2)*-weighted signal intensity after scopolamine challenge than the PSP group. The maximum M1 receptor binding and receptor binding affinity was greater in the GSP than the PSP group, but no group difference was found in M2 receptor binding. Parameters of circadian activity positively correlated with the difference in T(2)*-weighted signal intensity before and after the challenge, the maximum M1 receptor binding, and the M1 receptor binding affinity. Thus, while in rhesus macaques, there are age-related decreases in M1 and M2 receptor binding, in aged females, hippocampal M1, but not M2, receptor function is associated with spatial learning and memory and circadian activity.
Aged canines naturally accumulate several types of neuropathology that may have links to cognitive decline. On a gross level, significant cortical atrophy occurs with age along with an increase in ventricular volume based on magnetic resonance imaging studies. Microscopically, there is evidence of select neuron loss and reduced neurogenesis in the hippocampus of aged dogs, an area critical for intact learning and memory. The cause of neuronal loss and dysfunction may be related to the progressive accumulation of toxic proteins, oxidative damage, cerebrovascular pathology, and changes in gene expression. For example, aged dogs naturally accumulate human-type beta-amyloid peptide, a protein critically involved with the development of Alzheimer's disease in humans. Further, oxidative damage to proteins, DNA/RNA and lipids occurs with age in dogs. Although less well explored in the aged canine brain, neuron loss, and cerebrovascular pathology observed with age are similar to human brain aging and may also be linked to cognitive decline. Interestingly, the prefrontal cortex appears to be particularly vulnerable early in the aging process in dogs and this may be reflected in dysfunction in specific cognitive domains with age.
Current epidemiological, preclinical and clinical data suggest that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs) may constitute therapeutic strategy for several disorders of the central nervous system, including Parkinson's disease (PD). PD is a neurodegenerative disorder primarily characterized by motor symptoms but which also includes several other pathological features such as autonomic system failures, mood disorders, and cognitive deficits. Current pharmacological options for the disease are limited to symptom management and their long-term use leads to important side effects. In this review, we discuss the evidence for the effects of n-3 PUFAs in PD both from an epidemiological perspective as well as in light of data gathered on various pathological features of the disease. Effects of n-3 PUFAs on the dopaminergic system, -synucleinopathy, their possible mechanisms of action as well as their therapeutic potential for PD patients are also reviewed. n-3 PUFAs are inexpensive, readily transferable to the clinical setting and their use could represent a neuroprotective strategy or a disease-modifying option to delay the appearance of symptoms. It could also be beneficial as a symptomatologic treatment or serve as an add-on therapy to current pharmacological approaches. Review of the current literature as well as the undertaking of future clinical trials will shed light on these possibilities.

This study examined the main reasons and predictors of HIV disclosure and its relationship to access to care among people living with HIV (PLH) in a rural area of China. A sample of 88 PLH from three counties was interviewed in 2009. In our sample, the rates of disclosure were higher within and outside family. Trust (31%), needing help (28%), and close relationships (26%) were the three main reasons of selecting the person to disclose by a PLH. Using a multivariate analysis, level of HIV disclosure to partners and members within the community was only significantly associated with use of antiretroviral treatment (ART) ( = 2.76; 95% Confidence Interval (CI): 0.77, 4.74). After adjusting for demographics, time since HIV diagnosis and ART, we found HIV disclosure ( = 0.07; 95% CI: 0.01, 0.13) was a significant predictor for access to care. In order to improve PLHs' access to health services and care, future intervention programs should consider both the potential benefits and risks associated with HIV disclosure (intentional and unintentional), and assist PLHs to prepare for HIV disclosure and reduce potential negative impacts that come with it.
In well-trained animals, accumbal dopamine release is stimulated during operant ethanol self-administration, but the time course of development of this dopaminergic response, particularly during the acquisition of ethanol drinking behavior, remains unknown. To examine this, we trained male Long-Evans rats to self-administer 10% ethanol plus 10% sucrose, using a protocol in which the concentration of ethanol was kept constant throughout the study. The animals were required to press the lever four times to gain continuous access to the drinking solution for 20 minutes, and microdialysis was performed on either the first or second day of 10% ethanol plus 10% sucrose self-administration or 10% sucrose as controls. Ethanol and dopamine were both analyzed in the dialysates. All groups (day 1 and 2 ethanol and their corresponding sucrose controls) showed an increase in accumbal dopamine during the transfer from the home cage into the operant chamber. Our main finding was an increase in dopamine in the nucleus accumbens core-shell border during the first 5 minutes of consumption on the second day but not on the first day of ethanol self-administration. Our results suggest that a single exposure to a 10% ethanol plus 10% sucrose drinking solution may be sufficient to learn the association between ethanol cues and its reinforcing properties. Furthermore, we speculate that the dopamine response during ethanol consumption likely reflects the reward-prediction role of the mesolimbic dopamine system.
Many intracellular proteins and signaling cascades contribute to the ethanol sensitivity of native N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs). One putative protein is the serine/threonine kinase, protein kinase C (PKC). The purpose of this study was to assess if PKC modulates the ethanol sensitivity of native NMDARs expressed in primary cultured cerebellar granule cells (CGCs). With the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, we assessed if ethanol inhibition of NMDA-induced currents (I(NMDA)) (100 M NMDA plus 10 M glycine) were altered in CGCs in which the novel and classical PKC isoforms were activated by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA). Percent inhibition by 10, 50, or 100 mM ethanol of NMDA-induced steady-state current amplitudes (I(SS)) or peak current amplitudes (I(Pk)) of NMDARs expressed in CGCs in which PKC was activated by a 12.5 min, 100 nM PMA exposure at 37C did not differ from currents obtained from receptors contained in control cells. However, PMA-mediated augmentation of I(Pk) in the absence of ethanol was abolished after brief applications of 10 or 1 mM ethanol coapplied with agonists, and this suppression of enhanced receptor function was observed for up to 8 min post-ethanol exposure. Because we had previously shown that PMA-mediated augmentation of I(NMDA) of NMDARs expressed in these cells is by activation of PKC, we assessed the effect of ethanol (1, 10, 50, and 100 mM) on PKC activity. Ethanol decreased PKC activity by 18% for 1 mM ethanol and activity decreased with increasing ethanol concentrations with a 50% inhibition observed with 100 mM ethanol. The data suggest that ethanol disruption of PMA-mediated augmentation of I(NMDA) may be due to a decrease in PKC activity by ethanol. However, given the incomplete blockade of PKC activity and the low concentration of ethanol at which this phenomenon is observed, other ethanol-sensitive signaling cascades must also be involved.


Inconsistencies in reports on methamphetamine (METH) associated cognitive dysfunction may be attributed, at least in part, to the diversity of study sample features (eg, clinical and demographic characteristics). The current study assessed cognitive function in a METH-dependent population from rural South Carolina, and the impact of demographic and clinical characteristics on performance. Seventy-one male (28.2%) and female (71.8%) METH-dependent subjects were administered a battery of neurocognitive tests including the Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM), Shipley Institute of Living Scale, Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT), Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT), Grooved Pegboard Test, California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT), and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). Demographic and clinical characteristics (eg, gender, frequency of METH use) were examined as predictors of performance. Subjects scored significantly lower than expected on one test of attention and one of fine motor function, but performed adequately on all other tests. There were no predictors of performance on attention; however, more frequent METH use was associated with better performance for males and worse for females on fine motor skills. The METH-dependent individuals in this population exhibit very limited cognitive impairment. The marked differences in education, Intellectual Quotient (IQ), and gender in our sample when compared to the published literature may contribute to these findings. Characterization of the impact of clinical and/or demographic features on cognitive deficits could be important in guiding the development of treatment interventions.


Bovine adrenocortical cells express bTREK-1 K(+) (bovine KCNK2) channels that are inhibited by ANG II through a Gq-coupled receptor by separate Ca(2+) and ATP hydrolysis-dependent signaling pathways. Whole cell and single patch clamp recording from adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells were used to characterize Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of bTREK-1. In whole cell recordings with pipette solutions containing 0.5 mM EGTA and no ATP, the Ca(2+) ionophore ionomycin (1 M) produced a transient inhibition of bTREK-1 that reversed spontaneously within minutes. At higher concentrations, ionomycin (5-10 M) produced a sustained inhibition of bTREK-1 that was reversible upon washing, even in the absence of hydrolyzable [ATP](i). BAPTA was much more effective than EGTA at suppressing bTREK-1 inhibition by ANG II. When intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) was buffered to 20 nM with either 11 mM BAPTA or EGTA, ANG II (10 nM) inhibited bTREK-1 by 12.0  4.5% (n=11) and 59.3  8.4% (n=4), respectively. Inclusion of the water-soluble phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) analog DiC(8)PI(4,5)P(2) in the pipette failed to increase bTREK-1 expression or reduce its inhibition by ANG II. The open probability (P(o)) of unitary bTREK-1 channels recorded from inside-out patches was reduced by Ca(2+) (10-35 M) in a concentration-dependent manner. These results are consistent with a model in which ANG II inhibits bTREK-1 K(+) channels by a Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism that does not require the depletion of membrane-associated PIP(2). They further indicate that the Ca(2+) source is located in close proximity within a &quot;Ca(2+) nanodomain&quot; of bTREK-1 channels, where [Ca(2+)](i) may reach concentrations of &gt;10 M. bTREK-1 is the first two-pore K(+) channel shown to be inhibited by Ca(2+) through activation of a G protein-coupled receptor.
The mechanisms underlying distension-evoked peristalsis in the colon are incompletely understood. It is well known that, following colonic distension, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is released from enterochromaffin (EC) cells in the intestinal mucosa. It is also known that exogenous 5-HT can stimulate peristalsis. These observations have led some investigators to propose that endogenous 5-HT release from EC cells might be involved in the initiation of colonic peristalsis, following distension. However, because no direct evidence exists to support this hypothesis, the aim of this study was to determine directly whether release of 5-HT from EC cells was required for distension-evoked colonic peristalsis. Real-time amperometric recordings of 5-HT release and video imaging of colonic wall movements were performed on isolated segments of guinea pig distal colon, during distension-evoked peristalsis. Amperometric recordings revealed basal and transient release of 5-HT from EC cells before and during the initiation of peristalsis, respectively. However, removal of mucosa (and submucosal plexus) abolished 5-HT release but did not inhibit the initiation of peristalsis nor prevent the propagation of fecal pellets or intraluminal fluid. Maintained colonic distension by fecal pellets induced repetitive peristaltic waves, whose intrinsic frequency was also unaffected by removal of the submucosal plexus and mucosa, although their propagation velocities were slower. In conclusion, the mechanoreceptors and sensory neurons activated by radial distension to initiate peristalsis lie in the myenteric plexus and/or muscularis externa, and their activation does not require the submucosal plexus, release of 5-HT from EC cells, nor the presence of the mucosa. The propagation of peristalsis and propulsion of liquid or solid content along the colon is entrained by activity within the myenteric plexus and/or muscularis externa and does not require sensory feedback from the mucosa, nor neural inputs arising from submucosal ganglia.
The neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R) is a G protein-coupled receptor that is expressed in brain and is highly expressed by magnocellular vasopressinergic neurons in both the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic nuclei (SON) of the hypothalamus. Hyperosmolarity causes a ligand-mediated internalization of NK3Rs to the cytoplasm and to the nuclei of vasopressinergic PVN neurons. This receptor activation-dependent pathway is presumed to be a means to directly transmit synaptic signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus. The present study evaluated in vivo the subnuclear domains that associate with NK3R. Rats were administered 2 M NaCl (intragastric) or no intragastric load, and 40 min later, the PVN was dissected and nuclei were isolated. Using double-immuno-transmission electron microscopy (TEM), we show that, compared with controls, hyperosmolarity causes a significant increase in NK3R Immunogold beads in the nucleus of PVN neurons. Furthermore, NK3R spatially colocalized with histone H4 and with highly acetylated H4 in nuclei isolated from the PVN of rats administered 2 M NaCl, but not in nuclei from control rats. Next, coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed that acetylated H4, as well as acetylated H3, were pulled down with NK3R in the PVN nuclear enriched fraction from rats treated with 2 M NaCl, but not from control rats. In response to hyperosmolarity, NK3R is transported to the nucleus of PVN neurons and associates with transcriptionally active chromatin, where it may influence the transcription of genes.
The pattern of regional brain activation in humans during thirst associated with dehydration, increased blood osmolality, and decreased blood volume is not known. Furthermore, there is little information available about associations between activation in osmoreceptive brain regions such as the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and the brain regions implicated in thirst and its satiation in humans. With the objective of investigating the neuroanatomical correlates of dehydration and activation in the ventral lamina terminalis, this study involved exercise-induced sweating in 15 people and measures of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using a functional magnetic resonance imaging technique called pulsed arterial spin labeling. Regional brain activations during dehydration, thirst, and postdrinking were consistent with the network previously identified during systemic hypertonic infusions, thus providing further evidence that the network is involved in monitoring body fluid and the experience of thirst. rCBF measurements in the ventral lamina terminalis were correlated with whole brain rCBF measures to identify regions that correlated with the osmoreceptive region. Regions implicated in the experience of thirst were identified including cingulate cortex, prefrontal cortex, striatum, parahippocampus, and cerebellum. Furthermore, the correlation of rCBF between the ventral lamina terminalis and the cingulate cortex and insula was different for the states of thirst and recent drinking, suggesting that functional connectivity of the ventral lamina terminalis is a dynamic process influenced by hydration status and ingestive behavior.

Exocytosis is one of the most crucial and ubiquitous processes in all of biology. This event is mediated by the formation of SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) complexes, ternary assemblies of syntaxin, SNAP23/SNAP25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 23 or 25 kDa), and synaptobrevin. The exocytotic process can be further regulated by complexin, which interacts with the SNARE complex. Complexin is involved in a Ca(2+)-triggered exocytotic process. In eukaryotic cells, multiple isoforms of SNARE proteins are expressed and are involved in distinct types of exocytosis. To understand the underlying biochemical mechanism of various exocytotic processes mediated by different SNARE protein isoforms, we systematically analyzed the interactions among syntaxin, SNAP23/SNAP25, synaptobrevin, and complexin by employing a newly developed yeast four-hybrid interaction assay. The efficiency of SNARE complex formation and the specificity of complexin binding are regulated by the different SNARE protein isoforms. Therefore, various types of exocytosis, occurring on different time scales with different efficiencies, can be explained by the involved SNARE complexes composed of different combinations of SNARE protein isoforms.
Voltammetry is widely used to investigate neurotransmission and other biological processes but is limited by poor chemical selectivity and fouling of commonly used carbon fiber microelectrodes (CFMs). We performed direct comparisons of three key coating materials purported to impart selectivity and fouling resistance to electrodes: Nafion, base-hydrolyzed cellulose acetate (BCA), and fibronectin. We systematically evaluated the impact on a range of electrode parameters. Fouling due to exposure to brain tissue was investigated using an approach that minimizes the use of animals while enabling evaluation of statistically significant populations of electrodes. We find that BCA is relatively fouling-resistant. Moreover, detection at BCA-coated CFMs can be tuned by altering hydrolysis times to minimize the impact on sensitivity losses while maintaining fouling resistance. Fibronectin coating is associated with moderate losses in sensitivity after coating and fouling. Nafion imparts increased sensitivity for dopamine and norepinephrine but not serotonin, as well as the anticipated selectivity for cationic neurotransmitters over anionic metabolites. Although Nafion has been suggested to resist fouling, both dip-coating and electrodeposition of Nafion are associated with substantial fouling, similar to levels observed at bare electrodes after exposure to brain tissue. Direct comparisons of these coatings identified unique electroanalytical properties of each that can be used to guide selection tailored to the goals and environment of specific studies.
Conformity refers to the act of changing one's behaviour to match that of others. Recent studies in humans have shown that individual differences exist in conformity and that these differences are related to differences in neuronal activity. To understand the neuronal mechanisms in more detail, animal tests to assess conformity are needed. Here, we used a test of conformity in rats that has previously been evaluated in female, but not male, rats and assessed the nature of individual differences in conformity. Male Wistar rats were given the opportunity to learn that two diets differed in palatability. They were subsequently exposed to a demonstrator that had consumed the less palatable food. Thereafter, they were exposed to the same diets again. Just like female rats, male rats decreased their preference for the more palatable food after interaction with demonstrator rats that had eaten the less palatable food. Individual differences existed for this shift, which were only weakly related to an interaction between their own initial preference and the amount consumed by the demonstrator rat. The data show that this conformity test in rats is a promising tool to study the neurobiology of conformity.
Abnormal eye movements in multiple sclerosis (MS) are often persistent and known to be associated with general disability. However, there is no precise knowledge concerning their incidence and resulting visual handicap. The aim of our study was to describe the persistent ocular motor manifestations in MS and relate them to visual functions tested with visual acuity and with a vision-related questionnaire. We selected 24 MS patients complaining of persistent visual disability associated with ocular motor manifestations without any anterior visual pathway deficit. Internuclear ophthalmoplegia was the most frequently observed symptom, followed by gaze-evoked nystagmus, saccadic hypermetria, and then pendular nystagmus. Pendular nystagmus, saccadic hypermetria, and the association of internuclear ophthalmoplegia and gaze-evoked nystagmus were associated with decreased visual acuity and visual functional scores. There was a correlation between the number of abnormal eye movements and visual functions. This study demonstrates that ocular motor dysfunction in MS induces specific visual dysfunction and handicap.
Despite its numerous illustrations unequivocally demonstrating the phenomenon, in Sherrington's Integrative Action of the Nervous System, he considered &quot;integration&quot; only in its spatial and coordinative aspects, and failed to notice time integration as an equally pervasive feature of all motor systems. First demonstrated in the oculomotor system by Robinson and others, in the vestibulo-ocular reflex, and then as a necessary component of the oculomotor &quot;final common path&quot; (another Sherringtonian concept), integration is manifested at two further levels: in generating optokinetic responses and in the mechanism of saccadic decision. But integration is not a purely oculomotor phenomenon: behind it lie two fundamental motor principles. First, that the brain operates in terms of change, implying differentiation in sensory systems and integration in motor ones. Second, that the molecular physiology of muscle contraction means that remaining still requires not only continual expenditure of energy but also continual computational effort--a firm and precise integrator.
The response to stimulating the visual cortex with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) depends on its initial activation state, for example, visual motion adaptation biases perceived TMS-induced phosphene characteristics (e.g., color). We quantified this state dependence by assessing the probability of reporting a phosphene (P() ) with &quot;threshold&quot; TMS (i.e., the TMS intensity producing P() = 0.5 at baseline) following visual motion adaptation to a random dot motion display. Postadaptation, P() was increased, and this effect was confined to the adapted neuronal population. We then adapted subjects using a population of moving dots of fixed average motion direction with standard deviations (SD) ranging from 1 to 128 (SD fixed for a given trial). P() was significantly increased at all dot motion SDs except SD = 1. Neuronal adaptation increases the susceptibility of the neuronal population to activation by threshold intensity TMS. Thus the process of neuronal adaption is not necessarily synonymous with a downmodulation of neuronal excitability.
Previous theories assumed that the beneficial effect of the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) for patients suffering from downbeat nystagmus (DBN) or episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) is due to an increase of excitability of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PC). Recent experimental results using therapeutic doses of 4-AP with a mouse model of EA2 challenged the theory showing that 4-AP does not change the firing rate of PC but their regularity. Based on a mathematical model of the ocular motor and cerebellar circuitry, we show that changes in regularity have no effect without synchrony in PC firing. Together with synchronous firing, an increase in regularity may lead to a decrease in overall inhibition and may invert the inhibitory to an excitatory response due to imprinting, a novel effect of synchronized neural inhibition. Both effects are unlikely to be the causative mechanism for the success of 4-AP in treating cerebellar disorders.
The association of bilateral vestibulopathy with cerebellar ataxia was first reported in 1991 and delineated as a distinct syndrome with a characteristic and measurable clinical sign--an absent visually enhanced vestibulo-ocular reflex--in 2004. We reviewed 27 patients with this syndrome and show that a non-length-dependent sensory deficit with absent sensory nerve action potentials is an integral component of this syndrome, which we now call &quot;cerebellar ataxia with neuropathy and bilateral vestibular areflexia syndrome&quot; (CANVAS). All patients had brain MRI and 22/27 had evidence of cerebellar atrophy involving anterior and dorsal vermis, as well as the hemispheric crus I. Brain and temporal bone pathology in one patient showed marked loss of Purkinje cells and of vestibular, trigeminal, and facial ganglion cells, but not of spiral ganglion cells. There are two sets of sibling pairs, suggesting CANVAS is a late-onset recessive disorder. The characteristic clinical sign-the visual vestibulo-ocular reflex deficit-can be demonstrated and measured clinically using video-oculography.
A significant number of patients with bilateral vestibulopathy suffer from cerebellar ataxia and central vestibular symptoms and vice versa. We examined 31 patients presenting with the combination of gait and stance ataxia, cerebellar ocular motor signs, and a bilaterally pathological head-impulse test (HIT). Tests included neuro-orthoptical examination, electromyography and neurography, caloric irrigation, pure-tone audiogram, vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials, and volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Only 17 of 31 patients had a pathological caloric irrigation. Twenty-three patients had evidence of polyneuropathy (predominantly mixed sensorimotor involving axonal loss and demyelination) and twenty of hypoacusis (1 unilateral and 19 bilateral). Voxel-based morphometry comparing local gray matter brain volume between patients and controls revealed cerebellar atrophy involving both the vermis and the hemispheres. We conclude that there is a clinically relevant combination of cerebellar ataxia with cerebellar atrophy, bilaterally pathological HIT, polyneuropathy, and hypoacusis. This multisensory syndrome is most likely caused by a neurodegenerative disorder affecting different systems, leading to severe impairment of affected patients.
The superior colliculus (SC) is well known for its involvement in the conversion of sensory stimuli into motor commands. This sensorimotor integration is made possible by the collective activity of multiple neuronal connections throughout the SC. Still, the majority of SC research focuses on in vivo extracellular recordings of behaving monkeys or in vitro patch-clamp recordings from lower mammals. Here, we discuss the results of an in vitro voltage-imaging technique in which population activity across the rodent SC circuitry was visualized to bridge the gap between single-cell recordings and whole-animal behavior. The high temporal and spatial resolution of the voltage-imaging technique allowed us to visualize patterns of activity following stimulation at discrete laminae. Stimulation within either the superficial or intermediate layer showed recruitment of disparate SC circuitry. These results provide insight into the circuit dynamics and neuronal populations that underlie behavior.




To study whether in subcortical ischemic vascular dementia (SIVD) the changes of motor cortex excitability are due to the dementing process or to the cerebrovascular lesions, we examined 20 SIVD patients, 20 patients with subcortical ischemic disease without dementia (SIDWD) and 20 control subjects who underwent transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Motor threshold (MT), amplitudes of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and silent period (SP) were considered. MT in SIVD patients (32.7  2.6%) was significantly lower (p&lt;0.001) than in SIDWD patients (47.9  3.4%) and in controls (49.1  4.2%). MEP amplitude was larger in SIVD patients (6.8  1.7 mV) than in the other groups (5.7  1.9 mV and 5.2  1.8 mV, p&lt;0.02). Motor cortex excitability is enhanced in SIVD. Our data, taken together with previous results in Alzheimer disease (AD), indicate that motor cortex hyperexcitability is a common finding in different dementing illnesses.




The experience of foraging under natural conditions increases the volume of mushroom body neuropil in worker honey bees. A comparable increase in neuropil volume results from treatment of worker honey bees with pilocarpine, an agonist for muscarinic-type cholinergic receptors. A component of the neuropil growth induced by foraging experience is growth of dendrites in the collar region of the calyces. We show here, via analysis of Golgi-impregnated collar Kenyon cells with wedge arborizations, that significant increases in standard measures of dendritic complexity were also found in worker honey bees treated with pilocarpine. This result suggests that signaling via muscarinic-type receptors promotes the increase in Kenyon cell dendritic complexity associated with foraging. Treatment of worker honey bees with scopolamine, a muscarinic inhibitor, inhibited some aspects of dendritic growth. Spine density on the Kenyon cell dendrites varied with sampling location, with the distal portion of the dendritic field having greater total spine density than either the proximal or medial section. This observation may be functionally significant because of the stratified organization of projections from visual centers to the dendritic arborizations of the collar Kenyon cells. Pilocarpine treatment had no effect on the distribution of spines on dendrites of the collar Kenyon cells.
Social cognition is a cognitive domain that is under substantial cultural influence. There are no culturally appropriate standardized tools in India to comprehensively test social cognition. This study describes validation of tools for three social cognition constructs: theory of mind, social perception and attributional bias. Theory of mind tests included adaptations of, (a) two first order tasks [Sally-Anne and Smarties task], (b) two second order tasks [Ice cream van and Missing cookies story], (c) two metaphor-irony tasks and (d) the faux pas recognition test. Internal, Personal, and Situational Attributions Questionnaire (IPSAQ) and Social Cue Recognition Test were adapted to assess attributional bias and social perception, respectively. These tests were first modified to suit the Indian cultural context without changing the constructs to be tested. A panel of experts then rated the tests on likert scales as to (1) whether the modified tasks tested the same construct as in the original and (2) whether they were culturally appropriate. The modified tests were then administered to groups of actively symptomatic and remitted schizophrenia patients as well as healthy comparison subjects. All tests of the Social Cognition Rating Tools in Indian Setting had good content validity and known groups validity. In addition, the social cure recognition test in Indian setting had good internal consistency and concurrent validity.
Endophenotypes are neurobiological markers cosegregating and associated with illness. These biomarkers represent a promising strategy to dissect ADHD biological causes. This study was aimed at contrasting the genetics of neuropsychological tasks for intelligence, attention, memory, visual-motor skills, and executive function in children from multigenerational and extended pedigrees that cluster ADHD in a genetic isolate. In a sample of 288 children and adolescents, 194 (67.4%) ADHD affected and 94 (32.6%) unaffected, a battery of neuropsychological tests was utilized to assess the association between genetic transmission and the ADHD phenotype. We found significant differences between affected and unaffected children in the WISC block design, PIQ and FSIQ, continuous vigilance, and visual-motor skills, and these variables exhibited a significant heritability. Given the association between these neuropsychological variables and ADHD, and also the high genetic component underlying their transmission in the studied pedigrees, we suggest that these variables be considered as potential cognitive endophenotypes suitable as quantitative trait loci (QTLs) in future studies of linkage and association.
This article forms part of our 'Tests and results' series for 2011 which aims to provide information about common tests that general practitioners order regularly. It considers areas such as indications, what to tell the patient, what the test can and cannot tell you, and interpretation of results.

Atg8 and its homologs are essential for autophagosome formation in various species. In animal cells, Atg8 homologs have an additional function in clearance of damaged organelles and bacteria, acting as a landmark for selective autophagy. We have recently shown that OATL1, a Rab-GTPase-activating protein (Rab-GAP), is a novel binding partner of Atg8 homologs in mammalian cells, but to our surprise, it is not a substrate of autophagy. Further analysis indicates that OATL1 is involved in the fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes through its GAP activity and its Atg8 homolog binding activity. Our findings suggest a novel function of Atg8 homologs as a scaffold for signal transduction that regulates autophagosomal maturation.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a known teratogen. In the present study, the effects of VPA and seven VPA derivatives with different teratogenic potencies (isobutyl-, 5-methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, butyl-, pentyl- and hexyl-4-yn-VPA) were investigated in L929 cells in vitro. Evaluated end-points included changes in cell proliferation, growth, cell cycle distribution, morphology, speed, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) and Erk1/2 phosphorylation, and histone H3 acetylation. Changes in proliferation, growth, speed, Erk1/2 and GSK-3-Tyr216 phosphorylation, and H3 acetylation were significantly associated with the teratogenic potencies of the VPA derivatives. However, in contrast to changes in Erk1/2 phosphorylation and H3 acetylation, significant changes in GSK-3 phosphorylation could only be obtained in response to prolonged incubation at high drug concentration. There was an association between changes in H3 acetylation and GSK-3-Tyr216 phosphorylation, whereas none of these end-points were associated with changes in Erk1/2 phosphorylation. These results suggest that the teratogenic potencies of VPA and VPA derivatives are related to effects on both Erk1/2 and histone deacetylase activities, whereas changes in GSK-3 activity are possibly a secondary effect.
Milnacipran, a serotonin and noradrenalin reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), is efficacious in rodents in various models of acute or chronic pain (traumatic, neuropathic, inflammatory, visceral). However, its activity against arthritic pain has never been explored. Here, we assessed the activity of acute treatment with milnacipran in a polyarthritic rat model. Rats were injected in the tail base with complete Freund's adjuvant to induce a state of polyarthritis. Analgesic effects of acute treatment with intraperitoneal administration of milnacipran were then evaluated, using the Randall-Selitto model, against two levels of pressure applied to both hind paws (a lower one, addressing mechanical allodynia and a higher one, addressing mechanical hyperalgesia). The other SNRI duloxetine and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin were tested as positive controls. Milnacipran was significantly and dose dependently active against the decrease of paw withdrawal threshold produced by complete Freund's adjuvant for low (minimum effective dose=5 mg/kg, range tested: 2.5-10 mg/kg) and high (minimum effective dose=10 mg/kg, range tested: 5-20 mg/kg)-pressure levels. Duloxetine (20 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) was significantly active against low pressure only. Indomethacin (3 mg/kg per os) was efficacious against both pressure levels. These rodent data suggest that milnacipran should be efficacious in painful conditions associated with chronic inflammatory states, such as arthritis.
This study explored the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in the effects of -opioid agonists. A hot-plate procedure was used to assess antinociception and tolerance in mice in which the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor was reduced [knockdown (KD)] to approximately 10%, and in mice treated with the NMDA antagonist, (-)-6-phosphonomethyl-deca-hydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid (LY235959). The  opioid agonists, morphine, l-methadone and fentanyl, were approximately three-fold less potent in the NR1 KD mice than in wild-type (WT) controls; however, the development of morphine tolerance and dependence did not differ markedly in the NR1 KD and the WT mice. Acute administration of the NMDA antagonist, LY235959, produced dose-dependent, leftward shifts in the morphine dose-effect curve in the WT mice, but not in the NR1 KD mice. Chronic administration of LY235959 during the morphine tolerance regimen did not attenuate the development of tolerance in the NR1 KD or the WT mice. These results indicate that the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor does not play a prominent role in  opioid tolerance.

While there has been steady progress in identifying psychophysiological traits associated with psychopathy, most of the existing research has been carried out using incarcerated male participants, and data that include females are particularly rare. This study examined both affective startle blink modulation and P3 amplitude in a sample of female undergraduates grouped by scores on the Psychopathic Personality Inventory-Revised (PPI-R). Those scoring high for psychopathic traits lacked startle blink potentiation and demonstrated larger P3 amplitudes during auditory and visual oddball tasks. These data support the generalizability of deficient startle potentiation to non-incarcerated females with psychopathic traits, and add to a growing body of literature suggesting that psychopathic traits are associated with distinctive information-processing characteristics as indexed by P3 amplitude.
The purpose of our study was to assess mitochondrial biogenesis and distribution in murine primary neurons. Using 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation and primary neurons, we studied the mitochondrial biogenesis and mitochondrial distribution in hippocampal neurons from amyloid beta precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice and wild-type (WT) neurons treated with oxidative stressors, rotenone and H(2)O(2). We found that after 20h of labeling, BrdU incorporation was specific to porin-positive mitochondria. The proportion of mitochondrial area labeled with BrdU was 40.36.3% at 20h. The number of mitochondria with newly synthesized DNA was higher in APP neuronal cell bodies than in the cell bodies of WT neurons (APP, 45.232.67 BrdU-positive/cell body; WT, 32.922.49 BrdU-positive/cell body; p=0.005). In neurites, the number of BrdU-positive mitochondria decreased in APP cultures compared to WT neurons (APP, 0.1050.008 BrdU-positive/m neurite; WT, 0.2200.036 BrdU-positive/m neurite; p=0.010). Further, BrdU in the cell body increased when neurons were treated with low doses of H(2)O(2) (49.62.7 BrdU-positive/cell body, p=0.0002 compared to untreated cells), while the neurites showed decreased BrdU staining (0.1220.010 BrdU-positive/m neurite, p=0.005 compared to the untreated). BrdU labeling was increased in the cell body under rotenone treatment. Additionally, under rotenone treatment, the content of BrdU labeling decreased in neurites. These findings suggest that A and mitochondrial toxins enhance mitochondrial fragmentation in the cell body, and may cause impaired axonal transport of mitochondria leading to synaptic degeneration.




Participants were exposed to a temporal generalization task where the duration of a small visual stimulus was judged. People received a 600ms standard duration, then had to judge whether other durations (longer than, shorter than, or equal to the standard) were or were not the standard (making a YES or NO response). In different experimental conditions, the spacing of non-standard durations around the standard was 150ms (Easy condition), or 75ms (Difficult condition), so the two conditions involved some judgements made with the same stimuli (450, 600, and 750ms). The experiment thus compared judgements of the same physical stimuli, when the basis of the judgement was the same, thus avoiding some problems of control that have been present in earlier electrophysiological studies of time judgements. As in previous work, fewer YES responses occurred in the Difficult condition and the 450ms duration was less confused with the 600ms standard than the 750ms one was. Computer modelling suggested that this (fewer YES responses) was due to a decrease in the decision threshold for the YES judgement. The electrophysiological results showed a distinction between the Easy and Difficult conditions observable by a change in the LCPt (Late Positive Component of Timing) measured after the stimulus presentations and by a change in the P1, the CNV (Contingent Negative Variation), and its positive counterpart during the presentation of the stimulus, which were larger when the discrimination was difficult. Our results therefore suggest that the increase in the difficulty of the generalization task not only changes decision processes but also alters attentional mechanisms. They also reveal that the decision does not seem to involve a unitary mechanism but depends on a group of sub-processes, notably attentional mechanisms which are altered from the moment of presentation of the stimulus.
The present study uses magnetoencephalography (MEG) to examine brain magnetic patterns in young and older adults who perform an interference-based working memory (WM) task with two experimental conditions; interrupting and distracting. Behaviourally, both types of retroactive interference significantly impair WM accuracy at recognition more in older adults than in young adults with the latter exhibiting greater disruptions by interruptors. MEG results revealed the presence of differential age-related and interference-related neural patterns. Specifically, time-modulated activations in posterior-frontal regions were increased in young compared to older adults characterising each condition. Additionally, young adults exhibited greater posterior-frontal activations for the interrupting compared to the distracting condition. These results suggest that age-related deficits in inhibitory mechanisms that increase vulnerability to interference are associated with under-recruitments in posterior-frontal regions. On the other hand, the absence of differential interference-related neural recruitments reflects that both types of interference affect WM equally in the elderly.
Olfactory abilities are crucial in the development and maintenance of alcoholism, but while they have been widely explored in other psychiatric states, little is known concerning this sensorial modality among alcoholics. The present study explored the brain correlates of the olfaction deficit in alcoholism. Ten alcoholics and ten matched controls took part in psychophysical and electrophysiological olfactory testing. At behavioural level, we showed odor identification deficits in alcoholism, for orthonasal and retronasal testing. Electrophysiological data showed abnormalities (in latency and amplitude) for N1 and P2 olfactory components among alcoholics, which constitutes the first description of the cerebral correlates of olfactory impairments in alcoholism. This deficit appears associated with alterations in the brain structures responsible for the secondary, &quot;cognitive&quot; processing of odors. These results underline the need to take into account olfactory deficits in clinical practice and in studies exploring brain correlates of craving by means of alcohol odors.
Metabolic oligosaccharide engineering is a powerful approach for installing unnatural glycans with unique functional groups into the glycocalyx of living cells and animals. Using this approach, we showed that K(+) channel complexes decorated with thiol-containing sialic acids were irreversibly inhibited with scorpion toxins bearing a pendant maleimide group. Irreversible inhibition required a glycosylated K(+) channel subunit and was completely reversible with mild reductant when the tether connecting the toxin to the maleimide contained a disulfide bond. Cleavage of the disulfide bond not only restored function, but delivered a biotin moiety to the modified K(+) channel subunit, providing a novel approach for preferentially labeling wild type K(+) channel complexes functioning in cells.


Previous lines of experimental evidence have suggested that Phaseolus vulgaris extracts reduce food intake, body weight, lipid accumulation, hedonic properties of food, carbohydrate absorption and metabolism, and glycaemia in rats. The present study was designed to assess the effect of multiple cycles of repeated treatments with a standardised P. vulgaris dry extract on daily food intake and body weight in genetically obese Zucker fa/fa rats (Expt 1). Additionally, the study tested the effect of acute treatment with P. vulgaris dry extract on postprandial glycaemia in Zucker fa/fa rats (Expt 2). In Expt 1, P. vulgaris dry extract was administered daily, at doses of 50 and 500 mg/kg, in three 5 d treatment periods followed by three 20 d off-treatment periods. Administration of P. vulgaris dry extract resulted in dose-dependent decreases in daily food intake and body weight in each treatment phase. Reductions in food intake were of comparable magnitude in each treatment phase. In Expt 2, food-deprived rats were acutely treated with 50 and 500 mg P. vulgaris dry extract per kg immediately before access to a fixed amount of a starch-enriched chow. Treatment with P. vulgaris dry extract resulted in a dose-dependent suppression of glycaemia. These results extend previous data on the anorectic and hypoglycaemic effects of the P. vulgaris dry extract to a validated animal model of obesity. Together with data published previously in the literature, these results strengthen the hypothesis that potentially effective, novel pharmacotherapies for obesity and related disorders may originate from extracts and derivatives of P. vulgaris.



Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative disease in which death of motoneurons leads to progressive failure of the neuromuscular system resulting in death frequently within 2-3 years of symptom onset. Focal onset and propagation of the disease symptoms to contiguous motoneuron groups is a striking feature of the human disease progression. Recent work, using mutant superoxide dismutase 1 murine models and in vitro culture systems has indicated that astrocytes are likely to contribute to the propagation of motoneuron injury and disease progression. However, the basis of this astrocyte toxicity and/or failure of motoneuron support has remained uncertain. Using a combination of in vivo and in vitro model systems of superoxide dismutase 1-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, linked back to human biosamples, we set out to elucidate how astrocyte properties change in the presence of mutant superoxide dismutase 1 to contribute to motoneuron injury. Gene expression profiling of spinal cord astrocytes from presymptomatic transgenic mice expressing mutant superoxide dismutase 1 revealed two striking changes. First, there was evidence of metabolic dysregulation and, in particular, impairment of the astrocyte lactate efflux transporter, with resultant decrease of spinal cord lactate levels. Second, there was evidence of increased nerve growth factor production and dysregulation of the ratio of pro-nerve growth factor to mature nerve growth factor, favouring p75 receptor expression and activation by neighbouring motoneurons. Functional in vitro studies showed that astrocytes expressing mutant superoxide dismutase 1 are toxic to normal motoneurons. We provide evidence that reduced metabolic support from lactate release and activation of pro-nerve growth factor-p75 receptor signalling are key components of this toxicity. Preservation of motoneuron viability could be achieved by increasing lactate provision to motoneurons, depletion of increased pro-nerve growth factor levels or p75 receptor blockade. These findings are likely to be relevant to human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, where we have demonstrated increased levels of pro-nerve growth factor in cerebrospinal fluid and increased expression of the p75 receptor by spinal motoneurons. Taken together, these data confirm that altered properties of astrocytes are likely to play a crucial role in the propagation of motoneuron injury in superoxide dismutase 1-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and indicate that manipulation of the energy supply to motoneurons as well as inhibition of p75 receptor signalling may represent valuable neuroprotective strategies.

The study of patients with semantic dementia has revealed important insights into the cognitive and neural architecture of semantic memory. Patients with semantic dementia are known to have difficulty understanding the meanings of environmental sounds from an early stage but little is known about their knowledge for famous tunes, which might be preserved in some cases. Patients with semantic dementia (n=13), Alzheimer's disease (n=14) as well as matched healthy control participants (n=20) underwent a battery of tests designed to assess knowledge of famous tunes, environmental sounds and famous faces, as well as volumetric magnetic resonance imaging. As a group, patients with semantic dementia were profoundly impaired in the recognition of everyday environmental sounds and famous tunes with consistent performance across testing modalities, which is suggestive of a central semantic deficit. A few notable individuals (n=3) with semantic dementia demonstrated clear preservation of knowledge of known melodies and famous people. Defects in auditory semantics were mild in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Voxel-based morphometry of magnetic resonance brain images showed that the recognition of famous tunes correlated with the degree of right anterior temporal lobe atrophy, particularly in the temporal pole. This area was segregated from the region found to be involved in the recognition of everyday sounds but overlapped considerably with the area that was correlated with the recognition of famous faces. The three patients with semantic dementia with sparing of musical knowledge had significantly less atrophy of the right temporal pole in comparison to the other patients in the semantic dementia group. These findings highlight the role of the right temporal pole in the processing of known tunes and faces. Overlap in this region might reflect that having a unique identity is a quality that is common to both melodies and people.
Meningeal inflammation in the form of ectopic lymphoid-like structures has been suggested to play a prominent role in the development of cerebral cortical grey matter pathology in multiple sclerosis. The aim of this study was to analyse the incidence and distribution of B cell follicle-like structures in an extensive collection of cases with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis with a wide age range and to determine their relationship to diffuse meningeal inflammation, white matter perivascular infiltrates and microglial activation. One hundred and twenty three cases with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis were examined for the presence of meningeal and perivascular immune cell infiltrates in tissue blocks and/or whole coronal macrosections encompassing a wide array of brain areas. Large, dense, B cell-rich lymphocytic aggregates were screened for the presence of follicular dendritic cells, proliferating B cells and plasma cells. Ectopic B cell follicle-like structures were found, with variable frequency, in 49 cases (40%) and were distributed throughout the forebrain, where they were most frequently located in the deep sulci of the temporal, cingulate, insula and frontal cortex. Subpial grey matter demyelinated lesions were located both adjacent to, and some distance from such structures. The presence of B cell follicle-like structures was associated with an accompanying quantitative increase in diffuse meningeal inflammation that correlated with the degree of microglial activation and grey matter cortical demyelination. The median age of disease onset, time to disease progression, time to wheelchair dependence and age at death all differed significantly in these cases when compared with those without B cell follicle-like structures. Our findings suggest that meningeal infiltrates may play a contributory role in the underlying subpial grey matter pathology and accelerated clinical course, which is exacerbated in a significant proportion of cases by the presence of B cell follicle-like structures.
Accuracy of clinical diagnosis of dementia is increasingly important for therapeutic and scientific investigations. In this study, we examine diagnostic accuracy in a consecutive series of 228 patients referred to a specialist early-onset dementia clinic, whose brains were subsequently examined at post-mortem. Diagnosis was based on structured history, neurological examination and neuropsychological assessment, with emphasis on qualitative as well as quantitative aspects of performance. Neuroimaging provided support for but did not alter the clinical diagnosis. We set out the principles that guided diagnosis: (i) time course of illness; (ii) weighting of physical, behavioural and cognitive symptoms and signs; (iii) 'anterior' versus 'posterior' hemisphere character of cognitive change; and (iv) specificity of deficit, paying attention to the differentiation between syndromes of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and focal forms of Alzheimer's disease. Forty-two per cent of the patients had clinical diagnoses of one of the syndromes of frontotemporal lobar degeneration, the high proportion reflecting the research interests of the group. Forty-six per cent were diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and the remaining patients, dementia with Lewy bodies, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, vascular or unclassified dementia. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration was identified with 100% sensitivity and 97% specificity and Alzheimer's disease with 97% sensitivity and 100% specificity. Patients with other pathologies were accurately identified on clinical grounds. Examination of subsyndromes of frontotemporal lobar degeneration showed a relatively predictable relationship between clinical diagnosis and pathological subtype. Whereas the behavioural disorder of frontotemporal dementia was associated with tau, transactive response DNA binding protein 43 and fused-in-sarcoma pathology, cases of frontotemporal dementia with motoneuron disease, semantic dementia and, with one exception, progressive non-fluent aphasia were associated with transactive response DNA binding protein 43 pathology, distinguished by ubiquitin subtyping (types B, C and A, respectively). Clinical diagnoses of progressive apraxia, corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy were, with one exception, associated with Pick, corticobasal and progressive supranuclear palsy subtypes of tau pathology, respectively. Unanticipated findings included Alzheimer pathology in two patients presenting with the behavioural syndrome of frontotemporal dementia and corticobasal pathology in four others with clinical frontotemporal dementia. Notwithstanding such anomalies, which serve as a reminder that there is not an absolute concordance between clinical phenotype and underlying pathology, the findings show that dementias can be distinguished in life with a high level of accuracy. Moreover, careful clinical phenotyping allows prediction of histopathological subtype of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. The principles guiding diagnosis provide the foundation for future prospective studies.
Frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease share clinical, genetic and pathological characteristics. Motor neuron disease develops in a proportion of patients with frontotemporal dementia, but the incidence, severity and functional significance of motor system dysfunction in patients with frontotemporal dementia has not been determined. Neurophysiological biomarkers have been developed to document motor system dysfunction including: short-interval intracortical inhibition, a marker of corticospinal motor neuron dysfunction and the neurophysiological index, a marker of lower motor neuron dysfunction. The present study performed detailed clinical and neurophysiological assessments on 108 participants including 40 consecutive patients with frontotemporal dementia, 42 age- and gender-matched patients with motor neuron disease and 26 control subjects. Of the 40 patients with frontotemporal dementia, 12.5% had concomitant motor neuron disease. A further 27.3% of the patients with frontotemporal dementia had clinical evidence of minor motor system dysfunction such as occasional fasciculations, mild wasting or weakness. Biomarkers of motor system function were abnormal in frontotemporal dementia. Average short-interval intracortical inhibition was reduced in frontotemporal dementia (4.31.7%) compared with controls (9.11.1%, P&lt;0.05). Short-interval intracortical inhibition was particularly reduced in the progressive non-fluent aphasia subgroup, but was normal in patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia. The neurophysiological index was reduced in frontotemporal dementia (1.1) compared with controls (1.9, P&lt;0.001), indicating a degree of lower motor neuron dysfunction, although remained relatively preserved when compared with motor neuron disease (0.7, P&lt;0.05). Motor system dysfunction in frontotemporal dementia may result from pathological involvement of the primary motor cortex, with secondary degeneration of lower motor neurons in the brainstem and anterior horn of the spinal cord.
Disinhibition is a common behavioural symptom in frontotemporal dementia but its neural correlates are still debated. In the current study, we investigated the grey and white matter neural correlates of disinhibition in a sample of behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (n=14) and patients with Alzheimer's disease (n=15). We employed an objective (Hayling Test of inhibitory functioning) and subjective/carer-based (Neuropsychiatric Inventory) measure of disinhibition to reveal convergent evidence of disinhibitory behaviour. Mean and overlap-based statistical analyses were conducted to investigate profiles of performance in patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia, Alzheimer's disease and controls. Hayling Test and Neuropsychiatric Inventory scores were entered as covariates in a grey matter voxel-based morphometry, as well as in a white matter diffusion tensor imaging analysis to determine the underlying grey and white matter correlates. Patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia showed more disinhibition on both behavioural measures in comparison to patients with Alzheimer's disease and controls. Voxel-based morphometry results revealed that atrophy in orbitofrontal/subgenual, medial prefrontal cortex and anterior temporal lobe areas covaried with total errors score of the Hayling Test. Similarly, the Neuropsychiatric Inventory disinhibition frequency score correlated with atrophy in orbitofrontal cortex and temporal pole brain regions. The orbitofrontal atrophy related to the objective (Hayling Test) and subjective (Neuropsychiatric Inventory) measures of disinhibition was partially overlapping. Diffusion tensor imaging analysis revealed that white matter integrity fractional anisotropy values of the white matter tracts connecting the identified grey matter regions, namely uncinate fasciculus, forceps minor and genu of the corpus callosum, correlated well with the total error score of the Hayling Test. Our results show that a network of orbitofrontal, anterior temporal and mesial frontal brain regions and their connecting white matter tracts are involved in inhibitory functioning. Further, we find convergent evidence for objective and subjective disinhibition measures that the orbitofrontal/subgenual brain region is critical for adapting and maintaining normal behaviour.
Age impacts multiple neural measures and these changes do not always directly translate into alterations in clinical and cognitive measures. This partial protection from the deleterious effects of age in some individuals is referred to as cognitive reserve (CR) and although linked to variations in intelligence and life experiences, its mechanism is still unclear. Within the framework of a theoretical model we tested two potential mechanistic roles of CR to maintain task performance, neural reserve and neural compensation, in young and older adults using functional and structural MRI. Neural reserve refers to increased efficiency and/or capacity of existing functional neural resources. Neural compensation refers to the increased ability to recruit new, additional functional resources. Using structural and functional measures and task performance, the roles of CR were tested using path analysis. Results supported both mechanistic theories of CR and the use of our general theoretical model.
Quantitative mapping of structural and functional connectivities in the human brain via non-invasive neuroimaging offers an exciting and unique opportunity to understand brain architecture. Because connectivity alterations are widely reported in a variety of brain diseases, assessment of structural and functional connectivities has emerged as a fundamental research area in clinical neuroscience. A fundamental question arises when attempting to map structural and functional connectivities: how to define and localize the best possible Regions of Interests (ROIs) for brain connectivity mapping? Essentially, when mapping brain connectivities, ROIs provide the structural substrates for measuring connectivities within individual brains and for pooling data across populations. Thus, identification of reliable, reproducible and accurate ROIs is critically important for the success of brain connectivity mapping. This paper discusses several major challenges in defining optimal brain ROIs from our perspective and presents a few thoughts on how to deal with those challenges based on recent research work done in our group.
White matter (WM) degeneration is an important feature of Huntington's disease (HD) neuropathology. To investigate WM degeneration we used Diffusion Tensor Imaging and Tract-Based Spatial Statistics to compare Fractional Anisotropy, Mean Diffusivity (MD), parallel diffusivity and perpendicular diffusivity () in WM throughout the whole brain in 17 clinically diagnosed HD patients and 16 matched controls. Significant WM diffusivity abnormalities were identified primarily in the corpus callosum (CC) and external/extreme capsules in HD patients compared to controls. Significant correlations were observed between motor symptoms and MD in the CC body, and between global cognitive impairment and  in the CC genu. Probabilistic tractography from these regions revealed degeneration of functionally relevant interhemispheric WM tracts. Our findings suggest that WM degeneration within interhemispheric pathways plays an important role in the deterioration of cognitive and motor function in HD patients, and that improved understanding of WM pathology early in the disease is required.
Neprilysin (NEP), which degrades amyloid- (A), is expressed by neurons and cerebrovascular smooth muscle cells (CVSMCs). NEP immunolabeling is reduced within cerebral blood vessels of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). We have now measured NEP enzyme activity in leptomeningeal and purified cerebral cortical blood vessel preparations from control and AD patients with and without CAA. Measurements were adjusted for smooth muscle actin (SMA) to control for variations in CVSMC content. NEP activity was reduced in CAA, in both controls and AD. In leptomeningeal vessels, NEP activity was related to APOE genotype, being highest in 2-positive and lowest in 4-positive brains. To assess the role of NEP in protecting CVSMCs from A toxicity, we measured cell death in primary human adult CVSMCs exposed to A(1-40) , A(1-42) or A(1-40(Dutch variant)) . A(1-42) was most cytotoxic to CVSMCs. A(1-42) -mediated cell death was increased following siRNA-mediated knockdown or thiorphan-mediated inhibition of NEP activity; conversely A(1-42) -mediated cytotoxicity was reduced by the addition of somatostatin and NEP over-expression following transfection with NEP cDNA. Our findings suggest that NEP protects CVSMCs from A toxicity and protects cerebral blood vessels from the development and complications of CAA.
Spinocerebellar ataxias type 2 (SCA2) is a rare genetic disorder characterised by the degeneration of the Cerebellum, its connections and many Brainstem areas. A voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analysis was performed on 12 genetically determined SCA2 patients and 31 controls, normalising the brains with two different atlases: one was created in-house with DARTEL (a diffeomorphic registration method) and the other was SUIT (an exclusive Cerebellum atlas). We administered two versions of a popular executive/planning functions test: the Tower of London, in the traditional and in a computerised version that does not require the use of hands, to correlate the regional atrophy with the tests' performances and to discover the different associations of Cerebellum's areas to cognitive dysfunctions. SCA2 showed a diffuse infratentorial atrophy with the whole Cerebellum and Brainstem affected, the overall patterns were highly overlapping between atlases with some minor differences. The DARTEL VBM also allowed detecting two sovratentorial clusters of atrophy, one in the left Inferior Parietal Lobule and the other in the Corticospinal Tracts. Additional analyses revealed a partial involvement of many White Matter tracts and of the Thalamus in the pathology. The classical Tower of London version correlated maximally with the right Lobule IV-V, when the computerised version correlated with the right Crus 1. The correlations of different versions of the test suggested a dissociation between the dysfunctions in SCA2: the Posterior Cerebellum was linked to the executive dysfunction while the Anterior Cerebellum was linked to the coordinative dysfunction.
Visualization of neuronal elements is of fundamental importance in modern neuroscience. Golgi-Cox impregnation is a widely employed method that provides detailed information about morphological characteristics of neurons, but none regarding their neurochemical features. Immunocytochemical procedures, on the other hand, can provide a high degree of biochemical specificity but poorer morphological details, in particular if compared to Golgi-Cox impregnation. Hence, the combined use of these two approaches is highly desirable, especially for confocal microscopy that can exploit the advantages of both methods simultaneously. Here we show an innovative procedure of perfusion and fixation of brain tissue, that allows, by applying Golgi-Cox impregnation and immunofluorescence in the same histological section, to obtain high-quality histological material, with a very simple and inexpensive method. This procedure is based on three simple fixation steps: (1) a paraformaldehyde perfusion followed by a standard post-fixation to stabilize the subsequent immunofluorescence reaction; (2) the classical Golgi-Cox impregnation and (3) an immunofluorescence reaction in previously impregnated material. This combination allows simultaneous visualization of (a) the structural details (Golgi-Cox impregnated neurons), (b) the antigens' characterization, (c) the anatomical interactions between discrete neuronal elements and (d) the 3D reconstruction and modeling. The method is easy to perform and can be reproducibly applied by small laboratories and expanded through the use of different antibodies. Overall, the method presented in this study offers an innovative and powerful approach to study the nervous system, especially by using confocal microscopy.
Mapping of multiple receptors of neurotransmitters provides insight into the spatial distribution of neurotransmission-relevant molecules in the cerebral cortex. During development, lack of reelin leads to impaired migration, disturbed lamination of the hippocampus and inverted neocortical layering. In the adult, reelin may regulate synaptic plasticity by modulating neurotransmitter receptor function. Using quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography, different receptors, in particular, the binding site densities and laminar distribution of various glutamate, GABA, muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine, serotonin, dopamine and adenosine receptors, were analyzed in cortical and subcortical structures of reeler and wild-type brains. Differential changes in the laminar distribution, maximum binding capacity (B (max)) and regional density of neurotransmitter receptors were found in the reeler brain. A decrease of whole brain B (max) was found for adenosine A(1) and GABA(A) receptors. In the forebrain, several binding sites were differentially up- or down-regulated (kainate, A(1), benzodiazepine, 5-HT(1), M(2), (1) and (2)). In the hippocampus, a significant decrease of GABA(B), 5-HT(1) and A' receptors were observed. The density of M(2) receptors increased, while other receptors remained unchanged. In the neocortex, some receptors demonstrated an obviously inverted laminar distribution (AMPA, kainate, NMDA, GABA(B), 5-HT(1), M(1), M(3), nAch), while the distribution of others (A(1), GABA(A), benzodiazepine, 5-HT(2), muscarinic M(2), adrenergic (1), (2)) seemed to be less affected. Thus, the laminar receptor distribution is modulated by the developmental impairment and suggests and reflects partially the laminar inversion in reeler mice.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by amyloid plaque accumulation, intracellular tangles and neuronal loss in selective brain regions. The frontal cortex, important for executive functioning, is one of the regions that are affected. Here, we investigated the neurodegenerative effects of mutant human amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin 1 (PS1) on frontal cortex neurons in APP/PS1KI mice, a transgenic mouse model of AD, expressing two mutations in the human APP, as well as two human PS1 mutations knocked-in into the mouse PS1 gene in a homozygous (ho) manner. Although the hippocampus is significantly affected in these mice, very little is known about the effects of these mutations on selective neuronal populations and plaque load in the frontal cortex. In this study, cytoarchitectural changes were characterized using high precision design-based stereology to evaluate plaque load, total neuron numbers, as well as total numbers of parvalbumin- (PV) and calretinin- (CR) immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the frontal cortex of 2- and 10-month-old APP/PS1KI mice. The frontal cortex was divided into two subfields: layers II-IV and layers V-VI, the latter of which showed substantially more extracellular amyloid-beta aggregates. We found a 34% neuron loss in layers V-VI in the frontal cortex of 10-month-old APP/PS1KI mice compared to 2-month-old, while there was no change in PV- and CR-ir neurons in these mice. In addition, the plaque load in layers V-VI of 10-month-old APP/PS1KI mice was only 11% and did not fully account for the extent of neuronal loss. Interestingly, an increase was found in the total number of PV-ir neurons in all frontal cortical layers of single transgenic APP mice and in layers II-IV of single transgenic PS1ho mice between 2 and 10months of age. In conclusion, the APP/PS1KI mice provide novel insights into the regional selective vulnerability in the frontal cortex during AD that, together with previous findings in the hippocampus, are remarkably similar to the human situation.
Neural circuits are organized into complex topographic maps. Although several neuroanatomical and genetic tools are available for studying circuit architecture, a limited number of methods exist for reliably revealing the global patterning of multiple topographic projections. Here we used wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) conjugated to Alexa 555 and 488 for dual color fluorescent mapping of parasagittal spinocerebellar topography in three dimensions. Using tissue section and wholemount imaging we show that WGA-Alexa tracers have three main characteristics that make them ideal tools for analyses of neural projection topography. First, the intense brightness of Alexa fluorophores allows multi-color imaging of patterned afferent projections in wholemount preparations. Second, WGA-Alexa tracers robustly label the entire trajectory of developing and adult projections. Third, long tracts such as the adult spinocerebellar tract can be traced in less than 6h. Moreover, using WGA-Alexa tracers we resolved a level of complexity in the compartmentalized topography of the spinocerebellar projection map that has never before been appreciated. In summary, we introduce versatile tracers for rapidly labeling multiple topographic projections in three dimensions and uncover wiring complexities in the spinocerebellar map.


The Nazi regime in Germany from 1933 to 1945 waged a veritable war throughout Europe to eliminate neurologic disease from the gene pool. Fueled by eugenic policies on racial hygiene, the Nazis first undertook a sterilization campaign against &quot;mental defectives,&quot; which included neurologic patients with epilepsy and other disorders, as well as psychiatric patients. From 1939-41 the Nazis instead resorted to &quot;euthanasia&quot; of many of the same patients. Some neuroscientists were collaborators in this program, using patients for research, or using extracted brains following their murder. Other reviews have focused on Hallervorden, Spatz, Schaltenbrand, Scherer, and Gross, but in this review the focus is on neuroscientists not well described in the neurology literature, including Scholz, Ostertag, Schneider, Nachtsheim, and von Weizscker. Only by understanding the actions of neuroscientists during this dark period can we learn from the slippery slope down which they traveled, and prevent history from repeating itself.
Differentiated cells primarily metabolize glucose for energy via the tricarboxylic acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, but cancer cells thrive on a different mechanism to produce energy, characterized as the Warburg effect, which describes the increased dependence on aerobic glycolysis. The M2 isoform of pyruvate kinase (PKM2), which is responsible for catalyzing the final step of aerobic glycolysis, is highly expressed in cancer cells and may contribute to the Warburg effect. However, whether PKM2 plays a contributing role during early cancer development is unclear. In our studies, we have made an attempt to elucidate the effects of varying mitochondrial respiration substrates on skin cell transformation and expression of PKM2. Tumorigenicity in murine skin epidermal JB6 P+ (promotable) cells was measured in a soft agar assay using 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) as a tumor promoter. We observed a significant reduction in cell transformation upon pretreatment with the mitochondrial respiration substrate succinate or malate/pyruvate. We observed that increased expression and activity of PKM2 in TPA-treated JB6 P+ cells and pretreatment with succinate or malate/pyruvate suppressed the effects. In addition, TPA treatment also induced PKM2 whereas PKM1 expression was suppressed in mouse skin epidermal tissues in vivo. In comparison with JB6 P+ cells, the nonpromotable JB6 P- cells showed no increase in PKM2 expression or activity upon TPA treatment. Knockdown of PKM2 using a siRNA approach significantly reduced skin cell transformation. Thus, our results suggest that PKM2 activation could be an early event and play a contributing role in skin tumorigenesis.
Traditional methods of imaging cell migration in the tumor microenvironment include serial sections of xenografts and standard histologic stains. Current molecular imaging techniques suffer from low resolution and difficulty in imaging through the skull. Here we show how computer algorithms can be used to reconstruct images from tissue sections obtained from mouse xenograft models of human glioma and can be rendered into three-dimensional images offering exquisite anatomic detail of tumor cell dispersal. Our findings identify human LN-229 and rodent CNS-1 glioma cells as valid systems to study the highly dispersive nature of glioma tumor cells along blood vessels and white matter tracts in vivo. This novel cryo-imaging technique provides a valuable tool to evaluate therapeutic interventions targeted at limiting tumor cell invasion and dispersal.
NGR-TNF is a derivative of TNF- that targets tumor blood vessels and enhances penetration of chemotherapeutic drugs. Because of this property, NGR-TNF is being tested in combination with chemotherapy in various phase II and III clinical trials. Here we report that chromogranin A (CgA), a protein present in variable amounts in the blood of normal subjects and cancer patients, inhibits the synergism of NGR-TNF with doxorubicin and melphalan in mouse models of lymphoma and melanoma. Pathophysiologically relevant levels of circulating CgA blocked NGR-TNF-induced drug penetration by enhancing endothelial barrier function and reducing drug extravasation in tumors. Mechanistic investigations done in endothelial cell monolayers in vitro showed that CgA inhibited phosphorylation of p38 MAP kinase, disassembly of VE-cadherin-dependent adherence junctions, paracellular macromolecule transport, and NGR-TNF-induced drug permeability. In this system, the N-terminal fragment of CgA known as vasostatin-1 also inhibited drug penetration and NGR-TNF synergism. Together, our results suggest that increased levels of circulating CgA and its fragments, as it may occur in certain cancer patients with nonneuroendocrine tumors, may reduce drug delivery to tumor cells particularly as induced by NGR-TNF. Measuring CgA and its fragments may assist the selection of patients that can respond better to NGR-TNF/chemotherapy combinations in clinical trials.

H9c2 cells are used as a surrogate for cardiac cells in several toxicological studies, which are usually performed with cells in their undifferentiated state, raising questions on the applicability of the results to adult cardiomyocytes. Since H9c2 myoblasts have the capacity to differentiate into skeletal and cardiac muscle cells under different conditions, the hypothesis of the present work was that cells in different differentiation states differ in their susceptibility to toxicants. In order to test the hypothesis, the effects of the cardiotoxicant isoproterenol (ISO) were investigated. The present work demonstrates that differentiated H9c2 cells are more susceptible to ISO toxicity. Cellular content of beta(1)-adrenergic receptors (AR), beta(3)-AR, and calcineurin is decreased as cells differentiate, as opposed to the content on the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) and phosphorylated p38-MAPK, which increase. After ISO treatment, the pro-apoptotic protein Bax increases in all experimental groups, although only undifferentiated myoblasts up-regulate the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2. Calcineurin is decreased in differentiated H9c2 cells, which suggests an important role against ISO-induced cell death. The results indicate that the differentiation state of H9c2 myoblasts influence ISO toxicity, which may involve calcineurin, p38-MAPK, and Bax/Bcl-2 alterations. The data also provide new insights into cardiovascular toxicology during early development.
A variety of stimuli utilize an increase of cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration as a second messenger to transmit signals, through Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum or opening of plasma membrane Ca(2+) channels. Mitochondria contribute to the tight spatiotemporal control of this process by accumulating Ca(2+), thus shaping the return of cytosolic Ca(2+) to resting levels. The rise of mitochondrial matrix free Ca(2+) concentration stimulates oxidative metabolism; yet, in the presence of a variety of sensitizing factors of pathophysiological relevance, the matrix Ca(2+) increase can also lead to opening of the permeability transition pore (PTP), a high conductance inner membrane channel. While transient openings may serve the purpose of providing a fast Ca(2+) release mechanism, persistent PTP opening is followed by deregulated release of matrix Ca(2+), termination of oxidative phosphorylation, matrix swelling with inner membrane unfolding and eventually outer membrane rupture with release of apoptogenic proteins and cell death. Thus, a rise in mitochondrial Ca(2+) can convey both apoptotic and necrotic death signals by inducing opening of the PTP. Understanding the signalling networks that govern changes in mitochondrial free Ca(2+) concentration, their interplay with Ca(2+) signalling in other subcellular compartments, and regulation of PTP has important implications in the fine comprehension of the main biological routines of the cell and in disease pathogenesis.
The pathological processes of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases engender synaptic and neuronal cell damage. While mild oxidative and nitrosative (nitric oxide (NO)-related) stress mediates normal neuronal signaling, excessive accumulation of these free radicals is linked to neuronal cell injury or death. In neurons, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) activation and subsequent Ca(2+) influx can induce the generation of NO via neuronal NO synthase. Emerging evidence has demonstrated that S-nitrosylation, representing covalent reaction of an NO group with a critical protein thiol, mediates the vast majority of NO signaling. Analogous to phosphorylation and other posttranslational modifications, S-nitrosylation can regulate the biological activity of many proteins. Here, we discuss recent studies that implicate neuropathogenic roles of S-nitrosylation in protein misfolding, mitochondrial dysfunction, synaptic injury, and eventual neuronal loss. Among a growing number of S-nitrosylated proteins that contribute to disease pathogenesis, in this review we focus on S-nitrosylated protein-disulfide isomerase (forming SNO-PDI) and dynamin-related protein 1 (forming SNO-Drp1). Furthermore, we describe drugs, such as memantine and newer derivatives of this compound that can prevent both hyperactivation of extrasynaptic NMDARs as well as downstream pathways that lead to nitrosative stress, synaptic damage, and neuronal loss.
Classically, Parkinson's disease (PD) is linked to dopamine neuron death in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Intracytoplasmic protein inclusions named Lewy bodies, and corresponding Lewy neurites found in neuronal processes, are also key features of the degenerative process in the substantia nigra. The molecular mechanisms by which substantia nigra dopamine neurons die and whether the Lewy pathology is directly involved in the cell death pathway are open questions. More recently, it has become apparent that Lewy pathology gradually involves greater parts of the PD brain and is widespread in late stages. In this review, we first discuss the role of misfolded -synuclein protein, which is the main constituent of Lewy bodies, in the pathogenesis of PD. We then describe recent evidence that -synuclein might transfer between cells in PD brains. We discuss in detail the possible molecular mechanisms underlying the proposed propagation and the likely consequences for cells that take up -synuclein. Finally, we focus on aspects of the pathogenic process that could be targeted with new pharmaceutical therapies or used to develop biomarkers for early PD detection.
The Nogo receptor and paired immunoglobulin-like receptor B (PIR-B) are receptors for three myelin-derived axon-growth inhibitors, including myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). In this study, we report that the p75 receptor is required for the signal transduction of PIR-B, which interacted with p75 upon ligand binding. In addition, p75 was required for activation of Src homology 2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase (SHP), which is induced by MAG binding to PIR-B. Mice carrying a mutation in the p75 gene showed promotion of axonal regeneration after optic nerve injury. Thus, our results indicate that p75 has a critical role in axon growth inhibition in specific neuronal tracts.
The small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) are a highly conserved family of molecular chaperones that are ubiquitously expressed throughout nature. They are transiently upregulated in many tissue types following stressful stimuli. Recently, one member of the sHSP family, HSP20 (HspB6), has been shown to be highly effective as a protective mediator against a number of debilitating pathological conditions, including cardiac hypertrophy and Alzheimer's disease. Hsp20 is also an important modulator of vital physiological processes, such as smooth muscle relaxation and cardiac contractility. This review focuses on the molecular mechanisms employed by HSP20 that allow it to act as an innate protector in the context of cardiovascular and neurological diseases. Emerging evidence for a possible role as an anti-cancer agent is also presented.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are essential mediators of synaptic plasticity under normal physiological conditions. During brain ischemia, these receptors are excessively activated due to glutamate overflow and mediate excitotoxic cell death. Although organotypical hippocampal slice cultures are widely used to study brain ischemia in vitro by induction of oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD), there is scant data regarding expression and functionality of NMDARs in such slice cultures. Here, we have evaluated the contribution of NMDARs in mediating excitotoxic cell death after exposure to NMDA or OGD in organotypical hippocampal slice cultures after 14days in vitro (DIV14). We found that all NMDAR subunits were expressed at DIV14. The NMDARs were functional and contributed to cell death, as evidenced by use of the NMDAR antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine). Excitotoxic cell death induced by NMDA could be fully antagonized by 10M MK-801, a dose that offered only partial protection against OGD-induced cell death. Very high concentrations of MK-801 (50-100M) were required to counteract cell death at long delays (48-72h) after OGD. The relative high dose of MK-801 needed for long-term protection after OGD could not be attributed to down-regulation of NMDARs at the gene expression level. Our data indicate that NMDAR signaling is just one of several mechanisms underlying ischemic cell death and that prospective cytoprotective therapies must be directed to multiple targets.
Neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF), also known as repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor, is a transcriptional repressor that plays important roles in embryonic development and neurogenesis. Recent findings show that NRSF is upregulated after seizures activity however, the link between NRSF and epileptogenesis remains poorly understood. To investigate the role of NRSF in epilepsy, we employed a Cre-loxp system to specifically delete NRSF in excitatory neurons of the postnatal mouse forebrain. In the kindling model of epileptogenesis, conditional NRSF knockout (NRSF-cKO) mice exhibited dramatically accelerated seizure progression and prolonged afterdischarge duration compared with control mice. Moreover, seizures activity-induced mossy fiber sprouting was enhanced in the NRSF-cKO mice. The degree of upregulation of Fibroblast growth factor 14 and Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) following kainic acid-induced status epilepticus was significantly increased in the cortex of NRSF-cKO mice compared with control mice. Furthermore, the derepression of BDNF was associated by activation of PLC and PI(3)K signaling pathways. These findings indicate that NRSF functions as an intrinsic repressor of limbic epileptogenesis.
The mechanisms by which transcription factors control stepwise lineage restriction during the specification of cortical neurons remain largely unknown. Here, we investigated the role of forebrain embryonic zinc finger like (Fezf2) in this process by generating Fezf2 knockdown and tetracycline-inducible Fezf2 overexpression mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) lines. The overexpression of Fezf2 at early time points significantly increased the generation of rostral forebrain progenitors (Foxg1(+), Six3(+)) and inhibited the expression of transcription factors which are expressed by the midbrain and caudal diencephalon (En1(+), Irx(+)). This effect was partially achieved by the regulation of Wnt signaling during this critical early time window. The role of Fezf2 in regulating the rostrocaudal patterning was further confirmed by the significant decrease in the expression of Foxg1 and Six3 and the increase in the expression of En1 when Fezf2 was knocked down. In addition, Fezf2 overexpression at later time points had little effect on the expression of Foxg1 and Six3. Instead, Fezf2 promotes the generation of dorsal telencephalic progenitors and deep-layer cortical neurons at later stages. Collectively, our data suggest that Fezf2 controls the specification of telencephalic progenitors from mESCs through differentially regulating the expression of rostrocaudal and dorsoventral patterning genes.
The role of anterior temporal lobes (ATLs) in semantic processing is controversial. One theory, influenced by semantic dementia (SD) patients, is that this region is a pan-modal hub for all concepts. An alternative view is that atrophy in SD specifically affects knowledge for visual features. This is supported by reports of reverse concreteness effects in a few SD patients, suggesting that abstract word knowledge is spared relative to concrete words. However, it is not clear whether such effects are typical in SD, hence reliably associated with ATL damage, because most reports are of single cases and group studies have produced conflicting results. To address these contradictions, we investigated concreteness effects in 7 SD patients, using multiple tests from earlier studies in addition to new assessments. Comprehension was impaired for both word types but was better for concrete words. However, this pattern was not found uniformly across all tests and was most likely to be observed when: 1) concrete and abstract words were well matched for word frequency and 2) concrete and abstract words were selected with sufficient variation along the imageability scale. These factors account for the variability in previous studies and indicate that reverse concreteness effects are not common in SD.
The contention of this commentary, focused on the vestibulocerebellum (particularly the flocculus), is that the great importance for our understanding of cerebellar organization in terms of climbing fiber zones, begun years ago by Voogd [1969, 2011] and Oscarsson [1969], needs to be matched by coming more to grips with the other fundamental geometrical organization of the cerebellum, the parallel fibers. The central issue is the selection of those parallel fiber signals to be transformed into Purkinje cell activity in the different zones. At present, in comparison to our knowledge of vestibulocerebellar climbing fiber inputs, the deficiencies in our knowledge of the zonal anatomy and physiology of vestibulocerebellar mossy fibers and granule cells are glaring. The recent emphasis on molecularly oriented investigations points to the need to reinvigorate pursuit of unanswered questions about cerebellar anatomy, the handmaiden of physiology.
The longitudinal and transverse zonal arrangement of axonal projections to and from the cerebellum, even more than the well-known laminar cytoarchitecture, is the hallmark of cerebellar anatomy. No model of cerebellar function, whether in motor control, cognition, or emotion, will be complete without understanding the development and function of zones. To this end, a special issue of this journal is dedicated to zones, and the purpose of this article is to summarize the research and review articles that are contained within. The special issue begins by considering some of the very first studies in the 1960s and 1970s that led to our modern understanding of this unique and defining anatomical substructure. Then, it considers the molecular analogs of longitudinal zones in the form of stripes in the cerebellar cortex and related sub-areas in the deep cerebellar nuclei, and it includes studies on the genetic underpinnings of stripes and zones. Several articles address the evolution of both embryonic clusters and adult zones across vertebrate species, and others discuss the functional and clinical relevance of zones. While we do not yet fully understand the role of zones with respect to motor behavior in all of its complexities, cerebellar function is clearly modular, and combinatorial models of complex motor movements based on multi-purpose modules are beginning to emerge. This special issue, by refocusing attention on this fundamental organization of the cerebellum, sets the stage for future studies that will more fully reveal the cellular, developmental, behavioral, and clinical relevance of zones.
Prior to the late 1960s, a variety of studies suggested that a general zonal pattern existed within the cerebellar cortex. The hypothesis proposed by Voogd, based on the organization of the subcortical white matter, indicated that this pattern may be very detailed, and he noted that &quot;a further analysis of the corticonuclear projection is still necessary.&quot; This brief paper chronicles the approach used by the author to formulate a plan, initiate a large series of experiments (over 250), and follow the sometimes confusing results to finally arrive at an understanding of the details of cerebellar corticonuclear projections. It was discovered that a series of mediolateral cortical zones were present that were topographically related to the underlying cerebellar nuclei, and within each zone, the cortex projected in a rostrocaudal sequence to a specific cerebellar nucleus. The hypothesis proposed by Voogd was fundamentally proven.
Patients with cerebellar lesions present some affective and cognitive disorders, defining a peculiar pattern of cognitive impairment, so-called cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome. This pattern has been confirmed in many genotypes of spinocerebellar ataxias (SCA), a group of genetically defined pathologies characterized by the degeneration of the cerebellum and its connections. Recently, in SCA patients, some authors focused the interest on social cognition evidencing an impairment of theory of mind and basic emotion recognition by verbal material. The recognition of emotions in faces is an essential component of social cognition; therefore, we assessed this ability in SCA patients, expanding the study from the basic verbal emotions to the basic and social visual emotion recognition. We assessed facial emotion recognition using two basic and social emotion tasks in a group of SCA patients together with a complete clinical and neuropsychological evaluation. We compared results with the performance of a control group. We demonstrated a significant difference between patients and controls both in basic and social emotion recognition, although we found a specific impairment only for social emotions. The deficit was not correlated to clinical and demographic features. The cognitive and psychological profile did not explain the impairment in emotion recognition. This result supports the hypothesis that the impairment in social emotion recognition could be specifically related to a defect in the corticocerebellar network.
The precerebellar nuclei are hindbrain and spinal cord centers that send fibers to the cerebellum. The neurons of the major hindbrain precerebellar nuclei are derived from the rhombic lip. Wnt1, a developmentally important gene involved in intercellular signaling, is expressed in the developing rhombic lip. We sought to investigate the relationship between the cell clusters expressing Wnt1 and the precerebellar nuclei in the hindbrain. We therefore defined the hindbrain precerebellar nuclei by retrograde tracing, following cerebellar injections of HRP, and compared these results with the cell clusters expressing Wnt1 in newborn mice. We found that 39 distinct hindbrain nuclei project to the cerebellum. Of these nuclei, all but three (namely the oral pontine reticular nucleus, the caudal pontine reticular nucleus, and the subcoeruleus nucleus) contain neurons expressing Wnt1. This shows a high degree of overlap between the precerebellar nuclei and the nuclei that express Wnt1. However, it should be noted that neurons expressing Wnt1 are also found in the superior olivary complex, which is a basal plate derivative lacking cerebellar projections.
Cerebellar zones were there, of course, before anyone noticed them. Their history is that of young people, unhindered by preconceived ideas, who followed up their observations with available or new techniques. In the 1960s of the last century, the circumstances were fortunate because three groups, in Leiden, Lund, and Bristol, using different approaches, stumbled on the same zonal pattern in the cerebellum of the cat. In Leiden, the Hggqvist myelin stain divulged the compartments in the cerebellar white matter that channel the afferent and efferent connections of the zones. In Lund, the spino-olivocerebellar pathways activated from individual spinal funiculi revealed the zonal pattern. In Bristol, charting the axon reflex of olivocerebellar climbing fibers on the surface of the cerebellum resulted in a very similar zonal map. The history of the zones is one of accidents and purposeful pursuit. The technicians, librarians, animal caretakers, students, secretaries, and medical illustrators who made it possible remain unnamed, but their contributions certainly should be acknowledged.
The modular concept of cerebellar connections has been advocated in the lifetime work of Jan Voogd. In this concept, a cerebellar module is defined as the conglomerate of one or multiple and non-adjacent, parasagittally arranged zones of Purkinje cells, their specific projection to a well-defined region of the cerebellar nuclei, and the climbing fiber input to these zones by a well-defined region of the inferior olivary complex. The modular organization of these olivo-cortico-nuclear connections is further exemplified by matching reciprocal connections between inferior olive and cerebellar nuclei. Because the different regions of the cerebellar nuclei show highly specific output patterns, cerebellar modules have been suggested to constitute functional entities. This idea is strengthened by the observation that anatomically defined modules adhere to the distribution of chemical markers in the cerebellar cortex suggesting that modules not only differ in their input and output relations but also may differ in operational capabilities. Here, I will briefly review some recent data on the establishment of cerebellar modules in rats. Furthermore, some evidence will be shown suggesting that the other main afferent system (i.e., mossy fibers), at least to some extent, also adheres to the modular organization. Finally, using retrograde transneuronal tracing with rabies virus, some evidence will be provided that several cerebellar modules may be involved in the control of individual muscles.
Despite the general uniformity in cellular composition of the adult cerebellum (Cb), the expression of proteins such as ZebrinII/AldolaseC and the small heat shock protein HSP25 reveal striking patterns of parasagittal Purkinje cell (PC) stripes. Based on differences in the stripe configuration within subsets of lobules, the Cb can be further divided into four anterior-posterior transverse zones: anterior zone (AZ) = lobules I-V, central zone (CZ) = lobules VI-VII, posterior zone (PZ) = lobules VIII and anterior IX, and the nodular zone (NZ) = lobules posterior IX-X. Here we used whole-mount and tissue section immunohistochemistry to show that neurofilament heavy chain (NFH) expression alone divides all lobules of the mouse Cb into a complex series of parasagittal stripes of PCs. We revealed that the striped pattern of NFH in the vermis of the AZ and PZ was complementary to ZebrinII and phospholipase C 3 (PLC3), and corresponded to phospholipase C 4 (PLC4). In the CZ and NZ the stripe pattern of NFH was complementary to HSP25 and corresponded to PLC3. The boundaries of the NFH stripes were not always sharply delineated. Instead, a gradual decrease in NFH expression was observed toward the edges of particular stripes, resulting in domains comprised of overlapping expression patterns. Furthermore, the terminal field distributions of mossy and climbing fibers had a complex but consistent topographical alignment with NFH stripes. In summary, NFH expression reveals an exquisite level of Cb stripe complexity that respects the transverse zone divisions and delineates an intricately patterned target field for Cb afferents.
The N-type voltage-gated calcium channel (Cav 2.2) has gained immense prominence in the treatment of chronic pain. While decreased channel function is ultimately anti-nociceptive, directly targeting the channel can lead to multiple adverse side effects. Targeting modulators of channel activity may facilitate improved analgesic properties associated with channel block and a broader therapeutic window. A novel interaction between Cav 2.2 and collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2) positively regulates channel function by increasing surface trafficking. We recently identified a CRMP-2 peptide (TAT-CBD3), which effectively blocks this interaction, reduces or completely reverses pain behavior in a number of inflammatory and neuropathic models. Importantly, TAT-CBD3 did not produce many of the typical side effects often observed with Cav 2.2 inhibitors. Notably chronic pain mechanisms offer unique challenges as they often encompass a mix of both neuropathic and inflammatory elements, whereby inflammation likely causes damage to the neuron leading to neuropathic pain, and neuronal injury may produce inflammatory reactions. To this end, we sought to further disseminate the ability of TAT-CBD3 to alter behavioral outcomes in two additional rodent pain models. While we observed that TAT-CBD3 reversed mechanical hypersensitivity associated with a model of chronic inflammatory pain due to lysophosphotidylcholine-induced sciatic nerve focal demyelination (LPC), injury to the tibial nerve (TNI) failed to respond to drug treatment. Moreover, a single amino acid mutation within the CBD3 sequence demonstrated amplified Cav 2.2 binding and dramatically increased efficacy in an animal model of migraine. Taken together, TAT-CBD3 potentially represents a novel class of therapeutics targeting channel regulation as opposed to the channel itself.


The amount of spinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) could be of importance for the understanding of CSF dynamics, CSF biomarker analyses as well as for the amount and effect of anaesthesia using intrathecally administered drugs. However, knowledge of spinal CSF volumes is scarce. The main purpose of this article is to present data on spinal CSF volumes. In total, 22 healthy individuals aged between 64 and 76 years underwent MR imaging with a 3D balanced turbo field echo pulse sequence, which provided high contrast between spinal cord, CSF and the extradural surroundings. The entire spinal CSF volume, the cervical, thoracic, and lumbosacral CSF volumes and the spinal cord volume were calculated. The total spinal CSF volume was 81  13 ml (range 52-103 ml). The amount of CSF in the cervical region was 19  4 ml, in the thoracic region 38  8 and in the lumbosacral region 25  7 ml. There was no difference between genders nor was there any correlation with height. The volume of the spinal cord was 20  3 ml. The results present new magnetic resonance imaging-based data on the spinal CSF volume in healthy elderly individuals.
Recent studies have confirmed that repeated wartime deployment of a parent exacts a toll on military children and families and that the quality and functionality of familial relations is linked to force preservation and readiness. As a result, family-centered care has increasingly become a priority across the military health system. FOCUS (Families OverComing Under Stress), a family-centered, resilience-enhancing program developed by a team at UCLA and Harvard Schools of Medicine, is a primary initiative in this movement. In a large-scale implementation project initiated by the Bureau of Navy Medicine, FOCUS has been delivered to thousands of Navy, Marine, Navy Special Warfare, Army, and Air Force families since 2008. This article describes the theoretical and empirical foundation and rationale for FOCUS, which is rooted in a broad conception of family resilience. We review the literature on family resilience, noting that an important next step in building a clinically useful theory of family resilience is to move beyond developing broad &quot;shopping lists&quot; of risk indicators by proposing specific mechanisms of risk and resilience. Based on the literature, we propose five primary risk mechanisms for military families and common negative &quot;chain reaction&quot; pathways through which they undermine the resilience of families contending with wartime deployments and parental injury. In addition, we propose specific mechanisms that mobilize and enhance resilience in military families and that comprise central features of the FOCUS Program. We describe these resilience-enhancing mechanisms in detail, followed by a discussion of the ways in which evaluation data from the program's first 2years of operation supports the proposed model and the specified mechanisms of action.




Preterm birth represents the most significant problem in maternal-child health, with maternal stress identified as a variable of interest. The effects of maternal stress on risk of preterm birth may vary as a function of context. This article focuses on select key issues and questions highlighting the need to develop a better understanding of which particular subgroups of pregnant women may be especially vulnerable to the potentially detrimental effects of maternal stress, and under what circumstances and at which stages of gestation. Issues related to the characterization and assessment of maternal stress and candidate biologic mechanisms are addressed.
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET (18F-FDG PET) is highly sensitive to inflammatory changes within the synovial tissue in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the highest spatial resolution for soft tissue can be achieved with MRI. Here, we report on the first true hybrid PET-MRI examination of the hand in early RA exploiting the advantages of both modalities. PET-MRI was performed with a prototype of an APD-based magneto-insensitive BrainPET detector (Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) operated within a standard 3T MR scanner (MAGNETOM Trio, Siemens). PET images were normalized, random, attenuation and scatter-corrected, iteratively reconstructed and calibrated to yield standardized uptake values (SUV) of 18F-FDG uptake. T1-weighted TSE in coronal as well as sagittal orientation prior to and following Gadolinium administration were acquired. Increased 18F-FDG uptake was present in synovitis and tenovaginitis as identified on contrast-enhanced MRI. The tracer distribution was surrounding the metacarpophalangeal joints II and III. Maximum SUV of 3.1 was noted. In RA, true hybrid 18F-FDG PET-MRI of the hand is technically feasible and bears the potential to directly visualize inflammation.

A major challenge for task switching is maintaining a balance between high task readiness and effectively ignoring irrelevant task rules. This calls for finely tuned inhibition that targets only the source of interference without adversely influencing other task-related representations. The authors show that irrelevant task rules generating response conflict are inhibited, causing their inefficient execution on the next trial (indicating the presence of competitor rule suppression[CRS];Meiran, Hsieh, &amp; Dimov, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 36, 992-1002, 2010). To determine whether CRS influences task rules, rather than target stimuli or responses, the authors focused on the processing of the task cue before the target stimulus was presented and before the response could be chosen. As was predicted, CRS was found in the event-related potentials in two time windows during task cue processing. It was also found in three time windows after target presentation. Source localization analyses suggest the involvement of the right dorsal prefrontal cortex in all five time windows.
Primacy and recency effects at immediate recall are thought to reflect the independent functioning of a long-term memory store (primacy) and a short-term memory store (recency). Key evidence for this theory comes from amnesic patients who show severe long-term memory storage deficits, coupled with profoundly attenuated primacy. Here we challenge this dominant dual-store theory of immediate recall by demonstrating that attenuated primacy in amnesic patients can reflect abnormal working memory rehearsal processes. D.A., a patient with severe amnesia, presented with profoundly attenuated primacy when using her preferred atypical noncumulative rehearsal strategy. In contrast, despite her severe amnesia, she showed normal primacy when her rehearsal was matched with that of controls via an externalized cumulative rehearsal schedule. Our data are in keeping with the &quot;recency theory of primacy&quot; and suggest that primacy at immediate recall is dependent upon medial temporal lobe involvement in cumulative rehearsal rather than long-term memory storage.
Abstract There is no doubt that there exist urges to act, but are these really the cause of the action or is an urge a shorthand term to describe the effort involved in suppressing an action that is triggered automatically by some other process?
Abstract A neuroanatomical model of urge-for-action phenomena has been proposed based on the &quot;motivation-for-action&quot; network (e.g., insula and mid-cingulate cortex). Notwithstanding the sound evidence presented regarding the functional and anatomical correlates of this model, the nature of the relationship between urges and conscious awareness remains to be addressed. Moreover, this model does not seem to explain (1) how a conscious access threshold is reached, and (2) the way in which the urges are related to more general contents of consciousness.
We argued in our Discussion Paper for the view that the main functional role of occipitotemporal body-selective regions is to make explicit, via patterns of activity, the shape and posture of perceived bodies, rather than directly representing higher-order person attributes. Much of the commentary was on the question of how activity in other brain areas interacts with activity in EBA and FBA. In this reply, we emphasize that our claims do not imply that EBA and FBA are cognitively impenetrable modules that are driven only by bottom-up input from earlier visual regions. Instead, it is likely that these regions interact heavily with other brain regions, and that their activity is shaped--in limited ways--by both feed-forward and feedback connections. In the context of such large-scale networks, EBA and FBA activity will be most effective at conveying detailed information about the shape and posture of bodies in the current percept.
The visual appearance of others' bodies is a powerful source of information about the people around us. This information is implicit in the stimulus and must be extracted and made explicit by the coordination of activity in multiple cortical areas. Here we consider the contribution to this process of two strongly body-selective occipitotemporal regions identified in human neuroimaging experiments: the extrastriate body area (EBA) and the fusiform body area (FBA). We address the evidence and arguments behind numerous recent proposals that EBA and FBA build explicit representations of identity, emotion, body movements, or goal-directed actions from the visual appearance of bodies, and also explore the contribution of these regions to motor control. We argue that the current evidence does not support a model in which EBA and FBA directly perform any of these higher-level functions. Instead, we argue that these regions comprise populations of neurons that encode fine details of the shape and posture of the bodies of people in the current percept. In doing so, they provide a powerful but cognitively unelaborated perceptual framework that allows other cortical systems to exploit the rich, socially relevant information that is conveyed by the body.
The past decade has seen increasing interest within the cognitive neuroscience community in understanding the psychological processes involved in representing the body, and in learning how these processes may be implemented within the brain. This special issue of Cognitive Neuroscience presents six new empirical papers that contribute to this rapidly developing literature, together with two theoretical discussion papers that are accompanied by peer commentaries.
The Mental Attributes Profiling System was developed in 2002 (Laouris and Makris, Proceedings of multilingual &amp; cross-cultural perspectives on Dyslexia, Omni Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D.C, 2002), to provide a multimodal evaluation of the learning potential and abilities of young children's brains. The method is based on the assessment of non-verbal abilities using video-like interfaces and was compared to more established methodologies in (Papadopoulos, Laouris, Makris, Proceedings of IDA 54th annual conference, San Diego, 2003), such as the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (Watkins etal., Psychol Sch 34(4):309-319, 1997). To do so, various tests have been applied to a population of 134 children aged 7-12years old. This paper addresses the issue of identifying a minimal set of variables that are able to accurately predict the learning abilities of a given child. The use of Machine Learning technologies to do this provides the advantage of making no prior assumptions about the nature of the data and eliminating natural bias associated with data processing carried out by humans. Kohonen's Self Organising Maps (Kohonen, Biol Cybern 43:59-69, 1982) algorithm is able to split a population into groups based on large and complex sets of observations. Once the population is split, the individual groups can then be probed for their defining characteristics providing insight into the rationale of the split. The characteristics identified form the basis of classification systems that are able to accurately predict which group an individual will belong to, using only a small subset of the tests available. The specifics of this methodology are detailed herein, and the resulting classification systems provide an effective tool to prognose the learning abilities of new subjects.
Synaptic transmission is a major mechanism by which neurons communicate with each other. Basic steps in neurotransmitter release are similar in all synapses. However, many properties of release vary between synapses and reflect specific structural and functional requirements, endowing synapses with specialized functions. Recently, Gelman et al.1 described properties of release and short-term depression at specialized nicotinic synapses in the brainstem of goldfish, Carassius auratus (Linnaeus). These axo-axonic synapses between the Mauthner cell collaterals and their targets, cranial relay neurons (CRNs), exhibit strong short-term depression, even at stimulation frequencies as low as 0.33 Hz. In short, amplitudes of post-synaptic responses, evoked by presynaptic trains of action potentials, were depressed with a time course approximated by a sum of two exponential functions. Initially, fast depression reduced the amplitude of EPSP(2) (response after the second stimulus), to less than 50% of EPSP(1) (response after the first stimulus). This was followed by a slow component of depression that produced an additional 10-30% amplitude reduction over a time-span of tens to hundreds of seconds. Interestingly, depressed EPSPs exhibited longer latencies than that of the &quot;undepressed&quot; EPSP1. Additionally, fast and slow calcium chelators (BAPTA and EGTA), injected pre-synaptically, were equally potent in reducing release. These data are consistent with a previously proposed general mechanism that assumes a change in release probability after the initial release. However, in an alternative interpretation the results could be coherently explained by postulating two releasable pools of vesicles, with high and low release probabilities, and a generally accepted depletion scheme. This latter interpretation will be discussed in this article.
A number of recent papers1-3 have demonstrated a relationship between in vivo concentration of GABA, as assessed using Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS), and an individual's task performance, giving a unique insight into the relationship between physiology and behavior. However, interpretation of the functional significance of the MRS GABA measure is not straightforward. Here we discuss some of the outstanding questions as to how total concentration of GABA within a cortical region relates to phasic and tonic GABA activity within the cortical volume studied.
We recently reported data showing that, while human olfactory pleasantness is modulated by semantic knowledge of smells, the physicochemical aspects of odorant molecules are prominent determinants of odor hedonic valence, especially in children and seniors, two age groups characterized by either low level of (children) or weak access to (seniors) odor semantic knowledge.1 Here, we present additional data from a human and an animal study, confirming that odorant structure predicts odor pleasantness and suggesting that this influence may be already engraved at receptor level.
Carotenoid-based skin colorations vary seasonally in many bird species and are thought to be honest sexually selected signals. In order to provide more insight in the potential signal function and underlying mechanisms of such colorations we here quantified patterns of variation of leg coloration in adult male and female Eurasian kestrels (Falco tinnunculus tinnunculus) over the breeding season, and evaluated the relationship between coloration and levels of carotenoids, androgens and estrogens, oxidative damage and plasma non-enzymatic antioxidant capacity. We studied both reproducing wild and non-reproducing captive birds to test for the effect of diet and breeding effort. Males were more colored than females only during mating, and independently of diet, suggesting that leg-color is a sexually selected trait. Seasonal variation in leg color was associated with circulating carotenoids, but concentrations of these molecules were not related to antioxidant capacity, body condition or oxidative damage. These results indicate that carotenoid-based colorations may not be an honest signal of health status in this species. Production of carotenoid rich eggs coincided with low levels of circulating carotenoids in females, indicating that carotenoids might be a limited resource for laying female kestrels. Finally, young rearing males had higher levels of oxidative damage than females, and wild birds of both sexes had higher levels of these parameters than captive birds. These results may indicate that parental effort and physical activity are costly, independently from hormonal status. Since androgens did not explain carotenoid variation we suggest that multiple interacting factors can regulate carotenoid levels along the season.
To provide the three-way comparisons needed to test existing theories, we compared (1) most-stressful memories to other memories and (2) involuntary to voluntary memories (3) in 75 community dwelling adults with and 42 without a current diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Each rated their three most-stressful, three most-positive, seven most-important and 15 word-cued autobiographical memories, and completed tests of personality and mood. Involuntary memories were then recorded and rated as they occurred for 2 weeks. Standard mechanisms of cognition and affect applied to extreme events accounted for the properties of stressful memories. Involuntary memories had greater emotional intensity than voluntary memories, but were not more frequently related to traumatic events. The emotional intensity, rehearsal, and centrality to the life story of both voluntary and involuntary memories, rather than incoherence of voluntary traumatic memories and enhanced availability of involuntary traumatic memories, were the properties of autobiographical memories associated with PTSD.
Participants with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and participants with a trauma but without PTSD wrote narratives of their trauma and, for comparison, of the most-important and the happiest events that occurred within a year of their trauma. They then rated these three events on coherence. Based on participants' self-ratings and on nave-observer scorings of the participants' narratives, memories of traumas were not more incoherent than the comparison memories in participants in general or in participants with PTSD. This study comprehensively assesses narrative coherence using a full two (PTSD or not) by two (traumatic event or not) design. The results are counter to most prevalent theoretical views of memory for trauma.


Specific language impairment (SLI) diagnosed in the pre-school years is frequently associated with reading and writing difficulties at school age. The nature of this relationship is unclear, despite the availability of a large number of studies, mostly on English speaking children. Phonological processing deficits have been considered the prominent cause of both difficulties. However recent findings in both children with SLI and in children with reading difficulties are not easily accommodated within a single dimensional model explaining the relationship between oral and written language deficits. Our study focuses on the long-term reading and spelling outcome in relation to preschool oral language skills in a group of Italian adolescents with a documented history of SLI. Sixteen Italian adolescents diagnosed as SLI at our Hospital in the pre-school years and 32 normal controls were submitted to an extensive assessment of oral and written language skills. At a group level SLI adolescents had weak oral and written language skills in almost all tests. Results show that reading difficulties have some features in common with those of Italian developmental dyslexics but also have distinct characteristics, since reading accuracy and written comprehension, usually relatively spared in Italian developmental dyslexics, were impaired in adolescents with SLI. Longitudinal analyses showed that expressive morpho-syntactic and lexical abilities at pre-school age were the oral language skills that best predicted reading and spelling outcomes in adolescents with SLI. However, also children with severe phonological impairment in the absence of other oral language deficits showed later literacy difficulties, although less severe and mainly limited to reading accuracy. Our study supports the notion that there is a complex relationship between oral and written language difficulties which may change at different developmental time points, not captured by a single deficit model, but best conceptualized considering multiple interactions between language skills and literacy abilities.



Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and are primarily composed of aggregates of hyperphosphorylated forms of the microtubule associated protein tau. It is likely that an imbalance of kinase and phosphatase activities leads to the abnormal phosphorylation of tau and subsequent aggregation. The wide ranging therapeutic approaches that are being developed include to inhibit tau kinases, to enhance phosphatase activity, to promote microtubule stability, and to reduce tau aggregate formation and/or enhance their clearance with small molecule drugs or by immunotherapeutic means. Most of these promising approaches are still in preclinical development whilst some have progressed to Phase II clinical trials. By pursuing these lines of study, a viable therapy for AD and related tauopathies may be obtained.
Pathological tau protein aggregates can be found in brain of patients with some of the neurodegenerative diseases collectively known as tauopathies, which include Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since tau post-translational modifications including phosphorylations, glycosylations, truncation and the subsequent aggregation in oligomers, paired helical filaments (PHFs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), correlate with cognitive impairment and neurodegeneration in AD, a pathogenic role for tau and its modifications has been raised. Here we summarize the current status of knowledge about tau modifications under pathologic conditions and the evidence supporting neurotoxic - or neuroprotective - roles of the diverse forms of modified and aggregated tau. Finally, we analyze the structural and functional tau alterations found in different tauopathies and how these modifications are related to the pathophysiologic mechanisms of neurodegeneration.
A major limitation in finding therapeutic solutions for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been the lack of a reliable method for early diagnosis of this devastating disease. Besides the development of biomarkers in biological fluids of patients, the search for a pathology-specific neuroimaging tools is critical at the present stage in which almost 30 million people suffer this disease worldwide. Several interesting approaches have been developed, however their clinical impact has been low. One of the difficulties has been to find the proper molecular tracers to specifically tag pathognomonic lesions in AD brain, including not only amyloid aggregates but also filaments of the modified microtubule-associated protein tau. In this review, we analyze the evidence towards developing pathology-specific diagnostic tools for AD. We analyze the current evidence and clinical implications of new imaging technologies for AD, and how tau hypothesis and the amyloid cascade hypothesis will impact on these scientific efforts in the near future.
The anomalous aggregation of proteins into pathological filaments is a common feature of a many human diseases, often related to aging. In this context, neurodegenerative pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) account for a major part of these protein misfolding diseases. AD is characterized by pathological aggregation of two proteins, tau and A-amyloid. The intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuropil threads consists of filaments of the modified microtubule-associated protein tau, while extracellular amyloid plaques consists of filaments of A-peptide. It is noteworthy that tau oligomers with a prefilamentous structure appear to play a role at early stages of AD and tauopathies, but also in asymptomatic patients with Braak-stage I neuropathology, where clinical symptoms of AD and NFTs in frontal cortex are absent. This suggests that an increase in tau oligomers levels occurs before individuals manifest clinical symptoms of AD. NFTs are one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer disease and other tauphaties. These aggregates are thought to be toxic to neurons, either by causing some neurotoxic signalling defects or by obstructing the cell function. Factors contributing to accumulation of tau aggregates include the increased rate of protein misfolding, generation of amyloidogenic oligomers, underactivity of repair systems such as chaperones and ubiquitin-proteasome system, or a failure of energy supply and antioxidant defense mechanisms. There is not clear evidence if the aggregated tau or oligomers cause cellular damage, but on the basis of the emergent need to have an early and effective treatment, lowering the production or removal of these aggregates appears as a pathway toward alleviating the disease. In the context of some of most relevant reports, we analyze why tau protein seems to be an interesting target for AD treatment, and the importance to understand the pathways of tau. aggregation. This knowledge will allow us to identify and optimize potential inhibitors that interact with aggregated forms of tau and hyperphosphorylated tau before the formation of the NFTs, offering a possible therapeutic route for AD treatment.
Ion channels are complex transmembrane proteins that orchestrate the electrical signals necessary for normal function of excitable tissues, including the central nervous system, peripheral nerve, and both skeletal and cardiac muscle. Progress in molecular biology has allowed cloning and expression of genes that encode channel proteins, while comparable advances in biophysics, including patch-clamp electrophysiology and related techniques, have made the functional assessment of expressed proteins at the level of single channel molecules possible. The role of ion channel defects in the pathogenesis of numerous disorders has become increasingly apparent over the last two decades. Neurological channelopathies are frequently genetically determined but may also be acquired through autoimmune mechanisms. All of these autoimmune conditions can arise as paraneoplastic syndromes or independent from malignancies. The pathogenicity of autoantibodies to ion channels has been demonstrated in most of these conditions, and patients may respond well to immunotherapies that reduce the levels of the pathogenic autoantibodies. Autoimmune channelopathies may have a good prognosis, especially if diagnosed and treated early, and if they are non-paraneoplastic. This review focuses on clinical, pathophysiologic and therapeutic aspects of autoimmune ion channel disorders of the nervous system.
Neural stem cells (NSC) are cells that have the capacity to generate multiple types of differentiated brain cells. In conditions in which there is a loss of key functional cell groups, such as neurons, inducing or introducing neural stem cells to replace the function of those cells that were lost during the disease has the greatest potential therapeutic applications. Indeed, the achievement of one of the main objectives of various investigations is already on the horizon for some conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease. It is not known whether impaired neurogenesis contributes to neuronal depletion and cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The results of the different investigations are controversial; some studies have found that neurogenesis is increased in AD brains, but others have not.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a traumatic disorder resulting in a functional deficit that usually leads to severe and permanent paralysis. After the initial insult to the spinal cord, additional structure and function are lost through an active and complex secondary process. Since there is not effective treatment for SCI, several strategies including cellular, pharmacological and rehabilitation therapies have been approached in animal models. Some of them have been proved in clinical trials. In this review we focus on the current state of cell therapies, particularly on cells from adult origin, assayed in preclinical research. Cell types used in SCI therapy include Schwann cells, olfactory ensheathing cells and adult stem cells, such as neural stem cells, umbilical cord blood derived cells, mesenchymal stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells. There are not yet conclusive evidences on which types of glial or adult stem cells are most effective in SCI treatment. Their ability to incorporate into the damaged spinal cord, to differentiate into neural lineages, to exert neuroprotective effects, to promote regeneration of damaged axons, and to improve functional deficits are still discussed, before translation towards clinical use, as a single therapy or in combination with other strategies.
Neurogenesis in the adult mammalian brain occurs in two specific brain areas, the subventricular zone (SVZ) bordering the lateral ventricles and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampus. Although these regions are prone to produce new neurons, cultured cells from these neurogenic niches tend to be mixed cultures, containing both neurons and glial cells. Several reports highlight the potential of the self-healing capacity of the brain following injury. Even though much knowledge has been produced on the neurogenesis itself, brain repairing strategies are still far away from patients cure. Here we review general concepts in the neurogenesis field, also addressing the methods available to study neural stem cell differentiation. A major problem faced by research groups and companies dedicated to brain regenerative medicine resides on the lack of good methods to functionally identify neural stem cell differentiation and novel drug targets. To address this issue, we developed a unique single cell calcium imaging-based method to functionally discriminate different cell types derived from SVZ neural stem cell cultures. The unique functional profile of each SVZ cell type was correlated at the single cell level with the immunodetection of specific phenotypic markers. This platform was raised on the basis of the functional response of neurons, oligodendrocytes and immature cells to depolarising agents, to thrombin and to histamine, respectively. We also outline key studies in which our new platform was extremely relevant in the context of drug discovery and development in the area of brain regenerative medicine.
Porokeratosis of Mibelli is an uncommon chronic disorder of epidermal keratinization that should be treated because it can undergo malignant change into epithelial tumors on the lesions. At the moment, it represents a therapeutic challenge for dermatologists because of the lack of standardized guidelines about the treatment. Herein, we report a case of classic porokeratosis of Mibelli treated with photodynamic therapy successfully.
Human palatal clefting is debilitating and difficult to rectify surgically. Animal models enhance our understanding of palatogenesis and are essential in strategies designed to ameliorate palatal malformations in humans. Recent studies have shown that the zebrafish palate, or anterior neurocranium, is under similar genetic control to the amniote palatal skeleton. We extensively analyzed palatogenesis in zebrafish to determine the similarity of gene expression and function across vertebrates. By 36 hours postfertilization (hpf) palatogenic cranial neural crest cells reside in homologous regions of the developing face compared with amniote species. Transcription factors and signaling molecules regulating mouse palatogenesis are expressed in similar domains during palatogenesis in zebrafish. Functional investigation of a subset of these genes, fgf10a, tgfb2, pax9, and smad5 revealed their necessity in zebrafish palatogenesis. Collectively, these results suggest that the gene regulatory networks regulating palatogenesis may be conserved across vertebrate species, demonstrating the utility of zebrafish as a model for palatogenesis.

The corticospinal tract (CST) is the principal motor control pathway for skilled movements. It has a protracted postnatal development, creating a protracted period of vulnerability to perinatal brain and spinal cord injury. Research has shown that the motor signs in cerebral palsy (CP) reflect the loss of CST connections as well as development of abnormal motor systems connections, especially between the developing CST and spinal motor circuits. In this paper, we discuss a feline model of CP that we have developed. The animals develop a pattern of abnormal CST connections that is remarkably similar to that seen in hemiplegic CP and visuomotor impairments. Using this model we devised neural activity-based therapeutic approaches to repair the abnormal CST connections and restore normal skilled movement control. Our studies stress that more active CST connections are better able to maintain strong synaptic connections with spinal motor circuits. We propose that perinatal trauma initiates a vicious cycle in which CST axons that are spared after an injury are at a disadvantage for maintaining spinal connections, leading to further reductions in connections and motor signs. If this is so, targeted activation of the spared CST might interrupt this process and lead to functional improvement.
Neocortical development represents more than a simple unfolding of a genetic blueprint: rather, it represents a complex dance of genetic and environmental events that interact to adapt the brain to fit a particular environmental context. Most cortical regions are sensitive to a wide range of experiential factors during development and later in life, but the injured cortex appears to be unusually sensitive to perinatal experiences. This paper reviews the factors that influence how normal and injured brains (both focal and ischemic injuries) develop and adapt into adulthood. Such factors include prenatal experiences in utero as well as postnatal experiences throughout life. Examples include the effects of sensory and motor stimulation, psychoactive drugs (including illicit and prescription drugs), maternal and postnatal stress, neurotrophic factors, and pre- and postnatal diet. All these factors influence cerebral development and influence recovery from brain injury during development.


A group of disorders with disparate symptomatology, including congenital cerebellar ataxia, retinal blindness, liver fibrosis, polycystic kidney disease, and polydactyly, have recently been united under a single disease mechanism called 'ciliopathies'. The ciliopathies are due to defects of the cellular antenna known as the primary cilium, a microtubule-based extension of cellular membranes found in nearly all cell types. Key among these ciliopathies is Joubert syndrome, displaying ataxia, oculomotor apraxia, and mental retardation* with a pathognomonic 'molar tooth sign' on brain magnetic resonance imaging. The importance of ciliary function in neuronal development has been appreciated only in the last decade with the classification of Joubert syndrome as a ciliopathy. This, together with the identification of many of the clinical features of ciliopathies in individuals with Joubert syndrome and the localization of Joubert syndrome's causative gene products at or near the primary cilium, have defined a new class of neurological disease. Cilia are involved in diverse cellular processes including protein trafficking, photoreception, embryonic axis patterning, and cell cycle regulation. Ciliary dysfunction can affect a single tissue or manifest as multi-organ involvement. Ciliary defects have been described in retinopathies such as retinitis pigmentosa and Leber congenital amaurosis (defects in photoreceptor ciliary protein complexes), renal syndromes with nephronophthisis and cystic dysplastic kidneys, and liver conditions such as fibrosis and biliary cirrhosis. Recognizing the diverse presentations of the ciliopathies and screening strategies following diagnosis is an important part of the treatment plan of children with cilia-related disorders.
A first episode of central nervous system (CNS) demyelination may represent heterogeneous entities such as acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, clinically isolated syndrome, neuromyelitis optica (NMO), or multiple sclerosis. As new immune therapies become available, it is increasingly important to make an early diagnosis. Autoantibodies such as NMO immunoglobulin G (IgG) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein IgG are increasingly being employed to define subgroups of CNS demyelination or guide treatment. Similarly, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) immunophenotyping can demonstrate B-lymphocyte subpopulation expansion, which has been used to guide therapy in other autoimmune CNS disorders. We present a report on a 15-year-old male with longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis with magnetic resonance imaging findings of oedema, cavitation, and gadolinium enhancement. NMO-IgG and aquaporin 4 IgG were positive; thus, we diagnosed a limited form of NMO. Acute CSF immunophenotyping revealed a 3.6% expansion of CD19 B-cell populations, whereas a comparison group of five children (4 males, age range 2-15y; mean age 7y) with other neurological disorders showed only a 0.51% expansion (SD 0.25%). In view of the diagnosis of a 'limited form of neuromyelitis optica', we therefore elected to treat him aggressively from the outset with a prolonged steroid regimen and mycophenylate mofetil. This case demonstrates a correlation between autoantibody production and CSF B lymphocyte expansion in an individual with CNS demyelination. These approaches could be used in individuals with a first episode of CNS demyelination to help delineate immunological subgroups and guide treatment.

While ultimately, focus must be placed on experimentation using adult systems, vastly important clues to regeneration can be found in the study of the embryonic nervous system. In embryonic systems, axonal regeneration is successful before a critical period, and numerous advances have resulted from the study of isolated cells and tissues in vitro. Studies over many decades from the laboratory of Paul C. Letourneau have probed the cellular and molecular phenomena involved in axon outgrowth and guidance in the embryonic central and peripheral nervous system and have laid the framework for many current advances in regeneration research. Letourneaus pioneering work related to growth cone behavior, guidance, and regeneration has resulted in considerable contributions toward our understanding not only of cellular mechanisms that underlie axon growth, but also of the specific areas of study that require attention to accomplish future breakthroughs. The present article summarizes some of the major contributions from Paul Letourneau and his team in the area of axonal regeneration.



At the distal most aspect of motile extending axons and dendrites lies the growth cone, a hand like macroorganelle of membrane bound cytoskeleton, packed with receptors, adhesion molecules, molecular motors, and an army of regulatory and signaling proteins. Splayed out along the substratum in vitro, the growth cone resembles an open hand with bundles of filamentous actin, barbed ends outstretched, as if fingers extending from a central domain of dynamic microtubule plus ends. The growth cone acts first as a sensory platform, analyzing the environment ahead for the presence of guidance cues, secondly as a mechanical dynamo establishing focal contact with the extracellular matrix to drive processive forward outgrowth, and thirdly as a forward biochemical command center where signals are interrogated to inform turning, extension, retraction, or branching. During his career, Paul Letourneau has made major contributions to our understanding of how growth cones respond to their environment. Here, we will summarize some of these major advances in their historical context. Letourneau's contributions have provided insights into cytoskeletal organization, growth cone dynamics, and signaling pathways. His recent work has described some important molecules and molecular mechanisms involved in growth cone turning. Although much remains to be understood about this important and intriguing structure, Letourneau's contributions have provided us with &quot;growth cone guidance.&quot;
Axon outgrowth and pathfinding occurs through a complex series of interacting biochemical signaling pathways that regulate the motility of neuronal growth cones. Over the past 30 years, Paul Letourneau and his students have explored the molecular basis of growth cone motility and have contributed immensely to this field. In celebration of his 65th birthday, this essay is written in gratitude for Paul's many contributions and training.
The neuronal cytoskeleton consists of microtubules, actin filaments, neurofilaments, and an array of accessory proteins that regulate and modify these three main filament systems. This essay celebrates the career of Paul Letourneau, a pioneer of the neuronal cytoskeleton, to whom the community owes a debt of gratitude.
We aim to stimulate an ontogenetic approach to personalities. We explain the importance of studying development for understanding proximate and ultimate aspects of personality and critically discuss, partly by perhaps provocative statements, our current lack of knowledge and potential approaches to the study of personality development. We first clarify some terminology and argue for a difference between behavioral profiles (BP; at the descriptive level) and personality (at the explanatory level). We then focus on the issue of temporal stability of personality, arguing that based on evolutionary theory, neurophysiological knowledge, and recent findings, personality is probably less stable than often thought. Next we consider the potential influence of genes, discussing gene by environment correlations and interactions and argue that developmental changes in the regulation of DNA expression are probably more relevant than individual differences in DNA sequence. We end by suggesting perspectives for future research.
Animal personality has been extensively studied from a functional and evolutionary point of view. Less attention has been paid to the development of personality, its phenotypic plasticity, and the influence of manipulation of early environmental factors. Here we describe the effects of manipulating the sex ratio of the litter, at postnatal day (pnd) 3, in wild-type rats, on personality traits in adulthood. We measured the treatment effects on aggression, defensive burying, and open field behavior at pnd 90 and 120, as well as on their contextual generality, and stability over time (differential and structural consistency). Main effects of litter composition were found on open field behavior at pnd 120 but not on the other behaviors. Since correlations between behaviors changed over time irrespective of the specific treatment, whereas in previous studies on unmanipulated litters this was not the case we suggest that early handling may disrupt adult personality traits. Overall the data indicate that personality is less stable over time that often assumed, having both proximate and ultimate implications.
From Piaget to the present, traditional and dual-process theories have predicted improvement in reasoning from childhood to adulthood, and improvement has been observed. However, developmental reversals-that reasoning biases emerge with development -have also been observed in a growing list of paradigms. We explain how fuzzy-trace theory predicts both improvement and developmental reversals in reasoning and decision making. Drawing on research on logical and quantitative reasoning, as well as on risky decision making in the laboratory and in life, we illustrate how the same small set of theoretical principles apply to typical neurodevelopment, encompassing childhood, adolescence, and adulthood, and to neurological conditions such as autism and Alzheimer's disease. For example, framing effects-that risk preferences shift when the same decisions are phrases in terms of gains versus losses-emerge in early adolescence as gist-based intuition develops. In autistic individuals, who rely less on gist-based intuition and more on verbatim-based analysis, framing biases are attenuated (i.e., they outperform typically developing control subjects). In adults, simple manipulations based on fuzzy-trace theory can make framing effects appear and disappear depending on whether gist-based intuition or verbatim-based analysis is induced. These theoretical principles are summarized and integrated in a new mathematical model that specifies how dual modes of reasoning combine to produce predictable variability in performance. In particular, we show how the most popular and extensively studied model of decision making-prospect theory-can be derived from fuzzy-trace theory by combining analytical (verbatim-based) and intuitive (gist-based) processes.
During neural tube development, Shh signaling through Gli transcription factors is necessary to establish five distinct ventral progenitor domains that give rise to unique classes of neurons and glia that arise in specific positions along the dorsoventral axis. These cells are generated from progenitors that display distinct transcription factor gene expression profiles in specific domains in the ventricular zone. However, the molecular genetic mechanisms that control the differential spatiotemporal transcriptional responses of progenitor target genes to graded Shh-Gli signaling remain unclear. The current study demonstrates a role for Tcf/Lef repressor activity in this process. We show that Tcf3 and Tcf7L2 (Tcf4) are required for proper ventral patterning and function by independently regulating two Shh-Gli target genes, Nkx2.2 and Olig2, which are initially induced in a common pool of progenitors that ultimately segregate into unique territories giving rise to distinct progeny. Genetic and functional studies in vivo show that Tcf transcriptional repressors selectively elevate the strength and duration of Gli activity necessary to induce Nkx2.2, but have no effect on Olig2, and thereby contribute to the establishment of their distinct expression domains in cooperation with graded Shh signaling. Together, our data reveal a Shh-Gli-independent transcriptional input that is required to shape the precise spatial and temporal response to extracellular morphogen signaling information during lineage segregation in the CNS.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune disorder affecting the central nervous system (CNS) through demyelination and neurodegeneration. Until recently, major therapeutic treatments have relied on agents requiring injection delivery. In September 2010, fingolimod/FTY720 (Gilenya, Novartis) was approved by the FDA as the first oral treatment for relapsing forms of MS. Fingolimod is a novel compound produced by chemical modification of a fungal precursor. Its active metabolite, formed by in vivo phosphorylation, modulates sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptors that are a subset of a larger family of cell-surface, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) mediating the effects of bioactive lipids known as lysophospholipids. Fingolimod's mechanism of action in MS is not completely understood; however, its relevant biology indicates a fundamentally different mechanism compared to all previously approved MS therapies, with evolving research supporting both immunological and nervous system activities. This duality may herald a paradigm shift in the treatment of MS and other neurological disorders.


A patient presented with acute-onset, painless, unilateral enlargement of the tongue. Steroid treatment for angioedema was ineffective, and a biopsy of an apparent mass of the tongue base showed normal tissue. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging showed enlargement, enhancement, asymmetric T2 hyperintensity of the left half of the tongue, and dissection of the left cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) at the skull base. Unilateral enlargement of the tongue due to acute neurogenic denervation may be the sole clinical presentation of a spontaneous arterial dissection at the skull base. The hypoglossal neuropathy resulted from compression by the pseudoaneurysmal ICA dilatation or ischemia from interruption of the vasa nervorum.


The importance of empathetic communication in the context of patient care has been suggested as a crucial element in the delivery of high-quality medical care. Although some countries have measured empathy among medical students, little is known formally about the state of affairs regarding empathy in the UK with regard to gender, medical years and speciality. This paper presents the results from a cross-sectional study that explored the relationship between undergraduate medical students' empathy scores relevant to gender, medical school year and future career ambitions. The Jefferson Scale of Physician Empathy, a self-administered questionnaire, was used for collecting data. It was decided to incorporate the scale into a web application that was only accessible through a confidential hyperlink. A total of 853 (68.2%) medical students completed the survey. Female students (n=470) scored significantly (t((819))=-6.63; 95% CI=-0.30, -0.16) higher than male students (n=351). No significant differences were observed between empathy mean scores and medical school year. Students choosing people-oriented specialities had significantly higher mean scores in comparison to students preferring technology oriented specialities. Three hypotheses were tested in this study. The hypothesis that female students would score higher than male students was supported by the results. The findings did not support the hypothesis that empathy scores decline during the medical school years. Finally, the findings did support the hypothesis that those preferring peopleoriented specialities would score higher on the empathy scale than students choosing technology oriented specialities. Some recommendations are made and the limitations of study are discussed.

The supraoptic nucleus (SON) of the hypothalamus is an important integrative brain structure that coordinates responses to perturbations in water balance and regulates maternal physiology through the release of the neuropeptide hormones vasopressin and oxytocin into the circulation. Both dehydration and lactation evoke a dramatic morphological remodeling of the SON, a process known as function-related plasticity. We hypothesize that some of the changes seen in SON remodeling are mediated by differential gene expression, and have thus used microarrays to document global changes in transcript abundance that accompany chronic dehydration in female rats, and in lactation. In situ hybridization analysis has confirmed the differential expression of three of these genes, namely TNF-induced protein 6, gonadotropin-inducible transcription factor 1, and ornithine decarboxylase antizyme inhibitor 1. Comparison of differential gene expression patterns in male and female rats subjected to dehydration and in lactating rats has enabled the identification of common elements that are significantly enriched in gene classes with particular functions. Two of these are related to the requirement for increased protein synthesis and hormone delivery in the physiologically stimulated SON (translation initiation factor activity and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment, respectively), whereas others are consistent with the concept of SON morphological plasticity (collagen fibril organization, extracellular matrix organization and biogenesis, extracellular structure organization and biogenesis, and homophilic cell adhesion). We suggest that the genes coordinately regulated in the SON as a consequence of dehydration and lactation form a network that mediates the plastic processes operational in the physiologically activated SON.
Recent studies have demonstrated that cholesterol elevation in pancreatic islets is associated with a reduction in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, but the underlying cellular mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we show that cholesterol enrichment dramatically reduced the proportion of mouse -cells that exhibited a Ca(2+) signal when stimulated by high glucose. When cholesterol-enriched -cells were challenged with tolbutamide, there was a decrease in the amplitude of the Ca(2+) signal, and it was associated with a reduction in the cell current density of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCC). Although the cell current densities of the ATP-dependent K(+) channels and the delayed rectifier K(+) channels were also reduced in the cholesterol-enriched -cells, glucose evoked only a small depolarization in these cells. In cholesterol-enriched cells, the glucose-mediated increase in cellular ATP content was dramatically reduced, and this was related to a decrease in glucose uptake via glucose transporter 2 and an impairment of mitochondrial metabolism. Thus, cholesterol enrichment impaired glucose-stimulated Ca(2+) signaling in -cells via two mechanisms: a decrease in the current density of VGCC and a reduction in glucose-stimulated mitochondrial ATP production, which in turn led to a smaller glucose-evoked depolarization. The decrease in VGCC-mediated extracellular Ca(2+) influx in cholesterol-enriched -cells was associated with a reduction in the amount of exocytosis. Our findings suggest that defect in glucose-stimulated Ca(2+) signaling is an important mechanism underlying the impairment of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in islets with elevated cholesterol level.

Autism spectrum disorders are characterized by core deficits with regard to three domains, i.e. social interaction, communication and repetitive or stereotypic behaviour. It is crucial to develop intervention strategies helping individuals with autism, their caregivers and educators in daily life. For this purpose, virtual reality (VR), i.e. a simulation of the real world based on computer graphics, can be useful as it allows instructors and therapists to offer a safe, repeatable and diversifiable environment during learning. This mini review examines studies that have investigated the use of VR in autism.

Recognition of limited economic resources, as well as potential adverse effects of &quot;over testing,&quot; has increased interest in &quot;evidence-based&quot; assessment of new medical technology. This creates a particular problem for evaluation and treatment of epilepsy, which are increasingly dependent on advanced imaging and electrophysiology, since there is a marked paucity of epilepsy diagnostic and prognostic studies that meet rigorous standards for evidence classification. The lack of high quality data reflects fundamental weaknesses in many imaging studies but also limitations in the assumptions underlying evidence classification schemes as they relate to epilepsy, and to the practicalities of conducting adequately powered studies of rapidly evolving technologies. We review the limitations of current guidelines and propose elements for imaging studies that can contribute meaningfully to the epilepsy literature.


This article primarily represents the contributions of two young investigators to the understanding of the neuropsychological consequences of epilepsy and its treatment. The authors have reviewed two key areas of importance: the complex relationship between cognitive dysfunction and epilepsy and the risks of cognitive dysfunction in children as a consequence of in utero exposure to antiepileptic drug treatment. The work of two young investigators is presented and future research needs are outlined.
Neuroendocrine research in epilepsy focuses on the interface among neurology, endocrinology, gynecology/andrology and psychiatry as it pertains to epilepsy. There are clinically important reciprocal interactions between hormones and the brain such that neuroactive hormones can modulate neuronal excitability and seizure occurrence while epileptiform discharges can disrupt hormonal secretion and promote the development of reproductive disorders. An understanding of these interactions and their mechanisms is important to the comprehensive management of individuals with epilepsy. The interactions are relevant not only to the management of seizure disorder but also epilepsy comorbidities such as reproductive dysfunction, hyposexuality and emotional disorders. This review focuses on some of the established biological underpinnings of the relationship and their clinical relevance. It identifies gaps in our knowledge and areas of promising research. The research has led to ongoing clinical trials to develop hormonal therapies for the treatment of epilepsy. The review also focuses on complications of epilepsy treatment with antiepileptic drugs. Although antiepileptic drugs have been the mainstay of epilepsy treatment, they can also have some adverse effects on sexual and reproductive function as well as bone density. As longevity increases, the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of osteoporosis becomes an increasingly more important topic, especially for individuals with epilepsy. The differential effects of antiepileptic drugs on bone density and their various mechanisms of action are reviewed and some guidelines and future directions for prevention of osteoporosis and treatment are presented.
Pharmacogenomics holds the promise of selecting the right drug at the right dose for the right person. Its research and application in epilepsy are in their infancy. Although advances have been made in identifying genetic markers of adverse effects in terms of severe cutaneous reactions, there has been little progress in predicting efficacy. Most studies have been retrospective and case-control in design, despite the associated problems of recall bias and a usually undefined relationship between genotype and outcome. We describe the epidemiological framework necessary to detect genetic influences on antiepileptic drug response, and propose an ambitious prospective outcome study of newly diagnosed epilepsy across all age ranges, countries, and continents, which would provide the template for a global pharmacogenomic project. Other epidemiological considerations and statistical constraints and issues related to study design, databases, and ethics that are critical for advancement in the field are also discussed.
Activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) prevents inhibition of non-NMDA glutamate receptors by the anticonvulsant topiramate. Using two-electrode voltage-clamp techniques, we demonstrate that PKA activity also modulates topiramate potentiation of recombinant GABA(A) receptors expressed in Xenpus laevis oocytes. PKA activators, dibutyryl-cAMP and forskolin, attenuate topiramate potentiation, whereas the PKA inhibitor H-89 increases topiramate potentiation. Thus, endogenous PKA activity and receptor phosphorylation states may contribute to topiramate treatment efficacy.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy is an often misdiagnosed, life threatening, condition which improves promptly with steroid therapy. Since clinical manifestations are heterogeneous and non-specific, the diagnosis is often difficult. Several case reports of Hashimoto's encephalopathy presenting with partial or generalised seizures are described, but only a few have focused on status epilepticus as the first clinical manifestation. We report two patients presenting with repetitive and prolonged seizures characterised by progressive reduction in contact and reactivity associated with frontal/diffuse polyspike-and-wave activities. This condition, which can be interpreted as a form of non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) of frontal origin, was refractory to antiepileptic drugs but responded promptly to high doses of intravenous steroid treatment. In cases of unexplained encephalopathy with EEG documentation of NCSE, the early recognition and treatment of Hashimoto's encephalopathy may lead to a favourable prognosis. [Published with video sequences].

Although perinatal complications are hypothesized to be risk factors for the development of anorexia nervosa (AN), no study to date explored this issue using a discordant sibling design. This type of design allows to explore whether the risk for obstetric complications is itself a consequence of the genetic vulnerability for AN (covariation model) or whether obstetric complications increase the risk of AN independently of (additive model), or in interaction with (interaction model), the disorder's genetic liability. The presence of perinatal complications was assessed through review of the obstetric records of 60 AN subjects, 60 unaffected sisters, and 70 healthy subjects. Unaffected sisters and healthy controls were compared in relation to perinatal characteristics and complications. There was no evidence for an elevated rate of complications in unaffected siblings of AN patients. Mothers with a positive psychiatric history tended to have more perinatal complications. Perinatal complications seem to be independent risk factors that may interact with, but are not caused by, familial risk factors for AN. In terms of prevention, a particular attention should be paid to mothers with a lifetime history of psychiatric disorders.

The study of adult neurogenesis has had an explosion of fruitful growth. Yet numerous uncertainties and challenges persist. Our review begins with a survey of species that show evidence of adult neurogenesis. We then discuss how neurogenesis varies across brain regions and point out that regional specializations can indicate functional adaptations. Lifespan and aging are key life-history traits. Whereas 'adult neurogenesis' is the common term in the literature, it does not reflect the reality of neurogenesis being primarily a 'juvenile' phenomenon. We discuss the sharp decline with age as a universal trait of neurogenesis with inevitable functional consequences. Finally, the main body of the review focuses on the function of neurogenesis in birds and mammals. Selected examples illustrate how our understanding of avian and mammalian neurogenesis can complement each other. It is clear that although the two phyla have some common features, the function of adult neurogenesis may not be similar between them and filling the gaps will help us understand neurogenesis as an evolutionarily conserved trait to meet particular ecological pressures.
Investigations of adult neurogenesis in recent years have revealed numerous differences among mammalian species, reflecting the remarkable diversity in brain anatomy and function of mammals. As a mechanism of brain plasticity, adult neurogenesis might also differ due to behavioural specialization or adaptation to specific ecological niches. Because most research has focused on rodents and only limited data are available on other mammalian orders, it is hotly debated whether, in some species, adult neurogenesis also takes place outside of the well-characterized subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus. In particular, evidence for the functional integration of new neurons born in 'non-neurogenic' zones is controversial. Considering the promise of adult neurogenesis for regenerative medicine, we posit that differences in the extent, regional occurrence and completion of adult neurogenesis need to be considered from a species-specific perspective. In this review, we provide examples underscoring that the mechanisms of adult neurogenesis cannot simply be generalized to all mammalian species. Despite numerous similarities, there are distinct differences, notably in neuronal maturation, survival and functional integration in existing synaptic circuits, as well as in the nature and localization of neural precursor cells. We also propose a more appropriate use of terminology to better describe these differences and their relevance for brain plasticity under physiological and pathophysiological conditions. In conclusion, we emphasize the need for further analysis of adult neurogenesis in diverse mammalian species to fully grasp the spectrum of variation of this adaptative mechanism in the adult CNS.
New neurons are produced and integrated into circuits in the adult brains of many organisms, including crustaceans. In some crustacean species, the first-generation neuronal precursors reside in a niche exhibiting characteristics analogous to mammalian neurogenic niches. However, unlike mammalian niches where several generations of neuronal precursors co-exist, the lineage of precursor cells in crayfish is spatially separated allowing the influence of environmental and endogenous regulators on specific generations in the neuronal precursor lineage to be defined. Experiments also demonstrate that the first-generation neuronal precursors in the crayfish Procambarus clarkii are not self-renewing. A source external to the neurogenic niche must therefore provide cells that replenish the first-generation precursor pool, because although these cells divide and produce a continuous efflux of second-generation cells from the niche, the population of first-generation niche precursors is not diminished with growth and aging. In vitro studies show that cells extracted from the hemolymph, but not other tissues, are attracted to and incorporated into the neurogenic niche, a phenomenon that appears to involve serotonergic mechanisms. We propose that, in crayfish, the hematopoietic system may be a source of cells that replenish the niche cell pool. These and other studies reviewed here establish decapod crustaceans as model systems in which the processes underlying adult neurogenesis, such as stem cell origins and transformation, can be readily explored. Studies in diverse species where adult neurogenesis occurs will result in a broader understanding of fundamental mechanisms and how evolutionary processes may have shaped the vertebrate/mammalian condition.
Context memories normally depend on the hippocampus (HPC) but, in the absence of the HPC, other memory systems are capable of acquiring and supporting these memories. This suggests that the HPC can interfere with other systems during memory acquisition. Here we ask whether the HPC can also interfere with the retrieval of a context memory that was independently acquired by a non-HPC system. Specifically, we assess whether the HPC can impair the retrieval of a contextual fear-conditioning memory that was acquired while the HPC was temporarily inactive. Rats were infused with the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor agonist muscimol in the dorsal and ventral HPC either before acquisition, retrieval, or prior to both acquisition and retrieval, consistent with the effects of permanent HPC lesions on contextual fear conditioning, if the HPC was inactive at the time of acquisition and retention memory was intact. Thus, non-HPC systems acquired and supported this memory in absence of the HPC. However, if the HPC was inactive during acquisition but active thereafter, rats displayed severe deficits during the retention test. Moreover, when the same rats received a second retention test but with the HPC inactive at this time, the memory was recovered, suggesting that removal of a form of interference allowed the memory to be expressed. Combined, these findings imply that the HPC competes and/or interferes with retrieval of a long-term memory that was established in non-HPC systems.

In maturity, skilled movements depend on coordination of control signals by descending pathways, such as the corticospinal tract (CST), and proprioceptive afferents (PAs). An important locus for this coordination is the spinal cord intermediate zone. Convergence of CST and PA terminations onto common regions leads to interactions that may underlie afferent gating and modulation of descending control signals during movements. We determined establishment of CST and PA terminations within common spinal cord regions and development of synaptic interactions in 4-week-old cats, which is before major spinal motor circuit refinement, and two ages after refinement (weeks 8, 11). We examined the influence of one or the other system on monosynaptic responses, on the spinal cord surface and locally in the intermediate zone, evoked by either CST or deep radial nerve (DRN) stimulation. DRN stimulation suppressed CST monosynaptic responses at 4 weeks, but this converted to facilitation by 8 weeks. This may reflect a strategy to limit CST movement control when it has aberrant immature connections, and could produce errant movements. CST stimulation showed delayed development of mixed suppression and facilitation of DRN responses. We found development of age-dependent overlap of PA and CST terminations where interactions were recorded in the intermediate zone. Our findings reveal a novel co-development of different inputs onto common spinal circuits and suggest a logic to CST-PA interactions at an age before the CST has established connectional specificity with spinal circuits.
The brain's ability to ignore repeating, often redundant, information while enhancing novel information processing is paramount to survival. When stimuli are repeatedly presented, the response of visually sensitive neurons decreases in magnitude, that is, neurons adapt or habituate, although the mechanism is not yet known. We monitored the activity of visual neurons in the superior colliculus (SC) of rhesus monkeys who actively fixated while repeated visual events were presented. We dissociated adaptation from habituation as mechanisms of the response decrement by using a Bayesian model of adaptation, and by employing a paradigm including rare trials that included an oddball stimulus that was either brighter or dimmer. If the mechanism is adaptation, response recovery should be seen only for the brighter stimulus; if the mechanism is habituation, response recovery ('dishabituation') should be seen for both the brighter and dimmer stimuli. We observed a reduction in the magnitude of the initial transient response and an increase in response onset latency with stimulus repetition for all visually responsive neurons in the SC. Response decrement was successfully captured by the adaptation model, which also predicted the effects of presentation rate and rare luminance changes. However, in a subset of neurons with sustained activity in response to visual stimuli, a novelty signal akin to dishabituation was observed late in the visual response profile for both brighter and dimmer stimuli, and was not captured by the model. This suggests that SC neurons integrate both rapidly discounted information about repeating stimuli and novelty information about oddball events, to support efficient selection in a cluttered dynamic world.
The development of food preferences contributes to a balanced diet, and involves both innate and learnt factors. By associating flavour cues with the reinforcing properties of the food (i.e. postingestive nutrient cues and innately preferred tastes, such as sweetness), animals acquire individual preferences. How the brain codes and guides selection when the subject has to choose between different palatable foods is little understood. To investigate this issue, we trained common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to respond to abstract visual patterns on a touch-sensitive computer screen to gain access to four different flavoured juices. After preferences were stable, animals received excitotoxic lesions of either the amygdala, the orbitofrontal cortex or the medial prefrontal cortex. Neither the orbitofrontal nor the medial prefrontal cortex lesions affected pre-surgery-expressed flavour preferences or the expression of preferences for novel flavours post-surgery. In contrast, amygdala lesions caused a shift in the preferences for juices expressed pre-surgery such that, post-surgery, juices were chosen according to their overall carbohydrate (simple sugars) content or 'sweetness'. Subsequent tests revealed that amygdala-lesioned animals only expressed juice preferences if they differed in 'sweetness'. Unlike controls, orbitofrontal cortex-lesioned and medial prefrontal cortex-lesioned animals, they were unable to display preferences between juices matched for 'sweetness' i.e. 5% sucrose solutions aromatised with different essential oils. The most parsimonious explanation is that the amygdala contributes to the expression of food preferences based on learnt cues but not those based on an innate preference for sweetness.
Stress is a perceived perturbation in the environment of the organism that affects numerous extrahypothalamic brain regions including the hippocampus, a limbic structure critical for learning, spatial memory and the regulation of stress hormones. Though many effects of stress on the hippocampus are mediated via local glucocorticoid action, there is now ample evidence for the contributions of the stress peptides corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin I (UCN). Thus, understanding the intracellular signaling pathways activated by stress peptides is required to fully understand the mechanisms by which stress influences the hippocampus. Here we elucidate molecular mechanisms by which CRF and UCN induce phosphorylation of the activity-dependent transcription factor CREB, a molecule critical for numerous forms of neuronal plasticity. We report that nanomolar concentrations of both CRF and UCN lead to a rapid, CRF receptor 1 (CRFR1)- and G-dependent increase in CREB phosphorylation in rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Interestingly, CRF- and UCN-induced signaling pathways diverge downstream of G, with UCN, but not CRF, signaling to CREB via a MEK/MAPK-dependent pathway. These data suggest novel molecular mechanisms by which stress can directly impact hippocampal neurons, as well as highlight an emerging role for G signaling in mediating the effects of stress peptides in extrahypothalamic stress-responsive brain regions.
Ghrelin, a natural ligand of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R), is synthesized in the stomach but may also be expressed in lesser quantity in the hypothalamus where the GHS-R is located on growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) neurons. Obestatin, a peptide derived from the same precursor as ghrelin, is able to antagonize the ghrelin-induced increase of growth hormone (GH) secretion in vivo but not from pituitary explants in vitro. Thus, the blockade of ghrelin-induced GH release by obestatin could be mediated at the hypothalamic level by the neuronal network that controls pituitary GH secretion. Ghrelin increased GHRH and decreased somatostatin (somatotropin-releasing inhibitory factor) release from hypothalamic explants, whereas obestatin only reduced the ghrelin-induced increase of GHRH release, thus indicating that the effect of ghrelin and obestatin is targeted to GHRH neurons. Patch-clamp recordings on mouse GHRH-enhanced green fluorescent protein neurons indicated that ghrelin and obestatin had no significant effects on glutamatergic synaptic transmission. Ghrelin decreased GABAergic synaptic transmission in 44% of the recorded neurons, an effect blocked in the presence of the GHS-R antagonist BIM28163, and stimulated the firing rate of 78% of GHRH neurons. Obestatin blocked the effects of ghrelin by acting on a receptor different from the GHS-R. These data suggest that: (i) ghrelin increases GHRH neuron excitability by increasing their action potential firing rate and decreasing the strength of GABA inhibitory inputs, thereby leading to an enhanced GHRH release; and (ii) obestatin counteracts ghrelin actions. Such interactions on GHRH neurons probably participate in the control of GH secretion.
The heterogeneity of symptoms within major depressive disorder poses significant challenges for treatment and it is likely that current pharmacotherapies do not target all symptoms equally, although they have similar efficacy rates. While there is still continuing interest in understanding monoamine interactions and consequent downstream effects, the limited efficacy and tolerability achieved with classical antidepressants provides a compelling argument to move beyond the monoamines. Several lines of biological research in depression exploring immune function, neurotrophins, amino acid and neuropeptide neurotransmitters, neuroanatomical function and circadian rhythms, may lead to novel therapeutic targets and enhance depression outcomes. This review will evaluate the evidence for emerging treatments as well as recommendations from current international guidelines regarding antidepressant management.
Symptoms and observable signs offer an important way of measuring the severity of depression and estimating recovery. However, a shift to understanding the cognitive neuroscience underlying the clinical picture has been fruitful and could change the approach in meaningful ways. Cognition as defined by attention, memory and executive function is impaired in depression and offers a way of identifying abnormal brain states or structure. Moreover, such changes may limit functional recovery and explain why recurrent depression in particular is so impairing. More subtle aspects of cognition can be revealed by studies of emotional processing. Patients with depression have negative emotional biases but the measurement of such effects is confounded by the global impairments already described and may be secondary to a primary change in mood. Nevertheless, there are early effects of antidepressants treatments in healthy volunteers and depressed patients on such mechanisms specifically. It remains to be established how far the properties of antidepressants are defined by such effects both in relation to successful treatment and in their potential for emotional side effects, or blunting of experience, after recovery from depressive symptoms.
Many affective disorders show episode cycling and the classic symptoms of these disorders show rhythmicity, such as diurnal variation in mood. There are several plausible stress-vulnerability models that suggest links between these observed phenomena and the circadian system. For example, an individual with increased sensitivity to social rhythm disruption may be more at risk of circadian rhythm (CR) dysregulation. Furthermore, there are hypothesized neurobiological mechanisms that may explain how CR dysregulation might lead to sleep, activation, and mood changes in unipolar and bipolar disorders. There are gaps in our understanding, but this paper highlights that clinical measures of sleep and activation are increasingly useful for monitoring the onset and course of affective disorders. Also, evidence suggests that CR disruptions may represent core elements not simply epiphenomena of affective disorders.
The dystrobrevin binding protein-1 (DTNBP1) gene encodes dysbindin-1, a protein involved in neurodevelopmental and neurochemical processes related mainly to the monoamine dopamine. We investigated possible associations between eleven DTNBP1 polymorphisms and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the major dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA), the major serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and the major noradrenaline metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in healthy human subjects (n=132). Two polymorphisms, rs2619538 and rs760666, were nominally associated with CSF HVA and 5-HIAA concentrations, whereas a third polymorphism, rs909706, showed association only with HVA. After correction for multiple testing only the associations between rs2619538 and HVA and 5-HIAA concentrations remained significant. No significant association was found between any of the investigated DTNBP1 polymorphisms and CSF MHPG concentrations. The results suggest that genetic variation in DTNBP1 gene affects the regulation of dopamine and serotonin turnover in the central nervous system of healthy volunteers.
Descending control is critically important for the generation of locomotor activities. Yet, our understanding of the descending control system of locomotion is limited. We hypothesized that stimulation of the ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) induces rhythmic activity in lumbar neurons that is correlated with locomotor-like activity in the neonatal rat. Intracellular recordings were conducted in the L2-L3 lumbar segments, while locomotor-like output was monitored in the L2 and L5 ventral roots. Stimulation of the VLF at thoracic segments induced locomotor-like activity in the L2 and L5 ventral roots in majority of the preparations (26/33). In a few midline split cord preparations (4/13), VLF stimulation induced rhythmic locomotor-like bursts in either L2 or L5 ventral root without alternating pattern between the ventral roots. The response latencies suggest that VLF stimulation induced antidromic activation (&lt;1ms, 8 cells), monosynaptic activation (1-3ms, 18 cells), and oligosynaptic activation (3.5-5ms, 14 cells) of segmental neurons in the lumbar region. VLF stimulation induced rhythmic membrane potential oscillations with or without bursting of action potentials in 9 of 40 putative interneurons. The membrane potential oscillations were in phase with the locomotor-like output of the L2 ventral root in 7 of the 9 cells while the other 2 cells oscillated in phase with the L5 ventral root activity. We have thus demonstrated that descending axons exist in the VLF which make synaptic connections with segmental neurons in the lumbar region that may be a critical element of the locomotor neural network for the initiation of locomotion.
People all over the world use spatial metaphors to represent temporal sequencing, but so far the online stages during the comprehension of temporal sequencing still lack evidence. To explore this issue, the current EEG study constructed vertical anomaly and horizontal anomaly by exchanging spatial terms in vertical and horizontal temporal sequencing concepts in Mandarin. Both the vertical and the horizontal anomaly indicated an N400 effect (340ms after stimulus onset) and a positive effect in a late time window (620ms after stimulus onset). Additionally, the horizontal anomaly showed a reduced P2 effect (200-260ms after stimulus onset) that might related to spatial processing. Direct comparison between the two anomaly effects revealed that the vertical anomaly evoked a stronger effect in an early N400 time window (from 360 to 440ms), whereas the horizontal anomaly evoked a stronger effect in a late N400 time window (from 500 to 580ms). These results indicate multiple stages during the comprehension of temporal sequencing. The relation between the current results and spatial metaphor differences is also discussed.
Evidence from animal, clinical, and imaging studies suggests that the basal ganglia and their frontal connections mediate motor inhibition, but the role of dopamine remains unclear. The aim of our study was to investigate, for the first time, whether levodopa medication influences motor inhibition and conflict resolution on the conditional stop-signal reaction time task in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) tested on or off their medication. Sixteen PD patients and 17 healthy controls performed the conditional stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) task, which requires inhibition of responses when a stop signal is presented on &quot;critical&quot; trials. Additionally, on &quot;non-critical&quot; trials, participants are instructed to ignore the stop signal and respond, thus generating conflict between motor inhibition and initiation; and conflict-induced slowing (CIS) on these &quot;non-critical&quot; trials. Levodopa medication did not significantly influence response initiation, inhibition (SSRT) or the measure of conflict resolution (CIS). Compared to healthy controls, PD patients showed significantly worse response initiation and inhibition both on and off their levodopa medication. Our results suggest that motor inhibition or conflict-induced slowing on the conditional stop-signal RT task are not altered by dopamine replacement in PD. This conclusion is consistent with evidence from animal studies and clinical pharmacological investigations suggesting a role for noradrenaline in motor inhibition and impulsivity.
Alterations in the basal ganglia-thalamocortical &quot;motor&quot; circuit activity, have been proposed to explain many features associated with hypokinetic and hyperkinetic movement disorders. We describe the firing pattern of the globus pallidus pars interna in a Parkinson disease's patient who developed Hemichorea-Ballismus subsequent to ipsilateral subthalamotomy, and compare findings to those from PD patients submitted to pallidotomy while in the OFF-medication state. Single units obtained from extracellular recordings were extracted and mean discharge frequency, interspike interval and coefficient of variation (defined as Tonicity Score) were computed. Discharge density histograms, analysis of distribution and spectral analysis were also performed. Mean firing frequency showed no significant difference between PD patients in the OFF state and the patient we report. However, a significant difference in tonicity was found for this patient characterized by a regular, non-bursting firing pattern. The findings indicate that in HB caused by lesions to STN in the parkinsonian state, GPi firing rates can be similar to and firing pattern more regular than those observed in GPi of PD patients OFF-medication with intact STN.
We studied the influence of static head roll on the perceived auditory zenith in head-centred and world-centred coordinates. Subjects sat either upright, or with their head left/right rolled sideways by about 35 relative to gravity, whilst judging whether a broadband sound was heard left or right from the head-centred or world-centred zenith. When upright, these reference frames coincide. Results show that subjects judged the zenith accurately within different planes, although response variability increased for the midsagittal plane. With the head rolled, head-centred auditory zenith shifted by the same amount and was located as accurately as for upright, indicating unaltered localisation cues by head-on-body roll. Interestingly, when judging world-centred zenith subjects made large systematic errors (10-15) in the direction of head roll, and response variability increased, which resembles the visual Aubert effect. These results demonstrate a significant influence of the vestibular-collic system on auditory spatial awareness, which sheds new light on the mechanisms underlying multisensory integration and spatial updating in sound localisation behaviour.
Several recent multisensory studies show that sounds can influence visual processing. Some visual judgments can be enhanced for visual stimuli near a sound occurring around the same time. A recent TMS study (Romei et al. 2009) indicates looming sounds might influence visual cortex particularly strongly. But unlike most previous behavioral studies of possible audio-visual exogenous effects, TMS phosphene thresholds rather than judgments of external visual stimuli were measured. Moreover, the visual hemifield assessed relative to the hemifield of the sound was not varied. Here, we compared the impact of looming sounds to receding or &quot;static&quot; sounds, using auditory stimuli adapted from Romei et al. (2009), but now assessing any influence on visual orientation discrimination for Gabor patches (well-known to involve early visual cortex) when appearing in the same hemifield as the sound or on the opposite side. The looming sounds that were effective in Romei et al. (2009) enhanced visual orientation sensitivity (d') here on the side of the sound, but not for the opposite hemifield. This crossmodal, spatially specific effect was stronger for looming than receding or static sounds. Similarly to Romei et al. (2009), the differential effect for looming sounds was eliminated when using white noise rather than structured sounds. Our new results show that looming structured sounds can specifically benefit visual orientation sensitivity in the hemifield of the sound, even when the sound provides no information about visual orientation itself.
Presbycusis, as the deterioration of hearing ability occurring with aging, can be manifested not only in a shift of hearing thresholds, but also in a deterioration of the temporal processing of acoustical signals, which may in elderly people result in degraded speech comprehension. In this study we assessed the age-related changes in the temporal processing of acoustical signals in the auditory system of pigmented rats (Long Evans strain). The temporal resolution was investigated in young adult (3-4 months) and old (30-34 months) rats by behavioral and electrophysiological methods: the rats' ability to detect and discriminate gaps in a continuous noise was examined behaviorally, and the amplitude-rate function was assessed for the middle latency response (MLR) to clicks. A worsening of the temporal resolution with aging was observed in the results of all tests. The values of the gap detection threshold (GDT) and the gap duration difference limen (GDDL) in old rats increased about two-fold in comparison with young adult rats. The MLR to a click train in old rats exhibited a significantly faster reduction in amplitude with an increasing stimulation rate in comparison with young adult rats. None of the age-related changes in the parameters characterizing temporal resolution (GDT, GDDL and MLR to a click train) correlated with the degree of the age-related hearing loss. However, the age-related changes in MLR amplitude-rate function correlated with the age-related changes in GDDL, but not with the changes in GDT. The behavioral and electrophysiological data clearly show that aging in rats is accompanied with a pronounced deficit in the temporal processing of acoustical signals that is associated with the deteriorated function of the central auditory system.
Brain aging is associated to several morphological and functional alterations that influence the evolution and outcome of CNS damage. Acute brain injury such as an excitotoxic insult induces initial tissue damage followed by associated inflammation and oxidative stress, partly attributed to neutrophil recruitment and the expression of oxidative enzymes such as myeloperoxidase (MPO), among others. However, to date, very few studies have focused on how age can influence neutrophil infiltration after acute brain damage. Therefore, to evaluate the age-dependent pattern of neutrophil cell infiltration following an excitotoxic injury, intrastriatal injection of N-methyl-d-aspartate was performed in young and aged male Wistar rats. Animals were sacrificed at different times between 12h post-lesion (hpl) to 14 days post-lesion (dpl). Cryostat sections were processed for myeloperoxidase (MPO) immunohistochemistry, and double labeling for either neuronal cells (NeuN), astrocytes (GFAP), perivascular macrophages (ED-2), or microglia/macrophages (tomato lectin histochemistry). Our observations showed that MPO + cells were observed in the injured striatum from 12 hpl (when maximum values were found) until 7 dpl, when cell density was strongly diminished. However, at all survival times analyzed, the overall density of MPO + cells was lower in the aged versus the adult injured striatum. MPO + cells were mainly identified as neutrophils (especially at 12 hpl and 1 dpl), but it should be noted that MPO + neurons and microglia/macrophages were also found. MPO + neurons were most commonly observed at 12 hpl and reduced in the aged. MPO + microglia/macrophages were the main population expressing MPO from 3 dpl, when density was also reduced in aged subjects. These results point to neutrophil infiltration as another important factor contributing to the different responses of the adult and aged brain to damage, highlighting the need of using aged animals for the study of acute age-related brain insults.
In this work we studied the mitochondrial-associated metabolic pathways in Huntington's disease (HD) versus control (CTR) cybrids, a cell model in which the contribution of mitochondrial defects from patients is isolated. HD cybrids exhibited an interesting increase in ATP levels, when compared to CTR cybrids. Concomitantly, we observed increased glycolytic rate in HD cybrids, as revealed by increased lactate/pyruvate ratio, which was reverted after inhibition of glycolysis. A decrease in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity in HD cybrids further indicated decreased rate of the pentose-phosphate pathway. ATP levels of HD cybrids were significantly decreased under glycolysis inhibition, which was accompanied by a decrease in phosphocreatine. Nevertheless, pyruvate supplementation could not recover HD cybrids' ATP or phosphocreatine levels, suggesting a dysfunction in mitochondrial use of that substrate. Oligomycin also caused a decrease in ATP levels, suggesting a partial support of ATP generation by the mitochondria. Nevertheless, mitochondrial NADH/NAD(t) levels were decreased in HD cybrids, which was correlated with a decrease in pyruvate dehydrogenase activity and protein expression, suggesting decreased tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) input from glycolysis. Interestingly, the activity of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, a critical enzyme complex that links the TCA to amino acid synthesis and degradation, was increased in HD cybrids. In accordance, mitochondrial levels of glutamate were increased and alanine was decreased, whereas aspartate and glutamine levels were unchanged in HD cybrids. Conversely, malate dehydrogenase activity from total cell extracts was unchanged in HD cybrids. Our results suggest that inherent dysfunction of mitochondria from HD patients affects cellular bioenergetics in an otherwise functional nuclear background.
Endogenous levels of sulfide in the brain have been measured in rats, humans and bovines in 1989 and 1990, suggesting that H(2)S may have a physiological function. We demonstrated in 1996 that cystathionine -synthase can produce H(2)S in the brain and that H(2)S facilitates the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation by enhancing the activity of NMDA receptors. The following year, we showed that another H(2)S-producing enzyme, cystathionine -lyase, is expressed in the thoracic aorta, portal vein and ileum and that H(2)S relaxes these tissues. We proposed that H(2)S may be a neuromodulator as well as a smooth muscle relaxant. In addition to a function as a signalling molecule, we demonstrated another function as a cytoprotectant in 2004. Hydrogen sulfide protects neurons from oxidative stress by reinstating the reduced glutathione levels. We recently demonstrated that a third H(2)S-producing enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST), is expressed in neurons and vascular endothelium. In addition to reinstating glutathione levels, H(2)S produced by 3MST, which is mainly localized to mitochondria, reduces reactive oxygen species generated in these organelles.
Introduction: The ultimate objective of optimizing adsorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) parameters in drug discovery is to maximize the unbound concentration at the site of action for a given dose level. This has the added benefit of minimizing the efficacious dose, reducing the potential for attrition related to drug burden and direct organ toxicity. The concept of drug efficiency was formulated as a tool to obtain a balanced profile between target affinity and ADME properties during lead optimization. Areas covered: The authors discuss how it is possible to maximize the in vivo pharmacological potential addressing whether drug efficiency adds value to the decision-making process and whether it is possible to introduce a single optimization parameter, the drug efficiency index (DEI), linking target affinity and ADME properties, as a marker of in vivo efficacy. Expert opinion: In the absence of a clear hypothesis-driven approach at the beginning of the program (i.e., pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic link), the objective to select molecules with a low therapeutic dose is still a major hurdle in drug discovery. The authors believe that a greater strategic focus on mechanistically relevant measures of the determinants of receptor occupancy would help the optimization and selection process. In this respect, the introduction of the DEI, which can be seen as a correction of target affinity by the in vivo pharmacokinetic potential, may help drug discovery to select and promote those molecules with the highest probability to interact with the biological target and with the best balance between target affinity and ADME properties.
Introduction: Diagnosis in psychiatry remains largely subjective. Developing biological observations in psychiatric disorders into laboratory-based diagnostic tests can significantly impact diagnosis and management of these disorders. Diagnostic electrophysiological techniques are non-invasive and relatively inexpensive. Areas covered: In this review, the authors propose that enough knowledge has accumulated to allow the establishment of psychiatry-based clinical electrophysiology laboratories (PCELs). A brief summary of established clinical indications for electrophysiology tests, summary of highly promising technologies and a presentation of a proposed four-step approach to facilitate the translation of promising biological observations into diagnostic tests are provided. The reader should develop an appreciation of the current status of the clinical applications of psychiatric electrophysiology. The authors propose to capitalize on the widely accepted indication to rule out medical causes of psychiatric symptoms (e.g., epileptic activity) to begin developing PCELs as the equipment and skills necessary are basic to the entire discipline. The potential impact of the growing knowledge on the practice of psychiatry is explored to update clinicians and administrators as they develop laboratory and service plans. Expert opinion: Psychiatric electrophysiology currently plays a limited role in the diagnosis and management in psychiatry. This status is not supported by the existing literature. The underutilization of electrophysiological tests in psychiatry is propagated by the fact that the laboratories providing the service are not managed by psychiatrists. The authors propose that the first steps are to establish such laboratories and train psychiatrists to competently provide the service.

Cell replacement therapy (CRT) offers great promise as the future of regenerative medicine in Parkinsons disease (PD). Three decades of experiments have accumulated a wealth of knowledge regarding the replacement of dying neurons by new and healthy dopaminergic neurons transplanted into the brains of animal models and affected patients. The first clinical trials provided the proof of principle for CRT in PD. In these experiments, intrastriatal transplantation of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue reinnervated the striatum, restored dopamine levels and showed motor improvements. Sequential controlled studies highlighted several problems that should be addressed prior to the wide application of CRT for PD patients. Moreover, owing to ethical and practical problems, embryonic stem cells require replacement by better-suited stem cells. Several obstacles remain to be surpassed, including identifying the best source of stem cells for A9 dopaminergic neuron generation, eliminating the risk of tumor formation and the development of graft-induced dyskinesias, and standardizing dopaminergic cell production in order to enable clinical application. In this article, we present an update on CRT for PD, reviewing the research milestones, various stem cells used and tailored differentiation methods, and analyze the information gained from the clinical trials.
The Movement Disorders Society (MDS) organized its 15th International Annual Congress of Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders in Toronto (Canada), on 5-9 June 2011. This year's theme was 'Behavioral and motor interfaces of movement disorders, from laboratory to patient care'. The congress was organized following a routine that has been well established through years of experience: with the exception of the first day, each day of the congress consisted of 3-h plenary sessions followed by parallel sessions, teaching courses, video sessions and skills workshops, fulfilling the educational purpose of the congress.
Excessive production or accumulation of -amyloid (A) peptides in human brains leads to increased amyloid deposition and cognitive dysfunction, which are invariable pathological features in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Many cellular factors can regulate the production of A. In this study, we show that a family of proteins named Nogo receptor proteins (NgR1 to NgR3) regulates A production via interaction with amyloid precursor protein (APP). Further mapping of the interacting domain indicates that a small region adjacent to the BACE1 cleavage site of APP mediates interaction of APP with Nogo receptor proteins. Our results also indicate that increased interaction between Nogo receptor and APP reduces surface expression of APP and favors processing of APP by BACE1. When NgR2 was ablated in AD transgenic mice expressing Swedish APP and PS1E9, amyloid deposition was clearly reduced (0.66% of total measured area in APP(swe)/PS1E9/NgR2(-/-) mice vs. 0.76% of total measured area in APP(swe)/PS1E9 mice). Our results demonstrate that down-regulation of NgR expression is a potential approach for inhibiting amyloid deposition in AD patients.
The view has been widely held that pepsin-like aspartic proteinases are found only in eukaryotes, and not in bacteria. However, a recent bioinformatics search [Rawlings ND &amp; Bateman A (2009) BMC Genomics10, 437] revealed that, in seven of  1000 completely sequenced bacterial genomes, genes were present encoding polypeptides that displayed the requisite hallmark sequence motifs of pepsin-like aspartic proteinases. The implications of this theoretical observation prompted us to generate biochemical data to validate this finding experimentally. The aspartic proteinase gene from one of the seven identified bacterial species, Shewanella amazonensis, was expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein, termed shewasin A, was produced in soluble form, purified to homogeneity, and shown to display properties remarkably similar to those of pepsin-like aspartic proteinases. Shewasin A was maximally active at acidic pH values, cleaving a substrate that has been widely used for assessment of the proteolytic activity of other aspartic proteinases, and displayed a clear preference for cleaving peptide bonds between hydrophobic residues in the P1*P1' positions of the substrate. It was completely inhibited by the general inhibitor of aspartic proteinases, pepstatin, and mutation of one of the catalytic Asp residues (in the Asp-Thr-Gly motif of the N-terminal domain) resulted in complete loss of enzymatic activity. It can thus be concluded unequivocally that this Shewanella gene encodes an active pepsin-like aspartic proteinase. It is now beyond doubt that pepsin-like aspartic proteinases are not confined to eukaryotes, but are encoded within some species of bacteria. The distinctions between the bacterial and eukaryotic polypeptides are discussed and their evolutionary relationships are outlined.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder in which oxidative stress is a key hallmark. It occurs early in disease pathogenesis and can exacerbate its progression. Several causes of oxidative stress have been determined over the years. First, mitochondria play an important role in the generation and accumulation of free radicals. In addition to mitochondria, inflammation can also induce oxidative damage, especially via microglia, and microglia are also important for A clearance. In AD, both mitochondrial function and inflammatory response are affected, leading to increased ROS formation and oxidative damage to lipid, proteins, and nucleic acids. Some other sources have also been identified. From these findings, various neuroprotective strategies against ROS-mediated damages have been elaborated in AD research. This review recapitulates some of the major strategies used to prevent oxidative stress and disease progression. Outcomes from in vitro and in vivo studies using models of AD are encouraging. However, only a few clinical trials have provided positive results in terms of slowing down cognitive decline. Nonetheless, there is still hope for improved compounds that would better target pathways implicated in ROS production. In fact, facilitating the endogenous antioxidant system by modulating transcription has great promise for AD therapy.
Radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy(chemoradiotherapy)has been standard therapy for advanced cancer. The rationality of chemoradiotherapy is summarized in three points: 1)control of distant metastasis, 2)additional effect on tumor in irradiated field, and 3)diminution of adverse effects of radiation therapy by decreasing radiation dose. Though reports of proton therapy combined with chemotherapy are limited, this therapy will have a very important role in treating many advanced cancers.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common form of the progressive muscular dystrophies characterized by defects of the dystrophin gene. Although primarily characterized by degeneration of the limb muscles, cardiomyopathy is a major cause of death. Therefore, the development of curative modalities such as gene therapy is imperative. We evaluated the cardiomyopathic features of mdx mice to observe improvements in response to intravenous administration of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) type 9 encoding microdystrophin. The myocardium was extensively transduced with microdystrophin to significantly prevent the development of fibrosis, and expression persisted for the duration of the study. Intraventricular conduction patterns, such as the QRS complex duration and S/R ratio in electrocardiography, were also corrected, indicating that the transduced microdystrophin has a protective effect on the dystrophin-deficient myocardium. Furthermore, BNP and ANP levels were reduced to normal, suggesting the absence of cardiac dysfunction. In aged mice, prevention of ectopic beats as well as echocardiographic amelioration was also demonstrated with improved exercise performance. These findings indicate that AAV-mediated cardiac transduction with microdystrophin might be a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of dystrophin-deficient cardiomyopathy.
The male-specific Fruitless proteins (FruM) act to establish the potential for male courtship behavior in Drosophila melanogaster and are expressed in small groups of neurons throughout the nervous system. We screened 1000 GAL4 lines, using assays for general courtship, male-male interactions, and male fertility to determine the phenotypes resulting from the GAL4-driven inhibition of FruM expression in subsets of these neurons. A battery of secondary assays showed that the phenotypic classes of GAL4 lines could be divided into subgroups on the basis of additional neurobiological and behavioral criteria. For example, in some lines, restoration of FruM expression in cholinergic neurons restores fertility or reduces male-male courtship. Persistent chains of males courting each other in some lines results from males courting both sexes indiscriminately, whereas in other lines this phenotype results from apparent habituation deficits. Inhibition of ectopic FruM expression in females, in populations of neurons where FruM is necessary for male fertility, can rescue female infertility. To identify the neurons responsible for some of the observed behavioral alterations, we determined the overlap between the identified GAL4 lines and endogenous FruM expression in lines with fertility defects. The GAL4 lines causing fertility defects generally had widespread overlap with FruM expression in many regions of the nervous system, suggesting likely redundant FruM-expressing neuronal pathways capable of conferring male fertility. From associations between the screened behaviors, we propose a functional model for courtship initiation.
Inbreeding depression, which refers to reduced fitness among offspring of related parents, has traditionally been studied using pedigrees. In practice, pedigree information is difficult to obtain, potentially unreliable, and rarely assessed for inbreeding arising from common ancestors who lived more than a few generations ago. Recently, there has been excitement about using SNP data to estimate inbreeding (F) arising from distant common ancestors in apparently &quot;outbred&quot; populations. Statistical power to detect inbreeding depression using SNP data depends on the actual variation in inbreeding in a population, the accuracy of detecting that with marker data, the effect size, and the sample size. No one has yet investigated what variation in F is expected in SNP data as a function of population size, and it is unclear which estimate of F is optimal for detecting inbreeding depression. In the present study, we use theory, simulated genetic data, and real genetic data to find the optimal estimate of F, to quantify the likely variation in F in populations of various sizes, and to estimate the power to detect inbreeding depression. We find that F estimated from runs of homozygosity (Froh), which reflects shared ancestry of genetic haplotypes, retains variation in even large populations (e.g., SD=0.5% when Ne=10,000) and is likely to be the most powerful method of detecting inbreeding effects from among several alternative estimates of F. However, large samples (e.g., 12,000-65,000) will be required to detect inbreeding depression for likely effect sizes, and so studies using Froh to date have probably been underpowered.
Studies of Drosophila and mammals have documented circadian changes in the morphology and biochemistry of glial cells. In addition, it is known that astrocytes of flies and mammals contain evolutionarily conserved circadian molecular oscillators that are similar to neuronal oscillators. In several sections of this review, I summarize the morphological and biochemical rhythms of glia that may contribute to circadian control. I also discuss the evidence suggesting that glia-neuron interactions may be critical for circadian timing in both flies and mammals. Throughout the review, I attempt to compare and contrast findings from these invertebrate and vertebrate models so as to provide a synthesis of current knowledge and indicate potential research avenues that may be useful for better understanding the roles of glial cells in the circadian system.
Investigators over the years have noted many striking similarities in the structural organization and function of neural circuits in higher invertebrates and vertebrates. In more recent years, the discovery of similarities in the cellular and molecular mechanisms that guide development of these circuits has driven a revolution in our understanding of neural development. Cellular mechanisms discovered to underlie axon pathfinding in grasshoppers have guided productive studies in mammals. Genes discovered to play key roles in the patterning of the fruitfly's central nervous system have subsequently been found to play key roles in mice. The diversity of invertebrate species offers to investigators numerous opportunities to conduct experiments that are harder or impossible to do in vertebrate species, but that are likely to shed light on mechanisms at play in developing vertebrate nervous systems. These experiments elucidate the broad suite of cellular and molecular interactions that have the potential to influence neural circuit formation across species. Here we focus on what is known about roles for glial cells in some of the important steps in neural circuit formation in experimentally advantageous insect species. These steps include axon pathfinding and matching to targets, dendritic patterning, and the sculpting of synaptic neuropils. A consistent theme is that glial cells interact with neurons in two-way, reciprocal interactions. We emphasize the impact of studies performed in insects and explore how insect nervous systems might best be exploited next as scientists seek to understand in yet deeper detail the full repertory of functions of glia in development.

Transitory global amnesia and migraine without aura are diseases with unclear pathophysiologic mechanisms, but with evidence of comorbidity. We describe twin monozygotic brothers, both presenting episodes of transitory global amnesia occurring only during attacks of migraine without aura. This report supports the hypothesis of a common underlying pathogenetic mechanism, possibly related to the cortical spreading depression. Furthermore, a common genetic trait in both the diseases or more probably in a particular subgroup of patients could be hypothesized.

Despite government efforts to increase healthcare insurance and access in China, many individuals, regardless of insurance status, continue to engage in high levels of self-medication. To understand the factors influencing common self-medication behaviour in a community of food market vendors in Fuzhou China, a total of 30 market vendors were randomly recruited from six food markets in 2007. In-depth interviews were conducted with each participant at their market stalls by trained interviewers using a semi-structured open-ended interview protocol. Participants were asked broad questions about their health-seeking behaviours as well as their past experiences with self-medication and hospital care. ATLAS. ti was used to manage and analyse the interview data. The results showed that hospital-based healthcare services were perceived as better quality. However, self-medication was viewed as more affordable in terms of money and time. Other factors prompting self-medication, included confidence in understanding the health problem, the easy accessibility of local pharmacies and the influences of friends/peers and advertising. Three broad domains, attitude, cost and effectiveness, were all seen to determine past decisions and experiences with self-medication. Interestingly, the effective management of self-medication via pharmacy resources raised particular concern because of perceived variation in quality. In conclusion, self-medication was found to be an important and common health-seeking behaviour driven by multiple factors. A sound and comprehensive public health system should systematically attend to these behaviours and the pharmacies, where much of the behaviour occurs.
The dynamics of synaptic transmission between neurons plays a major role in neural information processing. In the cochlear nucleus, auditory nerve synapses have a relatively high release probability and show pronounced synaptic depression that, in conjunction with the variability of interspike intervals, shapes the information transmitted to the postsynaptic cells. Cellular mechanisms have been best analyzed at the endbulb synapses, revealing that the recent history of presynaptic activity plays a complex, non-linear, role in regulating release. Emerging evidence suggests that the dynamics of synaptic function differs according to the target neuron within the cochlear nucleus. One consequence of hearing loss is changes in evoked release at surviving auditory nerve synapses, and in some situations spontaneous release is greatly enhanced. In contrast, even with cochlear ablation, postsynaptic excitability is less affected. The existing evidence suggests that different modes of hearing loss can result in different dynamic patterns of synaptic transmission between the auditory nerve and postsynaptic neurons. These changes in dynamics in turn will affect the efficacy with which different kinds of information about the acoustic environment can be processed by the parallel pathways in the cochlear nucleus.
Synaptic scaffolding proteins from membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUK) family are implicated in synapse formation and functioning. To better understand the role of one of the proteins of this family, SAP97, we studied with electron microscopy the effects of its overexpression on spine and synapse morphology in CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Dramatic spine enlargement induced by SAP97 overexpression was accompanied by marked morphological changes, with spines enwrapping and engulfing presynaptic terminals. The size and complexity of the PSD was also significantly increased. Similar to PSD-95, SAP97 promoted formation of multi-innervated spines (MIS). In addition, both MAGUK proteins induced multiple excitatory contacts on dendritic shafts suggesting a mechanism for shaft synapse formation. Formation of MIS and shaft synapses was blocked by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-NAME. Immunochemistry revealed that overexpression of SAP97 was associated with overexpression of PSD-95 and recruitment of nNOS to the synapse. These data provide evidence for both common and distinct structural alterations produced by overexpression of SAP97 and PSD-95 and demonstrate strong interactions between these two proteins to regulate contact formation through nitric oxide signaling.
The aim of this study is to clarify the relationship between serum 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) and the clinical effects of entacapone. The 3-OMD and maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of levodopa were measured in 21 Parkinson's Disease patients who took 100 mg levodopa / dopa decarboxylase inhibitor. After the administration of entacapone, the 3-OMD concentration and percentage of &quot;on&quot; time during waking hours (% of &quot;on&quot; time) were studied for 8 weeks. The 3-OMD concentration was reduced by 34%, and the increase in % of &quot;on&quot; time was 28% at the 8th week compared with baseline. We defined the COMT-index as [baseline 3-OMD concentration] / [levodopa Cmax when 100 mg levodopa was administered alone]. The COMT-index was significantly correlated with the increase in % of &quot;on&quot; time at the 8th week. In conclusion, the measurement of baseline 3-OMD and levodopa pharmacokinetics is useful for predicting the clinical effects of entacapone.
The causes of anxiety and depression in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) remain elusive. To identify steps linking androgen signaling to the regulation of affective symptoms in vivo, we compared behavioral responses in female rats continuously exposed to DHT from puberty (a model of DHT-induced PCOS) and in rats exposed to DHT for 1week. Continuous and 1week of DHT exposure resulted in a general decrease in locomotor activity and time spent on the open arms in the elevated plus maze, indicating anxiety-like behavior. Rats with DHT-induced PCOS have increases in adiposity and circulating leptin levels accompanied by leptin resistance. One week of DHT exposure decreased androgen receptor (AR) expression in the hypothalamus and leptin synthesis and function in adipocytes; it also inhibited signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and attenuated leptin activity by increasing levels of soluble leptin receptor, a leptin-binding protein, in the hypothalamus. This may affect the androgen-induced anxiety-related behavior in female rats. In conclusion, our results highlight the central role of androgens in behavioral function in female rats and suggest that androgens directly regulate the AR by decreasing its hypothalamic expression. Androgens also increase leptin synthesis in adipocytes, which drives central leptin signaling, and may regulate anxiety-related behaviors. Elucidating mechanisms by which androgens modulate female anxiety-like behavior may uncover useful approaches for treating women with PCOS who have symptoms of anxiety.
Testosterone influences the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, anxiety-related behavior, and sensorimotor gating in rodents, but little is known about the role of the androgen receptor (AR) in mediating these influences. We compared levels of the stress hormone corticosterone at baseline and following exposure to a novel object in an open field in wild type (wt) male and female rats, and male rats with the testicular feminization mutation (Tfm) of the AR, which disables its function. Basal corticosterone was equivalent in all groups, but exposure to a novel object in an open field elicited a greater increase in corticosterone in Tfm males and wt females than in wt males. Tfm males also showed increased behavioral indices of anxiety compared to wt males and females in the test. Analysis of the immediate early gene c-Fos expression after exposure to a novel object revealed greater activation in Tfm males than wt males in some regions (medial preoptic area) and lesser activation in others (dentate gyrus, posterodorsal medial amygdala). No differences were found in a measure of sensorimotor gating (prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response), although Tfm males had an increased acoustic startle response compared to wt males and females. These findings demonstrate that ARs play a role in regulating anxiety-related behaviors, as well as corticosterone responses and neural activation following exposure to a mild stressor in rats.
Motor imagery (MI) mostly activates the same brain regions as movement execution (ME) including the primary motor cortex (Brodmann area 4, BA4). However, whether BA4 is functionally relevant for MI remains controversial. The finding that MI tasks are impaired by BA4 virtual lesions induced by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) supports this view, though previous studies do not permit to exclude that BA4 is also involved in other processes such as hand recognition. Additionally, previous works largely underestimated the possible negative consequences of TMS-induced muscle twitches on MI task performance. Here we investigated the role of BA4 in MI by interfering with the function of the left or right BA4 in healthy subjects performing a MI task in which they had to make laterality judgements on rotated hand drawings. We used a subthreshold repetitive TMS protocol and monitored electromyographic activity to exclude undesirable effects of hand muscle twitches. We found that BA4 virtual lesions selectively increased reaction times in laterality judgments on hand drawings, leaving unaffected a task of equal difficulty, involving judgments on letters. Interestingly, the effects of virtual lesions of left and right BA4 on MI task performance were the same irrespective of the laterality (left/right) of hand drawings. A second experiment allowed us to rule out the possibility that BA4 lesions affect visual or semantic processing of hand drawings. Altogether, these results indicate that BA4 contribution to MI tasks is specifically related to the mental simulation process and further emphasize the functional coupling between ME and MI.
Familial risk for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been associated with changes in brain activity related to cognitive control. However, it is not clear whether changes in activation are the primary deficit or whether they are related to impaired communication between regions involved in this ability. We investigated whether (1) functional connectivity between regions involved in cognitive control was affected by familial risk and (2) changes were specific to these regions. Correlational seed analyses were used to investigate temporal covariance between cognitive control and motor regions in two independent samples of typically developing controls, subjects with ADHD and their unaffected siblings. In both samples, correlation coefficients between cognitive control regions were greater for typically developing controls than for subjects with ADHD, with intermediate values for unaffected siblings. Within the motor network, unaffected siblings showed correlations similar to typically developing children. There were no differences in activity between the brain regions involved. These data show that functional connectivity between cognitive control regions is sensitive to familial risk for ADHD. Results suggest that changes in connectivity associated with cognitive control may be suitable as an intermediate phenotype for future studies.
Emotional Intelligence (EI) is the ability to monitor one's own and others' emotions and the ability to use the gathered information to guide one's thinking and action. EI is thought to be important for social life making it a popular subject of research. However, despite the existence of previous functional imaging studies on EI, the relationship between regional gray matter morphology and EI has never been investigated. We used voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and a questionnaire (Emotional Intelligence Scale) to measure EI to identify the gray matter correlates of each factor of individual EI (Intrapersonal factor, Interpersonal factor, Situation Management factor). We found significant negative relationships between the Intrapersonal factor and regional gray matter density (rGMD) (1-a) in an anatomical cluster that included the right anterior insula, (1-b) in the right cerebellum, (1-c) in an anatomical cluster that extends from the cuneus to the precuneus, (1-d) and in an anatomical cluster that extends from the medial prefrontal cortex to the left lateral fronto-polar cortex. We also found significant positive correlations between the Interpersonal factor and rGMD in the right superior temporal sulcus, and significant negative correlations between the Situation Management factor and rGMD in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that each factor of EI in healthy young people is related to the specific brain regions known to be involved in the networks of social cognition and self-related recognition, and in the somatic marker circuitry.
Developmental neuropsychology and functional neuroimaging evidence indicates that simple and complex mental calculation is subserved by a fronto-parietal network. However, the effective connectivity (connection direction and strength) among regions within the fronto-parietal network is still unexplored. Combining event-related fMRI and multivariate Granger Causality Mapping (GCM), we administered a multiplication verification task to healthy participants asking them to solve single and double-digit multiplications. The goals of our study were first, to identify the effective connectivity of the multiplication network, and second, to compare the effective connectivity patterns between a low and a high arithmetical competence (AC) group. The manipulation of multiplication difficulty revealed a fronto-parietal network encompassing bilateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS), left pre-supplementary motor area (PreSMA), left precentral gyrus (PreCG), and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). The network was driven by an intraparietal IPS-IPS circuit hosting a representation of numerical quantity intertwined with a fronto-parietal DLPFC-IPS circuit engaged in temporary storage and updating of arithmetic operations. Both circuits received additional inputs from the PreCG and PreSMA playing more of a supportive role in mental calculation. The high AC group compared to the low AC group displayed a greater activation in the right IPS and based its calculation more on a feedback driven intraparietal IPS-IPS circuit, whereas the low competence group more on a feedback driven fronto-parietal DLPFC-IPS circuit. This study provides first evidence that multivariate GCM is a sensitive approach to investigate effective connectivity of mental processes involved in mental calculation and to compare group level performances for different populations.
We investigated perceptual reversals for intermittently presented stimuli during binocular rivalry and physical alternation while the ongoing EEG was recorded from 64 channels. EEG topographies immediately preceding stimulus-onset were analyzed and two topographies doubly dissociated perceptual reversals from non-reversals. The estimated intracranial generators associated with these topographies were stronger in right inferior parietal cortex and weaker bilaterally in the ventral stream before perceptual reversals. No such differences were found for physical alternation of the same stimuli. These results replicate and extend findings from a previous study with the Necker cube and suggest common neural mechanisms associated with perceptual reversals during binocular rivalry and ambiguous figure perception. For both types of multi-stable stimuli, the dorsal stream is more active preceding perceptual reversals. Activity in the ventral stream, however, differed for binocular rivalry compared to ambiguous figures. The results from the two studies suggest a causal role for the right inferior parietal cortex in generating perceptual reversals regardless of the type of multi-stable stimulus, while activity in the ventral stream appears to depend on the particular type of stimulus.
A major trend in foster care in developed countries over the past quarter century has been a shift toward placing children with &quot;kin&quot; rather than with unrelated foster parents. This change in practice is widely backed by legislation and is routinely justified as being in the best interests of the child. It is tempting to interpret this change as indicating that the child welfare profession has belatedly discovered that human social sentiments are nepotistic in their design, such that kin tend to be the most nurturant alloparents. Arguably, however, the change in practice has been driven by demographic, economic, and political forces rather than by discovery of its benefits. More and better research is needed before we can be sure that children have actually benefitted.


Objective: This study measures the correlation between disposition to humor and level of depression to investigate openness to humorous interventions for the treatment of depression.Design, Participants, and Measurement: Individuals (n=200) with depression received questionnaires to assess their sense of humor and attitude toward humor using the Svebak's Humor Questionnaire and a disposition toward humor questionnaire. The correlation between Svebak's Humor Questionnaire scores and Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self Report scores was then measured. Results were further analyzed by race, age, and gender to assess any emerging trends within those groups.Results: Svebak's Humor Questionnaire mean scores remained high across gender, race, and age. However, there was not a statistically significant correlation between the level of depression and sense of humor (r=-0.22). The only significant relationship noted was between disposition toward humor and depression was for subjects aged 70 and older (r=-0.83).Conclusion: Though with certain limitations, these data provide preliminary support for the possibility that an appreciation of humor would persist despite symptoms of major depressive disorder. Clinicians could consider humor as part of an intervention in the treatment of depressive symptoms. The determination of the type of humor and manner of integrating it into therapy would require further study.
In neuromyelitis optica (NMO), B-cell autoimmunity to aquaporin-4 (AQP4) has been shown to be essential. However, the role of T cells remains ambiguous. Here, we first showed an increase in CD69+ activated T cells in PBMCs during NMO relapses. Next, T-cell responses to AQP4 and myelin peptides were studied in 12 NM0 patients, 10 multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and 10 healthy subjects (HS). Four hours after adding 1 of 28 overlapping AQP4 peptides, a mixture of AQP4 peptides (AQP4-M) or one of six distinct myelin peptides to 2-day cultured PBMC, CD69 expression on CD4+ T cells was examined. Data were analyzed by paired t-test, frequency of samples with 3-fold increase of CD69 on CD4+ cells (fSI3) and mean stimulation index (mSI). The T-cell response to AQP4-M was significantly increased in NMO (fSI3 = 10/12, mSI = 5.50), with AQP4 (11-30) and AQP4 (91-110) representing the two major epitopes (AQP4 (11-30), fSI3 = 11/12, mSI = 16.0 and AQP4 (91-110), fSI3 = 11/12, mSI = 13.0). Significant but less extensive responses to these two epitopes were also observed in MS and HS. Significant reactivities against AQP4 (21-40), AQP4 (61-80), AQP4 (101-120), AQP4 (171-190) and AQP4 (211-230) were exclusively found in NMO. In addition, responses to AQP4 (81-100) were higher and more frequently detected in NMO, without reaching statistical significance. Interestingly, among the six myelin peptides studied, proteolipid protein (95-116) induced a significant T-cell response in NMO (fSI3 = 7/12, mSI = 4.60). Our study suggests that cellular as well as humoral responses to AQP4 are necessary for NMO development and that the immune response to myelin protein may contribute to disease pathogenesis.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are innate T cells expressing an invariant V7.2-J33 T-cell antigen receptor  chain and are enriched in mucosal-associated lymphoid tissues. Although the regulatory role of MAIT cells in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis has been determined, their role in multiple sclerosis (MS) has not been elucidated. In the present study, the character of MAIT cells in the peripheral blood of MS patients was analyzed. Compared with healthy controls, the frequency of MAIT cells in peripheral blood was significantly reduced in MS patients in remission and even more profoundly reduced in those with relapse. The frequency of MAIT cells reflected the disease activity, as they were reduced significantly in patients with active disease compared with stable patients, and when blood samples from patients undergoing attack were analyzed 2-3 months later, the frequency significantly increased in parallel with clinical recovery. The frequency of MAIT cells positively correlated with the frequency of CD4(+) invariant NKT cells and of CD56(bright) NK cells in healthy controls but not in MS patients. This suggests the existence of an immune-regulatory link between MAIT cells and these other cell populations with disruption of this cross talk in MS. Moreover, MAIT cells showed a suppressive activity against IFN- production by T cells in vitro. This suppression required cell contact but was independent of IL-10, inducible co-stimulator or the presence of B cells. Taken together, these results suggest an immune-regulatory role of MAIT cells in MS through suppression of pathogenic T(h)1 cells.
Apoptosis induced by low potassium (K5) or staurosporine in cerebellar granule neurons triggers an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. ROS inhibition by antioxidants or inhibitors of the NADPH oxidase (NOX) activity reduces the apoptosis induced by both stimuli. It has been reported that JNK mediates the apoptosis induced by K5 but not by staurosporine. No information is available about the role of other signaling pathways such as p38 in staurosporine-induced apoptosis, and whether p38 activation could be related to ROS levels induced by both K5 and staurosporine. Here, we explored this possibility and found that K5 activates p38 and ATF2 and that the inhibition of p38 activity prevents the apoptosis induced by this treatment. We also found that p38 is downstream of ROS generation induced by K5. On the other hand, staurosporine promotes a sustained activation of p38. We found that p38 inhibition markedly decreases ROS generation, NOX activity and apoptosis induced by staurosporine. Furthermore, antioxidants inhibit p38 activation induced by staurosporine. These data indicate that apoptosis induced by both K5 and staurosporine is dependent on p38 activation, which is mediated by ROS. In addition, p38 activation by staurosporine induces a further production of ROS through NOX activation.
With the emergence of new technologies, there has been an explosion of basic and clinical research on the affective and cognitive neuroscience of face processing and emotion perception. Adult emotional face stimuli are commonly used in these studies. For developmental research, there is a need for a validated set of child emotional faces. This paper describes the development of the National Institute of Mental Health Child Emotional Faces Picture Set (NIMH-ChEFS), a relatively large stimulus set with high quality, color images of the emotional faces of children. The set includes 482 photographs of fearful, angry, happy, sad and neutral child faces with two gaze conditions: direct and averted gaze. In this paper we describe the development of the NIMH-ChEFS and data on the set's validity based on ratings by 20 healthy adult raters. Agreement between the a priori emotion designation and the raters' labels was high and comparable with values reported for commonly used adult picture sets. Intensity, representativeness, and composite &quot;goodness&quot; ratings are also presented to guide researchers in their choice of specific stimuli for their studies. These data should give researchers confidence in the NIMH-ChEFS's validity for use in affective and social neuroscience research.
The purpose of this meta-analysis was to examine the efficacy of maintenance treatments for bipolar disorder. Placebo-controlled or active comparator bipolar maintenance clinical trials of 6 months' duration with at least 15 patients/treatment group were identified using Medline, EMBASE, clinicaltrials.gov, and Cochrane databases (1993 to July 2010). The main outcome measure was relative risk for relapse for patients in remission. Twenty trials (5,364 patients) were identified. Overall, lithium and quetiapine were the most studied agents (eight and five trials, respectively). The majority of studies included patients who had previously responded to treatment for an acute episode. All interventions, with the exception of perphenazine+mood stabilizer, showed a relative risk for manic/mixed or depressive relapse below 1.0, although there was variation in the statistical significance of the findings vs. placebo. No monotherapy was associated with a significantly reduced risk for both manic/mixed and depressed relapse. Of the combination treatments, only quetiapine+lithium/divalproex, was associated with a significantly reduced risk vs. comparator (placebo+lithium/valproate) for relapse at both the manic/mixed and depressed poles of bipolar illness. Limitations for the analysis include differences in study durations and definitions of relapse. In conclusion, available maintenance therapies show considerable variation in efficacy. The efficacy of lithium and divalproex has been confirmed, but newer therapies, such as a number of atypical antipsychotics were also shown to be effective in bipolar disorder. Efficacy of all maintenance interventions needs to be balanced against the safety and tolerability profiles of individual agents.

Clinical trials today are conducted in multiple countries to enhance patient recruitment and improve efficiency of trials. However, the demographic and cultural diversity may contribute to variations in study outcomes. Here we conducted post-hoc analyses for a placebo-controlled study with ziprasidone and haloperidol for the treatment of acute mania to address the demographic, dosing, and outcome disparities in India, Russia and the USA. We compared the baseline characteristics, outcomes and discontinuations in patients and explored the relationship between the outcome measures across these countries. We found substantial differences in baseline characteristics of subjects, administered dosage and disease severity in India compared to the USA and Russia. Conversely, US subjects had a higher placebo response compared to subjects in Russia and India. These results are probably due to demographic differences in patient populations and psychiatric clinical practice across countries. While we offer initial ideas to address the disparities identified in this analysis, it is clear that further research to improve our understanding of geographical differences is essential to ensure globally applicable results for clinical trials in psychiatry.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive method of brain stimulation that has been intensively investigated in clinical and cognitive neuroscience. Although the general impression is that tDCS is a safe technique with mild and transient adverse effects (AEs), human data on safety and tolerability are largely provided from single-session studies in healthy volunteers. In addition the frequency of AEs and its relationship with clinical variables is unknown. With the aim of assessing tDCS safety in different conditions and study designs, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of tDCS clinical trials. We assessed Medline and other databases and reference lists from retrieved articles, searching for articles from 1998 (first trial with contemporary tDCS parameters) to August 2010. Animal studies, review articles and studies assessing other neuromodulatory techniques were excluded. According to our eligibility criteria, 209 studies (from 172 articles) were identified. One hundred and seventeen studies (56%) mentioned AEs in the report. Of these studies, 74 (63%) reported at least one AE and only eight studies quantified AEs systematically. In the subsample reporting AEs, the most common were, for active vs. sham tDCS group, itching (39.3% vs. 32.9%, p&gt;0.05), tingling (22.2% vs. 18.3%, p&gt;0.05), headache (14.8% vs. 16.2%, p&gt;0.05), burning sensation (8.7% vs. 10%, p&gt;0.05) and discomfort (10.4% vs. 13.4%, p&gt;0.05). Meta-analytical techniques could be applied in only eight studies for itching, but no definite results could be obtained due to between-study heterogeneity and low number of studies. Our results suggested that some AEs such as itching and tingling were more frequent in the tDCS active group, although this was not statistically significant. Although results suggest that tDCS is associated with mild AEs only, we identified a selective reporting bias for reporting, assessing and publishing AEs of tDCS that hinders further conclusions. Based on our findings, we propose a revised adverse effects questionnaire to be applied in tDCS studies in order to improve systematic reporting of tDCS-related AEs.
There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that animal models can be developed to probe the specific domains of bipolar disorder (BD) using the endophenotype approach. Here we tested clinically active antimanic drugs to validate amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in Black Swiss mice as a putative model of the manic phase of BD. We also co-administered a mood stabilizer and an atypical antipsychotic drug in a manner akin to the clinical treatment regimens. Since lithium has been shown to potentially act through glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) inhibition, we evaluated the efficacy of selective GSK3 inhibitors in this model. Habituated animals were pretreated with a compound of interest before being challenged with amphetamine (2.0 mg/kg) and returned to activity cages for an additional 1.5 h. We tested lithium, sodium valproate, carbamazepine, olanzapine, ziprasidone as well as co-administered lithium and olanzapine at sub-efficacious doses. The GSK3 inhibitors tested included indirubin, alsterpaullone, TDZD-8, AR-A014418, SB-216763, and SB-627772. All mood stabilizers and antipsychotic drugs reduced hyperactivity without affecting spontaneous locomotion. While subactive doses of lithium and olanzapine were without effect, their co-administration produced robust reductions in hyperactivity. All GSK3 inhibitors were active in the model, producing selective inhibition of rearing hyperactivity. These data support the predictive validity of the model for the acute manic phase of BD and may have utility as an in-vivo model for identifying novel antimanic therapeutics.

The effects of sleep deprivation on neural activity underlying stimulus change detection are still debated. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of sleep deprivation on the relationship between N1 refractoriness and Mismatch Negativity (MMN) as indexes of different stages of change detection. Respectively, N1 represents the sensory feature trace creation with stimulus repetition and MMN represents the memory-based detection of deviance in a new incoming stimulus. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 22 healthy participants during a passive auditory oddball task after a night of normal sleep and after a night of total sleep deprivation (TSD). Importantly, stimulus presentation was organized as a train of 10 stimuli, so that N1 refractoriness could be measured as amplitude decrease with stimulus repetition within each train. Results showed that N1 refractoriness and MMN were not affected by TSD suggesting that the change detection process was preserved in our paradigm. However, the overall N1 amplitude increased after TSD, an effect that may be related to an enhancement of cortical excitability.




In this editorial, we seek to focus attention of neurointerventionists and stroke physicians towards a systems approach to the intra-arterial management of acute ischemic stroke. We highlight the need to pay attention to the overall sequence and workflow of a neurointerventional procedure rather than individual steps. We also stress the importance of novel outcome measures in analyzing procedural efficacy when managing patients with acute ischemic stroke.
Background: Cerebral venous-sinus thrombosis is an uncommon form but important cause of stroke, especially in young-aged women.Methods: We performed a retrospective descriptive-analytical study in which 124 patients with cerebral venous-sinus thrombosis, who referred to Nemazee Hospital, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences from January 2000 to March 2008, were included, and their demographic, etiologic, radiological and prognostic characteristics were evaluated.Results: The patients' mean age was 34.0110.25. Eighty seven (70.16%) were women and 37 (29.83%) were men. The most frequent clinical manifestations were headache, papilledema and seizures. Fifty seven (65.51%) women took oral contraceptive pills. Twenty of 57 women (35.08%) took the pill longer than one month to be able to fast in Ramadan or perform the Hajj ceremonies. In the mean time they developed cerebral venous-sinus thrombosis. Superior sagital sinus, with or without lateral sinuses, was the most involved area (70.96%). High mortality and morbidity rates (14.51% and 35.48%, respectively) were found in patients. Poor prognostic factors at the time of admission were stupor and coma (P=0.001) and evidence of hemorrhage in primary CT scan (P=0.005).Conclusion: Taking oral contraceptive pills was a main factor associated with cerebral venous-sinus thrombosis. Clinical manifestations, prognostic factors, common involved sinuses and image findings of this study were similar to those of other studies. Health care policy makers should design a plan to warn susceptible women of the risk of cerebral venous-sinus thrombosis, and to educate them the ways to prevent it.
In cochlear implants (CIs), simultaneous or sequential stimulation of adjacent electrodes can produce intermediate pitch percepts between those of the component electrodes. However, it is unclear whether simultaneous and sequential virtual channels (VCs) can be discriminated. In this study, CI users were asked to discriminate simultaneous and sequential VCs; discrimination was measured for monopolar (MP) and bipolar + 1 stimulation (BP + 1), i.e., relatively broad and focused stimulation modes. For sequential VCs, the interpulse interval (IPI) varied between 0.0 and 1.8 ms. All stimuli were presented at comfortably loud, loudness-balanced levels at a 250 pulse per second per electrode (ppse) stimulation rate. On average, CI subjects were able to reliably discriminate between sequential and simultaneous VCs. While there was no significant effect of IPI or stimulation mode on VC discrimination, some subjects exhibited better VC discrimination with BP + 1 stimulation. Subjects' discrimination between sequential and simultaneous VCs was correlated with electrode discrimination, suggesting that spatial selectivity may influence perception of sequential VCs. To maintain equal loudness, sequential VC amplitudes were nearly double those of simultaneous VCs, presumably resulting in a broader spread of excitation. These results suggest that perceptual differences between simultaneous and sequential VCs might be explained by differences in the spread of excitation.



Muscle pain has widespread effects on motor performance, but the effect of pain on voluntary activation, which is the level of neural drive to contracting muscle, is not known. To determine whether induced muscle pain reduces voluntary activation during maximal voluntary contractions, voluntary activation of elbow flexors was assessed with both motor-point stimulation and transcranial magnetic stimulation over the motor cortex. In addition, we performed a psychophysical experiment to investigate the effect of induced muscle pain across a wide range of submaximal efforts (5-75% maximum). In all studies, elbow flexion torque was recorded before, during, and after experimental muscle pain by injection of 1 ml of 5% hypertonic saline into biceps. Injection of hypertonic saline evoked deep pain in the muscle (pain rating 5 on a scale from 0 to 10). Experimental muscle pain caused a small (5%) but significant reduction of maximal voluntary torque in the motor-point and motor cortical studies (P &lt; 0.001 and P = 0.045, respectively; n = 7). By contrast, experimental muscle pain had no significant effect on voluntary activation when assessed with motor-point and motor cortical stimulation although voluntary activation tested with motor-point stimulation was reduced by 2% in contractions after pain had resolved (P = 0.003). Furthermore, induced muscle pain had no significant effect on torque output during submaximal efforts (P &gt; 0.05; n = 6), which suggests that muscle pain did not alter the relationship between the sense of effort and production of voluntary torque. Hence, the present study suggests that transient experimental muscle pain in biceps brachii has a limited effect on central motor pathways.
Acute blockade of signaling through the tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB) attenuates neuromuscular transmission and fragments postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in adult mice, suggesting that TrkB signaling is a key regulator of neuromuscular function. Using immunohistochemical, histological, and in vitro muscle contractile techniques, we tested the hypothesis that constitutively reduced TrkB expression would disrupt neuromuscular pre- and postsynaptic structure, neurotransmission, muscle fiber size, and muscle function in the soleus muscle of 6- to 8-mo-old TrkB/ mice compared with age-matched littermates. Age-like expansion of postsynaptic AChR area, AChR fragmentation, and denervation was observed in TrkB/ mice similar to that found in 24-mo-old wild-type mice. Neurotransmission failure was increased in TrkB/ mice, suggesting that these morphologic changes were sufficient to alter synaptic function. Reduced TrkB expression resulted in decreased muscle strength and fiber cross-sectional area. Immunohistochemical and muscle retrograde labeling experiments show that motor neuron number and size are unaffected in TrkB/ mice. These results suggest that TrkB- signaling at the neuromuscular junction plays a role in synaptic stabilization, neurotransmission, and muscle function and may impact the aging process of sarcopenia.
Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) module 4 was investigated in an independent sample of high-functioning adult males with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) compared to three specific diagnostic groups: schizophrenia, psychopathy, and typical development. ADOS module 4 proves to be a reliable instrument with good predictive value. It can adequately discriminate ASD from psychopathy and typical development, but is less specific with respect to schizophrenia due to behavioral overlap between autistic and negative symptoms. However, these groups differ on some core items and explorative analyses indicate that a revision of the algorithm in line with Gotham et al. (J Autism Dev Disord 37: 613-627, 2007) could be beneficial for discriminating ASD from schizophrenia.
We examined to what extent increased parent reports of autistic traits in some children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) are the result of ADHD-related symptoms or qualitatively similar to the core characteristics of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Results confirm the presence of a subgroup of children with ADHD and elevated ratings of core ASD traits (ADHD(+)) not accounted for by ADHD or behavioral symptoms. Further, analyses revealed greater oppositional behaviors, but not greater ADHD severity or anxiety, in the ADHD(+) subgroup compared to those with ADHD only. These results highlight the importance of specifically examining autistic traits in children with ADHD for better characterization in studies of the underlying physiopathology and treatment.
Ezrin, Radixin, Moesin binding phosphoprotein 50 (EBP50) is a scaffold protein that possesses two PDZ interacting domains. We have shown that, in isolated artery stimulated with noradrenaline, EBP50 interacts with several elements of the cytoskeleton. However, the contribution of EBP50 to the organization of the cytoskeleton is unknown. We have used primary cultured vascular smooth muscle cells to investigate the involvement of EBP50 in the regulation of cell architecture, motility and cell cycle, and to identify its target proteins and subsequent action mechanism. The results showed that depletion of EBP50 by siRNA transfection induced changes in cell architecture and increased cell migration. The same phenotype was induced by inhibition of myosin IIa and this effect was not additive in cells depleted for EBP50. Moreover, a larger proportion of binucleated cells was observed after EBP50 depletion, indicating a defect in cytokinesis. The identification, after co-immunoprecipitation, of a direct interaction of EBP50 with both tubulin and myosin IIa suggested that EBP50 could regulate cell migration and cytokinesis by linking myosin IIa fibers and microtubule network. Indeed, depletion of EBP50 also dismantled myosin IIa fibers and induced the formation of stable microtubules in lamellae expansions and Rac1 activation. This signaling cascade leads to the formation of lamellipodia, trailing tails and decrease of focal adhesion formation, triggering cell migration.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) appears to be a significant risk factor for Alzheimer disease (AD). Insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) also have intense effects in the central nervous system (CNS), regulating key processes such as neuronal survival and longevity, as well as learning and memory. Hyperglycaemia induces increased peripheral utilization of insulin, resulting in reduced insulin transport into the brain. Whereas the density of brain insulin receptor decreases during age, IGF-1 receptor increases, suggesting that specific insulin-mediated signals is involved in aging and possibly in cognitive decline. Molecular mechanisms that protect CNS neurons against -amyloid-derived-diffusible ligands (ADDL), responsible for synaptic deterioration underlying AD memory failure, have been identified. The protection mechanism does not involve simple competition between ADDLs and insulin, but rather it is signalling dependent down-regulation of ADDL-binding sites. Defective insulin signalling make neurons energy deficient and vulnerable to oxidizing or other metabolic insults and impairs synaptic plasticity. In fact, destruction of mitochondria, by oxidation of a dynamic-like transporter protein, may cause synapse loss in AD. Moreover, interaction between A and  proteins could be cause of neuronal loss. Hyperinsulinaemia as well as complete lack of insulin result in increased  phosphorylation, leading to an imbalance of insulin-regulated  kinases and phosphatates. However, amyloid peptides accumulation is currently seen as a key step in the pathogenesis of AD. Inflammation interacts with processing and deposit of -amyloid. Chronic hyperinsulinemia may exacerbate inflammatory responses and increase markers of oxidative stress. In addition, insulin appears to act as 'neuromodulator', influencing release and reuptake of neurotransmitters, and improving learning and memory. Thus, experimental and clinical evidence show that insulin action influences cerebral functions. In this paper, we reviewed several mechanisms by which insulin may affect pathophysiology in AD.
Great uncertainty exists as to whether aging enhances the detrimental effects of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) on vascular integrity of the ischemic brain. We hypothesized that tPA treatment would augment ischemic injury by causing increased blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown as determined by quantitative serial T(1) and T(2) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and the transfer constant for gadolinium-diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA) from blood to brain in aged (18 to 20 months) compared with young (3 to 4 months) Wistar rats after middle cerebral artery occlusion, mediated through the acute disassembly of claudin 5 and occludin. Increased T(2) values over the first hour of postreperfusion were independently augmented following treatment with tPA (P&lt;0.001) and aging (P&lt;0.01), supporting a synergistic effect of tPA on the aged ischemic brain. Blood-brain barrier permeability for Gd-DTPA (K(Gd)) was substantial following reperfusion in all animal groups and was exacerbated by tPA treatment in the elderly rat (P&lt;0.001). The frequency of hematoma formation was proportionately increased in the elderly ischemic brain (P&lt;0.05). Both tPA and age independently increased claudin 5 and occludin phosphorylation during ischemia. Early BBB permeability detected by quantitative MRI following ischemic stroke is enhanced by increased age and tPA and is related to claudin 5 and occludin phosphorylation.
Using an immunocytochemical technique, we report for the first time the distribution of immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers containing somatostatin-28 (1-12) in the alpaca diencephalon. Somatostatin-28 (1-12)-immunoreactive cell bodies were only observed in the hypothalamus (lateral hypothalamic area, arcuate nucleus and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus). However, immunoreactive fibers were widely distributed throughout the thalamus and hypothalamus. A high density of such fibers was observed in the central medial thalamic nucleus, laterodorsal thalamic nucleus, lateral habenular nucleus, mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, paraventricular thalamic nucleus, reuniens thalamic nucleus, rhomboid thalamic nucleus, subparafascicular thalamic nucleus, anterior hypothalamic area, arcuate nucleus, dorsal hypothalamic area, around the fornix, lateral hypothalamic area, lateral mammilary nucleus, posterior hypothalamic nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, supraoptic hypothalamic nucleus, and in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. The widespread distribution of somatostatin-28 (1-12) in the thalamus and hypothalamus of the alpaca suggests that the neuropeptide could be involved in many physiological actions.
Accumulating evidence has suggested pivotal roles for neural proteases in development, maturation, aging, and cognitive functions. Among such proteases, neuropsin, a kallikrein gene-related (KLK) endoprotease, appears to have a significant plasticity function that has been analyzed primarily in the hippocampal Schaffer-collateral pathway. In this article, after reviewing the general features of neuropsin, its role in Schaffer-collateral synaptic plasticity is discussed in some detail. Enzymatically active neuropsin is necessary to establish the early phase of long-term potentiation (LTP). This type of LTP, which can be elicited by rather weak tetanic stimulation, is significant in synaptic late association between two independent hippocampal synapses. Neuropsin deficiency completely impaired the early phase of LTP, leading to the absence of late associativity. Associations between early and persistent-LTP synapses may be related to mammalian working memory and consequently integration in learning and memory.
Within a single-center prospective cohort study of neonatal encephalopathy involving 315 subjects, 15 neonates were found to have a focal stroke on magnetic resonance imaging. These 15 patients were matched on the basis of gender and degree of encephalopathy to 30 neonates without stroke from the same cohort. On Bayley Scales of Infant Development, the stroke group had Mental Development Index scores that were 1.7 standard deviations lower compared with controls (P = .007). This association was no longer seen after adjustment for the presence of neonatal seizures (P = .11). Of the 15 patients with stroke, 5 had been treated with hypothermia. None of these 5 had seizures in the neonatal period, compared with 7 of the untreated 10. This is the first human study to demonstrate a potential treatment effect of therapeutic hypothermia on perinatal stroke. It was also shown that seizures are associated with worse cognitive outcomes for stroke that presents with encephalopathy.

Approximately 400 million worldwide are chronically infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV). During the course of illness, approximately 20% of patients develop disease manifestations outside the liver. Neuropathy develops in approximately 5% of patients with chronic HBV infection and rarely during acute HBV infection. The pathogenesis of the various HBV-associated neuropathy syndromes possibly involves deposition of immune complexes in nerves or blood vessel walls. Direct viral infection of nerves has not been demonstrated. Management entailed supportive care with antiviral and immunomodulatory treatment as clinically indicated. Rare cases of muscle disease, mostly inflammatory myopathy, have been associated with HBV infection. Presumably, HBV-associated antigens trigger immune mechanisms directed against components of muscle tissue. There is no evidence of replicative virus infection of muscle fibers. Management entailed immunomodulatory treatment, occasionally with anti-HBV therapy. Physicians should be aware that HBV infection has the potential to trigger presumed immune-mediated neuromuscular syndromes.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a growing international health problem, and more than 170 million people are chronic carriers. Up to 50% of HCV-positive patients develop at least one extrahepatic manifestation during the course of disease. To varying degrees of certainty, there is evidence of an association between chronic HCV infection and a variety of neuromuscular diseases. The pathogenesis of most extrahepatic diseases remains unclear but possibly includes HCV lymphotropism and/or HCV-induced autoantibodies. The therapeutic approach to HCV-associated autoimmune disorders entails eradication of HCV with one of the recombinant interferon-alpha preparations with or without additional immunosuppressive drugs.

Jonathan Haidt's Moral Foundations Theory is an influential scientific account of morality incorporating psychological, developmental, and evolutionary perspectives. The theory proposes that morality is built upon five innate &quot;foundations,&quot; each of which is believed to have been selected for during human evolution and, subsequently, tuned-up by learning during development. We argue here that although some general elements of Haidt's theory are plausible, many other important aspects of his account are seriously flawed. First, innateness and modularity figure centrally in Haidt's account, but terminological and conceptual problems foster confusion and ambiguities. Second, both the theory's proposed number of moral foundations and its taxonomy of the moral domain appear contrived, ignoring equally good candidate foundations and the possibility of substantial intergroup differences in the foundations' contents. Third, the mechanisms (viz., modules) and categorical distinctions (viz., between foundations) proposed by the theory are not consilient with discoveries in contemporary neuroscience concerning the organization, functioning, and development of the brain. In light of these difficulties, we suggest that Haidt's theory is inadequate as a scientific account of morality. Nevertheless, the theory's weaknesses are instructive, and hence, criticism may be useful to psychologists, neuroscientists, and philosophers attempting to advance theories of morality, as well as to researchers wishing to invoke concepts such as innateness and modularity more generally.
Although the hippocampus is not considered a key structure in semantic memory, patients with medial-temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) have deficits in semantic access on some word retrieval tasks. We hypothesized that these deficits reflect the negative impact of focal epilepsy on remote cerebral structures. Thus, we expected that the networks that support word retrieval tasks would be altered in left mTLE patients. We measured brain activity with fMRI while participants (13 controls, 13 left mTLE, and 13 right mTLE) performed a verb generation task. We examined functional connectivity during this task in relation to language performance on an off-line clinical test of lexical access (Boston Naming Test, BNT). Using task-seed-behavior partial least squares, we identified a canonical language network that was more active during verb generation than the baseline condition, but this network did not correlate with variability in BNT performance in either controls or patients. Instead, additional networks were identified for each group, with more anterior temporal and prefrontal regions recruited for controls and more posterior temporal regions for both left and right mTLE patients. Our findings go beyond the literature emphasizing differences in laterality of language processes in mTLE patients and, critically, highlight how network changes can be used to account for performance variation among patients on clinically relevant measures. This strategy of correlating network changes and off-line behavior may provide a powerful tool for predicting a postoperative decline in language performance.
Learning increases neurogenesis by increasing the survival of new cells generated in the adult hippocampal formation [Shors, T. J. Saving new brain cells. Scientific American, 300, 46-52, 2009]. However, only some types of learning are effective. Recent studies demonstrate that animals that learn the conditioned response (CR) but require more trials to do so retain more new neurons than animals that quickly acquire the CR or that fail to acquire the CR. In these studies, task parameters were altered to modify the number of trials required to learn a CR. Here, we asked whether pharmacological manipulations that prevent or facilitate learning would decrease or increase, respectively, the number of cells that remain in the hippocampus after training. To answer this question, we first prevented learning with the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (RS)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonic acid. As a consequence, training did not increase cell survival. Second, we facilitated learning with the cognitive enhancer D-cycloserine, which increases NMDA receptor activity via its actions at the glycine binding site. Administration of D-cycloserine each day before training increased the number of learned responses and the number of cells that survived. All animals that learned the CR retained more of the new cells, but those that learned very quickly retained fewer than those that required more training trials to learn. Together, these results demonstrate that NMDA receptor activation modifies learning and as a consequence alters the number of surviving cells in the adult hippocampus.
How specialized is the infant brain for perceiving the facial and manual movements displayed by others? Although there is evidence for a network of regions that process biological motion in adults--including individuated responses to the perception of differing facial and manual movements--how this cortical specialization develops remains unknown. We used functional near-infrared spectroscopy [Lloyd-Fox, S., Blasi, A., &amp; Elwell, C. Illuminating the developing brain: The past, present and future of functional near-infrared spectroscopy. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, 34, 269-284, 2010] to investigate the ability of 5-month-old infants to process differing biological movements. Infants watched videos of adult actors moving their hands, their mouth, or their eyes, all in contrast to nonbiological mechanical movements, while hemodynamic responses were recorded over the their frontal and temporal cortices. We observed different regions of the frontal and temporal cortex that responded to these biological movements and different patterns of cortical activation according to the type of movement watched. From an early age, our brains selectively respond to biologically relevant movements, and further, selective patterns of regional specification to different cues occur within what may correspond to a developing &quot;social brain&quot; network. These findings illuminate hitherto undocumented maps of selective cortical activation to biological motion processing in the early postnatal development of the human brain.
People are able to adapt their behavior to changing environmental contingencies by rapidly inhibiting or modifying their actions. Response inhibition is often studied in the stop-signal paradigm that requires the suppression of an already prepared motor response. Less is known about situations calling for a change of motor plans such that the prepared response has to be withheld but another has to be executed instead. In the present study, we investigated whether electrophysiological data can provide evidence for distinct inhibitory mechanisms when stopping or changing a response. Participants were instructed to perform in a choice RT task with two classes of embedded critical trials: Stop signals called for the inhibition of any response, whereas change signals required participants to inhibit the prepared response and execute another one instead. Under both conditions, we observed differences in go-stimulus processing, suggesting a faster response preparation in failed compared with successful inhibitions. In contrast to stop-signal trials, changing a response did not elicit the inhibition-related frontal N2 and did not modulate the parietal mu power decrease. The results suggest that compared with changing a response, additional frontal and parietal regions are engaged when having to inhibit a response.
The presence of irrelevant auditory information (other talkers, environmental noises) presents a major challenge to listening to speech. The fundamental frequency (F(0)) of the target speaker is thought to provide an important cue for the extraction of the speaker's voice from background noise, but little is known about the relationship between speech-in-noise (SIN) perceptual ability and neural encoding of the F(0). Motivated by recent findings that music and language experience enhance brainstem representation of sound, we examined the hypothesis that brainstem encoding of the F(0) is diminished to a greater degree by background noise in people with poorer perceptual abilities in noise. To this end, we measured speech-evoked auditory brainstem responses to /da/ in quiet and two multitalker babble conditions (two-talker and six-talker) in native English-speaking young adults who ranged in their ability to perceive and recall SIN. Listeners who were poorer performers on a standardized SIN measure demonstrated greater susceptibility to the degradative effects of noise on the neural encoding of the F(0). Particularly diminished was their phase-locked activity to the fundamental frequency in the portion of the syllable known to be most vulnerable to perceptual disruption (i.e., the formant transition period). Our findings suggest that the subcortical representation of the F(0) in noise contributes to the perception of speech in noisy conditions.
The Ultimatum Game (UG) is a widely used and well-studied laboratory model of economic decision-making. Here, we studied 129 healthy adults and compared demographic (i.e., age, gender, education), cognitive (i.e., intelligence, attention/working memory, speed, language, visuospatial, memory, executive functions), and personality (i.e., &quot;Big Five&quot;, positive affect, negative affect) variables between those with a &quot;rational&quot; versus an &quot;irrational&quot; response pattern on the UG. Our data indicated that participants with &quot;rational&quot; UG performance (accepting any offer, no matter the fairness) endorsed higher levels of trust, or the belief in the sincerity and good intentions of others, while participants with &quot;irrational&quot; UG performance (rejecting unfair offers) endorsed higher levels of negative affect, such as anger and contempt. These personality variables were the only ones that differentiated the two response patterns-demographic and cognitive factors did not differ between rational and irrational players. The results indicate that the examination of personality and affect is crucial to our understanding of the individual differences that underlie decision-making.


In crustaceans, the X-organ-sinus gland (XO-SG) neurosecretory system is formed of distinct populations of neurons that produce two families of neuropeptides: crustacean hyperglycemic hormone and adipokinetic hormone/red pigment-concentrating hormone. On the basis of electrophysiological evidence, it has been proposed that -aminobutyric acid (GABA) regulates both electrical and secretory activity of the XO-SG system. In this work we observed that depolarizing current pulses to neurons located in the external rim of the X-organ induced repetitive firing that suppressed the spontaneous firing of previously active X-organ neurons. Picrotoxin reversibly blocked this inhibitory effect suggesting that the GABA released from the stimulated neuron inhibited neighboring cells. Immunoperoxidase in X-organ serial sections showed co-localization of GABA and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) including the aforementioned neurons. Immunofluorescence in whole mount preparations showed that two subpopulations of crustacean hyperglycemic hormone-containing neurons colocalized with GABA. The expression of GAD mRNA was determined in crayfish tissue and X-organ single cells by RT-PCR. Bioinformatics analysis shows, within the amplified region, 90.4% consensus and 41.9% identity at the amino acid level compared with Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans. We suggest that crustacean hyperglycemic hormone-GABA-containing neurons can regulate the excitability of other X-organ neurons that produce different neurohormones.
Tooth pain often accompanies pulpitis. Accumulation of lipopolysaccharides (LPS), a product of Gram-negative bacteria, is associated with painful clinical symptoms. However, the mechanisms underlying LPS-induced tooth pain are not clearly understood. TRPV1 is a capsaicin- and heat-gated nociceptive ion channel implicated in thermosensation and hyperalgesia under inflammation or injury. Although TRPV1 is expressed in pulpal afferents, it is not known whether the application of LPS to teeth modulates TRPV1 in trigeminal nociceptors. By assessing the levels of protein and transcript of TRPV1 in mouse trigeminal ganglia, we demonstrate that dentinal application of LPS increases the expression of TRPV1. Our results suggest that the up-regulation of TRPV1 in trigeminal nociceptors following bacterial infection could contribute to hyperalgesia under pulpitis conditions.
Cold therapy is frequently used to reduce pain and edema following acute injury or surgery such as tooth extraction. However, the neurobiological mechanisms of cold therapy are not completely understood. Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a capsaicin- and heat-gated nociceptive ion channel implicated in thermosensation and pathological pain under conditions of inflammation or injury. Although capsaicin-induced nociception, neuropeptide release, and ionic currents are suppressed by cold, it is not known if cold suppresses agonist-induced activation of recombinant TRPV1. We demonstrate that cold strongly suppressed the activation of recombinant TRPV1 by multiple agonists and capsaicin-evoked currents in trigeminal ganglia neurons under normal and phosphorylated conditions. Cold-induced suppression was partially impaired in a TRPV1 mutant that lacked heat-mediated activation and potentiation. These results suggest that cold-induced suppression of TRPV1 may share a common molecular basis with heat-induced potentiation, and that allosteric inhibition may contribute, in part, to the cold-induced suppression. We also show that combination of cold and a specific antagonist of TRPV1 can produce an additive suppression. Our results provide a mechanistic basis for cold therapy and may enhance anti-nociceptive approaches that target TRPV1 for managing pain under inflammation and tissue injury, including that from tooth extraction.

Prepubertal rats display heightened hormonal stress reactivity compared with adults in that levels of ACTH and corticosterone take twice as long (i.e. 40-60 min) to return to baseline following an acute stressor. Despite this substantial change in stress responsiveness, and the critical nature of the adolescence period of development, the maturation of the hormonal stress response from the time of pubertal onset to adulthood has not been thoroughly investigated. To examine this, we measured ACTH, corticosterone, and testosterone in 30-, 40-, 50-, 60-, and 70-day-old (i.e. spanning pubertal and adolescent development) male rats before and after a 30 min session of restraint stress. We found that the adult-like ACTH stress response develops between 50 and 60 days of age, while the corticosterone response changes between 30 and 40 days of age. We also found that adrenal corticosterone concentrations paralleled the plasma corticosterone response following restraint, suggesting that stress-induced adrenal corticosterone synthesis decreases during adolescent development and may, at least in part, contribute to the differential stress response observed before and after puberty. Finally, stress leads to increases in testosterone secretion, but only after 50 days of age. Collectively, these results indicate that shifts in hormonal stress responses occur throughout adolescent maturation and that these responses show distinct developmental profiles.
Pigeons responded in a perceptual categorization task with six different stimuli (shades of gray), three of which were to be classified as &quot;light&quot; or &quot;dark&quot;, respectively. Reinforcement probability for correct responses was varied from 0.2 to 0.6 across blocks of sessions and was unequal for correct light and dark responses. Introduction of a new reinforcement contingency resulted in a biphasic process of adjustment: First, choices were strongly biased towards the favored alternative, which was followed by a shift of preference back towards unbiased choice allocation. The data are well described by a signal detection model in which adjustment to a change in reinforcement contingency is modeled as the change of a criterion along a decision axis with fixed stimulus distributions. Moreover, the model shows that pigeons, after an initial overadjustment, distribute their responses almost optimally, although the overall benefit from doing so is extremely small. The strong and swift effect of minute changes in overall reinforcement probability precludes a choice strategy directly maximizing expected value, contrary to the assumption of signal detection theory. Instead, the rapid adjustments observed can be explained by a model in which reinforcement probabilities for each action, contingent on perceived stimulus intensity, determine choice allocation.
The iambic-trochaic law has been proposed to account for the grouping of auditory stimuli: Sequences of sounds that differ only in duration are grouped as iambs (i.e., the most prominent element marks the end of a sequence of sounds), and sequences that differ only in pitch or intensity are grouped as trochees (i.e., the most prominent element marks the beginning of a sequence). In 3 experiments, comprising a familiarization and a test phase, we investigated whether a similar grouping principle is also present in the visual modality. During familiarization, sequences of visual stimuli were repeatedly presented to participants, who were asked to memorize their order of presentation. In the test phase, participants were better at remembering fragments of the familiarization sequences that were consistent with the iambic-trochaic law. Thus, they were better at remembering fragments that had the element with longer duration in final position (iambs) and fragments that had the element with either higher temporal frequency or higher intensity in initial position (trochees), as compared with fragments that were inconsistent with the iambic-trochaic law or that never occurred during familiarization.
Predictions of fuzzy-trace theory and neurobiological approaches are examined regarding risk taking in a classic decision-making task--the framing task--as well as in the context of real-life risk taking. We report the 1st study of framing effects in adolescents versus adults, varying risk and reward, and relate choices to individual differences, sexual behavior, and behavioral intentions. As predicted by fuzzy-trace theory, adolescents modulated risk taking according to risk and reward. Adults showed standard framing, reflecting greater emphasis on gist-based (qualitative) reasoning, but adolescents displayed reverse framing when potential gains for risk taking were high, reflecting greater emphasis on verbatim-based (quantitative) reasoning. Reverse framing signals a different way of thinking compared with standard framing (reverse framing also differs from simply choosing the risky option). Measures of verbatim- and gist-based reasoning about risk, sensation seeking, behavioral activation, and inhibition were used to extract dimensions of risk proneness: Sensation seeking increased and then decreased, whereas inhibition increased from early adolescence to young adulthood, predicted by neurobiological theories. Two additional dimensions, verbatim- and gist-based reasoning about risk, loaded separately and predicted unique variance in risk taking. Importantly, framing responses predicted real-life risk taking. Reasoning was the most consistent predictor of real-life risk taking: (a) Intentions to have sex, sexual behavior, and number of partners decreased when gist-based reasoning was triggered by retrieval cues in questions about perceived risk, whereas (b) intentions to have sex and number of partners increased when verbatim-based reasoning was triggered by different retrieval cues in questions about perceived risk.

Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a ligand-gated nonselective cation channel expressed predominantly in peripheral nociceptors. By detecting and integrating diverse noxious thermal and chemical stimuli, and as a result of its sensitization by inflammatory mediators, the TRPV1 receptor plays a key role in inflammation-induced pain. Activation of TRPV1 leads to a cascade of pro-nociceptive mechanisms, many of which still remain to be identified. Here, we report a novel effect of TRPV1 on the activity of the potassium channel KCNQ2/3, a negative regulator of neuronal excitability. Using ion influx assays, we revealed that TRPV1 activation can abolish KCNQ2/3 activity, but not vice versa, in human embryonic kidney (HEK)293 cells. Electrophysiological studies showed that coexpression of TRPV1 caused a 7.5-mV depolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of KCNQ2/3 activation compared with control expressing KCNQ2/3 alone. Furthermore, activation of TRPV1 by capsaicin led to a 54% reduction of KCNQ2/3-mediated current amplitude and attenuation of KCNQ2/3 activation. The inhibitory effect of TRPV1 appears to depend on Ca(2+) influx through the activated channel followed by Ca(2+)-sensitive depletion of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and activation of protein phosphatase calcineurin. We also identified physical interactions between TRPV1 and KCNQ2/3 coexpressed in HEK293 cells and in rat dorsal root ganglia neurons. Mutation studies established that this interaction is mediated predominantly by the membrane-spanning regions of the respective proteins and correlates with the shift of KCNQ2/3 activation. Collectively, these data reveal that TRPV1 activation may deprive neurons from inhibitory control mediated by KCNQ2/3. Such neurons may thus have a lower threshold for activation, which may indirectly facilitate TRPV1 in integrating multiple noxious signals and/or in the establishment or maintenance of chronic pain.
Red ginseng (RG, the extract of Panax ginseng Meyer) has various biological and psychological activities and may also alleviate fatigue-related disorders. The present study was undertaken to evaluate what kind of fatigue red ginseng alleviate. Animals were orally administered with 50, 100, 200, 400 mg/kg of RG for 7 days. Before experiments were performed. Physiological stress (swimming, rotarod, and wire test) are behavioral parameters used to represent physical fatigue. Restraint stress and electric field test to a certain degree, induce psychological fatigue in animals. Plasma concentration of lactate and corticosterone (CORT) were also measured after these behavioral assays. RG supplementation (100 mg/kg) increased movement duration and rearing frequency of restrainted mice in comparison with control. 100 and 200 mg/kg of RG increased swimming time in cold water (84) while at 100 mg/kg, RG increased electric field crossing over frequencies. 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg RG prolonged running time on the rotarod and at 100 mg/kg, it increased balancing time on the wire. RG at those doses also reduced falling frequencies. RG supplementation decreased plasma CORT levels, which was increased by stress. Lactate levels were not significantly altered. These results suggest that RG supplementation can alleviate more the damages induced by psychological than physical fatigue.
The sodium-dependent inorganic phosphate transporter NaPi-IIa is expressed in the kidney. Here, the authors used a polyclonal antiserum raised against NaPi-IIa- and NaPi-IIa-deficient mice to characterize its expression in nervous tissue. Western blots showed that a NaPi-IIa immunoreactive band (~90 kDa) was only present in wild-type kidney membranes and not in kidney knockout or wild-type brain membranes. In the water-soluble fraction of wild-type and knockout brains, another band (~50 kDa) was observed; this band was not detected in the kidney. Light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry using the NaPi-IIa antibodies showed immunolabeling of kidney tubules in wild-type but not knockout mice. In the brain, labeling of presynaptic nerve terminals was present also in NaPi-IIa-deficient mice. This labeling pattern was also produced by the NaPi-IIa preimmune serum. The authors conclude that the polyclonal antiserum is specific toward NaPi-IIa in the kidney, but in the brain, immunolabeling is caused by a cross-reaction of the antiserum with an unknown cytosolic protein that is not present in the kidney. This tissue-specific cross-reactivity highlights a potential pitfall when validating antibody specificity using knockout mouse-derived tissue other than the specific tissue of interest and underlines the utility of specificity testing using preimmune sera.
Computational motor control covers all applications of quantitative tools for the study of the biological movement control system. This paper provides a review of this field in the form of a list of open questions. After an introduction in which we define computational motor control, we describe: a Turing-like test for motor intelligence; internal models, inverse model, forward model, feedback error learning and distal teacher; time representation, and adaptation to delay; intermittence control strategies; equilibrium hypotheses and threshold control; the spatiotemporal hierarchy of wide sense adaptation, i.e., feedback, learning, adaptation, and evolution; optimization based models for trajectory formation and optimal feedback control; motor memory, the past and the future; and conclude with the virtue of redundancy. Each section in this paper starts with a review of the relevant literature and a few more specific studies addressing the open question, and ends with speculations about the possible answer and its implications to motor neuroscience. This review is aimed at concisely covering the topic from the author's perspective with emphasis on learning mechanisms and the various structures and limitations of internal models.
Categorizing biologic signals by analysis of symbolic sequences was employed in the study of prostate microvessels. The estimates of the volume fraction of the vessels immunostained to Factor-VIII was mapped to binary sequences. The distance between sequences was estimated by comparing the rank and frequency of repetitive elements. These measurements were applied to detect whether there are unique microvascular patterns for each individual, and to search for patterns describing prostate microvessels of different conditions. Normal prostate, benign prostate hyperplasia and prostate carcinoma groups were studied. All the specimens were immunostained to F-VIII and strips formed by adjacent quadrats were explored. At each point of the long axis of the strip, the V(V) F-VIII was calculated. These values were processed with the information-based similarity software to estimate the dissimilarity between two space series. The following comparisons were carried out: intrasubject versus intragroup distances; intragroup distances among the groups studied and intergroup distances. The distance defined between a vessels immunostained to Factor-VIII space series and its randomized surrogate was considered as an index of the nonrandomness of the space series. These indices were compared for all the groups. We conclude that (a) The information-based similarity analysis can be adapted to vessels immunostained to Factor-VIII space series from prostate microvessels. (b) There are no unique microvascular patterns associated with each individual. (c) There are characteristic patterns describing the microvessels from normal prostate, benign prostate hyperplasia and carcinoma. (d) This method is able to account for the differences between prostate cancer and both normal and benign prostate conditions, with respect to the microvessel patterns.
Two different isoforms of cyclooxygenases, COX-1 and COX-2, are constitutively expressed under normal physiological conditions of the central nervous system, and accumulating data indicate that both isoforms may be involved in different pathological conditions. However, the distinct role of COX-1 and COX-2 and the probable interaction between them in neuroinflammatory conditions associated with Alzheimer's disease are conflicting issues. The aim of this study was to elucidate the comparable role of each COX isoform in neuroinflammatory response induced by -amyloid peptide (A). Using histological and biochemical methods, 13days after stereotaxic injection of A into the rat prefrontal cortex, hippocampal neuroinflammation and neuronal injury were confirmed by increased expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) and COX-2, elevated levels of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), astrogliosis, activation of caspase-3, and neuronal cell loss. Selective COX-1 or COX-2 inhibitors, SC560 and NS398, respectively, were chronically used to explore the role of COX-1 and COX-2. Treatment with either COX-1 or COX-2 selective inhibitor or their combination equally decreased the level of TNF-, PGE2, and cleaved caspase-3 and attenuated astrogliosis and neuronal cell loss. Interestingly, treatment with COX-1 selective inhibitor or the combined COX inhibitors prevented the induction of COX-2. These results indicate that the activity of both isoforms is detrimental in neuroinflammatory conditions associated with A, but COX-1 activity is necessary for COX-2 induction and COX-2 activity seems to be the main source of PGE2 increment.
The aims of this study were to examine whether a change in overall defensive functioning during treatment a) would predict change in symptom distress during the course of treatment and follow-up and b) would be greater in short-term dynamic therapy than in cognitive therapy. Patients (N = 50) who met criteria for cluster C personality disorders were randomized to 40 weekly sessions of short-term dynamic therapy or cognitive therapy. Video recordings of a pretreatment interview and therapy session 36 were evaluated using the Defense Mechanisms Rating Scales. Symptom distress was measured using the revised version of Symptom Checklist-90. Change in overall defensive functioning during treatment predicted change in symptom distress from pretreatment to 2 years after treatment. Both treatment groups showed significant changes in defensive functioning toward greater adaptability but without any significant differences between the short-term dynamic therapy and cognitive therapy groups in a sample of patients with cluster C personality disorders.
The microtubule-associated protein Tau promotes the assembly and stability of microtubules in neuronal cells. Six Tau isoforms are expressed in adult human brain. All six isoforms become abnormally hyperphosphorylated and form neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer disease (AD) brains. In AD, reduced activity of phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)), specifically of calcium-dependent cytosolic PLA(2) (cPLA(2)) and calcium-independent intracellular PLA(2) (iPLA(2)), was reported in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, which positively correlated with the density of neurofibrillary tangles. We previously demonstrated that treatment of cultured neurons with a dual cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) inhibitor, methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (MAFP), decreased total Tau levels and increased Tau phosphorylation at Ser(214) site. The aim of this study was to conduct a preliminary investigation into the effects of in vivo infusion of MAFP into rat brain on PLA(2) activity and total Tau levels in the postmortem frontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus. PLA(2) activity was measured by radioenzymatic assay and Tau levels were determined by Western blotting using the anti-Tau 6 isoforms antibody. MAFP significantly inhibited PLA(2) activity in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. The reactivity to the antibody revealed three Tau protein bands with apparent molecular weight of close to 40, 43 and 46kDa in both brain areas. MAFP decreased the 46kDa band intensity in the frontal cortex, and the 43 and 46kDa band intensities in the hippocampus. The results indicate that in vivo PLA(2) inhibition in rat brain decreases the levels of total (nonphosphorylated plus phosphorylated) Tau protein and corroborate our previous in vitro findings.
Thanatos-associated [THAP] domain-containing apoptosis-associated protein 1 (THAP1) is a DNA-binding protein that has been recently associated with DYT6 dystonia, a hereditary movement disorder involving sustained, involuntary muscle contractions. A large number of dystonia-related mutations have been identified in THAP1 in diverse patient populations worldwide. Previous reports have suggested that THAP1 oligomerizes with itself via a C-terminal coiled-coil domain, raising the possibility that DYT6 mutations in this region might affect this interaction. In this study, we examined the ability of wild-type THAP1 to bind itself and the effects on this interaction of the following disease mutations: C54Y, F81L, F132, T142A, I149T, Q154fs180X, and A166T. The results confirmed that wild-type THAP1 associated with itself and most of the DYT6 mutants tested, except for the Q154fs180X variant, which loses most of the coiled-coil domain because of a frameshift at position 154. However, deletion of C-terminal residues after position 166 produced a truncated variant of THAP1 that was able to bind the wild-type protein. The interaction of THAP1 with itself therefore required residues within a 13-amino acid region (aa 154-166) of the coiled-coil domain. Further inspection of this sequence revealed elements highly consistent with previous descriptions of leucine zippers, which serve as dimerization domains in other transcription factor families. Based on this similarity, a structural model was generated to predict how hydrophobic residues in this region may mediate dimerization. These observations offer additional insight into the role of the coiled-coil domain in THAP1, which may facilitate future analyses of DYT6 mutations in this region.
Retina and anterior neural fold homeobox (Rax) gene encodes a transcription factor essential for vertebrate eye development. Recent microarray studies indicate that Rax is expressed in the adult rat pineal gland and retina. The present study reveals that Rax expression levels in the rat change significantly during retinal development with a peak occurring at embryonic day 18, whereas Rax expression in the pineal is relatively delayed and not detectable until embryonic day 20. In both tissues, Rax is expressed throughout postnatal development into adulthood. In the mature rat pineal gland, the abundance of Rax transcripts increases 2-fold during the light period with a peak occurring at dusk. These findings are consistent with the evidence that Rax is of functional importance in eye development and suggest a role of Rax in the developing pineal gland. In addition, it would appear possible that Rax contributes to phenotype maintenance in the mature retina and pineal gland and may facilitate 24-h changes in the pineal transcriptome.
Dopamine (DA) is an important transmitter in both motor and limbic pathways. We sought to investigate the role of D(1)-receptor activation in axonal DA release regulation in dorsal striatum using a D(1)-receptor antagonist, SKF-83566. Evoked DA release was monitored in rat striatal slices using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. SKF-83566 caused a concentration-dependent increase in peak single-pulse evoked extracellular DA concentration, with a maximum increase of  65% in 5 M SKF-83566. This was accompanied by a concentration-dependent increase in extracellular DA concentration clearance time. Both effects were occluded by nomifensine (1 M), a dopamine transporter (DAT) inhibitor, suggesting that SKF-83566 acted via the DAT. We tested this by examining [(3)H]DA uptake into LLc-PK cells expressing rat DAT, and confirmed that SKF-83566 is a competitive DAT inhibitor with an IC(50) of 5.7 M. Binding studies with [(3)H]CFT, a cocaine analog, showed even more potent action of SKF-83566 at the DAT cocaine binding site (IC(50) = 0.51 M). Thus, data obtained using SKF-83566 as a D(1) DA-receptor antagonist may be confounded by concurrent DAT inhibition. More positively, however, SKF-83566 might be a candidate to attenuate cocaine effects in vivo because of the greater potency of this drug at the cocaine versus DA binding site of the DAT.
The adaptor protein Disabled1 (Dab1) interacts with amyloid precursor protein (APP) and decreases its pathological processing, an effect mediated by Fyn tyrosine kinase. Fyn is highly enriched in lipid rafts, a major site of pathological APP processing. To investigate the role of Fyn in the localization and phosphorylation of APP and Dab1 in lipid rafts, we isolated detergent-resistant membrane (DRM) fractions from wild-type and Fyn knock-out mice. In wild-type mice, all of the Fyn kinase, 17% of total APP, and 33% of total Dab1 were found in DRMs. Nearly all of the tyrosine phosphorylated forms of APP and Dab1 were in DRMs. APP and Dab1 co-precipitated both in and out of DRM fractions, indicating an association that is independent of subcellular localization. Fyn knock-out mice had decreased APP, Dab1, and tyrosine-phosphorylated Dab1 in DRMs but increased co-immunoprecipitation of DRM APP and Dab1. Expression of phosphorylation deficient APP or Dab1 constructs revealed that phosphorylation of APP increases, whereas phosphorylation of Dab1 decreases, the interaction between APP and Dab1. Consistent with these observations, Reelin treatment led to increased Dab1 phosphorylation and decreased association between APP and Dab1. Reelin also caused increased localization of APP and Dab1 to DRMs, an effect that was not seen in Fyn knock-out neurons. These findings suggest that Reelin treatment promotes the localization of APP and Dab1 to DRMs, and affects their phosphorylation by Fyn, thus regulating their interaction.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that manifests in childhood as social behavioral abnormalities, such as abnormal social interaction, impaired communication, and restricted interest or behavior. Of the known causes of autism, duplication of human chromosome 15q11-q13 is the most frequently associated cytogenetic abnormality. Chromosome 15q11-q13 is also known to include imprinting genes. In terms of neuroscience, it contains interesting genes such as Necdin, Ube3a, and a cluster of GABA(A) subunits as well as huge clusters of non-coding RNAs (small nucleolar RNAs, snoRNAs). Phenotypic analyses of mice genetically or chromosomally engineered for each gene or their clusters on a region of mouse chromosome seven syntenic to human 15q11-q13 indicate that this region may be involved in social behavior, serotonin metabolism, and weight control. Further studies using these models will provide important clues to the pathophysiology of autism. This review overviews phenotypes of mouse models of genes in 15q11-q13 and their relationships to autism.
One of the most compelling features of Williams syndrome (WS) is the widely reported excessive sociability, accompanied by a relative proficiency in expressive language, which stands in stark contrast with significant intellectual and nonverbal impairments. It has been proposed that the unique language skills observed in WS are implicated in the strong drive to interact and communicate with others, which has been widely documented in WS. Nevertheless, this proposition has yet to be empirically examined. The present study aimed at investigating the relationship between a brain index of language processing and judgments of approachability of faces, as a proxy for sociability, in individuals with WS as contrasted to typical controls. Results revealed a significant and substantial association between the two in the WS, but not in the control group, supporting the hitherto untested notion that language use in WS might be uniquely related to their excessive social drive.
Over the past several years there has been intense effort to delineate the role of epigenetic factors, including methyl-CpG-binding protein 2, histone deacetylases, and DNA methyltransferases, in synaptic function. Studies from our group as well as others have shown that these key epigenetic mechanisms are critical regulators of synapse formation, maturation, as well as function. Although most studies have identified selective deficits in excitatory neurotransmission, the latest work has also uncovered deficits in inhibitory neurotransmission as well. Despite the rapid pace of advances, the exact synaptic mechanisms and gene targets that mediate these effects on neurotransmission remain unclear. Nevertheless, these findings not only open new avenues for understanding neuronal circuit abnormalities associated with neurodevelopmental disorders but also elucidate potential targets for addressing the pathophysiology of several intractable neuropsychiatric disorders.
Ghrelin is a 28 amino acid acylated peptide originally characterised for its capacity to stimulate growth hormone secretion. Ghrelin is also an orexigenic and adipogenic hormone and is thought to be a signal to increase locomotor activity in anticipation of a scheduled meal. Although ghrelin is considered to be up-regulated during fasting, there are still conflicting data regarding the impact of starvation on ghrelin secretion. To test whether the secretory pattern of acylated ghrelin is altered during fasting, plasma levels were monitored every 20 min for 6 h in freely-behaving rats at the light/dark cycle transition, when animals initiate feeding and activity and use preferentially free fatty acids (FFA) as a source of energy. Rats were fed ad lib. or fasted at dark onset for 24, 48 or 72 h, with or without refeeding rate. The anticipatory rise in ghrelin levels, as well as home-cage activity at the onset of darkness, was significantly reduced from 48 h of fasting compared to ad lib. conditions. A delayed ghrelin peak, sensitive to renutrition, was observed in fasted animals. Although their motivation to eat appeared to be intact, rats fasted for 72 h showed the smallest compensatory refeeding rate after fasting, possibly reflecting altered gut function. Expression of agouti-related protein and neuropeptide Y, was significantly increased in 48- and 72-h fasted animals. Thus, following fasting, a blunted acylated ghrelin secretion at dark onset (i.e. a period when animals depend on FFA as a source of energy) is associated with reduced locomotor activity and refeeding and an up-regulation of anabolic neuropeptides. Such changes could be interpreted as compensatory mechanisms for helping to conserve energy under conditions where food is not available.
Opiate abuse increases the risk for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, while both opiates and HIV may impact the immune and nervous systems. To model potential interactions between opiate drugs and HIV on the brain, neurometabolite levels were evaluated in simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected macaques with or without chronic morphine administration. Over the course of the study, 58% of these SIV-infected animals progressed to acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Brain extracts from four brain regions were evaluated with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Animals with AIDS had lower N-acetyl-aspartate in all four brain regions (p0.05) as well as lower frontal gray matter total creatine (p=0.03), lower frontal white matter (p=0.003) and caudate (p=0.002) glutamate, and higher frontal white matter myo-inositol (p=0.05) than the healthier non-AIDS macaques. Morphine-dependent animals had higher levels of myo-inositol in the putamen (p=0.003), especially those with AIDS. In the animals with AIDS, those with morphine dependence had higher total creatine in the frontal white matter (p=0.04) than those treated with saline, which in turn had lower creatine than saline-injected animals without AIDS (p=0.04), leading to an interaction between the effects of morphine and AIDS on total creatine in this brain region (ANOVA p=0.02). The majority of these brain metabolites correlated with viral counts indicating more severe metabolite abnormalities in animals with higher viral loads or set points. Collectively, these findings suggest that chronic morphine may protect against the neurotoxic effect of AIDS and reinforce the importance of maintaining a low viral load in AIDS.
During HIV infection of the CNS, neurons are damaged by viral proteins, such as Tat and gp120, or by inflammatory factors, such as TNF-, that are released from infected and/or activated glial cells. Host responses to this damage may include the induction of survival or repair mechanisms. In this context, previous studies report robust expression of a protein called particularly interesting new cysteine histidine-rich protein (PINCH), in the neurons of HIV patients' brains, compared with nearly undetectable levels in HIV-negative individuals (Rearden et al., J Neurosci Res 86:2535-2542, 2008), suggesting PINCH's involvement in neuronal signaling during HIV infection of the brain. To address potential triggers for PINCH induction in HIV patients' brains, an in vitro system mimicking some aspects of HIV infection of the CNS was utilized. We investigated neuronal PINCH expression, subcellular distribution, and biological consequences of PINCH sequestration upon challenge with Tat, gp120, and TNF-. Our results indicate that in neurons, TNF- stimulation increases PINCH expression and changes its subcellular localization. Furthermore, PINCH mobility is required to maintain neurite extension upon challenge with TNF-. PINCH may function as a neuron-specific host-mediated response to challenge by HIV-related factors in the CNS.


Asymptomatic visual loss is a feature of multiple sclerosis (MS) but its relative impact on distinct retinocortical pathways is still unclear. The goal of this work was to investigate patterns of subclinical visual impairment in patients with MS with and without clinically associated previous optic neuritis (ON). We have used functional methods that assess parvo-, konio- and magnocellular pathways in order to compare pathophysiological mechanisms of damage in a population of 44 subjects with MS (87 eyes), with and without a previous episode of ON. These methods included chromatic contrast sensitivity across multiple chromatic axes (Cambridge Colour Test-parvo/konio pathways), perimetric achromatic contrast sensitivity for the magno pathway [frequency doubling technique (FDT)] and pattern visual evoked potentials (VEP). These measures were correlated with field sensitivity measures obtained using conventional automated static perimetry (ASP) and were also compared with conventional clinical chromatic/achromatic contrast sensitivity chart-based measures. We have found evidence for uncorrelated damage of all retinocortical pathways only in patients with MS without ON. VEP evidence for axonal damage was found in this group supporting the emerging notion of axonal damage even in sub-clinical stages of ON/MS pathophysiology. Only in this group was significant correlation of functional measures with disease stage observed, suggesting that distinct pathophysiological milestones are present before and after ON has occurred.


A 52-year-old man with a family history of multiple aneurysms presented with the gradual onset of generalized headaches and bilateral sixth nerve palsies. Following intravenous contrast, MRI revealed diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement consistent with spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH). Lack of any postural component to the headaches and repeatedly normal opening pressures on lumbar puncture delayed the diagnosis. A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak was not found, but an epidural blood patch led to resolution of symptoms. Although the atypical features of nonorthostatic headache and normal CSF opening pressure have been documented in SIH, and failure to find the site of the leak is not unusual, this case illustrates a confluence of all these findings. An underlying disorder of connective tissue has been linked to SIH, and we propose that decreased meningeal compliance could account for a symptomatic low-volume state of CSF without a low opening pressure.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) have been implicated in mediating neuronal death and disease progression in human tauopathies; however, mounting in vivo data suggest that NFTs may not be the primary initiators of neurotoxicity. Caspase activity has been implicated in processes associated with the development of tauopathy, but the position that caspase activation holds in neurodegenerative cascades remains uncertain. Using multiphoton real-time imaging microscopy, de Calignon et al recently demonstrated that caspase activation precedes and leads to tangle formation within 24 hours in the rTg4510 mouse model of tauopathy. Here, we used immunoelectron microscopy to determine whether caspase-cleaved tau was present in NFTs of rTg4510 mice. Using a caspase-cleaved tau-specific antibody (TauC3), we found very little immunogold labeling in NFTs in the brains of rTg4510 mice. By immunohistochemistry, the number of TauC3-positive neurons was far less than the numbers of neurons stained with the MC1 antibody, which recognizes abnormal conformations of tau. Biochemically, caspase-cleaved tau was barely detectable in fractions of rTg4510 mouse brain extracts. Our data suggest that caspase activation might be one of multiple routes through which NFT formation occurs, rather than an obligatory initiation step in pathologic tau production in rTg4510 mice.
A major restriction of the intramuscular transplantation of myoblasts is that the grafted cells fuse mostly with myofibers along the injection trajectories. This has been attributed to a &quot;lack of migration ability&quot; of the grafted myoblasts. It has been assumed that grafted myoblasts remain motionless in the sites of delivery and fuse only with myofibers with which they come into contact. In the present study, we analyzed this phenomenon in 17 cynomolgus monkeys. We found that intramuscularly injected myoblasts within 1 hour after their injection are mainly located in the perimysium and not distributed along the injection trajectories. This suggested that the grafted myoblasts later migrate from the perimysium to fuse with myofibers that are damaged by the injections. Therefore, we analyzed whether -galactosidase-labeled myoblasts injected subcutaneously over skeletal muscles migrate in needle-damaged and nondamaged muscle regions. We observed that grafted myoblasts migrated up to 1cm in depth from the muscle surface into the muscles, although they seemingly fused mainly with damaged myofibers. Our findings suggest that myoblast transplantation is not necessarily restricted bya &quot;lack of migration ability&quot; of the grafted cells but by the fact that myoblasts fuse with regenerating myofibers and not with undamaged myofibers.
As the use of genetically engineered mice has become increasingly prevalent in neurobiological research, evidence has steadily accumulated that substantial differences exist between strains. Although a number of studies have reported effects of genetic background on behavior, few have focused on differences in neurophysiology. The postburst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) is an important determinant of intrinsic neuronal excitability and has been suggested to play a critical role in the cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory. Using whole cell current-clamp recordings of CA1 pyramidal neurons, we examined the magnitude of different phases of the AHP (peak, medium, and slow) in two commonly used genetic backgrounds, C57BL/6 (B6) and 129SvEv (129), as well as in an F2 hybrid B6:129 background (F2). We found that neurons from B6 and F2 animals exhibited a significantly larger AHP compared with 129 animals and that this difference was consistent across all phases. Furthermore, our recordings revealed a marked dichotomy in the shape of the AHP waveform, which was independent of genetic background. Approximately 60% of cells exhibited an AHP with a sharp transition between the peak AHP and medium AHP, whereas the remaining 40% exhibited a more gradual transition. Our data add to the growing body of work suggesting that genetic background can affect neuronal function as well as behavior. In addition, these results highlight the innate heterogeneity of CA1 pyramidal neurons, even within a single genetic background. These differences should be taken into consideration during the analysis and comparison of experimental results.
Saccadic adaptation is a mechanism to increase or decrease the amplitude gain of subsequent saccades, if a saccade is not on target. Recent research has shown that the mechanism of gain increasing, or outward adaptation, and the mechanism of gain decreasing, or inward adaptation, rely on partly different processes. We investigate how outward and inward adaptation of reactive saccades transfer to other types of saccades, namely scanning, overlap, memory-guided, and gap saccades. Previous research has shown that inward adaptation of reactive saccades transfers only partially to these other saccade types, suggesting differences in the control mechanisms between these saccade categories. We show that outward adaptation transfers stronger to scanning and overlap saccades than inward adaptation, and that the strength of transfer depends on the duration for which the saccade target is visible before saccade onset. Furthermore, we show that this transfer is mainly driven by an increase in saccade duration, which is apparent for all saccade categories. Inward adaptation, in contrast, is accompanied by a decrease in duration and in peak velocity, but only the peak velocity decrease transfers from reactive saccades to other saccade categories, i.e., saccadic duration remains constant or even increases for test saccades of the other categories. Our results, therefore, show that duration and peak velocity are independent parameters of saccadic adaptation and that they are differently involved in the transfer of adaptation between saccade categories. Furthermore, our results add evidence that inward and outward adaptation are different processes.
Neurophysiological recording in alert monkeys requires the creation of a permanent aperture in the skull for repeated insertion of microelectrodes. Most laboratories use polymethyl methacrylate to attach a recording chamber over the skull opening. Here, we describe a titanium chamber that fastens to the skull with screws, using no polymethyl methacrylate. The gap between the base of the chamber and the skull is filled with hydroxyapatite, forming a watertight gasket. As the chamber base osseointegates with the skull, the hydroxyapatite is replaced with bone. Rather than having a finite lifetime, the recording chamber becomes more firmly anchored the longer it is in place. It has a small footprint, low profile, and needs little maintenance to control infection. Toilette consists of occasional application of betadine to clean the scalp margin, followed by application of neomycin, polymyxin, and bacitracin ointment. Antibiotic is also placed inside the chamber to suppress bacterial proliferation. Thickening of the dura within the chamber can be prevented by regular application of mitocycin C and/or bevacizumab, an antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor. By conducting an e-mail survey, this protocol for chamber maintenance was compared with procedures used in 37 other vision research laboratories. Refinement of appliances and techniques used for recordings in awake monkeys promises to increase the pace of scientific discovery and to benefit animal welfare.
When observing someone else acting on an object, people implement goal-specific eye movement programs that are driven by their own motor representation of the observed action. Usually, however, we observe people acting in contexts where more objects, different in shape and size, are present. Is our brain able to select the intended target even when there are different objects in the visual scene? And if this is the case, what kind of information does our motor system capitalize on? We recorded eye movements while participants observed an actor reaching for and grasping one of two objects requiring two different kinds of grip to be picked up. In a control condition, the actor merely reached for and touched one of the two objects without preshaping her hand according to the target features. Results showed higher accuracy and earlier saccadic movements when participants observed an actually grasping hand than when they observed a mere reaching hand devoid of any kind of target-related preshaping. This clearly suggests that the hand preshaping provided the observer with enough motor cues to proactively and reliably saccade toward the object to be grasped, thus identifying it even when the action target was not previously known. Our findings strongly corroborate the direct matching hypothesis suggesting that in processing others' actions, we take advantage of the same motor knowledge that enables us to efficiently perform those actions.
In quadrupeds, spinalization in the thoracic region severely impairs postural control in the hindquarters. The goal of this study was to improve postural functions in chronic spinal rabbits by regular application of different factors: intrathecal injection of the 5-HT(2) agonist ()-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (DOI), epidural electrical spinal cord stimulation (EES), and specific postural training (SPT). The factors were used either alone (SPT group) or in combination (DOI+SPT, EES+SPT, and DOI+EES+SPT groups) or not used (control group). It was found that in none of these groups did normal postural corrective movements in response to lateral tilts of the supporting platform reappear within the month of treatment. In control group, reduced irregular electromyographic (EMG) responses, either correctly or incorrectly phased in relation to tilts, were observed. By contrast, in DOI+SPT and EES+SPT groups, a gradual threefold increase in the proportion of correctly phased EMG responses (compared with control) was observed. The increase was smaller in DOI+EES+SPT and SPT groups. Dissimilarly to these long-term effects, short-term effects of DOI and EES were weak or absent. In addition, gradual development of oscillatory EMG activity in the responses to tilts, characteristic for the control group, was retarded in DOI+SPT, EES+SPT, DOI+EES+SPT, and SPT groups. Thus regular application of the three tested factors and their combinations caused progressive, long-lasting plastic changes in the isolated spinal networks, resulting in the facilitation of spinal postural reflexes and in the retardation of the development of oscillatory EMG activity. The facilitated reflexes, however, were insufficient for normal postural functions.
During early brain development, -aminobutyric acid (GABA), the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult brain, has been thought to be an important source of excitatory neurotransmission. This view, however, was recently challenged by a series of studies that claim that the excitatory effect of GABA is due to non-physiological in vitro experimental conditions. In this article, we aim to summarize results that support and challenge the traditional point of view, and indicate some strong and weak points of both positions.
Synaesthesia is a broadly defined neural phenomenon in which stimulation of a sense or concept triggers a second perception not normally associated with the stimulus. For example, letters or numbers may trigger a colour experience, sounds may trigger a taste sensation, or tastes may trigger a feeling of touch. Dozens of forms of synaesthesia have been reported, but the relationship between the different forms has not been studied: is someone with a particular form of synaesthesia likely to possess other types? If so, which ones? As an inroad to illuminating underlying mechanisms, we here examine which different synaesthesia types tend to co-occur. We analyzed reports of the forms of synaesthesia experienced by 19,133 participants who completed the Synaesthesia Battery (Eagleman, Kagan, Nelson, Sagaram, &amp; Sarma, 2007), using correlation analysis, exploratory factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), and multidimensional scaling (MDS). Our analyses converged on the finding of five distinct groupings of synaesthesia forms. We label these coloured sequence synaesthesias (CSSs), coloured music synaesthesias, non-visual sequela synaesthesias, spatial sequence synaesthesia (SSS), and coloured sensation synaesthesias. Collectively, our findings reveal that synaesthesia is an umbrella term that encompasses several distinct groups with independent probabilities of expression, and this may in turn suggest distinct underlying mechanisms and the possibility of different genetic bases.
Pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP; ADCYAP1) is a neuropeptide that regulates a wide array of functions within the brain and periphery. We and others have previously demonstrated that PACAP and its high-affinity receptor PAC1 are expressed in the embryonic mouse neural tube, suggesting that PACAP plays a role in early brain development. Moreover, we previously showed that PACAP antagonizes the mitotic action of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) in postnatal cerebellar granule precursors. In the present study, we demonstrate that PACAP completely blocked Shh-dependent motor neuron generation from embryonic stem cell cultures and reduced mRNA levels of the Shh target gene Gli-1 and several ventral spinal cord patterning genes. In vivo examination of motor neuron and other patterning markers in embryonic day 12.5 spinal cords of wild-type and PACAP-deficient mice by immunofluorescence, on the other hand, revealed no obvious alterations in expressions of Islet1/2, MNR2, Lim1/2, Nkx2.2, or Shh, although the Pax6-positive area was slightly expanded in PACAP-deficient spinal cord. Caspase-3 staining revealed low, and similar, numbers of cells undergoing apoptosis in embryonic wild-type vs. PACAP-deficient spinal cords, whereas a slight but significant increase in number of mitotic cells was observed in PACAP-deficient mice. Thus, although PACAP has a strong capacity to counteract Shh signaling and motor neuron production in vitro, corresponding patterning defects associated with PACAP loss may be obscured by compensatory mechanisms.

Ventricular catheter replacement can be challenging, especially in patients with small ventricles. Shunt malfunction due to ventricular catheter obstruction can occur without ventricular enlargement, such as in the setting of slit-ventricle syndrome or benign intracranial hypertension. The authors describe a simple technique for ventricular catheter exchange using a peel-away catheter. In the limited initial experience of the senior author (G.S.C.), this technique appears to be safe and effective. To the authors' knowledge, this method has not been described in the neurosurgical literature before.






Pre-existing neuropathy, a not uncommon feature in oncologic patients, is a potential but non-confirmed risk factor to develop early or severe chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. The main goal of this study is to evaluate the role of pre-existing neuropathy induced by vincristine (VNC) or bortezomib (BTZ) as a risk factor to develop more severe BTZ-induced neuropathy in a mouse model. VNC, at doses of 1 and 1.5 mg/kg given twice per week for 4 weeks, induced a moderate and severe sensory-motor neuropathy, primarily axonal, with predominant involvement of myelinated sensory axons. The neuropathy induced by BTZ at dose of 1 mg/kg given twice per week for 6 weeks was a mild axonal sensory neuropathy involving myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. The neuropathy in mice previously treated and retreated with the same schedule of BTZ after 4 weeks of washout period was similar in profile and severity to the one observed after the first treatment. When basal neuropathy was classified as moderate (most of BTZ-treated animals) or severe (all VNC-treated animals and two BTZ-treated animals), there was a more marked decline in sensory nerve function during BTZ retreatment in the group with basal severe neuropathy (-86%) than in the groups with basal mild (-57%) or without neuropathy (-52%; p &lt; 0.001). Histopathological findings supported the functional results. Therefore, this study shows that the presence of a severe neuropathy previous to treatment with an antitumoral agent, such as BTZ, results in a more marked involvement of peripheral nerves.
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is one of the most common upper limb compression neuropathies. In only 50% of cases it is possible to identify a cause. Our objective was to determine the role of glucose metabolism abnormalities in idiopathic CTS. We identified 117 patients with idiopathic moderate or severe CTS and 128 controls. In all we evaluated glucose and insulin levels at fasting and after 2-h oral glucose tolerance test (2h-OGTT). In addition we determined insulin resistance (IR). Following OGTT the prevalence of glucose metabolism abnormalities was significantly higher in the CTS group (p = 0.001). IR was documented in 80% of patients, of whom 45% had impaired glucose tolerance, 14% newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus, and 20% IR only. Waist circumference and body mass index were also significantly increased in the CTS group. In this study, we focused on evidence that pre-diabetes may represent a risk factor for CTS. We proposed to determine IR as a rule in all patients with idiopathic CTS.
The contribution of genetic heterogeneity to the pathogenesis of multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) has not been elucidated. We investigated frequencies of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the candidate genes protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22), B-cell scaffold protein with ankyrin repeats (BANK1), B lymphocyte kinase (Blk), and Fc gamma receptor class IIB (FCGR2B), which have been found to be associated with other autoimmune diseases, CD1A and CD1E, important for antigen presentation of glycolipids, and transient axonal glycoprotein 1 (TAG-1), which is associated with responsiveness to intravenous immunoglobulin in patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. SNP frequencies were determined by means of TaqMan SNP genotyping assay and direct sequencing of candidate genes in 92 Dutch patients with MMN and 1152 healthy controls. SNP frequencies did not differ between patients and controls (all p-values &gt;0.15) and disease characteristics were not associated with SNP genotypes. Our results suggest that allelic variation in these genes does not play a major role in determining MMN susceptibility.
Chronic exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), a class of ubiquitous environmental toxicants, causes neurocognitive anomalies. The transcription factor repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor (REST) plays a critical role in neuronal phenotype elaboration in both neural progenitor cells and non-neuronal cells. Here, we investigated the possible relationship between PCBs and REST in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. In these cells, chronic exposure to the PCB mixture Aroclor 1254 (A-1254; 5-30 g/ml) caused dose-dependent cell death via the induction of calpain but not caspase-3. Intriguingly, this effect was prevented by the calpain inhibitor calpeptin. Furthermore, A-1254 enhanced REST mRNA and protein expression levels after both 24 and 48 h. REST down-regulation by small interfering RNA prevented A-1254-induced cell death. In addition, A-1254 enhanced the binding of REST to the synapsin 1 gene promoter, and synapsin 1 knockdown potentiated A-1254-induced cell death. A-1254 (10 g/ml) also increased the expression of the two REST cofactors, the REST corepressor and the mammalian SIN3 homolog A transcription regulator. Moreover, the PCB mixture decreased acetylation of the histone proteins H3 and H4. It is noteworthy that the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A prevented such decreases and reduced the A-1254-induced neurotoxic effect. Collectively, these results suggest that A-1254 exerts its toxic effect via REST by down-regulating synapsin 1 and decreasing H3 and H4 acetylation.


Noradrenaline critically modulates the ability of synapses to undergo long-term plasticity on time scales extending well beyond fast synaptic transmission. Noradrenergic signalling through -adrenergic receptors (-ARs) enhances memory consolidation and can boost the longevity of long-term potentiation (LTP). Previous research has shown that stimulation of one synaptic pathway with a protocol that induces persistent, translation-dependent LTP can enable the induction of LTP by subthreshold stimulation at a second, independent synaptic pathway. This heterosynaptic facilitation depends on the regulation and synthesis of proteins. Recordings taken from area CA1 in mouse hippocampal slices showed that induction of -AR-dependent LTP at one synaptic pathway (S1) can facilitate LTP at a second, independent pathway (S2) when low-frequency, subthreshold stimulation is applied after a 30 min delay. -AR-dependent heterosynaptic facilitation requires protein synthesis as inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), or translation, prevented homo- and heterosynaptic LTP. Shifting application of a translational repressor, emetine, to coincide with S2 stimulation did not block LTP. Heterosynaptic LTP was prevented in the presence of the cell-permeable cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, PKI. Conversely, the time window for inter-pathway transfer of heterosynaptic LTP was extended through inhibition of GluR2 endocytosis. Our data show that activation of -ARs boosts the heterosynaptic expression of translation-dependent LTP. These results suggest that engagement of the noradrenergic system may extend the associative capacity of hippocampal synapses through facilitation of intersynaptic crosstalk.
Fast excitatory synaptic transmission in central synapses is mediated primarily by AMPA receptors (AMPARs), which are heteromeric assemblies of four subunits, GluA1-4. Among these subunits, rapidly gating GluA3/4 appears to be the most abundantly expressed to enable neurotransmission with submillisecond precision at fast rates in subsets of central synapses. However, neither definitive identification of the molecular substrate for native AMPARs in these neurons, nor their hypothesized functional roles in vivo has been unequivocally demonstrated, largely due to lack of specific antagonists. Using GluA3 or GluA4 knockout (KO) mice, we investigated these issues at the calyx of Held synapse, which is known as a high-fidelity synapse involved in sound localization. Patch-clamp recordings from postsynaptic neurons showed that deletion of GluA4 significantly slowed the time course of both evoked and miniature AMPAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (AMPAR-EPSCs), reduced their amplitude, and exacerbated AMPAR desensitization and short-term depression (STD). Surprisingly, presynaptic release probability was also elevated, contributing to severe STD at GluA4-KO synapses. In contrast, only marginal changes in AMPAR-EPSCs were found in GluA3-KO mice. Furthermore, independent of changes in intrinsic excitability of postsynaptic neurons, deletion of GluA4 markedly reduced synaptic drive and increased action potential failures during high-frequency activity, leading to profound deficits in specific components of the auditory brainstem responses associated with synchronized spiking in the calyx of Held synapse and other related neurons in vivo. These observations identify GluA4 as the main determinant for fast synaptic response, indispensable for driving high-fidelity neurotransmission and conveying precise temporal information.
Winter imposes physiological challenges on individuals including increased thermoregulatory demands, risk of infection, and decreased food availability. To survive these challenges, animals living outside the tropics must appropriately distribute their energetic costs across the year, including reproduction and immune function. Individuals of many species use the annual cycle of changing day lengths (photoperiod), which is encoded by the nightly duration of melatonin secretion, to adjust physiology. Siberian hamsters exposed to short days (SD) (long nights/prolonged endogenous melatonin secretion) enhance some aspects of immune function, but curtail other energetically expensive immune functions including the febrile response. The purpose of this study was twofold. First, we determined whether sustained melatonin treatment would inhibit the development of the SD phenotype in female hamsters as it does in males. Second, we examined whether the SD attenuation of fever would be blocked by continuous exposure to exogenous melatonin. Hamsters were implanted with melatonin or empty capsules, housed in either long days (LD) or SD for 8-9 weeks, and then challenged with lipopolysaccharide; body temperature and locomotor activity were recorded. Unlike hamsters with empty capsules, hamsters with melatonin implants did not respond to SD and maintained a LD phenotype including summer-like spleen, uterine and body masses, and pelage characteristics. Further, sustained melatonin treatment blocked the SD attenuation of febrile responses and prolonged the behavioral components of the sickness response. These results suggest that the daily fluctuations in endogenous melatonin may be masked by continuous exposure to exogenous melatonin, thus inhibiting functional photoperiodic responses to SD.
Stigmatization of schizophrenia is widespread and its genetic explanation may potentially increase the stigma. The present study investigated whether seeing schizophrenia as a genetic or environmental disorder might influence perceived beliefs towards people with schizophrenia and whether social stigmatizing attitudes were differently perceived the 202 subjects who were recruited. Perceived social stigmatizing attitudes were compared among participants who read two vignettes depicting a person with schizophrenia. Then, the Standardized Stigmatization Questionnaire (SSQ) was administered. A genetic explanation of schizophrenia was more frequently associated with stigmatizing attitudes. Also, there were higher levels of perceived stigmatization in medical students and medical doctors than in other groups based on their social experience or background. However, the sample size was small and this was a non-experimental design; also the SSQ would benefit from more cross-validation. About half of the participants perceived stigmatizing social attitudes. Finally, considering schizophrenia as a genetic disorder influenced participants perception of other people's beliefs about dangerousness and unpredictability and people's desire for social distance.
Although sleep disturbance has been shown to be associated with psychological distress and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, the simultaneous relationship between sleep, distress and HPA axis function is less clear. Here we examined the relationship between sleep quality as assessed with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, psychological distress as assessed with the Hopkins Symptom Checklist, and cortisol responses to the dexamethasone (DEX)/corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) test in 139 non-clinical volunteers. Poor sleep was significantly correlated with greater cortisol response to the combined DEX/CRH challenge, but not with the cortisol level just before CRH challenge. When subjects were divided into three groups based on the suppression pattern of cortisol (i.e., incomplete-, moderate-, and enhanced-suppressors), poor sleep was significantly associated with the incomplete suppression in women while no significant association was found between sleep and the enhanced suppression. The association between poor sleep and exaggerated cortisol response to the CRH challenge became more clear in the regression analysis where the confounding effect of psychological distress was taken into consideration. These results indicate that poor sleep would be associated with exaggerated cortisol reactivity. The observed association of poor sleep with reactive cortisol indices to the CRH challenge, but not with the cortisol level after DEX administration alone, might add to the well-established evidence demonstrating the role of CRH in the regulation of sleep. Our findings further suggest that the mediation model would work better than the bivariate approach in investigating the relationship between sleep, distress and HPA axis reactivity.
