Insertion trauma is a critical issue when assessing intracortical electrophysiological and neurochemical recordings. Previous reports document a wide variety of insertion techniques with speeds ranging from 10 microm/s to 10 m/s. We hypothesize that insertion speed has an effect on tissue trauma induced by implantation of a neural probe. In order to monitor the neural interface during and after probe insertion, we have developed a silicon-substrate array with hydrous iridium oxide microelectrodes for potentiometric recording of extracellular pH (pH(e)), a measure of brain homeostasis. Microelectrode sites were sensitive to pH in the super-Nernstian range (-85.9 mV/pH unit) and selective over other analytes including ascorbic acid, Na(+), K(+), Ca(2+), and Mg(2+). Following insertion, arrays recorded either triphasic or biphasic pH(e) responses, with a greater degree of prolonged acidosis for insertions at 50 microm/s than at 0.5 mm/s or 1.0 mm/s (p&lt;0.05). Spatiotemporal analysis of the recordings also revealed micro-scale variability in the pH(e) response along the array, even when using the same insertion technique. Implants with more intense acidosis were often associated histologically with blood along the probe tract. The potentiometric microsensor array has implications not only as a useful tool to measure extracellular pH, but also as a feedback tool for delivery of pharmacological agents to treat surgical brain trauma.
The subunit composition of multimeric protein complexes is critical in determining their trafficking and functional properties. Despite there being multiple techniques to investigate the trafficking events of individual subunits there are currently limited means to monitor the trafficking properties of heteromeric protein complexes. Here, we combine surface biotinylation with co-immunoprecipitation to monitor the cell surface expression of native, heteromeric AMPA receptor complexes. Using this method, we demonstrate that the surface levels of GluR1/2 and GluR2/3 complexes are reduced following NMDA-evoked long-term depression (NMDA-LTD) in acute hippocampal slices. Finally, we discuss how this method can be adapted to monitor the cell surface expression of other heteromeric protein complexes.
We provide detailed instructions and part selections for construction of a five-channel air dilution olfactometer capable of generating neat odorants and binary mixtures at a range of known concentrations. At the heart of the olfactometer is an odorant canister that is (1) cheap and readily available, (2) safe and durable, (3) has minimal odor adherence, (4) is easily incorporated into any olfactometer, and critically (5) produces a highly consistent stimulus. By flowing a given carrier gas at a given flowrate through a given odorant in this canister, the same end-vapor is achieved. Flow/concentration outcomes are provided for several odorants routinely used in olfactometry. This tool will enable researchers to generate known concentrations without expensive analytical machinery.
The feasibility of using an osmotic pump in place of a syringe pump for microdialysis sampling in rat brain was investigated. The use of an osmotic pump permits the rat to be free from the constraints of the standard tethered system. The in vitro flow rates of a microdialysis syringe pump (set at 10.80 microl/h) and the osmotic pump (pump specifications were 11.35 microl/h) with no probe attached were compared, yielding results of 10.87 microl/h+/-1.7% and 10.95 microl/h+/-8.0%, respectively. The average of four flow rate experiments in vivo yielded R.S.D.s less than 10% and an average flow rate of 11.1 microl/h. Following the flow rate studies, in vivo sampling of neurotransmitters was accomplished with the osmotic pump coupled to a microdialysis probe implanted in the brain. Finally, after determination of basal levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the rats, the rats were dosed with benserazide followed by l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). The results from the dosing study showed at least a 10-fold increase in compounds in the l-DOPA metabolic pathway (DOPAC and HVA) and a slight or no increase in 5-HIAA (serotonin metabolic pathway.) These results indicate that the osmotic pump is a viable alternative to the syringe pump for use in microdialysis sampling.
The amino acid neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate have been implicated in mood disorders and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is an important method in their quantitation. This paper describes a method which employs either electrochemical or fluorescent detection of the amino acid derivatives formed by a reaction with naphthalene-2,3-dicarboxaldehyde (NDA) in the presence of cyanide ions. Elution is based on an isocratic protocol and is achieved in 20 min or less. The method is reproducible, shows excellent linearity and generates derivatives which are stable for up to 16 h. Successful application of the method to a maternal deprivation study has identified the hippocampus and the brainstem as possible sites of long-term alteration in this paradigm.
The coupling of Ca(2+) influx to synaptic vesicle (SV) recycling in nerve terminals is essential for neurotransmitter release and thus neuronal communication. Both of these parameters have been monitored using fluorescent reporter dyes such as fura-2 and FM1-43 in single central nerve terminals. However, their simultaneous monitoring has been hampered by the proximity of their fluorescence spectra, resulting in significant contamination of their signals by bleedthrough. We have developed an assay that simultaneously monitors both SV recycling and changes in intracellular free Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) in cultured neurons using the reporter dyes FM4-64 and fura-2AM. By monitoring both fura-2 and FM4-64 emission in the far red range, we were able to visualize functionally independent readouts of both SV recycling and [Ca(2+)](i) independent of fluorescence bleedthrough. We were also able to incorporate an assay of cell viability without any fluorescence bleedthrough from either fura-2 or FM4-64 signals, using the dye SYTOX Green. We propose that this assay of three key neuronal functions could be simply translated into a high content screening format for studies investigating small molecule inhibitors of these processes.
We have tested by [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding the intrinsic activity of three full agonists (serotonin, 5-methoxytryptamine and 5-methoxy-2-methyl-N,N-dimethyltryptamine) on rat 5-HT(6) receptors cloned in HEK-293 cells, using the scintillation proximity assay. Serotonin and 5-methoxytryptamine are soluble in water, while the agonist 5-methoxy-2-methyl-N,N-dimethyltryptamine is soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). In [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding 5-HT and 5-methoxytryptamine were able to increase basal binding, while 5-methoxy-2-methyl-N,N-dimethyltryptamine surprisingly showed an inverse agonist activity. So we have tested 5-HT and 5-methoxytryptamine in the presence of DMSO: in this condition the two agonists behaved as antagonists. This interfering effect of DMSO was not observed when GTP-europium filtration binding was used in place of scintillation proximity assay using [(35)S]-GTPgammaS. In addition, DMSO did not affect [(3)H]-5HT binding or cAMP accumulation in cloned HEK-293 cells expressing rat 5-HT(6) receptors. In conclusion, we demonstrated that DMSO, the most common solvent used to dissolve compounds insoluble in water, interferes with the method of scintillation proximity assay using [(35)S]-GTPgammaS. DMSO does not affect basal signal, nor the GTPgammaS binding itself, as indicated by the experiments with GTP-europium. Therefore its interfering effect is likely to occur at the binding of antibodies in the scintillation proximity assay.
Synaptic activity recorded from low-density networks of cultured rat hippocampal neurons was monitored using microelectrode arrays (MEAs). Neuronal networks were patterned with poly-l-lysine (PLL) using microcontact printing (microCP). Polydimethysiloxane (PDMS) stamps were fabricated with relief structures resulting in patterns of 2 microm-wide lines for directing process growth and 20 microm-diameter circles for cell soma attachment. These circles were aligned to electrode sites. Different densities of neurons were plated in order to assess the minimal neuron density required for development of an active network. Spontaneous activity was observed at 10-14 days in networks using neuron densities as low as 200 cells/mm(2). Immunocytochemistry demonstrated the distribution of dendrites along the lines and the location of foci of the presynaptic protein, synaptophysin, on neuron somas and dendrites. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated that single fluorescent tracks contained multiple processes. Evoked responses of selected portions of the networks were produced by stimulation of specific electrode sites. In addition, the neuronal excitability of the network was increased by the bath application of high K(+) (10-12 mM). Application of DNQX, an AMPA antagonist, blocked all spontaneous activity, suggesting that the activity is excitatory and mediated through glutamate receptors.
Thioflavin T (ThT) fluorescence is a commonly used method to monitor Abeta protein fibril formation. This method is particularly attractive since ThT fluoresces only when bound to fibrils, the reaction is completed within 1min and ThT does not interfere with aggregation of Abeta fibrils. One of the drawbacks of this method is the lack of a strict quantitative relationship between ThT fluorescence and fibril content. It was observed that, when the same gram molecular weight of Abeta (1-40) is dissolved into varying amounts of base then placed into a constant volume of aqueous buffer, a non-linear fluorescent response is obtained. By maintaining a strict relationship between Abeta content and the volume of base, this anomalous result can be alleviated and a linear dose response curve is obtained at much lower Abeta concentrations than is typically observed. In addition, differences in Abeta batch to batch preparations are alleviated. It was previously reported that colostrinin (CLN), a proline-rich peptide derived from colostrum, reduces fibril content and protects neuroblastoma cells against Abeta peptide-induced toxicity. The newly developed ThT fluorescence protocol was used to quantify Abeta fibril content after treatment with CLN. We also demonstrate that CLN, can solubilize Abeta fibrils in a dose and time-dependent fashion.
To examine the effect of experience on the developmental plasticity of functional maps in the visual cortex, we need to establish a method for a stable visual experience manipulation under the freely moving condition. For this purpose, we fabricated goggles that are chronically mounted stably on the animal's head, but easy to replace according to the animal's growth. Here we report the design of the goggles and the method of mounting them on the head of animals. By this method, combined with the intrinsic signal optical imaging technique, we were able to observe a rapid and robust reorganization of orientation maps.
The limited potency of nitrous oxide mandates the use of a hyperbaric chamber to produce anesthesia. Use of a hyperbaric chamber complicates anesthetic delivery, ventilation, and electrophysiological recording. We constructed a hyperbaric acrylic-aluminum chamber allowing recording of single unit activity in spinal cord of rats anesthetized only with N(2)O. Large aluminum plates secured to each other by rods that span the length of the chamber close each end of the chamber. The 122 cm long, 33 cm wide chamber housed ventilator, intravenous infusion pumps, recording headstage, including hydraulic microdrive and stepper motors (controlled by external computers). Electrical pass-throughs in the plates permitted electrical current or signals to enter or leave the chamber. In rats anesthetized only with N(2)O we recorded extracellular action potentials with a high signal-to-noise ratio. We also recorded electroencephalographic activity. This technique is well-suited to study actions of weak anesthetics such as N(2)O and Xe at working pressures of 4-5 atm or greater. The safety of such pressures depends on the wall thickness and chamber diameter.

This review describes the rationale, early stage development, and initial human application of neural interface systems (NISs) for humans with paralysis. NISs are emerging medical devices designed to allow persons with paralysis to operate assistive technologies or to reanimate muscles based upon a command signal that is obtained directly from the brain. Such systems require the development of sensors to detect brain signals, decoders to transform neural activity signals into a useful command, and an interface for the user. We review initial pilot trial results of an NIS that is based on an intracortical microelectrode sensor that derives control signals from the motor cortex. We review recent findings showing, first, that neurons engaged by movement intentions persist in motor cortex years after injury or disease to the motor system, and second, that signals derived from motor cortex can be used by persons with paralysis to operate a range of devices. We suggest that, with further development, this form of NIS holds promise as a useful new neurotechnology for those with limited motor function or communication. We also discuss the additional potential for neural sensors to be used in the diagnosis and management of various neurological conditions and as a new way to learn about human brain function.

The descending control of respiratory-related motoneurones in the thoracic spinal cord remains the subject of some debate. In this study, direct connections from expiratory bulbospinal neurones to identified motoneurones were investigated using spike-triggered averaging and the strengths of connection revealed were related to the presence and size of central respiratory drive potentials in the same motoneurones. Intracellular recordings were made from motoneurones in segments T5-T9 of the spinal cord of anaesthetized cats. Spike-triggered averaging from expiratory bulbospinal neurones in the caudal medulla revealed monosynaptic EPSPs in all groups of motoneurones, with the strongest connections to expiratory motoneurones with axons in the internal intercostal nerve. In the latter, connection strength was similar irrespective of the target muscle (e.g. external abdominal oblique or internal intercostal) and the EPSP amplitude was positively correlated with the amplitude of the central respiratory drive potential of the motoneurone. For this group, EPSPs were found in 45/83 bulbospinal neurone/motoneurone pairs, with a mean amplitude of 40.5 microV. The overall strength of the connection supports previous measurements made by cross-correlation, but is about 10 times stronger than that reported in the only previous similar survey to use spike-triggered averaging. Calculations are presented to suggest that this input alone is sufficient to account for all the expiratory depolarization seen in the recorded motoneurones. However, extra sources of input, or amplification of this one, are likely to be necessary to produce a useful motoneurone output.
An adequate supply of taurine during fetal life is important for normal beta-cell development and insulin action. An altered availability of taurine may programme glucose metabolism in utero and result in type 2 diabetes in adult age. We examined whether maternal taurine supplementation in late pregnant rats affects postnatal growth, adult body composition, insulin sensitivity and endogenous insulin secretion in intrauterine growth restricted (IUGR) and normal offspring. Uterine artery ligation or sham operations were performed on gestational day (GD) 19. Taurine supplementation was given to half of the dams from GD 18 until term, resulting in four groups of offspring: sham (n = 22), sham/taurine (n = 22), IUGR (n = 22) and IUGR/taurine (n = 24). The offspring were studied at 12 weeks of age. In offspring with normal birth weight, fetal taurine supplementation markedly stimulated postnatal growth. In sham/taurine females, fat depots, plasma free fatty acid and leptin concentrations were increased, and insulin sensitivity was reduced. Insulin sensitivity was unaltered in IUGR and IUGR/taurine offspring. However, whereas IUGR offspring showed little catch-up growth, 50% of IUGR/taurine animals displayed complete catch-up at 12 weeks of age, and these animals had increased fat depots and reduced insulin sensitivity. In conclusion, taurine supplementation in late gestation resulted in accelerated postnatal growth, which was associated with adult obesity and insulin resistance in both IUGR and normal offspring. This effect was particularly evident in females. These data suggest that fetal taurine availability is an important determinant for postnatal growth, insulin sensitivity and fat accumulation.
Autosomal-recessive early-onset Parkinsonism (AREP) due to PINK1 mutations is characterized by an early-onset, slowly progressive disease, with a good response to levodopa. Psychiatric and cognitive disturbances associated with AREP have rarely been reported in the literature. We describe 2 brothers from a Jewish-Iraqi consanguineous family with a homozygous PINK1 nonsense mutation. Both patients presented with anxiety and dysphoria accompanied by a gait disturbance that developed subsequently into a clinical depression. During the course of the disease, both developed drug-induced behavioral disturbances of the hedonistic homeostatic dysregulation type and 1 had drug-induced psychosis. The first patient had been diagnosed with mild mental retardation and during the 22 years of disease had further deteriorated; the second developed frontal-type dementia at an early age, 20 years after onset. Their father had a psychiatric disorder but no Parkinsonism. This report expands the phenotypic profile of PINK1-related disease, presenting unique psychiatric and cognitive features as part of the clinical picture.
Genetic variability in ELAVL4 located in the PARK10 locus was recently associated with age-at-onset (AAO) in a series of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients originating from the United States. We examined five markers spanning ELAVL4 in Norwegian, United States, and Irish PD case-control samples. No association was found between the examined markers and AAO or PD in Norwegian or US samples. However, ELAVL4 markers (rs967582 and rs3902720) were significantly associated with susceptibility to PD in our Irish series. Our data suggest that the association between ELAVL4 and PD previously observed might be explained by a Celtic-founder effect.

Object category learning is a fundamental ability, requiring the combination of &quot;bottom-up&quot; stimulus-driven with &quot;top-down&quot; task-specific information. It therefore may be a fruitful domain for study of the general neural mechanisms underlying cortical plasticity. A simple model predicts that category learning involves the formation of a task-independent shape-selective representation that provides input to circuits learning the categorization task, with the computationally appealing prediction of facilitated learning of additional, novel tasks over the same stimuli. Using fMRI rapid-adaptation techniques, we find that categorization training (on morphed &quot;cars&quot;) induced a significant release from adaptation for small shape changes in lateral occipital cortex irrespective of category membership, compatible with the sharpening of a representation coding for physical appearance. In contrast, an area in lateral prefrontal cortex, selectively activated during categorization, showed sensitivity posttraining to explicit changes in category membership. Further supporting the model, categorization training also improved discrimination performance on the trained stimuli.
L-glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the human brain, activates a family of ligand-gated ion channels, the major subtypes of which are named AMPA, kainate, and NMDA receptors. In common with many signal transduction proteins, glutamate receptors are modulated by ions and small molecules, including Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Zn(2+), protons, polyamines, and steroids. Strikingly, the activation of kainate receptors by glutamate requires the presence of both Na(+) and Cl(-) in the extracellular solution, and in the absence of these ions, receptor activity is abolished. Here, we identify the site and mechanism of action of anions. Surprisingly, we find that Cl(-) ions are essential structural components of kainate receptors. Cl(-) ions bind in a cavity formed at the interface between subunits in a dimer pair. In the absence of Cl(-), dimer stability is reduced, the rate of desensitization increases, and the fraction of receptors competent for activation by glutamate drops precipitously.
During the past 25 years, radiosurgery has evolved as a primary treatment modality for certain meningiomas when resection would be associated with high patient morbidity. In addition, radiosurgery is now routinely used as an adjunctive therapy for residual or recurrent meningiomas after surgical removal. In this review the authors summarize the vascular complications that occur after radiosurgery for meningiomas as well as experimental study data that give insight into the pathogenesis of this complication. These data may be useful when discussing with patients the risk/benefit ratio of choosing among conservative management, radiosurgery, and surgery.

Sea anemones produce a myriad of toxic peptides and proteins of which a large group acts on voltage-gated Na+ channels. However, in comparison to other organisms, their venoms and toxins are poorly studied. Most of the known voltage-gated Na+ channel toxins isolated from sea anemone venoms act on neurotoxin receptor site 3 and inhibit the inactivation of these channels. Furthermore, it seems that most of these toxins have a distinct preference for crustaceans. Given the close evolutionary relationship between crustaceans and insects, it is not surprising that sea anemone toxins also profoundly affect insect voltage-gated Na+ channels, which constitutes the scope of this review. For this reason, these peptides can be considered as insecticidal lead compounds in the development of insecticides.
Excitotoxic cell death is one of the precipitating events in the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. Of particular prominence is the loss of GABAergic hilar neurons. Although the molecular mechanisms responsible for the selective vulnerability of these cells are not well understood, activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK) pathway has been implicated in neuroprotective responses to excitotoxicity in other neuronal populations. Here, we report that high levels of the striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP), a key regulator of ERK/MAPK signaling, are found in vulnerable somatostatin-immunoreactive hilar interneurons. Under both control conditions and after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), ERK/MAPK activation was repressed in STEP-immunoreactive hilar neurons. This contrasts with robust SE-induced ERK/MAPK activation in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, a cell region that does not express STEP. During pilocarpine-induced SE, in vivo disruption of STEP activity allowed activation of the MAPK pathway, leading to immediate-early gene expression and significant rescue from cell death. Thus, STEP increases the sensitivity of neurons to SE-induced excitotoxicity by specifically blocking a latent neuroprotective response initiated by the MAPK pathway. These findings identify a key set of signaling events that render somatostatinergic hilar interneurons vulnerable to SE-induced cell death.
Glutamate transporters have a homotrimeric subunit structure with a large central water-filled cavity that extends partially into the plane of the lipid bilayer (Yernool et al., 2004). In addition to uptake of glutamate, the transporters also mediate a chloride conductance that is increased in the presence of substrate. Whether the chloride channel is located in the central pore of the trimer or within the individual subunits has been controversial. We find that coexpression of wild-type neuronal glutamate transporter EAAT3 subunits with subunits mutated at R447, a residue governing substrate selectivity (Bendahan et al., 2000), results in transport activity consistent with two distinct noninteracting populations of transporters, in agreement with previous work suggesting that each subunit operates independently to transport substrate (Awes et al., 2004; Grewer et al., 2005; Koch and Larsson, 2005). In wild-type homotrimeric transporters, the glutamate concentration dependence of the anion conductance and the kinetics of glutamate flux were isolated and measured, and the anion channel activation was fitted to analytical expressions corresponding to (1) a central pore gated by binding to one or more subunits and (2) a channel pore in each subunit. The data indicate that glutamate-binding sites, transport pathways, and chloride channels reside in individual subunits in a trimer and function independently.
The role of hypocretin (orexin; hcrt/orx) neurons in regulation of arousal is well established. Recently, hcrt/orx has been implicated in food reward and drug-seeking behavior. We report here that in male rats, Fos immunoreactivity (ir) in hcrt/orx neurons increases markedly during copulation, whereas castration produces decreases in hcrt/orx neuron cell counts and protein levels in a time course consistent with postcastration impairments in copulatory behavior. This effect was reversed by estradiol replacement. Immunolabeling for androgen (AR) and estrogen (ER alpha) receptors revealed no colocalization of hcrt/orx with AR and few hcrt/orx neurons expressing ER alpha, suggesting that hormonal regulation of hcrt/orx expression is via afferents from neurons containing those receptors. We also demonstrate that systemic administration of the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB 334867 [N-(2-methyl-6-benzoxazolyl)-N''-1,5-naphthyridin-4-yl urea] impairs copulatory behavior. One locus for the prosexual effects of hcrt/orx may be the ventral tegmental area (VTA). We show here that hcrt-1/orx-A produces dose-dependent increases in firing rate and population activity of VTA dopamine (DA) neurons in vivo. Activation of hcrt/orx during copulation, and in turn, excitation of VTA DA neurons by hcrt/orx, may contribute to the robust increases in nucleus accumbens DA previously observed during male sexual behavior. Subsequent triple immunolabeling in anterior VTA showed that Fos-ir in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons apposed to hcrt/orx fibers increases during copulation. Together, these data support the view that hcrt/orx peptides may act in a steroid-sensitive manner to facilitate the energized pursuit of natural rewards like sex via activation of the mesolimbic DA system.
Although the selectivity for complex stimuli exhibited by neurons in inferior temporal cortex is often taken as evidence of their role in visual perception, few studies have directly tested this hypothesis. Here, we sought to create a relatively natural task with few behavioral constraints to test whether activity in inferior temporal cortex neurons predicts whether or not a monkey will recognize and respond to a complex visual object. Monkeys were trained to freely view an array of images and report the presence of one of many possible target images previously associated with a hand response. On certain trials, the identity of the target was swapped during the monkeys' targeting saccade. Furthermore, the response association of the preswap target and the postswap target differed (e.g., right-to-left target swap). Neural activity in cells selective for the preswap target was significantly higher when the monkeys' response matched the hand association of the preswap target. Furthermore, the monkeys' response time was predicted by the magnitude of the presaccadic firing rate on nonswap trials. Our results provide additional support for the role of inferior temporal cortex in object recognition during natural behavior.
Factors modulating neurogenesis may contribute to the pathophysiology of affective disorders such as major depression. Environmental stressors in animal models have been proposed to alter neurogenesis, suggesting a mechanism for this contribution. The effect of an acute psychosocial stressor on either proliferation or survival (immediate, short term, and long term) was examined along with subsequent neuronal differentiation in the hippocampus of adult male Sprague Dawley rats. Subjects were exposed to a widely used social dominance paradigm that elicits behavioral and physiological responses to an acute psychosocial stressor. This social dominance paradigm may mimic human relational stress more realistically than laboratory stressors and provides a socially relevant model. We found that exposure to an acute psychosocial stressor at the time of cell generation resulted in a decreased number of newly generated cells in the hippocampus. By using sequential thymidine analog administration to provide temporal discrimination of DNA replication, we showed that short-term survival but not initial proliferation or immediate survival was altered in response to stress. Furthermore, we determined that stress experienced subsequent to proliferation also diminished long-term survival of cells. Thus, an acute episode of a social stress produces long-lasting effects on the incorporation of new hippocampal neurons by reducing their survival.
Although it is commonly accepted that dyslexic children have auditory phonological deficits, the precise nature of these deficits remains unclear. This study examines potential pitch processing deficit in dyslexic children, and recovery after specific training, by measuring event-related brain potentials (ERPs) and behavioural responses to pitch manipulations within natural speech. In two experimental sessions, separated by 6 weeks of training, 10 dyslexic children, aged 9-12, were compared to reading age-matched controls, using sentences from children's books. The pitch of the sentence's final words was parametrically manipulated (either congruous, weakly or strongly incongruous). While dyslexics followed a training focused on phonological awareness and grapheme-to-phoneme conversion, controls followed a non-auditory training. Before training, controls outperformed dyslexic children in the detection of the strong pitch incongruity. Moreover, while strong pitch incongruities were associated with increased late positivity (P300 component) in controls, no such pattern was found in dyslexics. Most importantly, pitch discrimination performance was significantly improved, and the amplitude of the late positivity to the strong pitch incongruity enhanced, for dyslexics after a relatively brief period of training, so that their pattern of response more closely resemble those of controls.
The appearance of the first intentionally modified stone tools over 2.5 million years ago marked a watershed in human evolutionary history, expanding the human adaptive niche and initiating a trend of technological elaboration that continues to the present day. However, the cognitive foundations of this behavioral revolution remain controversial, as do its implications for the nature and evolution of modern human technological abilities. Here we shed new light on the neural and evolutionary foundations of human tool making skill by presenting functional brain imaging data from six inexperienced subjects learning to make stone tools of the kind found in the earliest archaeological record. Functional imaging of this complex, naturalistic task was accomplished through positron emission tomography with the slowly decaying radiological tracer (18)flouro-2-deoxyglucose. Results show that simple stone tool making is supported by a mosaic of primitive and derived parietofrontal perceptual-motor systems, including recently identified human specializations for representation of the central visual field and perception of three-dimensional form from motion. In the nave tool makers reported here, no activation was observed in prefrontal executive cortices associated with strategic action planning or in inferior parietal cortex thought to play a role in the representation of everyday tool use skills. We conclude that uniquely human capacities for sensorimotor adaptation and affordance perception, rather than abstract conceptualization and planning, were central factors in the initial stages of human technological evolution.
According to the sensory/functional theory of semantic memory, Living items rely more on Sensory knowledge than Non-living ones. The sensory/functional explanation of category-specificity assumes that semantic features are organised on the basis of their content. We report here a study on DAT patients with impaired performance on Living items and tests of Sensory knowledge, and show that this impairment not only disappears after parcelling out semantic relevance, but is also reversed if this parameter is appropriately manipulated. Although semantic relevance model predicts these results [Sartori, G., &amp; Lombardi, L. (2004). Semantic relevance and semantic disorders. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 16, 439-452], they run counter to both the sensory/functional theory and the domain-specific theory of category-specific impairment.
In this study the neural substrates of semantic and phonological task priming and task performance were investigated using single word task-primes. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) data were analysed using Synthetic Aperture Magnetometry (SAM) to determine the spatiotemporal and spectral characteristics of cortical responses. Comparisons were made between the task-prime conditions for evidence of differential effects as a function of the nature of the task being primed, and between the task-prime and the task performance responses for evidence of parallels in activation associated with preparation for and completion of a specific task. Differential priming effects were found. Left middle temporal and inferior frontal voxels showed a statistically significant power decrease associated with the semantic task-prime, and a power increase associated with the phonological task-prime, within beta and gamma frequency bands respectively. Similarities between the task-related differential effects associated with task-prime presentation and those associated with target stimulus presentation were also found. For example, within the semantic task condition, left superior frontal and middle temporal regions showed a significant power decrease within both task-prime and target epochs; within the phonological task condition there were significant parietal and cerebellar power decreases within both types of epoch. In addition there was evidence within the priming epochs of dissociable patterns of activity which could be interpreted as indices of de-activation of task-irrelevant networks. Following a phonological task-prime, significant power increases were observed in those inferior frontal and middle temporal regions in which significant power decreases were associated with semantic task priming and performance.
Perceptual biases for various visual features, such as size, luminance and numerosity, have been implicated with a right-hemisphere dominance in spatial and attentional functions and/or an asymmetrical competition between the two hemispheres. However, the mechanisms underlying these biases are poorly understood. For example, it has been largely ignored that processing of those features is closely interconnected with spatial frequency filters. To probe the influence of spatial frequencies on perceptual biases, here we used a new gratingscales task in neurologically healthy participants. We found that perceptual bias was strongly influenced within a bandwidth of spatial frequencies and that this bias correlated with a bias for luminance depending on presentation time. Furthermore, our participants, divided into two subgroups of perceptually &quot;sensitive&quot; and &quot;insensitive&quot; performers, showed considerably different, presentation time-dependent patterns of perceptual bias. While both groups were biased to the left, insensitive performers more than sensitive performers, these biases varied in a mirror-symmetric manner such that one group showed peaks of bias at times when the other group showed minima and vice versa. Our data suggest that perceptual bias results from an interhemispheric competition within a right-dominant system responsive to spatial frequencies, luminance and perhaps other magnitudes including abstract ones.
Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS) is a rare genetic condition characterized by several physical and mental traits, such as a poor visuo-spatial processing and a relative strength in language. In this study we investigated how WBS subjects search and scan their visual environment. We presented 10 search displays on a computer screen to WBS subjects as well as control subjects, with the instruction to find a target out of several stimulus elements. We analyzed the eye movement patterns for fixation characteristics and systematicy of search. Fixations generally lasted longer in WBS subjects than in control subjects. WBS subjects made more fixations at a stimulus element they had already looked at and more fixations that were not aimed at a stimulus element at all, decreasing the efficiency of search. These outcomes lead to the conclusion that visual search of individuals with Williams-Beuren syndrome is less effective than in control subjects. This finding may be related to their motor deficits, an impaired processing of global visual information and/or deficits in working memory and could reflect impairments within the dorsal stream.
To predict the potential severity of outbreaks of infectious diseases such as SARS, HIV, TB and smallpox, a summary parameter, the basic reproduction number R(0), is generally calculated from a population-level model. R(0) specifies the average number of secondary infections caused by one infected individual during his/her entire infectious period at the start of an outbreak. R(0) is used to assess the severity of the outbreak, as well as the strength of the medical and/or behavioral interventions necessary for control. Conventionally, it is assumed that if R(0)&gt;1 the outbreak generates an epidemic, and if R(0)&lt;1 the outbreak becomes extinct. Here, we use computational and analytical methods to calculate the average number of secondary infections and to show that it does not necessarily represent an epidemic threshold parameter (as it has been generally assumed). Previously we have constructed a new type of individual-level model (ILM) and linked it with a population-level model. Our ILM generates the same temporal incidence and prevalence patterns as the population-level model; we use our ILM to directly calculate the average number of secondary infections (i.e., R(0)). Surprisingly, we find that this value of R(0) calculated from the ILM is very different from the epidemic threshold calculated from the population-level model. This occurs because many different individual-level processes can generate the same incidence and prevalence patterns. We show that obtaining R(0) from empirical contact tracing data collected by epidemiologists and using this R(0) as a threshold parameter for a population-level model could produce extremely misleading estimates of the infectiousness of the pathogen, the severity of an outbreak, and the strength of the medical and/or behavioral interventions necessary for control.
In the flash-lag illusion, a moving object aligned with a flash is perceived to be offset in the direction of motion following the flash. In the &quot;flash-drag&quot; illusion, a flash is mislocalized in the direction of nearby motion. In the &quot;flash-jump&quot; illusion, a transient change in the appearance of a moving object (e.g., color) is mislocalized in the direction of subsequent motion. Finally, in the Frohlich illusion, the starting position of a suddenly appearing moving object is mislocalized in the direction of the subsequent motion. We demonstrate, in a series of experiments, a unified explanation for all these illusions: Perceptual localization is influenced by motion signals collected over approximately 80 ms after a query is triggered. These demonstrations rule out &quot;latency difference&quot; and asynchronous feature binding models, in which objects appear in their real positions but misaligned in time. Instead, the illusions explored here are best understood as biases in localization caused by motion signals. We suggest that motion biasing exists because it allows the visual system to account for neural processing delays by retrospectively &quot;pushing&quot; an object closer to its true physical location, and we propose directions for exploring the neural mechanisms underlying the dynamic updating of location by the activity of motion-sensitive neurons.
Oxidative damage accumulates in the DNA of the human brain over time, and is supposed to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested that the brain in AD might be subjected to the double insult of increased oxidative stress, as well as deficiencies in repair mechanisms responsible for the removal of oxidized bases. The type of damage that is most likely to occur in neuronal cells is oxidative DNA damage which is primarily removed by the base excision repair (BER) pathway, and a decrease in BER activity was observed in post-mortem brain regions of AD individuals, especially in the activity of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase. There is evidence that the Ser326Cys polymorphism of the human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1) gene is associated with a reduced DNA repair activity. However, although a deficient BER was proposed in the etiology of AD by several authors, polymorphisms of BER genes have not been studied in AD yet. We performed a case-control study including 178 patients with sporadic AD (sAD) and 146 matched controls to evaluate the role of the Ser326Cys polymorphism as a risk factor for sAD. In the present study we failed to find any association between allele (chi2=0.03, p=0.86) or genotype (chi2=0.25, p=0.882) frequencies of hOGG1 Ser326Cys and the risk of sAD. Present results suggest that the Ser326Cys polymorphism of the hOGG1 gene is not an independent risk factor for sAD.
Lipid peroxidation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Isoprostanes, isomers of prostaglandins, are produced by free radical-mediated peroxidation of fatty acids in vivo and can be quantified in biological fluids. This study examines the levels of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) F2-isoprostanes (F2-iPs) in MS patients (n=46), their healthy siblings (n=46) and unrelated controls (n=50). The median CSF F2-iP concentration (range) was significantly higher in siblings of MS patients, as compared to healthy controls (40.0 [7.1-68.7] and 29.1 [6.4-60.3] pg/mL, respectively, p=0.031). MS patients demonstrated F2-iP levels intermediate between siblings and controls. F2-iP levels in MS patients and siblings correlated significantly (R=0.360, p=0.012). These results suggest that siblings of MS patients have an increased oxidative stress response to environmental and/or genetic factors that may be involved in MS pathogenesis.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a persistent increase in the strength of synaptic transmission triggered by neuronal activity. Here, we submitted hippocampal slices to a perfusion of forskolin and IBMX, which induces a long-lasting LTP (&gt;4 h) (L-LTP). We separated the proteins of the CA1 region by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). We then immunoblotted them using an anti-p-Tyr antibody. We found a protein whose tyrosine phosphorylation was unchanged 10 min after LTP induction but was dramatically increased after 1h, dropping back to its baseline after 4 h. This protein was identified as rabphilin using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionisation-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). We also demonstrated that genistein, an inhibitor of tyrosine phosphorylation, prevented the development of the late phase of electrically-induced L-LTP. Our results suggest that rabphilin, a protein present in presynaptic terminals, could play a role in the late phase of L-LTP.
A key feature of memory processes is to link different input signals by association and to preserve this coupling at the level of synaptic connections. Late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP), a form of synaptic plasticity thought to encode long-term memory, requires gene transcription and protein synthesis. In this study, we report that a recently cloned coactivator of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB), called transducer of regulated CREB activity 1 (TORC1), contributes to this process by sensing the coincidence of calcium and cAMP signals in neurons and by converting it into a transcriptional response that leads to the synthesis of factors required for enhanced synaptic transmission. We provide evidence that TORC1 is involved in L-LTP maintenance at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in the hippocampus.
Although numerous stress-related molecules have been implicated in vulnerability to psychiatric illness, especially major depression and anxiety disorders, the role of the brain mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) in stress, depression, and affective function is not well defined. MR is a steroid hormone receptor that detects circulating glucocorticoids with high affinity and has been primarily implicated in controlling their basal level and circadian rhythm. To specifically address the role of MR in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity and anxiety-related behaviors, we generated transgenic mice with increased levels of MR in the forebrain (MRov mice) by using the forebrain-specific calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha promoter to direct expression of MR cDNA. A mild but chronic elevation in forebrain MR results in decreased anxiety-like behavior in both male and female transgenic mice. Female MRov mice also exhibit a moderate suppression of the corticosterone response to restraint stress. Increased forebrain MR expression alters the expression of two genes associated with stress and anxiety, leading to a decrease in the hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and an increase in serotonin receptor 5HT-1a, consistent with the decreased anxiety phenotype. These data suggest that the functions of forebrain MR may overlap with GR in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation, but they dissociate significantly from GR in the modulation of affective responses, with GR overexpression increasing anxiety-like behavior and MR overexpression dampening it. These findings point to the importance of the MR:GR ratio in the control of emotional reactivity.
Regeneration in the peripheral nervous system is poor after chronic denervation. Denervated Schwann cells act as a &quot;transient target&quot; by secreting growth factors to promote regeneration of axons but lose this ability with chronic denervation. We discovered that the mRNA for pleiotrophin (PTN) was highly up-regulated in acutely denervated distal sciatic nerves, but high levels of PTN mRNA were not maintained in chronically denervated nerves. PTN protected spinal motor neurons against chronic excitotoxic injury and caused increased outgrowth of motor axons out of the spinal cord explants and formation of &quot;miniventral rootlets.&quot; In neonatal mice, PTN protected the facial motor neurons against cell death induced by deprivation from target-derived growth factors. Similarly, PTN significantly enhanced regeneration of myelinated axons across a graft in the transected sciatic nerve of adult rats. Our findings suggest a neurotrophic role for PTN that may lead to previously unrecognized treatment options for motor neuron disease and motor axonal regeneration.
Habituation is a universal form of nonassociative learning that results in the devaluation of sensory inputs that have little information content. Although habituation is found throughout nature and has been studied in many organisms, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. We performed a forward genetic screen in Drosophila to search for mutations that modified habituation of an olfactory-mediated locomotor startle response, and we isolated a mutation in the glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) homolog Shaggy. Decreases in Shaggy levels blunted habituation, whereas increases promoted habituation. Additionally, habituation acutely regulated Shaggy by an inhibitory phosphorylation mechanism, suggesting that a signal transduction pathway that regulates Shaggy is engaged during habituation. Although shaggy mutations also affected circadian rhythm period, this requirement was genetically separable from its role in habituation. Thus, shaggy functions in different neuronal circuits to regulate behavioral plasticity to an olfactory startle and circadian rhythmicity.
Ethological assessment of murine models of Huntington's disease (HD), an inherited neurodegenerative disorder, enables correlation between phenotype and pathophysiology. Currently, the most characterized model is the R6/2 line that develops a progressive behavioral and neurological phenotype by 6 weeks of age. A recently developed knock-in model with 140 CAG repeats (KI) exhibits a subtle phenotype with a longer progressive course, more typical of adult-onset HD in humans. We evaluated rotarod performance, open-field behavior, and motor activity across the diurnal cycle in KI mice during early to mid-adulthood. Although we did not observe any effects of age, relative to wild-type (WT) mice, KI mice showed significant deficits in both open-field climbing behavior and home-cage running wheel activity during the light phase of the diurnal cycle. An interesting sex difference also emerged. KI females spent more time in the open-field grooming and more time running during the diurnal dark phase than KI males and WT mice of both sexes. In striatum, the primary site of HD pathology, we measured behavior-related changes in extracellular ascorbate (AA), which is abnormally low in the R6/2 line, consistent with a loss of antioxidant protection in HD. KI males exhibited a 20-40% decrease in striatal AA from anesthesia baseline to behavioral activation that was not observed in other groups. Collectively, our results indicate behavioral deficits in KI mice that may be specific to the diurnal cycle. Furthermore, sex differences observed in behavior and striatal AA release suggest sex-dependent variation in the phenotype and neuropathology of HD.
The syndrome of hemispatial neglect is defined as an inability to report, respond or orient to stimuli contralateral to a cerebral lesion despite intact elementary sensory or motor function. This syndrome is typically observed after lesions of the right cerebral cortex, and has been associated with impairment of attention. We studied whether visual attention performance is impaired after right-hemisphere infarction in rats. Using a behavioural paradigm measuring spatial visual attention, we tested the effects of photothrombotic infarction to either the frontal cortex or the parietal cortex on attention performance. Since the cholinergic system is known to modulate attention performance, we additionally evaluated the role of cholinergic receptor blockade with scopolamine in our task paradigm. Our results show a transient response bias immediately after cortical infarction, with a decrease in contralesional responses and an increase in contralesional omissions after frontal infarction. Parietal infarction and systemic administration of scopolamine also resulted in a decrease in correct responses and an increase in omissions, but without a difference in side responding. In conclusion, right frontal infarction induces a transient impairment in contralesional spatial visual attention that we explain as left-sided neglect. Right parietal infarction and cholinergic blockade shows non-lateralized deficits in spatial visual attention, suggestive of global attentional impairment. We postulate that both effects of cortical infarction on attention performance may be related to cholinergic dysfunction. Our study confirms the role of frontal and parietal cortices in attention performance in rats, and corroborates the theory that attention performance is impaired in hemispatial neglect in human stroke patients.
We initially identified a nuclear protein, prothymosin-alpha1 (ProTalpha), as a key protein inhibiting necrosis by subjecting conditioned media from serum-free cultures of cortical neurons to a few chromatography steps. ProTalpha inhibited necrosis of cultured neurons by preventing rapid loss of cellular adenosine triphosphate levels by reversing the decreased membrane localization of glucose transporters but caused apoptosis through up-regulation of proapoptotic Bcl(2)-family proteins. The apoptosis caused by ProTalpha was further inhibited by growth factors, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor. The ProTalpha-induced cell death mode switch from necrosis to apoptosis was also reproduced in experimental ischemia-reperfusion culture experiments, although the apoptosis level was markedly reduced, possibly because of the presence of growth factors in the reperfused serum. Knock down of PKCbeta(II) expression prevented this cell death mode switch. Collectively, these results suggest that ProTalpha is an extracellular signal protein that acts as a cell death mode switch and could be a promising candidate for preventing brain strokes with the help of known apoptosis inhibitors.
The mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) plays a significant role in the control of locomotion in all vertebrate species investigated. Forebrain neurons are likely to modulate MLR activity, but little is known about their inputs. Descending GABAergic projections to the MLR were identified by double-labeling neurons using Neurobiotin injected into the MLR combined with immunofluorescence against GABA. Several GABAergic projections to the MLR were identified in the telencephalon and diencephalon. The most abundant GABAergic projection to the MLR came from the caudal portion of the medial pallium, a region that may have similarities with the amygdala of higher vertebrates. A small population of GABAergic cells projecting to the MLR was found in the striatum and the ventral portion of the lateral pallium, which could respectively correspond to the input and output components of the basal ganglia thought to be involved in the selection of motor programs. Other GABAergic projections were found to come from the thalamus and the hypothalamus, which could take part in the motivational aspect of motor behavior in lampreys. Electrophysiological experiments were also carried out to examine the effects of GABA agonists and antagonists injected into the MLR in a semi-intact lamprey preparation. The GABA agonist inhibited locomotion, whereas the GABA antagonist initiated it. These results suggest that the GABAergic projections to the MLR modulate the activity of MLR neurons, which would be inhibited by GABA at rest.
ALS2, the causative gene product for a number of recessive motor neuron diseases, is a guanine-nucleotide exchange factor for Rab5, and acts as a modulator for endosome dynamics. Recently, we have identified a novel ALS2 homolog, ALS2CL, which is highly homologous to the C-terminal half of ALS2. In this study, we investigate the molecular features of ALS2CL and its functional relationship with ALS2. A majority of ALS2CL is present as a homo-dimeric form, which can interact with the ALS2-oligomer, resulting in the formation of the large ALS2/ALS2CL heteromeric complex. In cultured cells, overexpressed ALS2CL is colocalized with ALS2 onto membranous compartments. Further, ALS2CL dominantly suppresses the endosome enlargement induced by a constitutively active form of ALS2, and results in an extensive perinuclear tubulo-membranous phenotype, which are dependent upon the ALS2CL-ALS2 interaction. Collectively, ALS2CL is a novel ALS2-interacting protein and is implicated in ALS2-mediated endosome dynamics.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a commonly utilized non-pharmacological, non-invasive treatment for pain. GABA is a neurotransmitter in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord that mediates analgesia locally, and also through activation of supraspinal sites. TENS reduces hyperalgesia through activation of receptor-mediated pathways at the level of the spinal cord, and supraspinally. The current study tested the hypothesis that either high or low frequency TENS applied to the inflamed knee joint increases GABA in the spinal cord dorsal horn and activates GABA receptors spinally. We utilized microdialysis to sample the extracellular fluid before, during and after TENS and analyzed GABA in dialysates with high performance liquid chromatography. We analyzed the extracellular GABA concentrations in animals with and without knee joint inflammation induced by intra-articular injection of kaolin and carrageenan. We further tested if spinal blockade of GABA receptors prevents the antihyperalgesia produced by TENS in rats with joint inflammation. We show that high frequency TENS increases extracellular GABA concentrations in the spinal cord in animals with and without joint inflammation. The increases in GABA do not occur in response to low frequency TENS, and there are no increases in glycine in response to low or high frequency TENS. However, the reduction in primary hyperalgesia by both high and low frequency TENS is prevented by spinal blockade of GABA(A) receptors with bicuculline. Thus, high frequency TENS increases release of GABA in the deep dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and both high and low frequency TENS reduce primary hyperalgesia by activation of GABA(A) receptors spinally.
Previous studies demonstrated that drug cues could elicit drug-like or withdrawal-like effect, both subjectively and physiologically. However, few studies have compared the central activities induced by a drug-related environment and the drug itself. The aim of this study was to observe and compare electroencephalographic (EEG) changes induced by acute morphine administration and by the morphine-related environment. EEG activities were recorded via twelve skull electrodes scattered on the left and right cortex in conscious, freely moving rats, either after acute morphine administration or after successful training of conditioned place preference. Acute administration of morphine (0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg, i.p.) produced an increase in absolute EEG power in the delta, theta, alpha1, alpha2, beta1, and beta2 bands, as well as a decrease in the gamma band. Topographic mapping revealed a maximal increase in the lateral leads in the theta band and a maximal change in the centro-frontal region in the remaining bands. After place conditioning training, the morphine-related environment induced a diffuse decrease in absolute power in the delta, theta, alpha1, alpha2, beta1, and beta2 bands, which was opposite to the changes induced by acute morphine administration. In addition, the changes in relative power induced by the two situations also diverged. These results indicate that the central mechanisms underlying the motivation of morphine-induced place preference may be somehow different from those underlying the reward effects produced by acute morphine administration.
To analyze the characteristics of the event-related desynchronization (ERD) and synchronization (ERS) of cortical rhythms during the preparation and execution of a lateralized eye movement, EEG was recorded in normal subjects during a visually guided task. Alpha and beta bands were investigated in three temporal intervals: a sensory period, a delay period and a saccade preparation period time locked with saccade onset. Modulations of ERD/ERS power, coupled with the task, reached the largest amplitudes over the frontal and parieto-occipital regions. Differences of oscillatory activity in the alpha bands revealed an intriguing pattern of asymmetry in parieto-occipital areas. Rightward saccades induced a larger desynchronization with respect to the leftward saccades in the left hemisphere, but not in the right. If representative, these findings are congruent to the established right-hemisphere dominance of the brain areas that direct attention. Moreover differences between the two alpha types emerged in the frontal areas before and during the saccade preparation periods, indicative of differential engagement of these areas depending on the task demands. In conclusion, the present approach shows that planning eye movements is linked with covert orienting of spatial attention and may supply a useful method for studying eye movements and selective attention-related processes.
Mature striatal medium size spiny neurons express the dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa (DARPP-32), but little is known about the mechanisms regulating its levels or the specification of fully differentiated neuronal subtypes. Cell extrinsic molecules that increase DARPP-32 mRNA and/or protein levels include brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), retinoic acid, and estrogen. DARPP-32 induction by BDNF in vitro requires phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), but inhibition of phosphorylation of protein kinase B/Akt does not entirely abolish expression of DARPP-32. Moreover, the requirement for Akt has not been established. Using pharmacologic inhibitors of PI3K, Akt, and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) and constitutively active and dominant negative PI3K, Akt, cdk5, and p35 viruses in cultured striatal neurons, we measured BDNF-induced levels of DARPP-32 protein and/or mRNA. We demonstrated that both the PI3K/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin and the cdk5/p35 signal transduction pathways contribute to the induction of DARPP-32 protein levels by BDNF and that the effects are on both the transcriptional and translational levels. It also appears that PI3K is upstream of cdk5/p35, and its activation can lead to an increase in p35 protein levels. These data support the presence of multiple signal transduction pathways mediating expression of DARPP-32 in vitro, including a novel, important pathway via by which PI3K regulates the contribution of cdk5/p35.
We combined pharmacological studies and electrophysiological recordings to investigate modifications in muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (mAChR) in the rat olfactory (piriform) cortex, following odor-discrimination rule learning. Rats were trained to discriminate between positive and negative cues in pairs of odors, until they reached a phase of high capability to learn unfamiliar odors, using the same paradigm (&quot;rule learning&quot;). It has been reported that at 1-3 d after the acquisition of odor-discrimination rule learning, pyramidal neurons in the rat piriform cortex show enhanced excitability, due to a reduction in the spike-activated potassium current I(AHP), which is modulated by ACh. Further, ACh and its analog, carbachol (CCh), lost the ability to reduce the I(AHP) in neurons from trained rats. Here we show that the reduced sensitivity to CCh in the piriform cortex results from a decrease in the number of mAChRs, as well as a reduction in the affinity of the receptors to CCh. Also, it has been reported that 3-8 d after the acquisition of odor-discrimination rule learning, synaptic transmission in the piriform cortex is enhanced, and paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) in response to twin stimulations is reduced. Here, intracellular recordings from pyramidal neurons show that CCh increases PPF in the piriform cortex from odor-trained rats more than in control rats, suggesting enhanced effect of ACh in inhibiting presynaptic glutamate release after odor training.
Persistent drug seeking/taking behavior involves the consolidation of memory. With each drug use, the memory may be reactivated and reconsolidated to maintain the original memory. During reactivation, the memory may become labile and susceptible to disruption; thus, molecules involved in plasticity should influence acquisition and/or reconsolidation. Recently, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been shown to influence neuronal plasticity, presumably by their regulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules involved in synaptic reorganization during learning. We hypothesized that inhibition of MMP activity would impair the acquisition and/or reconsolidation of cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. Intracerebral ventricular (i.c.v.) microinjection of a broad spectrum MMP inhibitor, FN-439, prior to cocaine training suppressed acquisition of CPP and attenuated cocaine-primed reinstatement in extinguished animals. In a separate experiment, the cocaine memory was reactivated on two consecutive days with a cocaine priming injection. On these two days, artificial cerebral spinal fluid (aCSF) or FN-439 was administered either 30 min prior to or 1 min after cocaine-primed reinstatement sessions. Infusion of FN-439 partially impaired retrieval of the cocaine-associated context when given 30 min prior to cocaine. In both groups, however, FN-439 suppressed reinstatement compared with controls on the third consecutive test for cocaine-primed reinstatement, when no FN-439 was given. Control experiments demonstrated that two injections of FN-439 + cocaine given in the home cage, or of FN-439 + saline priming injections in the CPP chambers did not disrupt subsequent cocaine-primed reinstatement. These results show for the first time that (1) MMPs play a critical role in acquisition and reconsolidation of cocaine-induced CPP, and (2) rats demonstrate apparent disruption of reconsolidation by an MMP inhibitor after extinction and while they are under the influence of cocaine during reinstatement.

Using microdialysis in rat prefrontal cortex, we found that 1 mg/kg of the stimulant methylphenidate and the non-stimulant atomoxetine, two widely used treatments for Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), produce robust increases in the extracellular levels of histamine, which plays a key role in attention, learning and memory. While the clinical response to ADHD drugs is typically attributed to modulation of norepinephrine and dopamine, this finding suggests enhanced histamine release may contribute to their efficacy as ADHD treatments.
Contextual fear conditioning was maintained over a 15-day retention interval suggesting no forgetting of the conditioning experience. However, a more subtle generalization test revealed that, as the retention interval increased, rats showed enhanced generalized fear to an altered context. Preexposure to the training context prior to conditioning, however, prevented this enhanced generalized fear from developing. These results support the hypothesis that the memory representation of the context degrades as the memory ages and is responsible for enhanced generalization. The implications of these results for systems consolidation versus forgetting interpretations of regional changes in neural activation patterns that occur as memories age are discussed.
To obtain evidence linking long-term potentiation (LTP) and memory, we examined whether LTP induction modifies functional relationship among neurons in the rat hippocampus. In contrast to neurons in low-frequency stimulated or AP5-treated slices, LTP induction altered 'functional connectivity,' as defined by the degree of synchronous firing, among simultaneously recorded neurons in the CA3 region. Interestingly, functional connectivity changed bidirectionally so that the total sum of functional connectivity remained constant. These results demonstrate LTP-induced changes in neuronal functional connectivity and suggest the existence of a normalization mechanism for the total sum of functional connectivity.
Memory shows age-related decline. According to the current prevailing theoretical model, encoding of memories relies on modifications in the strength of the synapses connecting the different cells within a neuronal network. The selective increases in synaptic weight are thought to be biologically implemented by long-term potentiation (LTP). Here, we report that tetanic stimulation of afferent fibers in slices from 12-mo-old mice triggers an LTP not restricted to the activated synapses. This phenomenon, which can be anticipated to hinder memory encoding, is suppressed by blocking either L-type Ca(++) channels or Ca(++)-induced Ca(++) release, both well known to become disregulated with aging.
We calculated visual ability in 13 strains of mice (129SI/Sv1mJ, A/J, AKR/J, BALB/cByJ, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, CAST/EiJ, DBA/2J, FVB/NJ, MOLF/EiJ, SJL/J, SM/J, and SPRET/EiJ) on visual detection, pattern discrimination, and visual acuity and tested these and other mice of the same strains in a behavioral test battery that evaluated visuo-spatial learning and memory, conditioned odor preference, and motor learning. Strain differences in visual acuity accounted for a significant proportion of the variance between strains in measures of learning and memory in the Morris water maze. Strain differences in motor learning performance were not influenced by visual ability. Conditioned odor preference was enhanced in mice with visual defects. These results indicate that visual ability must be accounted for when testing for strain differences in learning and memory in mice because differences in performance in many tasks may be due to visual deficits rather than differences in higher order cognitive functions. These results have significant implications for the search for the neural and genetic basis of learning and memory in mice.
The behavioral and biochemical impact of active immunization against human beta-amyloid (Abeta) was assessed using male transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing a human mutant amyloid precursor protein (heterozygous PDAPP mice) and littermate controls. Administration of aggregated Abeta42 occurred at monthly intervals from 7 months (&quot;prevention&quot;) or 11 months (&quot;reversal&quot;), followed by double-blind behavioral training at 16 months on a cued task, then serial spatial learning in a water maze. Using a 2 x 2 design, with Abeta42 adjuvanted with MPL-AF (adjuvant formulation of monophosphoryl lipid A) or MPL-AF alone, PDAPP mice were impaired compared with non-Tg littermates on two separate measures of serial spatial learning. Immunization caused no overall rescue of learning but limited the accumulation of total Abeta and Abeta42 levels in cortex and hippocampus by up to 60%. In immunized PDAPP mice, significant negative correlations were observed between hippocampal and cortical Abeta levels and learning capacity, particularly in the prevention study, and correlations between learning capacity and antibody titer. Moreover, a subset of PDAPP mice with very low Abeta levels (hippocampal Abeta levels of &lt;6000 ng/g or cortical Abeta levels of &lt;1000 ng/g) was indistinguishable from non-Tg controls. Mice in the prevention study were also rescued from cognitive impairment more effectively than those in the reversal study. The combination of variability in antibody response and differential levels of Abeta accumulation across the population of immunized PDAPP mice may be responsible for success in cognitive protection with only a subset of these animals, but the similarity to the findings of certain human vaccination trials is noteworthy.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a senile dementia characterized by amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and synaptic and cell loss. The &quot;amyloid cascade&quot; hypothesis suggests that amyloid-beta (Abeta), the peptide deposited as amyloid plaques, is the primary insult in AD. However, debate continues over the mechanism of Abeta toxicity and whether fibrillar or oligomeric Abeta is the active species of the peptide that ultimately causes the synaptic loss and dementia associated with AD. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is required for survival and function of cells compromised in AD. Decreased BDNF causes defects in long-term potentiation and memory and correlates with cognitive decline. We previously demonstrated that BDNF reduction occurs early in the course of AD, suggesting that decreased BDNF may promote neuronal dysfunction in AD. We also demonstrated that three of seven human BDNF transcripts are specifically downregulated in AD. What pathological feature(s) of AD leads to the decreased BDNF is unknown. In this study, we administered both fibrillar and oligomeric conformations of Abeta(1-42) to differentiated SH-SY5Y, a human neuroblastoma cell line, and measured both phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), a regulator of BDNF transcription, and BDNF total mRNA. We found that oligomeric but not fibrillar preparations of Abeta(1-42) significantly decrease both phosphorylated CREB and total BDNF mRNA. Furthermore, oligomeric Abeta(1-42) decreases BDNF transcripts IV and V in these cells, demonstrating that Abeta(1-42) downregulates the major BDNF transcript decreased in vivo in the AD brain. Thus, oligomeric Abeta(1-42) could compromise neuronal function, causing memory loss and cognitive dysfunction by downregulation of BDNF in AD.
Neuronal activity evokes localized changes in blood flow, a response termed neurovascular coupling. One widely recognized hypothesis of neurovascular coupling holds that glial cell depolarization evoked by neuronal activity leads to the release of K+ onto blood vessels (K+ siphoning) and to vessel relaxation. We now present two direct tests of this glial cell-K+ siphoning hypothesis of neurovascular coupling. Potassium efflux was evoked from glial cells in the rat retina by applying depolarizing current pulses to individual cells. Glial depolarizations as large as 100 mV produced no change in the diameter of adjacent arterioles. We also monitored light-evoked vascular responses in Kir4.1 knock-out mice, where functional Kir K+ channels are absent from retinal glial cells. The magnitude of light-evoked vasodilations was identical in Kir4.1 knock-out and wild-type animals. Contrary to the hypothesis, the results demonstrate that glial K+ siphoning in the retina does not contribute significantly to neurovascular coupling.
The pore-forming subunit of the large-conductance Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) (Slo1) channel is encoded by one gene. However, the functional properties of Slo1 channels are diverse in part because of their numerous regulatory mechanisms including posttranslational modification and alternative splicing. In particular, multiple splice variants of the pore-forming subunit have been reported but their significance is only beginning to be elucidated. Here we examined the cell biological properties of the three common C-terminal isoforms that differ in the last 8 (Slo1_ERL and Slo1_VYR) or 61 residues (Slo1_DEC). We found that Slo1_DEC, the longest isoform, shows dramatically reduced surface expression compared to that of Slo1_ERL or Slo1_VYR. Immunocytochemistry revealed that a large fraction of Slo1_DEC remains localized in endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Using a GST fusion protein containing the Slo1_DEC-specific sequence, affinity purification was carried out to isolate interacting proteins. The identified proteins include protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A-A), actin, and tubulin. The PP2A-A interaction is specific to Slo1_DEC and causes a significant reduction of phosphorylation in Slo1_DEC but not Slo1_ERL or Slo1_VYR. The results together support the notion that Slo1_DEC nucleates isoform-specific protein complexes and possesses a cis element(s) for regulating trafficking of the Slo1 channels.

Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A), the only known protein containing the polyamine-derived amino acid hypusine, modulates protein synthesis. We show that neurotrophic and neuroprotective actions of nerve growth factor (NGF) are mediated by hypusinated eIF5A, which can account for the known roles of polyamines in cell growth and survival. NGF treatment of PC12 cells stimulates eIF5A formation. Moreover, prevention of hypusine formation by a selective inhibitor of deoxyhypusine synthase and by its depletion with RNA interference blocks the NGF-elicited augmentation of neurite outgrowth and cell survival of PC12 cells. In brain cultures, inhibition of hypusine formation also inhibits neuronal process extension.
Transient global ischemia is a neuronal insult that induces delayed, selective death of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. A mechanism underlying ischemia-induced cell death is activation of the gene silencing transcription factor REST (repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor)/NRSF (neuron-restrictive silencing factor) and REST-dependent suppression of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR2 in CA1 neurons destined to die. Here we show that REST regulates an additional gene target, OPRM1 (mu opioid receptor 1 or MOR-1). MORs are abundantly expressed by basket cells and other inhibitory interneurons of CA1. Global ischemia induces a marked decrease in MOR-1 mRNA and protein expression that is specific to the selectively vulnerable area CA1, as assessed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR, Western blotting, and ChIP. We further show that OPRM1 gene silencing is REST-dependent and occurs via epigenetic modifications. Ischemia promotes deacetylation of core histone proteins H3 and H4 and dimethylation of histone H3 at lysine-9 (H3-K9) over the MOR-1 promoter, an signature of epigenetic gene silencing. Acute knockdown of MOR-1 gene expression by administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to hippocampal slices in vitro or injection of the MOR antagonist naloxone to rats in vivo affords protection against ischemia-induced death of CA1 pyramidal neurons. These findings implicate MORs in ischemia-induced death of CA1 pyramidal neurons and document epigenetic remodeling of expression of OPRM1 in CA1 inhibitory interneurons.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with accumulation of the neurotoxic peptide amyloid-beta (Abeta), which is produced by sequential cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the aspartyl protease beta-secretase and the presenilin-dependent protease gamma-secretase. An increase of casein kinase 1 (CK1) expression has been described in the human AD brain. We show, by using in silico analysis, that APP, beta-secretase, and gamma-secretase subunits contain, in their intracellular regions, multiple CK1 consensus phosphorylation sites, many of which are conserved among human, rat, and mouse species. Overexpression of constitutively active CK1epsilon, one of the CK1 isoforms expressed in brain, leads to an increase in Abeta peptide production. Conversely, three structurally dissimilar CK1-specific inhibitors significantly reduced endogenous Abeta peptide production. By using mammalian cells expressing the beta C-terminal fragment of APP, it was possible to demonstrate that CK1 inhibitors act at the level of gamma-secretase cleavage. Importantly, Notch cleavage was not affected. Our results indicate that CK1 represents a therapeutic target for prevention of Abeta formation in AD.
Population profiles of industrialized countries show dramatic increases in cardiovascular disease with age, but the molecular and genetic basis of disease progression has been difficult to study because of the lack of suitable model systems. Our studies of Drosophila show a markedly elevated incidence of cardiac dysfunction and arrhythmias in aging fruit fly hearts and a concomitant decrease in the expression of the Drosophila homolog of human KCNQ1-encoded K(+) channel alpha subunits. In humans, this channel is involved in myocardial repolarization, and alterations in the function of this channel are associated with an increased risk for Torsades des Pointes arrhythmias and sudden death. Hearts from young KCNQ1 mutant fruit flies exhibit prolonged contractions and fibrillations reminiscent of Torsades des Pointes arrhythmias, and they exhibit severely increased susceptibility to pacing-induced cardiac dysfunction at young ages, characteristics that are observed only at advanced ages in WT flies. The fibrillations observed in mutant flies correlate with delayed relaxation of the myocardium, as revealed by increases in the duration of phasic contractions, extracellular field potentials, and in the baseline diastolic tension. These results suggest that K(+) currents, mediated by a KCNQ channel, contribute to the repolarization reserve of fly hearts, ensuring normal excitation-contraction coupling and rhythmical contraction. That arrhythmias in both WT and KCNQ1 mutants become worse as flies age suggests that additional factors are also involved.
C(2) domains are autonomously folded protein modules that generally act as Ca(2+)- and phospholipid-binding domains and/or as protein-protein interaction domains. We now report the primary structures and biochemical properties of a family of evolutionarily conserved mammalian proteins, referred to as E-Syts, for extended synaptotagmin-like proteins. E-Syts contain an N-terminal transmembrane region, a central juxtamembranous domain that is conserved from yeast to human, and five (E-Syt1) or three (E-Syt2 and E-Syt3) C-terminal C(2) domains. Only the first E-Syt C(2) domain, the C(2)A domain, includes the complete sequence motif that is required for Ca(2+) binding in C(2) domains. Recombinant protein fragments of E-Syt2 that include the first C(2) domain are capable of Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid binding at micromolar concentrations of free Ca(2+), suggesting that E-Syts bind Ca(2+) through their first C(2) domain in a phospholipid complex. E-Syts are ubiquitously expressed, but enriched in brain. Expression of myc-tagged E-Syt proteins in transfected cells demonstrated localization to intracellular membranes for E-Syt1 and to plasma membranes for E-Syt2 and E-Syt3. Structure/function studies showed that the plasma-membrane localization of E-Syt2 and E-Syt3 was directed by their C-terminal C(2)C domains. This result reveals an unexpected mechanism by which the C(2)C domains of E-Syt2 and E-Syt3 functions as a targeting motif that localizes these proteins into the plasma membrane independent of their transmembrane region. Viewed together, our findings suggest that E-Syts function as Ca(2+)-regulated intrinsic membrane proteins with multiple C(2) domains, expanding the repertoire of such proteins to a fourth class beyond synaptotagmins, ferlins, and MCTPs (multiple C(2) domain and transmembrane region proteins).
Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P(2)], a phosphoinositide concentrated predominantly in the plasma membrane, binds endocytic clathrin adaptors, many of their accessory factors, and a variety of actin-regulatory proteins. Here we have used fluorescent fusion proteins and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to investigate the effect of acute PI(4,5)P(2) breakdown on the dynamics of endocytic clathrin-coated pit components and of the actin regulatory complex, Arp2/3. PI(4,5)P(2) breakdown was achieved by the inducible recruitment to the plasma membrane of an inositol 5-phosphatase module through the rapamycin/FRB/FKBP system or by treatment with ionomycin. PI(4,5)P(2) depletion resulted in a dramatic loss of clathrin puncta, which correlated with a massive dissociation of endocytic adaptors from the plasma membrane. Remaining clathrin spots at the cell surface had only weak fluorescence and were static over time. Dynamin and the p20 subunit of the Arp2/3 actin regulatory complex, which were concentrated at late-stage clathrin-coated pits and in lamellipodia, also dissociated from the plasma membrane, and these changes correlated with an arrest of motility at the cell edge. These findings demonstrate the critical importance of PI(4,5)P(2) in clathrin coat dynamics and Arp2/3-dependent actin regulation.
Based on the dopaminergic hypothesis, the dopamine D(1) receptor gene (DRD1) is considered to be a good candidate gene involved in the susceptibility of bipolar disorder (BP). Genetic association between three DRD1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (-800T/C, -48A/G, and 1403T/C) and bipolar type I (BP I) disorder was performed in a case-control sample of Sardinian origin (170 BP I and 209 controls) and in an enlarged sample (229 families) of BP I trios from Toronto. The haplotype analyses generated significant global chi-square in both samples (P-value 0.024 in Toronto and 0.00042 in Sardinian). The main representative haplotypes in both samples were the -800T/-48A/1403C and the -800C/-48G/1403T. Considering each group individually, the -800C/-48G/1403T was transmitted more frequently from parents to BP I probands in Toronto sample (nominally P-value = 0.047) and was more frequent in cases than in control subjects in Sardinian sample although showing no significant evidence of association (nominally P-value = 0.16) When the estimated haplotype counts of both samples were combined, the global chi(2) was significant (P-value = 0.00085) and the nominal P-value for the haplotype -800C/-48G/1403T was 0.01. The fact that the same haplotype shows a similar trend for association in samples originating from different ethnic backgrounds seems to imply that the -800C/-48G/1403T haplotype may be considered as a risk factor for BP I disorder.
A computational model of human cones for intensities ranging from 1 td up to full bleaching levels is presented. The model conforms well with measurements made in primate horizontal cells, follows Weber's law at high intensities, and performs range compression consistent with what is known of cones in other vertebrates. The model consists entirely of processes with a clear physiological interpretation: pigment bleaching, saturation of cGMP hydrolysis, calcium feedback on cGMP synthesis, and a nonlinear membrane. The model is implemented according to a very fast computational scheme useful for simulations, and sample programs in Matlab and Fortran are provided as supplementary material.
Observing facial expressions automatically prompts imitation, as can be seen with facial electromyography. To investigate whether this reaction is driven by automatic mimicry or by recognition of the emotion displayed we recorded electromyograph responses to presentations of facial expressions, face-voice combinations and bodily expressions, which resulted from happy and fearful stimuli. We observed emotion-specific facial muscle activity (zygomaticus for happiness, corrugator for fear) for all three stimulus categories. This indicates that spontaneous facial expression is more akin to an emotional reaction than to facial mimicry and imitation of the seen face stimulus. We suggest that seeing a facial expression, an emotional body expression or hearing an emotional tone of voice all activate the affect program corresponding to the emotion displayed.
To determine whether electroencephalogram components elicited by dichotic pitch stimuli are all-or-none threshold-like responses or graded responses that depend on the saliency of the stimuli, we recorded electroencephalograms while participants listened to dichotic pitch stimuli constructed with different signal-to-background ratios. The object-related negativity and P400 components were largest when the dichotic pitch was most salient (high signal-to-background ratio), and decreased in amplitude with decreasing signal-to-background ratio. These results are similar to those reported for mistuned harmonics, thereby providing additional evidence that the object-related negativity and P400 components observed for these disparate stimulus types reflect similar processing. They also support the notion that the object-related negativity and P400 amplitudes are dependent on the level of relevant cue-based stimulus information.


Prior work by our group and others has implicated the basal ganglia as important in age-related differences in tasks involving motor response control. The present study used structural and functional MRI approaches to analyze this region of interest (ROI) toward better understanding the contributions of structural and functional MRI measures to understanding age-related and task performance-related cognitive differences. Eleven healthy elders were compared with 11 healthy younger adults while they completed the &quot;go&quot; portion of a complex Go/No-go task. Separate ROI's in the bilateral caudate (C) and putamen/globus pallidus (PGp) were studied based upon previous findings of age-related functional MRI differences in basal ganglia for this portion of the task. Structural volumes and functional activation (in percent area under the curve during correct responses) were independently extracted for these ROI's. Results showed that age correlated with ROI volume in bilateral PGp and C, while multiple task performance measures correlated with functional activation in the left PGp. The Go/No-go task measures were also significantly correlated with traditional attention and executive functioning measures. Importantly, fMRI activation and volumes from each ROI were not significantly inter-correlated. These findings suggest that structural and functional MRI make unique contributions to the study of performance changes in aging.
Previous findings on changes in K+-induced GABA release from hippocampal slices during kindling epileptogenesis were reinvestigated using physiological electrical stimulation. For that purpose, a procedure was developed enabling neurochemical monitoring of GABA release locally in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices upon tetanic stimulation of Schaffer-collateral fibers. In the presence of a GABA reuptake blocker, subsequent application of short (3 s) pulses of 50-Hz stimuli induced a local transient increase in GABA release. In slices from fully kindled animals, 24 h after the last generalized seizure, tetanically stimulated GABA release was increased in comparison to control slices. In slices from long-term kindled animals, 4-5 weeks after the last seizure, tetanically stimulated GABA release had returned to control levels. Application of the broad low-affinity GABAB receptor antagonist saclofen increased the tetanically stimulated GABA release in control slices, but had no effect in fully kindled slices. In slices from long-term kindled animals, however, saclofen enhanced GABA release similarly as in control slices. We conclude that the transient increase in tetanus-induced GABA release during kindling epileptogenesis is seizure-related, and probably caused by temporarily impaired presynaptic GABAB receptors. The possible relevance of this finding for GABA transmission in epilepsy is discussed.
This study investigated the functional MRI responses to graded hypoxia in awake/restrained and anesthetized animals by measuring cerebral blood flow (CBF) and blood oxygenation (BOLD) changes and estimating changes in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2). Hypoxia in isoflurane anesthetized rats reduced blood pressure but did not change heart rate and respiration rate. In contrast, hypoxia in awake animals showed compensatory responses by sustaining blood pressure, increasing heart rate and respiration rate. Basal CBF was higher under isoflurane anesthesia than awake state because isoflurane is a vasodilator. Graded hypoxia decreased BOLD signals. Surprisingly, hypoxia also decreased CBF likely because hypoxia induced hypocapnia. Hypoxia-induced CBF and BOLD decreases were smaller in awake, relative to anesthetized, rats at low pO2, but similar at high pO2. CBF leveled off with decreasing hypoxia-induced pCO2 in awake rats, but monotonically decreased in anesthetized rats. CMRO2 estimated using a biophysical BOLD model did not change under mild hypoxia but was reduced under severe hypoxia relative to baseline. These results showed that isoflurane attenuated autonomic responses to hypoxia, hypoxia-induced hypocapnia dominated CBF changes, tissues in awake conditions appeared better oxygenated, and severe hypoxia reduced oxygen metabolism. This study underscored the marked differences in BOLD and CBF MRI responses to hypoxia in vivo between awake and anesthetized conditions and has implications for functional MRI studies of hypoxia in anesthetized animal models.
Glycinergic synaptic inhibition is part of acoustic information processing in brain stem auditory pathways and contributes to the regulation of neuronal excitation. We found previously that unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA) in young adult guinea pigs decreased [3H]strychnine binding activity in several brain stem auditory nuclei. This study determined if the UCA-induced deficit could be regulated by protein kinase C (PKC), protein kinase A (PKA) or Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). The specific binding of [3H]strychnine was measured in slices of the dorsal (DCN), posteroventral (PVCN) and anteroventral (AVCN) cochlear nucleus (CN), the lateral (LSO) and medial (MSO) superior olive, and the inferior colliculus (IC) 145 days after UCA. Tissues from age-matched unlesioned animals served as controls. UCA induced deficits in specific binding in the AVCN, PVCN, and LSO on the ablated side and in the MSO bilaterally. These deficits were reversed by 3 microM phorbol 1,2-dibutyrate, a PKC activator, or 0.2 mM dibutyryl-cAMP, a PKA activator. However, 50 nM Ro31-8220, a PKC inhibitor, and 2 microM H-89, a PKA inhibitor, had no effect in unlesioned controls and after UCA. In contrast, 4 microM KN-93, a CaMKII inhibitor, relieved or reversed the UCA-induced binding deficits and elevated binding in the IC. These findings suggest that a UCA-induced down-regulation of glycine receptor synthesis may have occurred via reduced phosphorylation of proteins that control receptor synthesis; this effect was reversed by diminishing CaMKII activity or increasing PKC and PKA activity.
Response time (RT) variability is a common finding in ADHD research. RT variability may reflect frontal cortex function and may be related to deficits in sustained attention. The existence of a sustained attention deficit in ADHD has been debated, largely because of inconsistent evidence of time-on-task effects. A fixed-sequence Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART) was given to 29 control, 39 unimpaired and 24 impaired-ADHD children (impairment defined by the number of commission errors). The response time data were analysed using the Fast Fourier Transform, to define the fast-frequency and slow-frequency contributions to overall response variability. The impaired-ADHD group progressively slowed in RT over the course of the 5.5min task, as reflected in this group's greater slow-frequency variability. The fast-frequency trial-to-trial variability was also significantly greater, but did not differentially worsen over the course of the task. The higher error rates of the impaired-ADHD group did not become differentially greater over the length of the task. The progressive slowing in mean RT over the course of the task may relate to a deficit in arousal in the impaired-ADHD group. The consistently poor performance in fast-frequency variability and error rates may be due to difficulties in sustained attention that fluctuate on a trial-to-trial basis.
The exquisite sensitivity of the human visual system to form-from-motion (FfM) cues is well documented. However, identifying the neural correlates of this sensitivity has proven difficult, particularly determining the respective contributions of different motion areas in extrastriate visual cortex. Here we measured visual FfM perception and more elementary visual motion (VM) perception in a group of 32 patients suffering from acute posterior brain damage, and performed MRI-based lesion analysis. Our results suggest that severe FfM perception deficits without an associated deficit of VM perception are due to damage to ventral occipito-temporal cortex (VOT), whereas associated deficits of FfM and VM perception are due to damage either in proximity to area MT+/V5 or an area including lateral occipital complex (LOC) and VOT. These data suggest the existence of at least three functionally and anatomically distinct regions in human visual cortex that process FfM signals.
Feedforward activation processes are widely regarded as crucial for the automatic initiation of motor responses, whereas recurrent processes are often regarded as crucial for visual awareness. Here, we used a set of behavioral criteria to evaluate whether rapid processing in the human visuomotor system proceeds as would be expected of a feedforward system that works independent of visual awareness. We measured lateralized readiness potentials (LRPs) for key-press responses to color targets (&quot;masks&quot;) preceded by masked color primes mapped onto the same or opposite response, and traced the time-course of motor activation as a function of different prime and mask characteristics. LRP time-courses showed that initial motor activation occurred in prime direction and was time-locked to prime onset. Response activation was then captured on-line by the mask signal, with motor activation now time-locked to the mask and proceeding in mask direction. Crucially, the time-course of early activation by the prime was independent of all mask characteristics. This invariance in early priming effects contrasted with large differences in visual awareness for the prime produced by different masks. Results suggest that primed responses to color stimuli are controlled by feedforward waves of activation sequentially elicited by prime and mask signals traveling rapidly enough to escape the recurrent processes leading to backward masking.
We previously demonstrated that Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM)-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (CaM-KIIalpha) can phosphorylate neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) at Ser847 and attenuate NOS activity in neuronal cells. In the present study we focused on chronological alteration in levels and cellular location of nNOS, phosphorylated (p)-Ser847-nNOS (NP847), CaM-KII and p-Thr286-CaM-KIIalpha following spinal cord injury (SCI) in mice. Western blot analysis showed nNOS to be significantly phosphorylated at Ser847 from 3 h after SCI, peaking at 24 h and gradually decreasing thereafter, and CaM-KII to be colocalized with nNOS after SCI. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that SCI causes an increase in both NP847 and p-Thr286-CaM-KIIalpha in the nucleus intermediolateralis. These findings suggest that SCI induces p-Thr286-CaM-KIIalpha, which phosphorylates the nNOS at Ser847 in the nucleus intermediolateralis where NO is thought to play a role as a neurotransmitter in autonomic preganglionic neurons. Thus, the NP847 signaling pathway might be involved in the autonomic failure which occurs immediately after SCI.
Dysfunction in the synapse is recognized as an early and the primary pathological process in Alzheimer's disease (AD). N-cadherin, an essential adhesion molecule for excitatory synaptic contact, forms a complex with presenilin 1 (PS1) and beta-catenin in the synaptic membrane. N-cadherin is sequentially cleaved by ADAM10 and PS1/gamma-secretase, producing a cytoplasmic fragment, N-cadherin C-terminal fragment (Ncad/CTF2) after NMDA receptor stimulation [Marambaud P, Wen PH, Dutt A, Shioi J, Takashima A, Siman R, Robakis NK (2003) A CBP binding transcriptional repressor produced by the PS1/epsilon-cleavage of N-cadherin is inhibited by PS1 FAD mutations. Cell 114:635-645; Reiss K, Maretzky T, Ludwig A, Tousseyn T, de Strooper B, Hartmann D, Saftig P (2005) ADAM10 cleavage of N-cadherin and regulation of cell-cell adhesion and beta-catenin nuclear signalling. EMBO J 24:1762]. Ncad/CTF2 translocates to the nucleus together with beta-catenin to enhance beta-catenin nuclear signaling [Uemura K, Kihara T, Kuzuya A, Okawa K, Nishimoto T, Bito H, Ninomiya H, Sugimoto H, Kinoshita A, Shimohama S (2006a) Activity-dependent regulation of beta-catenin via epsilon-cleavage of N-cadherin. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 345:951-958]. To examine whether an impairment of N-cadherin metabolism is involved in AD pathogenesis, we investigated the effect of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) treatment on sequential N-cadherin cleavage. Here, we demonstrate that both synthetic and cell-derived Abeta species inhibit ectodomain shedding of mouse N-cadherin. Inhibition of N-cadherin cleavage by Abeta treatment was suggested to be mediated by the enhanced endocytosis of NMDA receptor, resulting in reduced turnover of N-cadherin. Since both N-cadherin and beta-catenin are essential for synaptic plasticity, impairment of N-cadherin cleavage caused by Abeta may underlie the synapse toxicity involved in AD pathogenesis.
In natural face-to-face communication, speech perception utilizes both auditory and visual information. We described previously an acoustically responsive area on the posterior lateral surface of the superior temporal gyrus (field PLST) that is distinguishable on physiological grounds from other auditory fields located within the superior temporal plane. Considering the empirical findings in humans and non-human primates of cortical locations responsive to heard sounds and/or seen sound-sources, we reasoned that area PLST would also contain neural signals reflecting audiovisual speech interactions. To test this hypothesis, event related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from area PLST using chronically implanted multi-contact subdural surface-recording electrodes in patient-subjects undergoing diagnosis and treatment of medically intractable epilepsy, and cortical ERP maps were acquired during five contrasting auditory, visual and bimodal speech conditions. Stimulus conditions included consonant-vowel (CV) syllable sounds alone, silent seen speech or CV sounds paired with a female face articulating matched or mismatched syllables. Data were analyzed using a MANOVA framework, with the results from planned comparisons used to construct cortical significance maps. Our findings indicate that evoked responses recorded from area PLST to auditory speech stimuli are influenced significantly by the addition of visual images of the moving lower face and lips, either articulating the audible syllable or carrying out a meaningless (gurning) motion. The area of cortex exhibiting this audiovisual influence was demonstrably greater in the speech-dominant hemisphere.
Dietary protocols that increase serum levels of ketones, such as calorie restriction and the ketogenic diet, offer robust protection against a multitude of acute and chronic neurological diseases. The underlying mechanisms, however, remain unclear. Previous studies have suggested that the ketogenic diet may reduce free radical levels in the brain. Thus, one possibility is that ketones may mediate neuroprotection through antioxidant activity. In the present study, we examined the effects of the ketones beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate on acutely dissociated rat neocortical neurons subjected to glutamate excitotoxicity using cellular electrophysiological and single-cell fluorescence imaging techniques. Further, we explored the effects of ketones on acutely isolated mitochondria exposed to high levels of calcium. A combination of beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate (1 mM each) decreased neuronal death and prevented changes in neuronal membrane properties induced by 10 microM glutamate. Ketones also significantly decreased mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species and the associated excitotoxic changes by increasing NADH oxidation in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, but did not affect levels of the endogenous antioxidant glutathione. In conclusion, we demonstrate that ketones reduce glutamate-induced free radical formation by increasing the NAD+/NADH ratio and enhancing mitochondrial respiration in neocortical neurons. This mechanism may, in part, contribute to the neuroprotective activity of ketones by restoring normal bioenergetic function in the face of oxidative stress.
Environmental deprivation contributes in important ways to the development of a wide range of psychiatric disorders. Isolation rearing of rodents, a model for environmental deprivation in humans, consistently produces hyperlocomotion, which provides a measurable parameter to study the underlying mechanisms of early adverse psychosocial stressors. Male Sprague-Dawley rat pups were separated from dams at postnatal (PN) day 20 and reared either in groups of three or in isolation. On PN 38, locomotion was assessed in the open field. On PN 46, rats were killed and gene expression patterns examined in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Isolation-reared rats displayed increased locomotor activity and decreased resting time in the open field. Specific gene expression patterns in the mPFC were associated with both isolation rearing and hyperlocomotive behavior in the open field. Genes involved in these expression patterns included immediate early genes (IEGs) and genes that regulate cell differentiation and apoptosis. The study of these genes could provide important insights into how abnormal early psychosocial events affect brain function and behavior.
Excessive glutamate receptor stimulation can produce rapid disruption of dendritic morphology, including dendritic beading. We recently showed that transient N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) exposure resulted in irreversible loss of synaptic function and loss of microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) from apical dendrites. The present study examined the initiation and progression of dendritic injury in mouse hippocampal slices following this excitotoxic stimulus. NMDA exposure (30 microM, 10 min) produced irregularly shaped dendritic swellings, evident first in distal apical dendrite branches, and later (20-90 min) involving most proximal dendrites. Over the same time course, immunoreactivity for the microtubule-associated protein MAP2 was progressively lost from apical dendrites, and increased in CA1 somata. This damage and MAP2 loss was Ca2+-dependent, and was not reversible within the time course of these experiments (90 min post-NMDA washout). Formation of regularly-spaced, spherical dendritic varicosities (dendritic beading) was rarely observed, except when NMDA was applied in Ca2+-free ACSF. Under these conditions, beading appeared predominant in interneurons, as assessed from experiments with GAD67-GFP (Deltaneo) mice. Ca2+-removal was associated with significantly better preservation of dendritic structure (MAP2) following NMDA exposure, and other ionic fluxes (sensitive to Gd3+ and spermine) may contribute to residual damage occurring in Ca2+-free conditions. These results suggest that irregularly shaped dendritic swelling is a Ca2+-dependent degenerative event that may be quite different from Ca2+-independent dendritic beading, and can be a predominant type of injury in CA1 pyramidal neurons in slices.
In the present study we analyzed kinematic and dynamic features of arm movements in order to better elucidate how the motor system integrates environmental constraints (gravity) into motor planning and control processes. To reach this aim, we experimentally manipulated the mechanical effects of gravity on the arm while maintaining arm inertia constant (i.e. the distribution of the mass around the shoulder joint). Six subjects performed single-joint arm movements (rotation around the shoulder joint) in both sagittal (upward, U, versus downward, D) and horizontal (left, L, versus right, R) planes, at different amplitudes and from different initial positions. Under these conditions, shoulder gravitational torques (SGTs) significantly varied when arm movements were performed in the sagittal but not in the horizontal plane. Contrary to SGTs, arm inertia remained constant and similar for both horizontal and sagittal planes since subjects performed arm movements with only one degree of freedom. All subjects, whatever the movement direction, appropriately scaled shoulder joint kinematic parameters according to movement amplitude. Furthermore, peak velocity and movement duration were equivalent for both horizontal and sagittal planes. Interestingly, some kinematic parameters significantly differed according to U/D but not L/R directions. Specifically, acceleration duration was greater for D than U movements, while the opposite was true for peak acceleration. Consequently, although vertical and horizontal arm movements shared a general common strategy (i.e. scaling law), the kinematic asymmetries between U and D arm movements, especially those that reflect central planning process (i.e. peak acceleration), indicated different motor intentions regarding the direction of the upcoming movement. These findings indicate that the interaction of the arm with the dynamics of the environment is internally represented during the generation of arm trajectories.
The caudal anterior cingulate cortex (cAC) is an essential component of the circuitry involved in acquisition of forebrain-dependent trace eyeblink conditioning. Lesions of the cAC prevent trace eyeblink conditioning [Weible AP, McEchron MD, Disterhoft JF (2000) Cortical involvement in acquisition and extinction of trace eyeblink conditioning. Behav Neurosci 114(6):1058-1067]. The patterns of activation of cAC neurons recorded in vivo suggest an attentional role for this structure early in training [Weible AP, Weiss C, Disterhoft JF (2003) Activity profiles of single neurons in caudal anterior cingulate cortex during trace eyeblink conditioning in the rabbit. J Neurophysiol 90(2):599-612]. The goal of the present study was to identify connections of the portion of the rabbit cAC previously demonstrated to be involved in trace eyeblink conditioning, using the neuronal tract tracer wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, to better understand how the cAC contributes to the process of associative learning. Reciprocal connections with the claustrum provide a route for the transfer of sensory information between the cAC and neocortical and allocortical regions also involved in learning. Connections with components of the basal forebrain cholinergic system are described, with relevance to the proposed attentional role of the cAC. Reciprocal and unidirectional connections were in evidence in multiple thalamic regions, including the medial dorsal nucleus, which have been implicated in a variety of conditioning paradigms. Anterograde connections with the caudate and lateral pontine nuclei provide access to forebrain motor and brainstem sensory circuitry, respectively. The relevance of these connections to acquisition of the trace conditioned reflex is discussed.
Epidermal growth factor receptor pathway substrate 8 (Eps8) is a widely expressed multidomain signaling protein that coordinates two disparate GTPase-dependent mechanisms: actin reorganization via Ras/Rac pathways and receptor trafficking via Rab5. Expression of Eps8, the gene encoding the founding member of the Eps8 family of proteins, was found in cerebellum by virtual Northern analysis and in situ hybridization. Because the cerebellum has a well-known cellular architecture and is a favored model to study synaptic plasticity and actin dynamics, we sought to analyze Eps8 localization in rat cerebellar neurons and synapses by light and electron microscopy. Specificity of Eps8-antibody was demonstrated by immunoblots and in brain sections. In cerebellum, unipolar brush cells (UBCs) were densely Eps8 immunopositive and granule cells were moderately immunostained. In both types of neuron immunoreaction product was localized to the somatodendritic and axonal compartments. Postsynaptic immunostained foci were demonstrated in the glomeruli in correspondence of the synapses formed by mossy fiber terminals with granule cell and UBC dendrites. These foci appeared especially evident in the UBC brush, which contains an extraordinary postsynaptic apparatus of actin microfilaments facing synaptic junctions of the long and segmented varieties. Eps8 immunoreactivity was conspicuously absent in Purkinje cells and their actin-rich dendritic spines, in all types of inhibitory interneurons of the cerebellum, cerebellar nuclei neurons, and astrocytes. In conclusion, Eps8 protein in cerebellum is expressed exclusively by excitatory cortical interneurons and is intracellularly compartmentalized in a cell-class specific manner. This is the first demonstration of the presence of a member of the Eps8 protein family in UBCs and its enrichment at postsynaptic sites.
It is often suggested that the oblique effect, the well-known phenomenon whereby both humans and animals are visually more sensitive to vertical and horizontal contours than to oblique ones, is due to the overrepresentation of cardinal orientations in the visual cortex. The functional role of feedback projections from higher-order cortical areas to lower-order areas is not fully understood. Combining the two issues in a study using optical imaging here, we report that the neural oblique effect was significantly enhanced (3.7 times higher than the normal) in the cat's primary visual cortex through orientation shifting induced by excitatory feedback from the higher-order cortical area 21a. This suggests that a reciprocal co-excitatory mechanism may underlie the perceptual oblique effect.
In our previous study, spike timing dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP) was investigated in the CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices using optical imaging. It was revealed that the profiles of STDP could be classified into two types depending upon layer specific location along the dendrite. The first was characterized by a symmetric time window observed in the proximal region of the stratum radiatum (SR), and the second by an asymmetric time window in the distal region of the SR. Our methods involved the bath-application of bicuculline (GABA(A) receptor antagonist) to hippocampal slices, which revealed that GABAergic interneuron projections were responsible for the symmetry of a time window. In this study, the intracellular Ca2+ increase of hippocampal CA1 neurons, induced by the protocol of timing between pre- and post-synaptic excitation (i.e. STDP protocol), was measured spatially by using optical imaging to investigate how the triggering of STDP is dependent on intracellular calcium concentration. We found that the magnitude of STDP was closely related to the rate of Ca2+ increase (&quot;velocity&quot;) of calcium transient during application of induction stimuli. Location dependency was also analyzed in terms of Ca2+ influx. Furthermore, it was shown that decay time constant of Ca2+ dynamics during the application of STDP-inducing stimuli was also significantly correlated with STDP.
By means of i.c.v. administration of preaggregated oligomeric beta-amyloid (Abeta)25-35 peptide it was possible in rats to generate neuropathological signs related to those of early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abeta25-35-administration induced the deposition of endogenously produced amyloid protein. Furthermore, quantitative immunohistochemistry demonstrated time-related statistically significant increases in amyloid immunoreactivity, tau phosphorylation, microglial activation, and astrocytosis, and stereological investigations demonstrated statistically significant increased neuronal cell death and brain atrophy in response to Abeta25-35. Finally, the Abeta25-35-administration led to a reduced short-term memory as determined by the social recognition test. A synthetic peptide termed FGL derived from the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) was able to prevent or, if already manifest, strongly reduce all investigated signs of Abeta25-35-induced neuropathology and cognitive impairment. The FGL peptide was recently demonstrated to be able to cross the blood-brain-barrier. Accordingly, we found that the beneficial effects of FGL were achieved not only by intracisternal, but also by intranasal and s.c. administration of the peptide. Furthermore, FGL-treatment was shown to inhibit the activity of GSK3beta, a kinase implicated in signaling regulating cell survival, tau phosphorylation and the processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Thus, the peptide induced a statistically significant increase in the fraction of GSK3beta phosphorylated on the Ser9-position, a posttranslational modification known to inhibit the activity of the kinase. Hence, the mode of action of FGL with respect to the preventive and curative effects on Abeta25-35-induced neuropathological manifestations and cognitive impairment involves the modulation of intracellular signal-transduction mediated through GSK3beta.
Human diabetic patients often lose touch and vibratory sensations, but to date, most studies on diabetes-induced sensory nerve degeneration have focused on epidermal C-fibers. Here, we explored the effects of diabetes on cutaneous myelinated fibers in relation to the behavioral responses to tactile stimuli from diabetic mice. Weekly behavioral testing began prior to streptozotocin (STZ) administration and continued until 8 weeks, at which time myelinated fiber innervation was examined in the footpad by immunohistochemistry using antiserum to neurofilament heavy chain (NF-H) and myelin basic protein (MBP). Diabetic mice developed reduced behavioral responses to non-noxious (monofilaments) and noxious (pinprick) stimuli. In addition, diabetic mice displayed a 50% reduction in NF-H-positive myelinated innervation of the dermal footpad compared with non-diabetic mice. To test whether two neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF) and/or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) known to support myelinated cutaneous fibers could influence myelinated innervation, diabetic mice were treated intrathecally for 2 weeks with NGF, NT-3, NGF and NT-3. Neurotrophin-treated mice were then compared with diabetic mice treated with insulin for 2 weeks. NGF and insulin treatment both increased paw withdrawal to mechanical stimulation in diabetic mice, whereas NT-3 or a combination of NGF and NT-3 failed to alter paw withdrawal responses. Surprisingly, all treatments significantly increased myelinated innervation compared with control-treated diabetic mice, demonstrating that myelinated cutaneous fibers damaged by hyperglycemia respond to intrathecal administration of neurotrophins. Moreover, NT-3 treatment increased epidermal Merkel cell numbers associated with nerve fibers, consistent with increased numbers of NT-3-responsive slowly adapting A-fibers. These studies suggest that myelinated fiber loss may contribute as significantly as unmyelinated epidermal loss in diabetic neuropathy, and the contradiction between neurotrophin-induced increases in dermal innervation and behavior emphasizes the need for multiple approaches to accurately assess sensory improvements in diabetic neuropathy.
Simulated hypobaric hypoxia (HBH), resembling high altitude hypoxia severely affects the CNS and results in several physiological changes. The hippocampus is closely associated with learning and memory and an insult to this region affects cognition. Previous studies suggest that rapid or prolonged exposures to HBH are associated with psychomotor and cognitive impairments. The defense personnel, mountain climbers and rescue teams are exposed to such harsh environment and thus it demands a systematic study emphasizing the subtle effects of such extreme environments on cognitive function. Accordingly, this study evaluated the effect of hypobaric hypoxia on structural changes in the principal neurons of the hippocampus and learning in eight-arm radial maze. Adult male Wistar rats, subjected to simulated hypobaric hypoxia equivalent to an altitude of 6000 m for a period of 2 or 7 days, in a hypoxic chamber served as hypoxic group (HY). Rats housed in a similar chamber for the same period of time, without hypoxic exposure served as sham control (SC), while normal control (NC) group of rats were housed in standard laboratory conditions. The dendritic morphology of neurons in cornu ammonis region 1 (CA1) and cornu ammonis region 3 (CA3) was studied in Golgi-impregnated hippocampal sections. Exposure for 2 days to hypobaric hypoxia had minimal deleterious effects on the CA1 pyramidal neurons, while exposure for 7 days resulted in a significant decrease in the number of branching points, intersections and dendritic length. Unlike the CA1 pyramidal neurons, the CA3 neurons exhibited dendritic atrophy following both 2 and 7 days of hypoxic exposure. Further, hippocampal-dependent spatial learning was affected marginally following 2 day exposure, while 7 day exposure severely affected learning of the partially baited radial arm maze task. Our study suggests that dendritic atrophy in the hippocampus on exposure to HBH could be one of the bases for the cognitive deficits exhibited under such conditions.
During development of CNS, young neurons experience various stimuli, and thereafter differentiate to mature neurons in an activity-dependent manner. Membrane depolarization acts as an inducer of excitability and various signals in the neurons, which can be used as a model of neuronal activity. However, the mechanisms of the influence of membrane depolarization on neuronal differentiation have not been fully understood. Therefore, we investigated the effect of membrane depolarization on morphology of spines and generation of valid electrical activity. Using rat hippocampal cultures treated from the plating day with or without high KCl (35 mM, termed HK), we directly observed living neurons transfected with green fluorescence protein-expressing plasmid through a two-photon laser scanning confocal microscope and electrophysiological recording using a patch-clamp technique. Compared with controls, the neurons cultured with HK for 3 days in vitro (DIV) showed marked filopodia-like protrusions as well as an increase in the number of spines, but those cultured with HK for 6 DIV profoundly lost these spines, resulting in a small number of fine filopodia-like protrusions proximally and on the cell body, and a smooth surface of distal dendrites. Electrophysiological recordings showed no spontaneous responses in 6 DIV HK-treated neurons. Moreover, addition of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist to HK-treated neurons blocked the shrinkage and decrease in the number of filopodia-like protrusions significantly. These findings suggest that membrane depolarization of developing neurons induces synaptogenesis in the early stages of development but chronic treatment with HK causes pathological changes through NMDAR, and that there may be alternative mechanisms for the physiological differentiation of neurons in later developmental stages.
Formation of the neuromuscular junction requires the release of agrin from the presynaptic terminal of motor neurons. Clustering of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) on the postsynaptic sarcolemma is initiated by agrin-dependent activation of the muscle-specific kinase. While the postsynaptic scaffolding protein rapsyn is vital for high density AChR aggregation, little is known about the mechanism through which AChRs are immobilized on the postsynaptic membrane. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies of rat skeletal muscle have suggested that AChRs are anchored to a membrane-associated cytoskeleton that contains spectrin-like proteins and is thus similar to that of the human erythrocyte [Bloch RJ, Bezakova G, Ursitti JA, Zhou D, Pumplin DW (1997) A membrane skeleton that clusters nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in muscle. Soc Gen Physiol Ser 52:177-195]. We are studying a protein of the spectrin superfamily, ACF7 (also known as MACF), as a postsynaptic cytoskeletal component of the neuromuscular junction. ACF7 has multiple cytoskeleton-binding domains, including an N-terminal actin-binding domain that, we postulate, may interact with rapsyn, the scaffolding protein that binds directly to AChRs. To test this hypothesis, we co-expressed fragments of these molecules in cultured fibroblasts and assessed their co-distribution and interaction using confocal microscopy and co-immunoprecipitation. We demonstrate that the actin-binding domain of ACF7 specifically interacts with the tetratricopeptide repeat domains of rapsyn. Furthermore, we show using surface plasmon resonance and blot overlay that the actin-binding domain of ACF7 binds directly to rapsyn. These results suggest that, in mammalian skeletal muscle, AChRs are immobilized in the membrane through rapsyn-mediated anchoring to an ACF7-containing network that in turn is linked to the actin cytoskeleton.
Chronic exposure to Cannabis sativa (marijuana) produced a significant down-regulation of cannabinoid receptor in the postmortem human brain. The significant decrease in maximal binding capacity was not accompanied by changes in the affinity constant. [3H]SR141716A binding was reduced in the caudate nucleus, putamen and in the accumbens nucleus. A significant decrease of binding sites was seen in the globus pallidus. Also in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars reticulata quantitative analysis of the density of receptors shows a significant reduction in [3H]SR141716A binding. In Cannabis sativa user brains, compared with normal brains [3H]SR141716A binding was reduced only in the hippocampus. The density of cannabinoid receptor 1 mRNA-positive neurons was significantly lower in Cannabis sativa users than in control brains for the caudate nucleus, putamen, accumbens nucleus and hippocampal region (CA1-CA4, areas of Ammon's horn). No hybridization was seen in the mesencephalon and globus pallidus.
Brain alpha7 nicotinic receptors have become therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease (AD) based on their memory-enhancing and neuroprotective actions. This study investigated the feasibility of increasing neuronal alpha7 receptor functions using a gene delivery approach based on neuron-selective recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-derived vectors. In order to determine whether alpha7 receptor-mediated cytotoxicity was dependent on receptor density, rat alpha7 nicotinic receptors were expressed at high concentrations in GH4C1 cells as measured with nicotine-displaceable [3H]methyllycaconitine (MLA) binding. The potency of GTS-21 (an alpha7 receptor agonist) to induce cell loss was similar in these cells to that seen in pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells expressing nine-times-lower receptor levels, suggesting that cytotoxicity was more dependent on agonist concentration than receptor density. Hippocampal transduction with rat alpha7 nicotinic receptors increased [3H]MLA binding in this region in wild type and alpha7 receptor-knockout (KO) mice without apparent cytotoxicity. No difference was observed in Kd values for MLA binding between endogenous and transgenic receptors. Single cell recordings demonstrated that dentate granule cells that normally have no alpha7 receptor response did so following alpha7 receptor gene delivery in wild type mice. Recovery of alpha7 function was also observed in stratum oriens and stratum radiatum neurons of KO mice following gene delivery. Wild type mice exhibited improved acquisition performance in the Morris water task 1 month after bilateral hippocampal transductions with the rat alpha7 receptor gene compared with green fluorescent protein-transduced controls. However, both groups reached similar training levels and there was no difference in subsequent probe performance. Finally, this gene delivery approach was used to test whether alpha7 receptors affect tau-phosphorylation. Chronic (i.e. 2 month but not 2 week) expression of high levels of alpha7 receptors in hippocampus increased AT8 staining characteristic of hyperphosphorylated tau in that region, indicating that endogenous agonist-mediated receptor activation may be able to modulate this process.
Intercellular monocarboxylate transport is important, particularly in tissues with high energy demands, such as brain and muscle. In skeletal muscle, it is well established that glycolytic fast twitch muscle fibers produce lactate, which is transported out of the cell through the monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) 4. Lactate is then taken up and oxidized by the oxidative slow twitch muscle fibers, which express MCT1. In the brain it is still questioned whether lactate produced in astrocytes is taken up and oxidized by neurons upon activation. Several studies have reported that astrocytes express MCT4, whereas neurons express MCT2. By comparing the localizations of MCTs in oxidative and glycolytic compartments I here give support to the idea that there is a lactate shuttle in the brain similar to that in muscle. This conclusion is based on studies in rodents using high resolution immunocytochemical methods at the light and electron microscopical levels.
Neuropathic pain is typified by injuries to the peripheral and central nervous system and derives from such causes as cancer, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, post-herpetic neuralgia, physical trauma or surgery, and many others. Patients suffering neuropathic pain do not respond to conventional treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and show a reduced sensitivity to opiates often associated with serious side effects. Recently, it has been demonstrated that botulinum neurotoxin serotype-A (BoNT/A) is able to induce analgesia in inflammatory pain conditions. The goal of this research was to test if BoNT/A was able to relieve also neuropathic pain symptoms. By using chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve, a mouse model of neuropathic pain, we observed that peripheral administration of BoNT/A strongly reduced the mechanical allodynia associated with this neuropathy. Remarkably, a single non-toxic dose of BoNT/A was sufficient to induce anti-allodynic effects, which lasted for at least 3 weeks. This result is particularly relevant since neuropathic pain is poorly treated by current drug therapies. This communication enlarges our knowledge on potentially new medical uses of BoNT/A in efforts to ameliorate human health conditions, with very important implications in the development of new pharmacotherapeutic approaches against neuropathic pain.
Mutations of genes encoding Phox2a or Phox2b transcription factors induce modifications of different brainstem neuronal networks. Such modifications are associated with defects in breathing behavior at birth. In particular, an abnormal breathing frequency is observed in Phox2a-/- mutant mice, resulting from abnormal development of the locus coeruleus (LC) nucleus. However, the role of Phox2a proteins in the establishment of respiratory neuronal pathways is unknown, largely because mutants die shortly after birth. In the present study, we examined the effects of a haploinsufficiency of the Phox2a gene. Phox2a heterozygotes survive and exhibit a significantly larger inspiratory volume both during normoxic breathing and in response to hypoxia and a delayed maturation of inspiratory duration compared to wild-type animals. This phenotype accompanied by an unaltered frequency is evident at birth and persists until at least postnatal day 10. Morphological analyses of Phox2a+/- animals revealed no anomaly in the LC region, but highlighted an increase in the number of cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme, a marker of chemoafferent neurons, in the petrosal sensory ganglion. These data indicate that Phox2a plays a critical role in the ontogeny of the reflex control of inspiration.
Endocannabinoids are powerful modulators of synaptic transmission that act on presynaptic cannabinoid receptors. Cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) is the dominant receptor in the CNS, and is present in many brain regions, including sensory cortex. To investigate the potential role of CB1 receptors in cortical development, we examined the developmental expression of CB1 in rodent primary somatosensory (barrel) cortex, using immunohistochemistry with a CB1-specific antibody. We found that before postnatal day (P) 6, CB1 receptor staining was present exclusively in the cortical white matter, and that CB1 staining appeared in the gray matter between P6 and P20 in a specific laminar pattern. CB1 staining was confined to axons, and was most prominent in cortical layers 2/3, 5a, and 6. CB1 null (-/-) mice showed altered anatomical barrel maps in layer 4, with enlarged inter-barrel septa, but normal barrel size. These results indicate that CB1 receptors are present in early postnatal development and influence development of sensory maps.
The skewed amplitude distribution of spontaneous excitatory junction potentials (sEJPs) in the mouse vas deferens and other electrically-coupled smooth muscle syncytia has been attributed to electrically-attenuated depolarizations resulting from the spontaneous release of quantized packets of ATP acting on remote smooth muscle cells (SMCs). However, in the present investigation surface SMCs of the mouse isolated vas deferens were poorly electrically coupled, with input resistances (176+/-18 MOmega, range: 141-221 MOmega, n=4) similar to those of dissociated cells. Furthermore, the amplitude of evoked EJPs was more variable in surface compared with deeper SMCs (F test, F=17.4, P&lt;0.0001). Using simultaneous electrophysiology and confocal microscopy to investigate these poorly-coupled cells, it is shown that alpha-latrotoxin-stimulated sEJPs correlate, in timing (median delay ranged from -30 to -57 ms, P&lt;0.05 in all experiments, n=5) and amplitude (Pearson product moment correlation, rho&gt;0.55 and P&lt;0.001), with purinergic neuroeffector Ca2+ transients (NCTs) in SMCs. The temporal correlation between sEJPs of widely ranging amplitude with NCTs in the impaled SMC demonstrates that all sEJPs could arise from neurotransmitter action on the impaled cell and that the skewed distribution of sEJPs can be explained by the variable effect of packets of ATP on a single SMC. The amplitude correlation of sEJPs and NCTs argues against the attenuation of electrical signal amplitude along the length of a single SMC. The skewed sEJP amplitude distribution arising from neurotransmitter release on single SMCs is consistent with a broad neurotransmitter packet size distribution at sympathetic neuroeffector junctions.
The EL/Suz (EL) mouse is a model of multifactorial temporal lobe epilepsy in which seizures begin around 90 days of age, but can be hastened through increased exposure to human handling. In order to better understand seizure etiology in this mouse strain relative to seizure-resistant control mice, the present study examined region-specific neuronal activation in response to non-seizure-inducing handling implemented before the onset of seizure susceptibility. Immediate-early gene (cFos) expression emerged in EL mice by postnatal day (PND) 21 in the primary motor cortex, progressed to the locus ceruleus and prefrontal cortex by PND 35, and appeared in the hippocampus and amygdala by PND 70, as mice neared the age of onset for seizure susceptibility. Thus, mirroring the pattern observed during the course of a seizure, specific brain regions were differentially recruited to a neural network for seizure predisposition before the onset of seizure susceptibility. This developmental pattern of early and transient neural activation represents an important window for the study of causal mechanisms of seizure susceptibility following exposure to environmental triggers.
Previously we found that inhibitors of noradrenaline (NA) and/or 5-HT reuptake are able to inhibit neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the CNS most probably by a channel blocker-type mechanism. The aim of our study was to clarify whether selective dopamine uptake inhibitors also possess this property, therefore we investigated the effect of GBR-12909 on the nicotine-evoked release of [3H]NA from rat hippocampal slices. GBR-12909, similar to selective NA and 5-HT uptake blockers, inhibited the nicotine-evoked release with an IC50 of 2.32 microM. The ability of monoamine uptake blockers to inhibit nicotine-evoked [3H]NA release (IC50) and NA reuptake (Ki) showed no correlation, indicating that the NA uptake system is not involved in the inhibition of the response to nicotine. Previously we have shown in whole cell patch clamp experiments, that GBR-12909, depending on the stimulation pattern, inhibits Na+-currents with an IC50 in the 6-35 microM concentration range [Mike A, Karoly R, Vizi ES, Kiss JP (2003) Inhibitory effect of the DA uptake blocker GBR-12909 on sodium channels of hippocampal neurons. Neuroreport 14:1945-1949]. To study whether the inhibition of Na+-channels is involved in the action of GBR-12909 on the nicotine-evoked [(3)H]NA release, we compared the effect of GBR-12909 and the Na(+)-channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) on the electrical stimulation- and nicotine-evoked response. TTX prevented the release of [3H]NA induced by both types of stimulation, whereas GBR-12909 inhibited only the nicotine-induced response, indicating that under our experimental conditions the target of GBR-12909 is not the Na+-channel. These data indicate that the selective DA uptake inhibitor GBR-12909 is able to inhibit nAChRs, that is, the nAChR antagonistic property of monoamine uptake inhibitors is independent of their selectivity. The fact that monoamine uptake inhibitors with different chemical structure and selectivity are able to inhibit nAChRs may reveal some common properties of nicotinic receptors and monoamine uptake carriers.
Although many aspects of sensory processing are qualitatively similar in awake and anesthetized subjects, important state-dependent differences are known to exist. To investigate the effects of anesthesia on temporal processing in rat auditory cortex, multi-unit neural responses to trains of broadband clicks were recorded prior to, 15 min following, and 5 h following the administration of a ketamine-based anesthetic. While responses to clicks in isolation were relatively stable between states, responses to subsequent clicks exhibited increases in latency, peak latency, response duration, and post-onset suppression under anesthesia. Ketamine anesthetic reduced the maximum rate at which multi-unit clusters entrained to repeated clicks. No multi-unit clusters entrained to stimulus presentation rates greater than 33 Hz under anesthesia, compared with 85% and 81% in the pre- and post-anesthetic condition, respectively. Anesthesia also induced oscillatory activity that was not present in awake subjects. Finally, ketamine anesthesia abolished all tonic excitatory and suppressive nonsynchronous responses to click trains. The results of this study suggest that ketamine-based anesthesia significantly alters neural coding of broadband click trains in auditory cortex.
The glutamate receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1) is a scaffolding protein in postsynaptic density (PSD), tethering AMPA receptors to other signaling proteins. Here we report that glutamate stimulation caused a rapid reduction in protein levels of GRIP1, but not that of glutamate receptor (GluR) 1, GluR2 and protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) in rat primary cortical neuron cultures. Down-regulation of GRIP1 by glutamate was blocked by carbobenzoxyl-leucinyl-leucinyl-leucinal (MG132), a proteasome inhibitor and by expression of K48R-ubiquitin, a dominant negative form of ubiquitin. The GRIP1 reduction was inhibited by MK-801, an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, but not by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), an AMPA receptor antagonist. EGTA and 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra acetic acid tetrakis (BAPTA), two Ca2+ chelators, but not nifedipine, an L-type Ca2+ channel blocker, prevented GRIP1 degradation. Furthermore, MG132 prevented glutamate-stimulated reduction in surface amount of GluR2, and knockdown of GRIP1 by RNAi against GRIP1 reduced surface GluR2 in neurons. Our results suggest that glutamate induces GRIP1 degradation by proteasome through an NMDA receptor-Ca2+ pathway and that GRIP1 degradation may play an important role in regulating GluR2 surface expression.
The enzyme 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1) converts the inactive 11-dehydrocorticosterone into the active glucocorticoid corticosterone. There is accumulating evidence indicating widespread expression of 11beta-HSD1 in the brain. However, there is little information about regulation of 11beta-HSD1 expression in this tissue. Using in situ hybridization involving use of 35S-labeled cRNA probe, we have studied the distribution of cells expressing 11beta-HSD1 mRNA in the male mouse forebrain as well as the effects of adrenalectomy (ADX) and acute administration of corticosterone (3 and 24 h) on 11beta-HSD1 mRNA levels. Cells expressing 11beta-HSD1 mRNA were mostly detected in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala and medial preoptic area, with the highest expression in the cerebral cortex (retrosplenial granular area) and hippocampus (CA3 and granular layer of the gyrus dentatus). Seven days following ADX, 11beta-HSD mRNA levels were increased by 50% in the gyrus dentatus, by 100% in the CA3 area, and 105% in the cerebral cortex. Administration of corticosterone to ADX mice induced a significant decrease in mRNA, in both the hippocampus and cerebral cortex so that, at the 24 h time interval, the levels were similar to those observed in intact mice. These results clearly indicate that circulating corticosterone is downregulating the expression of 11beta-HSD1 mRNA in the two forebrain areas studied. This downregulation might contribute to maintain low intracellular corticosterone levels in central regions and then prevent the deleterious effects induced by high glucocorticoid levels.
Oxidative stress after cerebral ischemia and reperfusion activates extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) in brain. However, the mechanism of this activation has not been elucidated. We have previously reported that in an in vitro model of oxidative stress in immature cortical neuronal cultures, the inhibition of ERK phosphatase activity contributes to ERK1/2 activation and subsequent neuronal toxicity. This study examined whether ERK activation was associated with altered activity of ERK phosphatases in a rat cardiac arrest model. Rats in experimental groups were subjected to asphyxial cardiac arrest for 8 min and then resuscitated for 30 min. Significant ERK activation was detected in both cortex and hippocampus following ischemia/reperfusion by immunoblotting. ERK phosphatase activity was reversibly inhibited in cerebral cortex but not affected in hippocampus following ischemia/reperfusion. MEK1/2 was activated in both cerebral cortex and hippocampus following ischemia/reperfusion. Using a specific inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), okadaic acid (OA), we have identified PP2A to be the major ERK phosphatase that is responsible for regulating ERK activation in ischemic brain tissues. Orthovanadate inhibited ERK phosphatase activity in brain tissues, suggesting that tyrosine phosphatases and dual specificity phosphatases may also contribute to the ERK phosphatase activity in brain tissues. Together, these data implicate ERK phosphatase in the regulation of ERK activation in distinct brain regions following global ischemia.
Malformations of cortical development are recognized causes of chronic medically intractable epilepsy. An increasing number of observations suggests an important role for cation-chloride co-transporters (CCTs) in controlling neuronal function. Deregulation of their expression may contribute to the mechanisms of hyperexcitability that lead to seizures. In the present study the expression and cell-specific distribution of Na+-K+-2Cl--cotransporter (NKCC1) and K+-Cl--cotransporter (KCC2) were studied immunocytochemically in different developmental lesions, including focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) type IIB (n=9), hemimegalencephaly (HMEG, n=6) and ganglioglioma (GG, n=9) from patients with medically intractable epilepsy and in age-matched controls. In normal control adult cortex, NKCC1 displayed low neuronal and glial expression levels. In contrast KCC2 showed strong and diffuse neuropil staining. Notable glial immunoreactivity (IR) was not found for KCC2. NKCC1 was highly expressed in the majority of FCD, HMEG and GG specimens. NKCC1 IR was observed in neurons of different size, including large dysplastic neurons, in balloon cells (in FCD and HMEG cases) and in glial cells with astrocytic morphology. The immunoreactivity pattern of KCC2 in FCD, HMEG and GG specimens was characterized by less neuropil staining and more intrasomatic IR compared with control. KCC2 IR was observed in neurons of different size, including large dysplastic neurons, but not in balloon cells or in glial cells with astrocytic morphology. Double-labeling experiments confirmed the differential cellular distribution of the two CCTs and their expression in GABA(A) receptor (alpha1 subunit)-positive dysplastic neurons. The cellular distribution of CCTs, with high expression of NKCC1 in dysplastic neurons and altered subcellular distribution of KCC2 resembles that of immature cortex and suggests a possible contribution of CCTs to the high epileptogenicity of malformations of cortical development.
In the perinatal period, adrenomedullary chromaffin cells (AMC) directly sense PO2 and secrete catecholamines during hypoxic stress, and this response is lost in juvenile ( approximately 2 week-old) chromaffin cells following postnatal innervation. Here we tested the hypothesis that a rotenone-sensitive O2-sensor and ROS are involved in the hypoxic response of AMC cultured from neonatal and juvenile rats. In whole-cell recordings, hypoxia (PO2=5-15 mm Hg) inhibited outward current in neonatal AMC; this response was reversed by exogenous H2O2 and mimicked and occluded by intracellular catalase (1000 units/ml), as well as the antioxidants, N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC; 50 microM) and Trolox (200 microM). Acute hypoxia decreased ROS levels and stimulated ATP secretion in these cells, as measured by luminol and luciferin-luciferase chemiluminescence, respectively. Of several mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) inhibitors tested, only rotenone, a complex I blocker, mimicked and occluded the effects of hypoxia on outward current, cellular ROS, and ATP secretion. Succinate donors, which act as complex II substrates, reversed the effects of hypoxia and rotenone in neonatal AMC. In contrast, in hypoxia-insensitive juvenile AMC, neither NAC nor rotenone stimulated ATP secretion though they both caused a decrease in ROS levels. We propose that O2-sensing by neonatal AMC is mediated by decreased ROS generation via a rotenone-sensitive site that is coupled to outward current inhibition and secretion. Interestingly, juvenile AMC display at least two modifications, i.e. an uncoupling of the O2-sensor from ROS regulation, and an apparent insensitivity of outward current to decreased ROS.
Functional properties in the spinal cord change during development to adapt motor outputs to differing behavioral requirements. Here, we have examined whether there are also developmental differences in spinal cord plasticity by comparing the neuromodulatory effects of substance P in the larval lamprey spinal cord with its previously characterized effects in premigratory adults. The premigratory adult effects of substance P were all significantly reduced in larvae. As the adult effects of substance P depend on the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent potentiation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission, we examined if the developmental differences in neuromodulation were associated with differences in synaptic properties. We found that the amplitude, rise time, and half-width of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) from excitatory network interneurons were all significantly reduced in larvae compared with adults. These differences were associated with a reduction in the NMDA component of larval EPSPs, an effect that could have contributed to the reduced modulatory effects of substance P in larvae. In contrast to glutamatergic inputs, the amplitude, rise time, and half-width of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) from ipsilateral inhibitory interneurons were all significantly increased in larvae compared with adults. Substance P also potentiated larval IPSP amplitudes, an effect not seen in adults. This increase in inhibition contributed to the reduced effects of substance P in larvae, as premigratory adult-like modulation could be evoked when inhibition was blocked with strychnine. These results suggest that opposite developmental changes in excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission and their modulation are associated with developmental differences in spinal cord neuromodulation.
Small-fiber painful peripheral neuropathy, a complication of chronic ethanol ingestion, is more severe in women. In the present study, we have replicated this clinical finding in the rat and evaluated for a role of estrogen and second messenger signaling pathways. The alcohol diet (6.5% ethanol volume:volume in Lieber-DeCarli formula) induced hyperalgesia with more rapid onset and severity in females. Following ovariectomy, alcohol failed to induce hyperalgesia in female rats, well past its time to onset in gonad intact males and females. Estrogen replacement reinstated alcohol neuropathy in the female rat. The protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor (Walsh inhibitor peptide, WIPTIDE) only attenuated alcohol-induced hyperalgesia in female rats. Inhibitors of protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon-I) and extracellular-signal related kinase (ERK) 1/2 (2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone (PD98059) and 1,4-diamino-2, 3-dicyano-1, 4-bis (2-aminophenylthio) butadiene (U0126)) attenuated hyperalgesia in males and females, however the degree of attenuation produced by PKCepsilon-I was much greater in females. In conclusion, estrogen plays an important role in the expression of pain associated with alcohol neuropathy in the female rat. In contrast to inflammatory hyperalgesia, in which only the contribution of PKCepsilon signaling is sexually dimorphic, in alcohol neuropathy PKA as well as PKCepsilon signaling is highly sexually dimorphic.
Neurobiological mechanisms of decision-making have been shown to be modulated by a number of frontal brain regions. Among those areas, the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is thought to play an important role in the decision of behavioral actions when faced with alternative options of ambiguous outcome. Here we present a novel neurobehavioral task to study affective decision-making in the rat, based on evaluation of consecutive choices between two levers associated with rewards of different value and probability. Two groups of animals were studied; a sham control group (n=6) and an OFC-lesioned group (n=7). In the first 30 trials both groups had similar preference patterns but at the end of the 90 trials of the task both groups developed specific preferences. The control group systematically preferred the lever associated with smaller but more reliable rewards (low risk lever) while the OFC lesion group preferred the high risk lever (index of preference of 0.21+/-0.21 vs. -0.45+/-0.10; t-test, P&lt;0.05). Analysis of choice persistence (i.e. choosing the same lever in consecutive trials) suggests that the OFC-lesioned group became less sensitive to risk, seeking large rewards irrespective of their success probability.
In adult rats, odor-evoked Fos protein expression is found in rostrocaudally-oriented bands of cells in anterior piriform cortex (APC), likely indicating functionally distinct subregions, while activated cells in posterior piriform cortex (PPC) lack apparent spatial organization. To determine whether these patterns are present during early postnatal life, and whether they change during development, Fos expression was assessed following acute exposure to single aliphatic acid odors in developing rats beginning at postnatal day 3 (P3). In the olfactory bulb, Fos-immunoreactive cells were present in the granule cell, mitral cell and glomerular layers at the earliest ages examined. Cells immunopositive for Fos were clustered in areas previously reported as active in response to these odors. In piriform cortex, activation in layers II/III shared some features with that seen in the adult; in APC, rostro-caudally oriented bands of Fos-positive cells alternated with bands relatively free of label, while labeled cells were found dispersed throughout PPC. However, in P3-P7 animals, Fos-positive cells in APC were found in a central rostro-caudally oriented band that was flanked by two bands relatively free of Fos-positive cells. This contrasted with the adult pattern, a central cell-poor band flanked by cell-rich bands, which was observed beginning at P10. These results suggest that subregions of APC visualized by odor-evoked Fos expression are active and functionally distinct shortly after birth. Changes in activity within these subregions during early postnatal development coincide with a shift toward adult-like olfactory learning behavior in the second postnatal week, and may play a role in this behavioral shift.
Synaptic communication requires an efficient coupling of vesicle fusion to release neurotransmitter and vesicle retrieval to repopulate the synapse. In synapses of the CNS many proteins involved in exocytosis, endocytosis and refilling of vesicles have been identified. However, little is known about the organization and functioning of synaptic contacts in the enteric nervous system (ENS). We used fluorescent antibodies against presynaptic proteins (synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin and bassoon) to identify synaptic contacts not only in guinea-pig enteric ganglia but also in the interconnecting fiber strands. Staining patterns were not altered by colchicine (100 microM), ruling out a contribution of protein transport at the time of fixation. Active release sites at fiber intersections and around neuronal cell bodies were labeled with FM1-43 (10 microM) by high K+ or electric field stimulation (EFS). During a second round of EFS, vesicles were reused, as reflected by dye loss. Destaining rates increased with stimulus frequency (2-30 Hz), reaching a maximum at about 15 Hz, likely caused by synaptic depression at higher frequencies. Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microM) as well as nominally zero external Ca2+ (2 mM EGTA) prevented all destaining. The readily releasable pool (RRP, a subset of vesicles docked at the membrane and ready to fuse upon [Ca2+]i increase) can be specifically released by a hypertonic challenge (500 mM sucrose). We measured this pool to be approximately 27% of the total recycling pool, remarkably similar to synapses in the CNS. In whole-mount preparations, FM1-43 also reliably labeled active release sites in ganglia, fiber strands and in muscle bundles. The staining pattern indicated that the presynaptic antibodies mainly labeled active sites. The presence of numerous release sites suggests information processing capability within interconnecting fibers. With FM imaging, enteric synaptic function can be monitored independent of any postsynaptic modulation. Although electron microscopy data suggest that ENS synapses may not be as specialized as hippocampal synapses, remarkably similar release properties were measured.
It is well known that the dopamine (DA) system plays an essential role in the organization and regulation of brain activational processes. Various environmental stimuli that induce locomotor activation also increase DA transmission, while DA antagonists decrease spontaneous locomotion. Our previous work supports close relationships between locomotor activation and brain and body temperature increases induced by salient environmental challenges or occurring during motivated behavior. While this correlation was also true for psychomotor stimulant drugs such as methamphetamine and MDMA, more complex relationships or even inverted correlations were found for other drugs that are known to increase DA transmission (i.e. heroin and cocaine). In the present study we examined brain, muscle and skin temperatures together with conventional locomotion during selective interruption of DA transmission induced by a mixture of D1 and D2 antagonists (SCH-23390 and eticlopride at 0.2 mg/kg, s.c.) and its selective activation by apomorphine (APO; 0.05 and 0.25 mg/kg, i.v.) in rats. While full DA receptor blockade decreased spontaneous locomotion, it significantly increased brain, muscle and skin temperatures, suggesting metabolic brain activation under conditions of vasodilatation (or weakening of normal vascular tone). In contrast, APO strongly decreased skin temperature but tended to decrease brain and muscle temperatures despite strong hyperlocomotion and stereotypy. The brain temperature response to APO was strongly dependent on basal brain temperature, with hypothermia at high basal temperatures and weak hyperthermia at low temperatures. While supporting the role of DA in locomotor activation, these data suggest more complex relationships between drug-induced alterations in DA transmission, behavioral activation and metabolic brain activation.


Stimulant addiction is often linked to excessive risk taking, sensation seeking, and impulsivity, but in ways that are poorly understood. We report here that a form of impulsivity in rats predicts high rates of intravenous cocaine self-administration and is associated with changes in dopamine (DA) function before drug exposure. Using positron emission tomography, we demonstrated that D2/3 receptor availability is significantly reduced in the nucleus accumbens of impulsive rats that were never exposed to cocaine and that such effects are independent of DA release. These data demonstrate that trait impulsivity predicts cocaine reinforcement and that D2 receptor dysfunction in abstinent cocaine addicts may, in part, be determined by premorbid influences.
In a report of a single patient in a persistent vegetative state, Owen et al. (Brevia, 8 September 2006, p. 1402) claimed that the presence of task-specific brain activation in response to verbal command implies both covert conscious awareness and a capacity for intention. We argue that neither can be securely inferred from the evidence presented.


Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by distinctive clinical manifestations including asymmetric akinetic-rigid syndrome and higher cortical dysfunctions. We characterized the clinical, electrophysiological and imaging presentations in four patients with CBD. All patients exhibited unilateral hand dystonia, rigidity and apraxia, but showed no significant response to levodopa therapy. Surface electromyography demonstrated short duration and stimulus-sensitive myoclonus in three of the four patients. On the other hand, there was no &quot;giant&quot; SEPs (somatosensory evoked potentials), and the backaveraged electroencephalography did not show any jerk-locked cortical potentials. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed asymmetrical cortical atrophy. [99mTc]HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) revealed decreased regional cerebral blood flow in the frontoparietal areas and thalamus opposite to the more severely affected limb. [99mTc]TRODAT-1 SPECT showed decreased uptake in the striatum of the affected hemisphere. These data supported that there are abnormal cortical excitability and asymmetric pathological change of the affected hemisphere in the patients with CBD.
Here we explore how abnormal spatio-temporal patterning of neuronal activity in the pallidum may contribute to dystonia. A critical feature of this abnormal patterning seems to be excessive synchronisation of neuronal activity over a 4-10 Hz frequency band. This is most readily apparent as fluctuation in the local field potential in this frequency band. Such activity correlates with the level of dystonic muscle activity and is concentrated in the internal segment of the globus pallidus, which is also the optimum surgical target in dystonia. It remains to be seen whether the abnormal low frequency activity is associated with dystonia through an abnormal processing of afferent information in the pallidum or to a more direct influence on the motor drive to dystonic muscles, which involves, at least in part, similar frequencies.
The identification of mutations that cause familial Parkinson's disease (PD) provides a framework for studies into pathways that may be perturbed also in the far more common, non-familial form of the disorder. Following this hypothesis, we have examined the gene regulatory network that links alpha-synuclein and parkin pathways with dopamine metabolism in neuropathologically verified cases of sporadic PD. By means of an in silico approach using a database of eukaryotic molecular interactions and a whole genome transcriptome dataset validated by qRT-PCR and histological methods, we found parkin and functionally associated genes to be up-regulated in the lateral substantia nigra (SN). In contrast, alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) gene expression levels were significantly reduced in both the lateral and medial SN in PD. Gene expression for Septin 4, a member of the GTP-binding protein family involved in alpha-synuclein metabolism was elevated in the lateral parkinsonian SN. Additionally, catalase and mitogen-activated protein kinase 8 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase family member 1 (PARP1) known to function in DNA repair and cell death induction, all members of the dopamine synthesis pathway, were up-regulated in the lateral SN. In contrast, two additional PD-linked genes, glucocerebrosidase and nuclear receptor subfamily 4, group A, member 2 (NR4A2) showed reduced expression. We show that in sporadic PD, parkin, alpha-synuclein and dopamine pathways are co-deregulated. Alpha-synuclein is a member of all three gene regulatory networks. Our analysis results support the view that alpha-synuclein has a central role in the familial as well as the non-familial form of the disease and provide steps towards a pathway definition of PD.
Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is characterized by selective neuronal loss and gliosis in CA1 and the subiculum and has been associated with several disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin immunoreactive inclusions (FTLD-U), vascular dementia and some tauopathies. In some cases, HS is not associated with other degenerative pathologies. Such cases are sometimes referred to as HS dementia (HSD). Differences between HSD and HS in the setting of FTLD-U have not been systematically investigated. To this end, eight cases of HSD and ten cases of HS associated with FTLD-U were studied with Nissl and periodic acid-Schiff stains to assess neuronal loss and corpora amylacea, respectively. Sections were immunostained with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein, HLA-DR and synaptophysin and immunoreactivity was measured with image analysis in CA1 and the subiculum of each case. Additionally, sections were immunostained with antibodies to 4-R tau to determine the presence of argyrophilic grains. HSD was different from HS associated with FTLD-U. Specifically, it was more common in the elderly, and it was associated with more marked neuronal and synaptic loss and with greater reactive gliosis. Corpora amylacea tended to be more frequent in HSD than in FTLD-U, but there was no difference in frequency of argyrophilic grains.
Cerebrolysin (CBL) is a peptide mixture with neurotrophic effects that might reduce the neurodegenerative alterations in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously shown that in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic (tg) mouse model of AD, CBL improves synaptic plasticity and behavioral performance. However, the mechanisms are not completely clear. The neuroprotective effects of CBL might be related to its ability to promote neurogenesis in the hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus (DG). To study this possibility, tg mice expressing mutant APP under the Thy-1 promoter were injected with BrdU and treated with CBL for 1 and 3 months. Compared to non-tg controls, vehicle-treated APP tg mice showed decreased numbers of BrdU-positive (+) and doublecortin+ (DCX) neural progenitor cells (NPC) in the SGZ. In contrast, APP tg mice treated with CBL showed a significant increase in BrdU+ cells, DCX+ neuroblasts and a decrease in TUNEL+ and activated caspase-3 immunoreactive NPC. CBL did not change the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen+ (PCNA) NPC or the ratio of BrdU+ cells converting to neurons and astroglia in the SGZ cells in the APP tg mice. Taken together, these studies suggest that CBL might rescue the alterations in neurogenesis in APP tg mice by protecting NPC and decreasing the rate of apoptosis. The improved neurogenesis in the hippocampus of CBL-treated APP tg mice might play an important role in enhancing synaptic formation and memory acquisition.


Besner and Coltheart [Besner, D., &amp; Coltheart, M. (1979). Ideographic and alphabetic processing in skilled reading of English. Neuropsychologia, 17, 467-472] found a size congruity effect for Arabic numbers but not for number words. They proposed that Arabic numbers and number words are processed in different ways. However, in their study orientation of the stimuli and notation were confounded. In the present study, it is found that orientation of number words affects numerical processing. Orientation modulates both the size congruity effect and the distance effect; horizontal presentation produces similar results to those produced by Arabic numbers whereas vertical orientation produces different results. Accordingly, it is proposed that our cognitive system is endowed with two different mechanisms for numerical processing; one relies on a visual-spatial code and the other on a verbal code.
Irrelevant speech effect (ISE) is defined as a decrement in visually presented digit-list short-term memory performance due to exposure to irrelevant auditory material. Perhaps the most successful theoretical explanation of the effect is the changing state hypothesis. This hypothesis explains the effect in terms of confusion between amodal serial order cues, and represents a view based on the interference caused by the processing of similar order information of the visual and auditory materials. An alternative view suggests that the interference occurs as a consequence of the similarity between the visual and auditory contents of the stimuli. An important argument for the former view is the observation that ISE is almost exclusively observed in tasks that require memory for serial order. However, most short-term memory tasks require that both item and order information be retained in memory. An ideal task to investigate the sensitivity of maintenance of serial order to irrelevant speech would be one that calls upon order information but not item information. One task that is particularly suited to address this issue is serial recognition. In a typical serial recognition task, a list of items is presented and then probed by the same list in which the order of two adjacent items has been transposed. Due to the re-presentation of the encoding string, serial recognition requires primarily the serial order to be maintained while the content of the presented items is deemphasized. In demonstrating a highly significant ISE of changing versus steady-state auditory items in a serial recognition task, the present finding lends support for and extends previous empirical findings suggesting that irrelevant speech has the potential to interfere with the coding of the order of the items to be memorized.

The present study compared high-risk triggers and substance use situations among 72 (34 men, 38 women) individuals with alcohol (AD) or cocaine dependence (CD), with or without comorbid PTSD. Consistent with the self-medication hypothesis, individuals with PTSD reported significantly greater use of substances in response to negative situations, such as unpleasant emotions and physical discomfort, as compared to individuals without PTSD. CD individuals were significantly more likely than AD individuals to report using in temptation situations, regardless of PTSD status. Also, CD individuals with PTSD reported greater use of cocaine during pleasant times with others, as compared to those without PTSD. The findings highlight the importance of addressing individual-specific high-risk situations in relapse prevention.
Reduced right amygdala volumes have been reported in young, alcohol-nave subjects at high risk (HR) for alcohol dependence. The differences in brain morphometry have been associated with an excess of externalizing behaviors in these subjects. This may reflect a neurobiological vulnerability to alcohol dependence. Existing Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) studies on these subjects have examined only a few, pre-selected brain regions using the manual regions of interest (ROI) approach. MRI of HR subjects (n = 20) and age, sex, and handedness-matched low-risk (LR) subjects (n = 21) were analyzed using optimized voxel-based morphometry and ROI approach. The externalizing symptoms of these subjects and their fathers were measured using the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism. HR subjects had significantly smaller volumes of superior frontal, cingulate and parahippocampal gyri, amygdala, thalamus and cerebellum. These gray matter volumes correlated negatively with externalizing symptoms scores. Subjects at HR for alcoholism have reduced volumes of critical areas of brain gray matter, which are associated with increased externalizing symptoms. These represent key endophenotypes of alcoholism.
Ghrelin stimulates appetite, increases food intake and causes adiposity by mechanisms that include direct actions on the brain. Previously, we showed that intracerebroventricular administration of ghrelin has stimulatory and dopamine-enhancing properties. These effects of ghrelin are mediated via central nicotine receptors, suggesting that ghrelin can activate the acetylcholine-dopamine reward link. This reward link consists of cholinergic input from the laterodorsal tegmental area (LDTg) to the mesolimbic dopamine system that originates in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and projects to the nucleus accumbens. Given that growth hormone secretagogue receptors (GHSR-1A) are expressed in the VTA and LDTg, brain areas involved in reward, the present series of experiments were undertaken to examine the hypothesis that these regions may mediate the stimulatory and dopamine-enhancing effects of ghrelin, by means of locomotor activity and in vivo microdialysis in freely moving mice. We found that local administration of ghrelin into the VTA (1 microg in 1 microl) induced an increase in locomotor activity and in the extracellular concentration of accumbal dopamine. In addition, local administration of ghrelin into the LDTg (1 microg in 1 microl) caused a locomotor stimulation and an increase in the extracellular levels of accumbal dopamine. Taken together, this indicates that ghrelin might, via activation of GHSR-1A in the VTA and LDTg, stimulate the acetylcholine-dopamine reward link, implicating that ghrelin is a part of the neurochemical overlap between the reward systems and those that regulate energy balance.





Allergic bronchial asthma is a complex inflammatory diseases originated from dysregulated immune responses in the respiratory mucosa. The inflammatory state in asthmatic lung is characterized by massive infiltration with eosinophils, lymphocytes, and mast cells in the airway mucosa leading to airway hyperseisitivity, goblet cell hyperplasia and mucus overproduction. The inflammatory process is thought to be the result of intensive T helper (Th) 2-biased immune response. Over the past several years, there has been enormous progress in understanding the mechanisms for development of Th2-biased responses after inhaled exposure to allergens and the characteristics of CD4+ T cells prominently involved in this process. Recently, a new population of T cells, invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells has been shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of mouse model of allergic airway inflammation. iNKT cells are one of the most potent immune modulators through a massive production of a various cytokines including IL-4 and IFN-gamma upon activation, and are involved in a variety of immunoregulations including infection, autoimmunity, and tumor surveillance. The potent pathogenic role of iNKT cells in the development of bronchial asthma is due to their ability to produce predominant Th2 cytokines in a given condition. The involvement of iNKT cells in the pathogenesis of asthma might have been underestimated in the past studies demonstrating the involvement of CD4+ T cells in asthma because of the difficulty in the detection of iNKT cells. Meanwhile, growing evidences have demonstrated that iNKT cells could be a promising target for immune-based therapies for autoimmune diseases, tumor, and infection due to the invariance of their TCR usage, the restriction to the evolutionally-conserved non-polymorphic antigen-presenting molecule CD1d, and their outstanding ability to produce both Th1- and Th2-cytokines. In this review, we will overview current understanding of the pathophysiological roles of iNKT cells in asthma. We would also discuss on possible therapeutic approaches to bronchial asthma employing glycolipid ligands for iNKT cells.
The development of pharmacotherapies for cocaine addiction has been disappointingly slow. However, new neurobiological knowledge of how the brain is changed by chronic pharmacological insult with cocaine is revealing novel targets for drug development. Certain drugs currently being tested in clinical trials tap into the underlying cocaine-induced neuroplasticity, including drugs promoting GABA or inhibiting glutamate transmission. Armed with rationales derived from a neurobiological perspective that cocaine addiction is a pharmacologically induced disease of neuroplasticity in brain circuits mediating normal reward learning, one can expect novel pharmacotherapies to emerge that directly target the biological pathology of addiction.

X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP) is a movement disorder endemic to the Philippines. The disease locus, DYT3, has been mapped to Xq13.1. In a search for the causative gene, we performed genomic sequencing analysis, followed by expression analysis of XDP brain tissues. We found a disease-specific SVA (short interspersed nuclear element, variable number of tandem repeats, and Alu composite) retrotransposon insertion in an intron of the TATA-binding protein-associated factor 1 gene (TAF1), which encodes the largest component of the TFIID complex, and significantly decreased expression levels of TAF1 and the dopamine receptor D2 gene (DRD2) in the caudate nucleus. We also identified an abnormal pattern of DNA methylation in the retrotransposon in the genome from the patient's caudate, which could account for decreased expression of TAF1. Our findings suggest that the reduced neuron-specific expression of the TAF1 gene is associated with XDP.
Many researchers have recently explored the cognitive profile of velocardiofacial syndrome (VCFS), a neurodevelopmental disorder linked to a 22q11.2 deletion. However, verbal short-term memory has not yet been systematically investigated. We explored verbal short-term memory abilities in a group of 11 children and adults presenting with VCFS and two control groups, matched on either CA or vocabulary knowledge, by distinguishing short-term memory for serial order and item information. The VCFS group showed impaired performance on the serial order short-term memory tasks compared to both control groups. Relative to the vocabulary-matched control group, item short-term memory was preserved. The implication of serial order short-term memory deficits on other aspects of cognitive development in VCFS (e.g., language development, numerical cognition) is discussed.
When running in vivo experiments, it is imperative to keep arterial blood pressure and acid-base parameters within the normal physiological range. The aim of this investigation was to explore the consequences of anesthesia-induced acidosis on basal and PGE(2)-stimulated duodenal bicarbonate secretion. Mice (strain C57bl/6J) were kept anesthetized by a spontaneous inhalation of isoflurane. Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), arterial acid-base balance, and duodenal mucosal bicarbonate secretion (DMBS) were studied. Two intra-arterial fluid support strategies were used: a standard Ringer solution and an isotonic Na(2)CO(3) solution. Duodenal single perfusion was used, and DMBS was assessed by back titration of the effluent. PGE(2) was used to stimulate DMBS. In Ringer solution-infused mice, isoflurane-induced acidosis became worse with time. The blood pH was 7.15-7.21 and the base excess was about -8 mM at the end of experiments. The continuous infusion of Na(2)CO(3) solution completely compensated for the acidosis. The blood pH was 7.36-7.37 and base excess was about 1 mM at the end of the experiment. Basal and PGE(2)-stimulated DMBS were markedly greater in animals treated with Na(2)CO(3) solution than in those treated with Ringer solution. MAP was slightly higher after Na(2)CO(3) solution infusion than after Ringer solution infusion. We concluded that isoflurane-induced acidosis markedly depresses basal and PGE(2)-stimulated DMBS as well as the responsiveness to PGE(2), effects prevented by a continuous infusion of Na(2)CO(3). When performing in vivo experiments in isoflurane-anesthetized mice, it is recommended to supplement with a Na(2)CO(3) infusion to maintain a normal acid-base balance.
We have shown recently that cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8s) increases glutamate release from nerve terminals onto neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius pars centralis (cNTS). The effects of CCK on gastrointestinal-related functions have, however, been attributed almost exclusively to its paracrine action on vagal afferent fibers. Because it has been reported that systemic or perivagal capsaicin pretreatment abolishes the effects of CCK, the aim of the present work was to investigate the response of cNTS neurons to CCK-8s in vagally deafferented rats. In surgically deafferented rats, intraperitoneal administration of 1 or 3 mug/kg CCK-8s increased c-Fos expression in cNTS neurons (139 and 251% of control, respectively), suggesting that CCK-8s' effects are partially independent of vagal afferent fibers. Using whole cell patch-clamp techniques in thin brain stem slices, we observed that CCK-8s increased the frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in 43% of the cNTS neurons via a presynaptic mechanism. In slices from deafferented rats, the percentage of cNTS neurons receiving glutamatergic inputs responding to CCK-8s decreased by approximately 50%, further suggesting that central terminals of vagal afferent fibers are not the sole site for the action of CCK-8s in the brain stem. Taken together, our data suggest that the sites of action of CCK-8s include the brain stem, and in cNTS, the actions of CCK-8s are not restricted to vagal central terminals but that nonvagal synapses are also involved.
We developed a novel technique to simultaneously monitor micturitions and erections in rats by using pressure monitoring within the corpus spongiosum of the penis (CSP). We present data validating this technique and report pressure waveform characteristics of micturition and erectile events during four different behavioral contexts in 10 awake, freely-moving male rats. Telemetric pressure transducers were implanted in the bulb of the CSP. CSP pressure was monitored while the animals were simultaneously recorded on video for determination of presence and volume (n = 7) of micturitions and while the animals underwent behavioral tests for determination of erections. Observed micturitions and CSP pressure waveforms characteristic of micturitions occurred simultaneously (r = 0.98) at a frequency of 32 +/- 4 micturitions per 24 h and with a volume of 0.95 +/- 0.12 ml/urination. Micturition duration recorded by CSP pressure and volume determined by urine weight were highly correlated (r = 0.82). We found that 100% of visually confirmed erectile events occurred simultaneously with CSP pressure waveforms characteristic of erections during ex copula reflex erection tests. During noncontact erection and mating tests more erections were identified by telemetry than by observation alone. Erections during mating tests had a different appearance than those seen in other contexts; they were shorter in duration (P &lt; 0.05) and typically were characterized by a single suprasystolic CSP pressure peak, highlighting the context-specificity of erections. Quality of recordings remained stable in three of four rats we followed for 8 wk. We demonstrate that telemetric recording of CSP pressure provides a quantitative and qualitative assessment of penile erections and micturition in freely behaving rats.
The cycle length or period of the free-running rhythm is a key characteristic of circadian rhythms. In this study we verify prior reports that locomotor activity patterns and running wheel access can alter the circadian period, and we report that these treatments also increase variability of the circadian period between animals. We demonstrate that the loss of a neurochemical, neuropeptide Y (NPY), abolishes these influences and reduces the interindividual variability in clock period. These behavioral and environmental influences, from daily distribution of peak locomotor activity and from access to a running wheel, both act to push the mean circadian period to a value &lt; 24 h. Magnitude of light-induced resetting is altered as well. When photoperiod was abruptly changed from a 18:6-h light-dark cycle (LD18:6) to LD6:18, mice deficient in NPY were slower to respond to the change in photoperiod by redistribution of their activity within the prolonged dark and eventually adopted a delayed phase angle of entrainment compared with controls. These results support the hypothesis that nonphotic influences on circadian period serve a useful function when animals must respond to abruptly changing photoperiods and point to the NPYergic pathway from the intergeniculate leaflet innervating the suprachiasmatic nucleus as a circuit mediating these effects.
Interoceptive signals have a powerful impact on the motivation and emotional learning of animals during stressful experiences. However, current insights into the organization of interoceptive pathways stem mainly from observation and manipulation of adults, and little is known regarding the functional development of viscerosensory signaling pathways. To address this, we have examined central neural activation patterns in rat pups after treatment with lithium chloride (LiCl), a malaise-inducing agent. Rat pups were injected intraperitoneally with 0.15 M LiCl or 0.15 M NaCl (2% body wt) on postnatal day (P)0, 7, 14, 21, or 28, perfused 60 to 90 min postinjection, and their brains assayed for Fos protein immunolabeling. Compared with saline treatment, LiCl increased Fos only slightly in the area postrema, nucleus of the solitary tract, and lateral parabrachial nucleus on P0. LiCl did not increase Fos above control levels in the central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), or paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus on P0 but did on P7 and later. Maximal Fos responses to LiCl were observed on P14 in all areas except the BNST, in which LiCl-induced Fos activation continued to increase through P28. These results indicate that central LiCl-sensitive interoceptive circuits in rats are not fully functional at birth, and show age-dependent increases in neural Fos responses to viscerosensory stimulation with LiCl.
Water-restricted (WR) rats exhibit a rapid suppression of plasma corticosterone following drinking. The present study monitored Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos) to assess the effect of WR-induced drinking on the activity of vasopressin (VP)-positive magnocellular and parvocellular neurons and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-positive parvocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Adult male rats received water for 30 min (WR) in the post meridiem (PM) each day for 6 days and were killed without receiving water or at 1 h after receiving water for 15 min. In WR rats, Fos increased in VP magnocellular and parvocellular neurons but not CRH neurons. After drinking, Fos was reduced in VP magnocellular and parvocellular neurons but did not change in CRH neurons. To assess the severity of osmotic stress, rats were sampled throughout the final day of WR. Plasma osmolality, hematocrit and plasma VP were increased throughout the day before PM rehydration, and plasma ACTH and corticosterone were elevated at 1230 and 1430, respectively, showing that WR activates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity during the early PM before the time of rehydration. To determine the effects of WR-induced drinking on CRH neurons activated by acute stress, WR rats underwent restraint. Restraint increased plasma ACTH and corticosterone and Fos in CRH neurons; although rehydration reduced plasma ACTH and Fos expression in VP neurons, Fos in CRH neurons was not affected. These results suggest that inhibition of VP magnocellular and parvocellular neurons, but not CRH parvocellular neurons, contributes to the suppression of corticosterone after WR-induced drinking.


Mammalian retinal projections are divided into two anatomically and functionally distinct systems: the primary visual system, which mediates conscious visual processing, and the subcortical visual system, which mediates nonconscious responses to light. Light deprivation during a critical period in development alters the anatomy, physiology, and function of the primary visual system in many mammalian species. However, little is known about the influence of dark-rearing on the development of the subcortical visual system. To evaluate whether the early lighting environment alters the anatomy of the subcortical visual system, we examined the retinas and retinofugal projections of rats reared in a 12:12 light/dark cycle or in constant dark from birth to 4 months of age. We found that dark-rearing was associated with a reduction in the distribution of retinal fibers in the stratum opticum of the contralateral superior colliculus. In contrast to the plasticity of the retinocollicular projection, retinal input to sleep, circadian, and pupillary control centers in the hypothalamus, pretectum, and lateral geniculate complex was unaffected by dark-rearing. A decrease in retinal innervation of the stratum opticum and intermediate layers of the superior colliculus may account for some of the deficits in multisensory integration that have been observed in dark-reared animals of several species.
The rhesus monkey is widely used as an experimental animal model in the study of brain function and disease. While previous quantitative studies have provided knowledge of regional numbers, little is known of the total neocortical neuron and glial cell numbers in this species. The aim of this study is to establish quantitative norms. We use the optical fractionator and Cavalieri principle to examine the right hemisphere of eight young rhesus monkeys taken from the control group of an ongoing study. Applying these methods to agar-embedded and vibratome-sectioned tissue, we generate estimates of cell numbers and regional volumes of neocortical and hippocampal regions with coefficients of variance (CV) around 10%. The mean unilateral neocortical neuron number is 1.35 x 10(9) (CV +/- 0.10) and the mean unilateral neocortical glial cell number is 0.78 x 10(9) (CV +/- 0.17). Mean unilateral neocortical volume is found to be 8.5 (CV +/- 0.10) cm(3) after processing, or 19 cm(3) when correcting for shrinkage. The neuron/glia ratio is 1.77. The neurons are distributed with 18% in the frontal cortex, 57% in the temporal and parietal cortices, and 25% in the occipital cortex. In the hippocampal subregions, we found unilateral neuron number of 1.72 x 10(6) (CV +/- 0.13) and glial number of 2.25 x 10(6) (CV +/- 0.17) in CA1, and 0.80 x 10(6) (CV +/- 0.27) neurons and 1.05 x 10(6) (CV +/- 0.26) glial cells in CA2-3. Comparisons with related studies show quantitative variation, but also variations in methods and applications. The results are phylogenetically consistent, apart from the neuron/glia ratio, which is remarkably higher than what is found in other species.

People suffering from rare diseases, independently of the condition, often experience the same problems in receiving adequate health and social care. It is not clear how these problems differ in severity among different diseases and in different countries and how they change in time. In the framework of the NEPHIRD (Network of Public Health Institutions on Rare Diseases), a European project, funded by DG-SANCO (EU Commission), an effort was made to develop a simple but comprehensive tool to show patients' and/or caregivers' opinions about the quality and accessibility of health and social services. The self-filled questionnaire asks how often patients or caregivers had both negative and positive experiences about the quality and accessibility of health and social services and their opinion on their improvement, on 5-level scales. A pilot survey was carried out in several European Countries among members of Myasthenia Gravis, Neurofibromatosis, Prader Willi and Rett Syndrome volunteers' associations. Descriptive and comparative analyses were performed using Stata and Epi Info 2000. In total, 302 questionnaires were completed in France, Italy, Romania, Spain, Turkey and United Kingdom during 2004-05. In general, respondents thought that health care accessibility was worse than quality, and that social care and legal provisions were worse than health care, with some differences among countries. For all diseases, and for both patients and caregivers, the most frequent reported positive experiences were health professionals' kindness and readiness to help (all medians ranged from 3 to 5). As for the efforts for improvement made by public services in the last three years, the opinions were generally favourable. This study has several limitations. However the assessment tool that has been developed has some innovative and interesting features and may be considered a useful attempt to compare patients' and caregivers' experiences for a range of different diseases, countries and services, with respect to a rare disease programme.
Whereas sodium-calcium exchangers (NCXs) have long been recognized as plasma membrane constituents that serve to maintain homeostatic concentrations of Ca2+ in the cytoplasm, they were recently shown to also occur in the nuclear envelope (NE) of neural and other cells where they function to regulate nuclear Ca2+. A unique feature of NCXs in the NE is their high-affinity binding to GM1 ganglioside, this association being required for optimal exchanger activity. The NCX-GM1 complex occurs in the inner membrane of the NE and transfers Ca2+ from the nucleoplasm to the NE lumen. In neuronal cells, nuclear GM1 levels are low prior to differentiation but increase rapidly as axonal outgrowth progresses. Cells from genetically altered mice lacking GM1 have limited ability to regulate nuclear Ca2+, and the mice themselves showed similar deficit as seen in their high susceptibility to kainite-induced seizures. These are attenuated by LIGA-20, a derivative of GM1 that enters the nuclear membrane and restores nuclear NCX activity to normal level.
Sodium/calcium exchangers are neuronal plasma membrane transporters, which by coupling Ca2+ and Na+ fluxes, may play a relevant role in brain ischemia. The exchanger gene superfamily comprises two arms: the K+-independent (NCX) and K+-dependent (NCKX) exchangers. In the brain, three different NCX (NCX1, NCX2, NCX3) and three NCKX (NCKX2, NCKX3, NCKX4) family members have been described. Up to now, no sutides about the role played by NCKX proteins in cerebral ischemia have been published. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of NCKX2 in an in vivo model of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). The role of this protein in the development of ischemic damage was assessed by knocking-down its expression with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS-ODN), intracerebroventricularly infused by an osmotic minipump for 48 h, starting from 24 h before pMCAO. The results showed that NCKX2 knocking-down by using antisense strategy increased the extent of the ischemic lesion. The results of this study suggest that NCKX2 could exert a neuroprotective effect during ischemic injury.
Chemical hypoxia produces depletion of ATP, intracellular Ca2+ overload, and cell death. The role of Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX), the major plasma membrane Ca2+ extruding system, has been explored in chemical hypoxia using BHK cells stably transfected with the three mammalian NCX isoforms: NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3. Here we report that the three isoforms show similar activity evaluated as [Ca2+]i increase evoked by Na+-free medium exposure in Fura-2-loaded single cells and NCX3 transfected cells are less vulnerable to chemical hypoxia compared to NCX1- and NCX2-transfected cells, suggesting that NCX3 could play a more relevant protective role during chemical hypoxia.
Over the last few years, although extensive studies have focused on the relevant function played by the sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) during focal ischemia, a thorough understanding of its role still remains a controversial issue. We explored the consequences of the pharmacological inhibition of this antiporter with conventional pharmacological approach, with the synthetic inhibitory peptide, XIP, or with an antisense strategy on the extent of brain damage induced by the permanent occlusion of middle cerebral artery (pMCAO) in rats. Collectively, the results of these studies suggest that ncx1 and ncx3 genes could be play a major role to limit the severity of ischemic damage probably as they act to dampen [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i overload. This mechanism seems to be normally activated in the ischemic brain as we found a selective upregulation of NCX1 and NCX3 mRNA levels in regions of the brain surviving to an ischemic insult. Despite this transcript increase, NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 proteins undergo an extensive proteolytic degradation in the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere. All together these results suggest that a rescue program centered on an increase NCX function and expression could halt the progression of the ischemic damage. On the basis of this evidence we directed our attention to the understanding of the transductional and transcriptional pathways responsible for NCX upregulation. To this aim, we are studying whether the brain isoform of Akt, Akt1, which is a downstream effector of neurotrophic factors, such as NGF can, in addition to affecting the other prosurvival cascades, also exert its neuroprotective effect by modulating the expression and activity of ncx1, ncx2, and ncx3 gene products.
The distinct role of plasma membrane calcium ATPase 2 (PMCA2) in the function of different neuronal subpopulations in the central nervous system is not well understood. We found that lack of PMCA2 leads to a reduction in the number of motor neurons in the spinal cord of PMCA2-null mice and to abnormal changes in molecular pathways in Purkinje cells. Thus, PMCA2 may have unique, nonredundant functions in spinal cord and cerebellar neurons. Our results suggest that anomalous alterations in PMCA2 activity or expression may induce pathology in some neuronal populations, a possibility that will be the focus of future investigations.




This meta-analysis examines a wide range of small molecule anticancer drugs to search for a structure common to all. Although they encompass a very wide range of structures, nearly all reveal the presence of an allylic O, N, or S atom. In some, the allylic oxygen is a carbonyl group, or an alcohol group, which can be substituted (ester, lactone, glycoside, ether) or replaced by an amino or imino nitrogen Some antineoplastic drugs do not exhibit this moiety but are converted in vivo to allylic derivatives. An allylic hydroxyl is also present in most sphingolipids, ubiquitous body components that control proliferative and anti-proliferative cell functions. Ceramide, the precursor of all the allylic sphingolipids, seems to be a general inducer of apoptosis in cancer cells. Further examination of sphingolipids and anticancer drugs shows the frequent occurrence of [i] double bonds conjugated to the allylic bond, (ii) two or more allylic moieties in each molecule, (iii) lipophilic features, especially linear chains, and (iv) attachment of an O, N, or S atom to a carbon atom of the allylic double bond, e.g., -CH(2)-C(OMe)=CH-CH(OH)-CH(2)-. Suggested mechanisms of action: (a) allylic ketone drugs undergo a Michael condensation with tumor thiols or other reactive groups; (b) allylic OH drugs undergo oxidation to an allylic ketone, generating reactive oxygen; (c) some interfere with mitochondrial ubiquinone, blocking ATP production; (d) some act as a ceramide mimic (inhibitor or agonist) in ceramide-controlled kinases, phosphatases, and proteases; (e) many antineoplastic drugs stimulate ceramide-forming processes.
Selective damage of mitochondrial complex I within the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra is the central event during Parkinson disease. Peroxynitrite is one of the important free radicals probably mediating complex I damage. Peroxynitrite inhibits brain complex I mainly by 3-nitrotyrosine and nitrosothiol formation, but how these modifications alter the structure-function relation of complex I is unclear. Curcumin pretreatment protects brain mitochondria against peroxynitrite in vitro by direct detoxification and prevention of 3-nitrotyrosine formation and in vivo by elevation of total cellular glutathione levels. These results suggest a potential therapeutic role for curcumin against nitrosative stress in neurological disorders.
High-fat diets produce obesity in part because, per calorie, glucose produces greater post-prandial thermogenesis than lipids, an effect probably mediated by glucose-sensing neurons. A very low-carbohydrate/high-fat/high-protein Atkins-type diet produces obesity but is marginally ketogenic in mice. In contrast, high-sucrose/low-fat diets, and very low-carbohydrate/high-fat/low-protein (anti-epileptic) ketogenic diets reverse diet-induced obesity independent of caloric intake. We propose that a non-ketogenic high-fat diet reduces glucose metabolism and signaling in glucose-sensing neurons, thereby reducing post-prandial thermogenesis, and that a ketogenic high-fat diet does not reduce glucose signaling, thereby preventing and/or reversing obesity.
African Americans are at significantly increased risk for the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet are seriously underrepresented in research trials. Preliminary experiences on a large scale, multi-site, 5-year longitudinal trial investigating the psychometric expression and progression of AD targeting an aging Southern rural cohort of African Americans are reported. Sixty-five participants, ranging from asymptomatic to severely demented, underwent extensive individual diagnostic and psychometric evaluation. Results indicated that cultural factors strongly influenced the data. Recruitment with asymptomatic volunteers were found to have greater educational attainment than other participant groups. Psychomotor measures showed greater impairment in African Americans compared to Caucasians suggesting increased cerebrovascular burden. African Americans' performance on the Boston Naming Test and the Wechsler Test of Adult Reading tests were significantly different than performance of Caucasian groups. The findings demonstrated that a better understanding of sociocultural factors associated with AD in the African American population may facilitate the development of primary and secondary preventions, especially when considering the role of cerebrovascular comorbidity which is a modifiable risk factor.


Various studies have shown that occurrence of locomotion in infancy is correlated with the development of visuospatial cognitive competencies, suggesting that locomotor experience might play a central role in spatial development, especially in the realm of manual search for hidden objects. However, recent studies indicate that young children with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a hereditary neuromuscular disease which results in severe motor impairments, excel in some spatial cognitive skills. Indeed, striking cognitive performances are exhibited by young SMA children in some areas such as the ability to search successfully for hidden objects and the acquisition of the spatial vocabulary. The performances of SMA children suggest that, despite their total deprivation of locomotor experience, they have the capacity to acquire and use rich spatial representations. As a result, locomotor impairment does not appear to be a key risk factor for dramatic slowing down or deviation in the development of spatial search skills.
This study examined the expression of P2X7 receptors in pancreatic islets of the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse model of human autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, to determine whether they are involved in islet cell destruction during early- and late-developing diabetes. Pancreatic cells containing glucagon (alpha-cells), insulin (beta-cells) and somatostatin (delta-cells) were co-localized with P2X7 receptors. We examined P2X7 receptor expression in normal and diabetic spleens using flow cytometry. In non-diabetic NOD controls, P2X7 receptors were expressed in glucagon-containing cells at the periphery of islets, being consistent with previous studies. In early NOD diabetes (12 weeks), there was migration of peripheral P2X7 receptor positive, glucagon-containing cells into the center of islets. In late NOD diabetes (34 weeks), P2X7 receptor- and glucagon-stained alpha-cells were gone from islets. Migration of macrophages and dendritic cells into islets took place, but they lacked P2X7 immunoreactivity. There was no significant difference in the percentage of splenic macrophages stained for P2X7 receptors from control and diabetic spleens. In conclusion, in the development of early to late diabetes, there is a down-regulation of P2X7 receptors on islet cells and a loss of alpha- and beta-cell populations. P2X7 receptor signalling might be involved in alpha-cell clearance from late diabetic islets.
The present investigation aimed to study two methodological concerns of an experimental model, where a spinal loop dialysis probe is used for administration of substances to the spinal cord and sampling of neurotransmitters by microdialysis from the same area of anaesthetized rats. [(3)H]Epibatidine in concentrations of 1, 10 and 100 nM was dissolved in Ringer's solution and administered through the dialysis membrane into the dorsal region of the cervical spinal cord. First, the outflow of [(3)H]epibatidine from the probe into the spinal cord was examined with respect to different concentrations and changes over time. Then, the distribution of the different [(3)H]epibatidine concentrations along the spinal cord was studied. It was found that the percentage of [(3)H]epibatidine entering the spinal cord did not differ between different administered concentrations after a stabilization period of 60 min. The administered [(3)H]epibatidine was found to be distributed to the area closest to the dialysis probe and not dispersed along the spinal cord, and the distribution was equal for all concentrations. The data presented in this investigation provide information, which is important for interpretation of data from intraspinal administration of substances through the spinal loop dialysis probe.
Occupational and environmental exposure of synthetic nitriles is of potential relevance to human health. Iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), a prototype nitrile toxin, has been shown to produce dyskinetic syndrome in rodents. This study reports the effect of concomitant exposure of rats to hydrocortisone and IDPN on behavioural abnormalities namely excitation, circling and chorea (ECC) syndrome. Four groups of female Wistar rats were given hydrocortisone (0, 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg, gavage, for 10 days) 30 min. before IDPN (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally for 8 days). Two additional groups of rats were treated with either saline (control group) or 60 mg/kg of hydrocortisone (drug alone group). The animals were observed for neurobehavioural abnormalities including dyskinetic head movement, circling, tail hanging, air righting reflex and contact inhibition of righting reflex. After behavioural studies, the animals were killed, and the discrete brain regions and temporal bones were collected for biochemistry and inner ear histopathology, respectively. Hydrocortisone significantly and dose dependently attenuated the incidence and severity of IDPN-induced behavioural syndrome. Administration of hydrocortisone (60 mg/kg) alone significantly increased glutathione (GSH) levels in olfactory bulb and striatum, whereas IDPN alone significantly reduced GSH levels in olfactory bulb, striatum and hippocampus. Hydrocortisone (60 mg/kg) significantly compensated IDPN-induced depletions of GSH in different brain regions. Hydrocortisone also protected the animals against IDPN-induced vestibular hair cell degeneration. The protective effect of hydrocortisone may be attributed to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties.
The etiology of variation in reading ability and its relationship to inattention, impulsivity, and general cognitive ability were investigated within a large, population-based sample of 9- to 10-year-old twins. Phenotypic and genetic analyses were performed on word-level reading, full-scale IQ, and measures of inattention and impulsivity derived from the Go-NoGo task (i.e., Go errors and NoGo errors, respectively). Moderate and significant phenotypic correlations were found among reading, inattention and IQ, but not between impulsivity and the other variables. Genetic modeling revealed that genetic and shared environmental influences largely accounted for variation in reading, inattention, and IQ and covariation among them, whereas specific environmental influences contributed primarily to variation in impulsivity. Acting through a common factor, a portion of the genetic influences on reading ability appeared to be shared with influences affecting IQ as well as those affecting inattention. The contribution of phonological awareness to the remaining unique genetic influences on reading was explored through additional analyses. A two-common-factor model was revealed, with a strongly genetic general cognitive ability factor affecting reading, inattention, and IQ, and an equally strongly genetic second common factor, which captured the variability in reading ability that was related specifically to phonological processing. The processes involved in reading, therefore, seem to involve genetic and environmental influences that are part of both a general cognitive system and a system more specific to reading and phonology.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae forms monounsaturated fatty acids using the ER membrane-bound Delta-9 fatty acid desaturase, Ole1p, an enzyme system that forms a double bond in saturated fatty acyl CoA substrates. Ole1p is a chimeric protein consisting of an amino terminal desaturase domain fused to cytochrome b5. It catalyzes the formation of the double bond through an oxygen-dependent mechanism that requires reducing equivalents from NADH. These are transferred to the enzyme via NADH cytochrome b5 reductase to the Ole1p cytochrome b5 domain and then to the diiron-oxo catalytic center of the enzyme. The control of OLE1 gene expression appears to mediated through the ER membrane proteins Spt23p and Mga2p. N-terminal fragments of these proteins are released by an ubiquitin/proteasome mediated proteolysis system and translocated to the nucleus where they appear to act as transcription coactivators of OLE1. OLE1 is regulated through Spt23p and Mga2p by multiple systems that control its transcription and mRNA stability in response to diverse stimuli that include nutrient fatty acids, carbon source, metal ions and the availability of oxygen.
Assessment of brain connectivity among different brain areas during cognitive or motor tasks is a crucial problem in neuroscience today. Aim of this work is to use a neural mass model to assess the effect of various connectivity patterns in cortical electroencephalogram (EEG) power spectral density, and investigate the possibility to derive connectivity circuits from EEG data. To this end, a model of an individual region of interest (ROI) has been built as the parallel arrangement of three populations, each described as in Wendling et al. (Eur J Neurosci 15:1499-1508, 2002). Connectivity among ROIs includes three parameters, which specify the strength of connection in the different frequency bands. The following main steps have been followed: (1) we analyzed how the power spectral density (PSD) is significantly modified by the kind of coupling hypothesized among the ROIs; (2) with the model, and using an automatic fitting procedure, we looked for a simple connectivity circuit able to reproduce PSD of cortical EEG in three ROIs during a finger-movement task. The estimated parameters represent the strength of connections among the ROIs in the different frequency bands. Cortical EEGs were computed with an inverse propagation algorithm, starting from measurement performed with 96 electrodes on the scalp. The present study suggests that the model can be used as a simulation tool, able to mimic the effect of connectivity on EEG. Moreover, it can be used to look for simple connectivity circuits, able to explain the main features of observed cortical PSD. These results may open new prospectives in the use of neurophysiological models, instead of empirical models, to assess effective connectivity from neuroimaging information.






Evolutionarily old threat stimuli are likely to require less conscious information processing than threat stimuli of a more recent date. To test this proposal two differential conditioning experiments, with biological threat stimuli (e.g. snakes) in half the groups and cultural threat stimuli (e.g. guns) in the other half, were conducted. The conditioned (CS+) and the control (CS-) stimuli were backward masked during the extinction phase to prevent conscious recognition. The differential skin conductance responding for both biological and cultural threat stimuli survived the masking procedure when the conditioned stimuli were directed towards the participants (Experiment 1), but for neither type of CS when stimuli were not directed towards the participants (Experiment 2). These findings are discussed in relation to the previous finding by Ohman and co-workers and in relation to imminence of threat.
The endogenous opioid peptides have been implicated in mediating the actions of estrogen and progesterone on GnRH release. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry to determine whether steroid-induced changes in GnRH/LH release in the female sheep are associated with changes in the cellular mRNA content of the precursors for beta-endorphin (pro-opiomelanocortin; POMC) and met-enkephalin (pre-proenkephalin; PENK). Two specific hypotheses were tested. First, that the inhibitory actions of progesterone are associated with an increase in opioid gene expression in specific hypothalamic nuclei. Our data support this hypothesis. Thus, an increase in progesterone was associated with increased POMC gene expression in the arcuate nucleus and PENK in the paraventricular nucleus. Further, the increase in POMC was restricted to regions of the arcuate nucleus that contain steroid sensitive beta-endorphin neurons. Our second hypothesis, that gene expression for the two opioid precursors would decrease prior to the start of the estradiol-stimulated GnRH surge, was not supported. Rather, POMC (but not PENK) gene expression in the arcuate nucleus was significantly higher in estradiol-treated animals than controls at the peak of the GnRH surge. These data suggest that beta-endorphin neurons in subdivisions of the arcuate nucleus and enkephalin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus are part of the neural network by which progesterone inhibits LH release. While enkephalin neurons may not play a role in estrogen positive feedback, increases in POMC mRNA in the arcuate nucleus at the time of the GnRH peak may be important for replenishing beta-endorphin stores and terminating estrous behavior.
Cellular therapy is the replacement of unhealthy or damaged cells or tissues by new ones. Because neurodegenerative diseases, cerebral strokes, and traumatic injuries to the central nervous system (CNS) produce neurological deficits that result from neuronal loss, cell therapy is a prominent area of investigation for the treatment of neurological diseases and injuries. Neural progenitor and stem cells generate the main phenotyes of the nervous system, and offer a model of choice for cellular therapy in the CNS. With the confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain, and the recent isolation and characterization in vitro of neural progenitor and stem cells from the adult CNS, new strategies are being devised and have the potential to treat a broad range of CNS diseases and injuries.
Ferumoxtran-10, a dextran-coated ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide particle, has the potential to reveal macrophages in vivo using magnetic resonance imaging potentially acting as a marker of inflammatory status. Pending clinical trials, we examined the interactions of Ferumoxtran-10 with human monocyte-macrophages (HMMs) in vitro to assess its safety and lack of pro-inflammatory activity. After 72 h, Ferumoxtran-10 was not toxic at 1 mg/ml and may be only mildly toxic at 10 mg/ml. Viability in cells with a high intracellular Ferumoxtran-10 load was not affected over 14 days. Ferumoxtran-10 did not interfere with baseline or stimulated cytokine (interleukin-12, interleukin-6, tumour necrosis factor-alpha or interleukin-1beta) or superoxide anion production or with Fc-receptor-mediated phagocytosis. Similarly, Ferumoxtran-10 did not induce cytokine production and was not chemotactic. High-resolution electron microscopy and selected-area electron diffraction confirmed the core of Ferumoxtran-10 is composed of crystalline magnetite. Bright field transmission electron microscopy of thin sections demonstrated that Ferumoxtran-10 was retained in lysosomes of HMM for several days. Ferumoxtran-10 is not toxic to HMMs in vitro, does not activate them to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines or superoxide anions, is not chemotactic and does not interfere with Fc-receptor-mediated phagocytosis. Furthermore, extremely high intracellular Ferumoxtran-10 concentrations had only slight or no effects on these key activities.
A series of acetaminophen (APAP) analogs, 2-(1,1-dioxido-3-oxo-1,2-benzisothiazol-2(3H)-yl)-N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)alkanecarboxamides, bearing a heterocyclic moiety linked to the p-acylaminophenol fragment, were prepared in a general project to develop APAP analogs with modulated pharmacokinetic profiles. Unexpectedly, the products described maintained the in vivo analgesic profile, while the characteristic hepatotoxicity of APAP was consistently reduced. One of the products, 5a, was studied in vivo in comparison with APAP. Compound 5a displayed an analgesic efficacy comparable to that of APAP. A relatively high acute oral dose of 5a (6 mmol/kg) produced no measurable toxicity, whereas the equimolar dose of APAP increased transaminase activity, depleted hepatic and renal glutathione, and resulted in mortality. In human hepatocytes (HEPG-2) and in human primary cultures of normal liver cells, APAP, but not 5a, was associated with apoptotic cell death, Fas-ligand up-regulation, and CAR (constitutive androstane receptor) activation, contributing to a favorable safety profile of 5a as an orally delivered analgesic.
4-[6-(2-Tertiaryaminoethyl)naphthalen-2-yl]benzonitriles are conformationally constrained histamine H3 receptor antagonists with high potency and selectivity. The analogs were designed around a naphthalene core, with the goal of enhancing lipophilicity and CNS penetration, as compared to a previously reported benzofuran series. The SAR of the tertiary amine moiety is similar to that reported for the benzofuran series, with analogs bearing a 2-methylpyrrolidine substituent possessing the greatest rat and human H3 receptor binding affinities.
Insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells is oscillatory, with a typical period of 2-7 min, reflecting oscillations in membrane potential and the cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration. Our central hypothesis is that the slow 2-7 min oscillations are due to glycolytic oscillations, whereas faster oscillations that are superimposed are due to Ca(2+) feedback onto metabolism or ion channels. We extend a previous mathematical model based on this hypothesis to include a more detailed description of mitochondrial metabolism. We demonstrate that this model can account for typical oscillatory patterns of membrane potential and Ca(2+) concentration in islets. It also accounts for temporal data on oxygen consumption in islets. A recent challenge to the notion that glycolytic oscillations drive slow Ca(2+) oscillations in islets are data showing that oscillations in Ca(2+), mitochondrial oxygen consumption, and NAD(P)H levels are all terminated by membrane hyperpolarization. We demonstrate that these data are in fact compatible with a model in which glycolytic oscillations are the key player in rhythmic islet activity. Finally, we use the model to address the recent finding that the activity of islets from some mice is uniformly fast, whereas that from islets of other mice is slow. We propose a mechanism for this dichotomy.
Mechanoelectric feedback in heart and smooth muscle is thought to depend on diverse channels that afford myocytes a mechanosensitive cation conductance. Voltage-gated channels (e.g., Kv1) are stretch sensitive, but the only voltage-gated channels that are cation permeant, the pacemaker or HCN (hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated) channels, have not been tested. To assess if HCN channels could contribute to a mechanosensitive cation conductance, we recorded I(HCN) in cell-attached oocyte patches before, during, and after stretch for a range of voltage protocols. I(mHCN2) has voltage-dependent and instantaneous components; only the former was stretch sensitive. Stretch reversibly accelerated hyperpolarization-induced I(mHCN2) activation (likewise for I(spHCN)) and depolarization-induced deactivation. HCN channels (like Kv1 channels) undergo mode-switch transitions that render their activation midpoints voltage history dependent. The result, as seen from sawtooth clamp, is a pronounced hysteresis. During sawtooth clamp, stretch increased current magnitudes and altered the hysteresis pattern consistent with stretch-accelerated activation and deactivation. I(mHCN2) responses to step protocols indicated that at least two transitions were mechanosensitive: an unspecified rate-limiting transition along the hyperpolarization-driven path, mode I(closed)--&gt;mode II(open), and depolarization-induced deactivation (from mode I(open) and/or from mode II(open)). How might this affect cardiac rhythmicity? Since hysteresis patterns and &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; I(HCN) responses all changed with stretch, predictions are difficult. For an empirical overview, we therefore clamped patches to cyclic action potential waveforms. During the diastolic potential of sinoatrial node cell and Purkinje fiber waveforms, net stretch effects were frequency dependent. Stretch-inhibited (SI) I(mHCN2) dominated at low frequencies and stretch-augmented (SA) I(mHCN2) was progressively more important as frequency increased. HCN channels might therefore contribute to either SI or SA cation conductances that in turn contribute to stretch arrhythmias and other mechanoelectric feedback phenomena.

2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is an endogenous cannabinoid (endocannabinoid) lipid whose functions remain poorly understood. Guindon and colleagues report the novel finding that exogenous application of 2-AG induces peripheral antinociceptive effects that are mediated, at least in part, by actions at peripheral cannabinoid CB(2) receptors. URB602, a recently described inhibitor of monoacylglycerol lipase, an enzyme that catalyzes 2-AG hydrolysis in vivo, also induced peripheral antinociceptive effects and enhanced the actions of 2-AG. Peripheral analgesic mechanisms represent promising therapeutic targets for suppressing pain in the absence of unwanted central nervous system side-effects (e.g. psychoactivity) associated with activation of central CB(1) receptors. The therapeutic potential of inhibitors of 2-AG deactivation for the treatment of inflammatory pain is discussed.

Selective receptor antagonists are one of the most powerful resources in a pharmacologist's toolkit and are essential for the identification and classification of receptor subtypes and dissecting their roles in normal and abnormal body function. However, when the actions of antagonists are measured inappropriately and misleading results are reported, confusion and wrong interpretations ensue. This article gives a general overview of Schild analysis and the method of determining antagonist equilibrium constants. We demonstrate why this technique is preferable in the study of competitive receptor antagonism than the calculation of antagonist concentration that inhibit agonist-evoked responses by 50%. In addition we show how the use of Schild analysis can provide information on the outcome of single amino acid mutations in structure-function studies of receptors. Finally, we illustrate the need for caution when studying the effects of potent antagonists on synaptic transmission where the timescale of events under investigation is such that ligands and receptors never reach steady-state occupancy.
Loss of insight is one of the core features of frontal/behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (FTD). FTD shares many clinical and pathological features with corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). The aim of this study was to investigate awareness of cognitive deficits in FTD, CBD and PSP using a multidimensional approach to assessment, which examines metacognitive knowledge of the disorders, online monitoring of errors (emergent awareness) and ability to accurately predict performance on future tasks (anticipatory awareness). Thirty-five patients (14 FTD, 11 CBD and 10 PSP) and 20 controls were recruited. Results indicated that loss of insight was a feature of each of the three patient groups. FTD patients were most impaired on online monitoring of errors compared to the other two patient groups. Linear regression analysis demonstrated that different patterns of neuropsychological performance and behavioural rating scores predicted insight deficits across the three putative awareness categories. Furthermore, higher levels of depression were associated with poor anticipatory awareness, reduced empathy was related to impaired metacognitive awareness and impaired recognition of emotional expression in faces was associated with both metacognitive and anticipatory awareness deficits. The results are discussed in terms of neurocognitive models of awareness and different patterns of neurobiological decline in the separate patient groups.
Orbitofrontal alteration in schizophrenia has not been well characterized, likely due to marked anatomical variability. To investigate the presence of such alterations, we evaluated the sulcogyral pattern of this 'H-shaped' sulcus. Fifty patients with schizophrenia (100 hemispheres) and 50 age- and gender-matched control subjects (100 hemispheres) were evaluated using 3D high-spatial resolution MRI. Based on a previous study by Chiavaras and Petrides (2000), the sulcogyral pattern of the 'H-shaped' sulcus, which forms the boundaries of major orbitofrontal gyri, was classified into three types (Type I, II and III, in order of frequency) within each hemisphere. Chi-square analysis was performed to compare the sulcogyral pattern, and categorical regression was applied to investigate clinical/cognitive associations. The control data replicated the orbitofrontal sulcogyral pattern reported by Chiavaras and Petrides (P = 0.90-0.95), where the distribution was significantly different between the left and right hemisphere (Type I: right &gt; left, Type II, III: left &gt; right, chi2 = 6.41, P = 0.041). For schizophrenics, the distribution differed significantly from controls (chi2 = 11.90, P = 0.003), especially in the right hemisphere (chi2 = 13.67, P = 0.001). Moreover, the asymmetry observed in controls was not present in schizophrenia (chi2 = 0.13, P = 0.94). Specifically, the most frequent Type I expression was decreased and the rarest Type III expression was increased in schizophrenia, relative to controls. Furthermore, patients with Type III expression in any hemisphere evinced poorer socioeconomic status, poorer cognitive function, more severe symptoms and impulsivity, compared to patients without Type III expression. In contrast, patients with Type I in any hemisphere showed better cognitive function and milder symptoms compared to patients without Type I. Structurally, patients with Type III had significantly smaller intra-cranial contents (ICC) volumes than did patients without Type III (t(40) = 2.29, P = 0.027). The present study provides evidence of altered distribution of orbitofrontal sulcogyral pattern in schizophrenia, possibly reflecting a neurodevelopmental aberration in schizophrenia. Such altered sulcogyral pattern is unlikely to be due to secondary effects of the illness such as medication. Moreover, the structural association between Type III and small ICC volume, observed in the patient group, may suggest that Type III expression could be part of a systematic neurodevelopmental alteration, given that the small ICC volume could reflect early reduction of cranial growth driven by brain growth. The observed contrasting association of Type III expression with poorer outcome, and that of Type I expression with better outcome, further suggests clinical heterogeneity, and possible differences in treatment responsiveness in schizophrenia.
Several studies have pointed to alterations in mean volumes, neuron densities and total neuron numbers in the caudate nucleus (CN), putamen, nucleus accumbens (NA), mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MDNT) and lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LNA) in schizophrenia. However, the results of these studies are conflicting and no clear pattern of alterations has yet been established in these subcortical regions, possibly due to differences in quantitative histological methods used as well as differences in the investigated case series. The present study investigates these subcortical regions in both hemispheres of the same post-mortem brains for volume, neuron density and total neuron number with high-precision design-based stereology. The analysed case series consisted of 13 post-mortem brains from male schizophrenic patients [age range: 22-64 years; mean age 51.5 +/- 3.3 years (mean +/- SEM)] and 13 age-matched male controls (age range: 25-65 years; mean age 51.9 +/- 3.1 years). A general linear model multivariate analysis of variance with diagnosis and hemisphere as fixed factors and illness duration (schizophrenic patients) or age (controls), post-mortem interval and fixation time as covariates showed a number of statistically significant alterations in the brains from schizophrenic patients compared with the controls. There was a reduced mean volume of the putamen [-5.0% on the left side (l) and -4.1% on the right side (r)] and the LNA (l: -12.1%, r: -17.6%), and a reduced mean total neuron number in the CN (l: -10.4%, r: -10.2%), putamen (l: -8.1%, r: -11.6%) and the LNA (l: -15.9%, r: -16.2%). These data show a previously unreported, distinct pattern of alterations in mean total neuron numbers in identified subcortical brain regions in a carefully selected sample of brains from schizophrenic patients. The rigorous quantitative analysis of several regions in brains from schizophrenic patients and matched controls is crucial to provide reliable information on the neuropathology of schizophrenia as well as insights about its pathogenesis.
A recent proposal suggests that dyslexic individuals suffer from attentional deficiencies, which impair the ability to selectively process incoming visual information. To investigate this possibility, we employed a spatial cueing procedure in conjunction with a single fixation visual search task measuring thresholds for discriminating the orientation of a target stimulus. Replicating preliminary findings in an earlier report, we found evidence of a striking dissociation between dyslexic participants' performance in cued and uncued conditions. Whereas uncued search results were equivalent for dyslexic and normal adult readers, the majority of dyslexic individuals failed to display a comparable benefit when the location of the target was indicated by the appearance of a brief peripheral pre-cue. Using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, we further demonstrate that the effectiveness of the cueing task at discriminating between dyslexic and normal readers surpasses that of a range of other psychophysical tasks typically used in dyslexia research. Moreover, we find that the discriminative accuracy of the task is at least on par with measures of verbal short-term memory (a core component of phonological processing), which ranks as one of the most widely accepted areas of difficulty in dyslexia. Potential mechanisms underlying the cueing effect are outlined, and the plausibility of each considered within a signal detection theory framework of visual search. It is argued that performance benefits obtained by normal readers in cued conditions most likely reflect the prioritization of target information during decision making, and could feasibly be subserved by top-down biasing effects on pooling processes in extrastriate cortex.
Although many animals exhibit illness-induced anorexia when immune-challenged, the adaptive significance of this behavior remains unclear. Injecting Manduca sexta larvae (caterpillars) with live bacteria (Serratia marcescens), heat-killed bacteria or bacterial lipopolysaccharides resulted in a decline in feeding, demonstrating illness-induced anorexia in this species. We used M. sexta to test four commonly suggested adaptive functions for illness-induced anorexia. (1) Food deprivation did not reduce the iron content of the hemolymph. (2) Immune-challenged M. sexta were not more likely to move to a different part of the plant. Therefore, the decline in feeding is unlikely to be an adaptive response allowing the animal to move away from a patch of contaminated food. (3) M. sexta force-fed S. marcescens bacteria were not more susceptible to a S. marcescens systemic infection than were M. sexta force-fed nutrient broth. (4) Force-feeding infected M. sexta during illness-induced anorexia did not increase mortality and short-term food deprivation did not enhance survival. However, force-feeding M. sexta with a high lipid diet (linseed oil and water) resulted in an increase in mortality when challenged with S. marcescens. Force-feeding sucrose or water did not reduce resistance. Force-feeding a high lipid diet into healthy animals did not reduce weight gain, suggesting that it was not toxic. We hypothesize that there is a conflict between lipid metabolism and immune function, although whether this conflict has played a role in the evolution of illness-induced anorexia remains unknown. The adaptive function of illness-induced anorexia requires further study in both vertebrates and invertebrates.
We have previously demonstrated that bacterial infection (Escherichia coli) in neonatal rats is associated with impaired memory in a fear-conditioning task in adulthood. This impairment, however, is only observed if a peripheral immune challenge (lipopolysaccharide; LPS) is administered around the time of learning. We used a brief separation/handling paradigm to determine if the adult memory impairment associated with neonatal-infection could be prevented. Naturally occurring variations in maternal care promote striking variations in offspring cognitive development, and handling paradigms are used to manipulate the quality and quantity of maternal care. Rats were injected on post natal (P) day 4 with E. coli or PBS, and half from each group were handled for 15 min/day from P4 to 20. All rats were then tested in adulthood. Neonatal handling of rats infected as neonates prevented the increase in microglial cell marker reactivity within the hippocampus, and the exaggerated brain IL-1beta production to LPS normally produced by the infection. Thus, these neural processes were now comparable to levels of non-infected PBS controls. Furthermore, handling completely prevented LPS-induced memory impairment in a context-fear task in adult rats infected as neonates. Finally, neonatal handling dramatically improved spatial learning and memory and decreased anxiety in rats treated early with PBS, but had no beneficial effect on these measures in rats infected as neonates. Taken together, these data suggest that maternal care may profoundly influence neuroinflammatory processes in adulthood, and that infection may also prevent maternal care influences on cognition later in life.
Fatigue is a common problem following cancer treatment and our previous studies suggest that a chronic inflammatory process might contribute to cancer-related fatigue. However, immune responses to challenge have not yet been evaluated among individuals with cancer-related fatigue, and it is not known what mechanisms drive increased levels of inflammatory markers in fatigued cancer survivors. We have previously reported that fatigued breast cancer survivors show a blunted cortisol response to an experimental psychological stressor. In this report, we focus on inflammatory responses to this stressor and their relationship to circulating glucocorticoids and cellular sensitivity to glucocorticoid inhibition. Relative to non-fatigued control survivors, participants experiencing persistent fatigue showed significantly greater increases in LPS-stimulated production of IL-1beta and IL-6 following the stressor (Group x Time interaction: p&lt;.05). Fatigued participants did not show any difference in cellular sensitivity to cortisol inhibition of cytokine production, but they did show significantly less salivary cortisol increase in the aftermath of the stressor. Moreover, blunted cortisol responses were associated with significantly increased production of IL-6 in response to LPS stimulation (p&lt;.05). These data provide further evidence of enhanced inflammatory processes in fatigued breast cancer survivors and suggest that these processes may stem in part from decreased glucocorticoid response to stress.

Two experiments were conducted to investigate discourse representation in the two cerebral hemispheres as a function of reading skill. We used a lateralized visual-field procedure to compare left hemisphere (LH) and right hemisphere (RH) sensitivity to different discourse relations in readers with varying skill levels. In Experiment 1, we investigated two levels of discourse representation in memory: (a) the propositional representation and (b) the discourse model. We found that all readers were sensitive to propositional relations in the LH. In contrast, sensitivity to propositional relations in the RH increased as a function of reading skill. In addition, reading skill was positively related to topic relations in the LH, whereas it was negatively in the RH. In Experiment 2, we investigated propositional relations of different distances and again found that all readers were sensitive to propositional relations in the LH, whereas sensitivity to propositional relations in the RH was negatively related to reading skill. In general, reading skill appears to be associated with left-lateralized discourse representations.
The National Research Council is Canada's principal research and development agency. Its 20 institutes are structured to address interdisciplinary problems for industrial sectors, and to provide the necessary scientific infrastructure, such as the national science library. Behavioural scientists are active in five institutes: Biological Sciences, Biodiagnostics, Aerospace, Information Technology, and Construction. Research topics include basic cellular neuroscience, brain function, human factors in the cockpit, human-computer interaction, emergency evacuation, and indoor environment effects on occupants. Working in collaboration with NRC colleagues and with researchers from universities and industry, NRC behavioural scientists develop knowledge, designs, and applications that put technology to work for people, designed with people in mind.
There are five potential major roles for neuroimaging with respect to dementia; (1) as a cognitive neuroscience research tool, (2) for prediction of which normal or slightly impaired individuals will develop dementia and over what time frame, (3) for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in demented individuals, (sensitivity) and separation of AD from other forms of dementia (specificity), (4) for monitoring of disease progression, and (5) for monitoring response to therapies. Focusing on the last role, no single imaging approach is yet ideal, as all trade-off speed, cost, and accuracy. Functional imaging (SPECT and PET) is best suited to tracking symptomatic therapy response, and anatomic (MRI volumetric) imaging or amyloid PET are more suited to reflect dementia modulation studies. The potential for imaging with respect to pharmacological studies of dementia--to provide surrogate markers for drug studies, to improve diagnosis, to speed evaluation of outcomes, and to decrease sample sizes--is huge. At the present time, however, no single measure has sufficient proven reliability, replicability, or robustness, to replace clinical primary outcome measures.

The magnitude and/or duration of nuclear Ca(2+)-transients has been shown to dose-dependently modulate gene transcription upon neuronal activation. This is an attractive model for synapse-to-nucleus communication. In order to encode synaptic information, these nuclear Ca(2+)-transients have to be correlated with changes in synaptic strength rather than changes in gene expression patterns. In this study, we analysed nuclear Ca(2+) signals during L-LTP induction. Using a combined approach of fEPSP recordings and two-photon imaging, these Ca(2+) signals were correlated with different degrees of synaptic potentiation in CA1 hippocampal slices. To refine our analysis on the single-cell level, we developed a new approach called single-cell-excitability-probing (SCEP) to assay the plasticity outcome of individual cells by optical means. The degrees of synaptic potentiation we observed could be categorized into transcription independent, transcription-dependent and reduced transcription-dependent. There is no consistent dose-dependent relationship between these different degrees of synaptic potentiation and the magnitude, the decay time and the area under the curve of nuclear Ca(2+)-transients during L-LTP induction. This indicates that nuclear Ca(2+)-transients during induction are unsuited to grade the degree of plasticity in an analogue manner. We propose a role for nuclear Ca(2+) as a digital on/off switch for activating transcription.
Photoreactive azido ruthenium (AzRu) has been recently shown to specifically interact with Ca(2+)-binding proteins and to strongly inhibit their Ca(2+)-dependent activities. Upon UV irradiation, AzRu can bind covalently to such proteins. In this study, AzRu was used to localize and characterize Ca(2+)-binding sites in the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC). AzRu decreased the conductance of VDAC reconstituted into a bilayer while Ca(2+), in the presence of 1M NaCl, but not Mg(2+), prevented this effect. AzRu had no effect on mutated E72Q- or E202Q-VDAC1 conductance, and [(103)Ru]AzRu labeled native but not E72Q-VDAC1, suggesting that these residues are required for AzRu interaction with the VDAC Ca(2+)-binding site(s). AzRu protected against apoptosis induced by over-expression of native but not E72Q- or E202Q- murine VDAC1 in T-REx-293 cells depleted of endogenous hVDAC1. Chymotrypsin and trypsin digestion of AzRu-labeled VDAC followed by MALDI-TOF analysis revealed two AzRu-bound peptides corresponding to E72- and E202-containing sequences. These results suggest that the VDAC Ca(2+)-binding site includes E72 and E202, located, according to a proposed VDAC1 topology model, on two distinct cytosolic loops. Furthermore, AzRu protection against apoptosis involves interaction with these residues. Photoreactive AzRu represents an important tool for identifying novel Ca(2+)-binding proteins and localizing their Ca(2+)-binding sites.
Despite high leptin levels, most obese humans and rodents lack responsiveness to its appetite-suppressing effects. We demonstrate that leptin modulates NPY/AgRP and alpha-MSH secretion from the ARH of lean mice. High-fat diet-induced obese (DIO) mice have normal ObRb levels and increased SOCS-3 levels, but leptin fails to modulate peptide secretion and any element of the leptin signaling cascade. Despite this leptin resistance, the melanocortin system downstream of the ARH in DIO mice is over-responsive to melanocortin agonists, probably due to upregulation of MC4R. Lastly, we show that by decreasing the fat content of the mouse's diet, leptin responsiveness of NPY/AgRP and POMC neurons recovered simultaneously, with mice regaining normal leptin sensitivity and glycemic control. These results highlight the physiological importance of leptin sensing in the melanocortin circuits and show that their loss of leptin sensing likely contributes to the pathology of leptin resistance.
Advances in our understanding of cardiac development have fuelled research into cellular approaches to myocardial repair of the damaged heart. In this collection of reviews we present recent advances into the basic mechanisms of heart development and the resident and non-resident progenitor cell populations that are currently being investigated as potential mediators of cardiac repair. Together these reviews illustrate that despite our current knowledge about how the heart is constructed, caution and much more research in this exciting field is essential. The current momentum to evaluate the potential for cardiac repair will in turn accelerate research into fundamental aspects of myocardial biology.
Histamine might have an important role in brain development. However, most studies have focused on short-term effects of histamine receptor-mediated signaling on brain function in adulthood. Little is known about the potential long-term effects of histamine receptor-mediated signaling during development on brain function in adulthood. We hypothesize that increased postsynaptic histamine receptor-mediated signaling during development has detrimental effects on brain function in adulthood. Our data support this hypothesis. In the developing mouse brain, histamine H3 receptor blockade, which increases histamine release, has detrimental sex-dependent effects on object recognition, spatial learning in the water maze, and pre-pulse inhibition in adulthood. Our data also support the hypothesis that histamine mediates the detrimental long-term sex-dependent effects of methamphetamine exposure early in life on these brain functions in adulthood. Therefore, increased efforts are warranted to carefully evaluate the effects of drugs that directly or indirectly affect histamine receptor-mediated signaling during development on cognitive function later in life.
Migraine is a primary headache disorder which involves both genetic and environmental components. Since angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) share the same homology, we investigated whether the MMP-3 and ACE I/D gene variants are involved in migraine risk and whether the ACE variant might act in combination with the MMP-3 genetic variant in patients with migraine. This is the first study to evaluate the association between MMP-3 and ACE polymorphisms, and migraine. Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction. The frequencies of 5A5A genotypes of the MMP-3 and D allele of ACE were significantly elevated, but II genotypes of the ACE and 6A allele of MMP-3 significantly decreased in all patients. The combined DD/5A5A and ID/5A5A genotypes increased the risk of migraine. Individuals who were homozygous for the deletion (D) allele showed increased ACE activity. Subjects with the 5A5A genotype and/or D allele or with the combined DD/5A5A or ID/5A5A might be more susceptible to migraine development. In contrast, subjects with the II and/or 6A6A genotypes may be protected from migraine development. The greater activity of the 5A5A and DD genotypes might result in vascular reactivity that is more pronounced in migraine. Taken together, our data suggest that numerous genes may influence ACE activity. Discovery of new genes might better clarify the pathogenesis of migraine and open an avenue to therapeutic strategies against migraine.
This study, which is a part of the initiative 'Lifting The Burden: The Global Campaign to Reduce the Burden of Headache Worldwide', assesses and presents all existing evidence of the world prevalence and burden of headache disorders. Population-based studies applying International Headache Society criteria for migraine and tension-type headache, and also studies on headache in general and 'chronic daily headache', have been included. Globally, the percentages of the adult population with an active headache disorder are 46% for headache in general, 11% for migraine, 42% for tension-type headache and 3% for chronic daily headache. Our calculations indicate that the disability attributable to tension-type headache is larger worldwide than that due to migraine. On the World Health Organization's ranking of causes of disability, this would bring headache disorders into the 10 most disabling conditions for the two genders, and into the five most disabling for women.
Interactions between multisensory integration and attention were studied using a combined audiovisual streaming design and a rapid serial visual presentation paradigm. Event-related potentials (ERPs) following audiovisual objects (AV) were compared with the sum of the ERPs following auditory (A) and visual objects (V). Integration processes were expressed as the difference between these AV and (A + V) responses and were studied while attention was directed to one or both modalities or directed elsewhere. Results show that multisensory integration effects depend on the multisensory objects being fully attended--that is, when both the visual and auditory senses were attended. In this condition, a superadditive audiovisual integration effect was observed on the P50 component. When unattended, this effect was reversed; the P50 components of multisensory ERPs were smaller than the unisensory sum. Additionally, we found an enhanced late frontal negativity when subjects attended the visual component of a multisensory object. This effect, bearing a strong resemblance to the auditory processing negativity, appeared to reflect late attention-related processing that had spread to encompass the auditory component of the multisensory object. In conclusion, our results shed new light on how the brain processes multisensory auditory and visual information, including how attention modulates multisensory integration processes.
Psychological frameworks conceptualize emotion along 2 dimensions, &quot;valence&quot; and &quot;arousal.&quot; Arousal invokes a single axis of intensity increasing from neutral to maximally arousing. Valence can be described variously as a bipolar continuum, as independent positive and negative dimensions, or as hedonic value (distance from neutral). In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to characterize neural activity correlating with arousal and with distinct models of valence during presentation of affective word stimuli. Our results extend observations in the chemosensory domain suggesting a double dissociation in which subregions of orbitofrontal cortex process valence, whereas amygdala preferentially processes arousal. In addition, our data support the physiological validity of descriptions of valence along independent axes or as absolute distance from neutral but fail to support the validity of descriptions of valence along a bipolar continuum.
We carried out 2 functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments to investigate the cortical mechanisms underlying the contribution of form and surface properties to object recognition. In experiment 1, participants performed same-different judgments in separate blocks of trials on pairs of unfamiliar &quot;nonsense&quot; objects on the basis of their form, surface properties (i.e., both color and texture), or orientation. Attention to form activated the lateral occipital (LO) area, whereas attention to surface properties activated the collateral sulcus (CoS) and the inferior occipital gyrus (IOG). In experiment 2, participants were required to make same-different judgments on the basis of texture, color, or form. Again attention to form activated area LO, whereas attention to texture activated regions in the IOG and the CoS, as well as regions in the lingual sulcus and the inferior temporal sulcus. Within these last 4 regions, activation associated with texture was higher than activation associated with color. No color-specific cortical areas were identified in these regions, although parts of V1 and the cuneus yielded higher activation for color as opposed to texture. These results suggest that there are separate form and surface-property pathways in extrastriate cortex. The extraction of information about an object's color seems to occur relatively early in visual analysis as compared with the extraction of surface texture, perhaps because the latter requires more complex computations.
A central goal in systems neuroscience is to understand how the brain encodes the intensity of sensory features. We used whole-head magnetoencephalography to investigate whether frequency-specific neuronal activity in the human visual cortex is systematically modulated by the intensity of an elementary sensory feature such as visual motion. Visual stimulation induced a tonic increase of neuronal activity at frequencies above 50 Hz. In order to define a functional frequency band of neuronal activity, we parametrically investigated which frequency band displays the strongest monotonic increase of responses with strength of visual motion. Consistently in all investigated subjects, this analysis resulted in a functional frequency band in the high gamma range from about 60 to 100 Hz in which activity reliably increased with visual motion strength. Using distributed source reconstruction, we found that this increase of high-frequency neuronal activity originates from several extrastriate cortical regions specialized in motion processing. We conclude that high-frequency activity in the human visual motion pathway may be relevant for encoding the intensity of visual motion signals.
Structural and functional asymmetry of the human brain has been well documented using techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, asymmetry of underlying white matter connections is less well understood. We applied an MRI technique known as diffusion tensor tractography to reveal the morphology of the white matter in vivo by mapping directions of maximum water diffusion in brain tissue. White matter pathway asymmetry was investigated in a normalized image data set of 30 right-handed young healthy individuals. We identified, for the first time, a rightwardly asymmetric pathway connecting the posterior temporal lobe to the superior parietal lobule. This pathway may be related to auditory spatial attention and working memory for which there is evidence for a rightward laterality from functional imaging studies. Additional leftward asymmetries connecting the parietal and frontal lobes to the temporal lobe may be more closely related to laterality of language.
Functional imaging studies identified a motion-sensitive area (V5/MT+) in the vicinity of the posterior branch of the inferior temporal sulcus that has no correlate in any classical cytoarchitectonic map. The aim of the present study was to identify a cytoarchitectonic correlate of this region in 10 human postmortem brains and to provide a probability map of this area. Observer-independent mapping revealed an area, hOc5 (h for human, Oc for occipital lobe), that has a broad layer III, a high cell density in layer II/III, and a low one in layer V. Most of area hOc5 is found in the depths of the anterior occipital sulcus and the anterior parts of either the inferior lateral occipital or the inferior occipital sulcus. After 3-dimensional reconstruction and registration to a standard reference space, a probability map of the area measured the individual variability of its size and location. The mean spatial locations of area hOc5 are -43, -73, 10 (left) and 49, -70, 11 (right). The locations and their relationships to sulci strongly suggest that hOc5 is the cytoarchitectonic correlate of human V5/MT+. This hypothesis was supported by comparing the cytoarchitectonic probabilistic map with results from a functional imaging study.
Ca(v)beta subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels contain two conserved domains, a src-homology-3 (SH3)-domain and a guanylate kinase-like (GK)-domain. The SH3-domain is split, with its final (fifth) beta-strand separated from the rest of the domain by an intervening sequence termed the HOOK-domain, whose sequence varies between Ca(v)beta subunits. Here we have been guided by the recent structural studies of Ca(v)beta subunits in the design of specific truncated constructs, with the goal of investigating the role of the HOOK-domain of Ca(v)beta subunits in the modulation of inactivation of N-type calcium channels. We have coexpressed the beta subunit constructs with Ca(v)2.2 and alpha(2)delta-2, using the N-terminally palmitoylated beta(2a) subunit, because it supports very little voltage-dependent inactivation, and made comparisons with beta(1b) domains. Deletion of the variable region of the beta(2a) HOOK-domain resulted in currents with a rapidly inactivating component, and additional mutation of the beta(2a) palmitoylation motif further enhanced inactivation. The isolated GK-domain of beta(2a) alone enhanced current amplitude, but the currents were rapidly and completely inactivating. When the beta(2a)-GK-domain construct was extended proximally, by including the HOOK-domain and the epsilon-strand of the SH3-domain, inactivation was about four-fold slower than in the absence of the HOOK domain. When the SH3-domain of beta(2a) truncated prior to the HOOK-domain was coexpressed with the (HOOK+epsilonSH3+GK)-domain of beta(2a), all the properties of beta(2a) were restored, in terms of loss of inactivation. Furthermore, removal of the HOOK sequence from the (HOOK+epsilonSH3+GK)-beta(2a) construct increased inactivation. Together, these results provide evidence that the HOOK domain is an important determinant of inactivation.
Previous studies indicate that Long-Evans rats can be operantly trained to discriminate inspired CO(2) concentrations as low as 0.5%. This ability has been proposed to be due to the presence of CO(2)-sensitive olfactory receptors that contain the enzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA). The objectives of the present study were as follows: 1) to determine whether Zucker rats could be operantly conditioned to discriminate low concentrations of CO(2) from control air and 2) to determine the rats' CO(2) detection thresholds before and after nasal perfusion of mammalian Ringers or methazolamide, a CA inhibitor. Rats were operantly trained to discriminate between 25% CO(2) and control air (0% CO(2)) and were then subjected to various CO(2) concentrations (0.5-12.5%) to determine their CO(2) detection thresholds. The average (+/-standard error of mean) baseline CO(2) detection threshold of 7 Zucker rats was 0.48 +/- 0.07% CO(2), whereas the average CO(2) detection thresholds after nasal perfusion of either mammalian Ringers or 10(-2) M methazolamide were 1.41 +/- 0.30% and 5.92 +/- 0.70% CO(2), respectively. The average CO(2) detection threshold after methazolamide was significantly greater (P&lt;0.0001) than the baseline detection threshold. These findings demonstrate that like Long-Evans rats, Zucker rats can be trained to discriminate low concentrations of CO(2) and that inhibition of nasal CA reduces the ability of the rats to detect low concentrations (3.5% and below) but not higher concentrations of CO(2) (12.5%). These results add to the growing evidence that olfactory neurons exhibiting CA activity are CO(2) chemoreceptors sensitive to physiological concentrations of CO(2).
We asked whether the large variability in odor imaging ability is underlain by interindividual differences in the processing of smells and emotion. Olfactory imaging ability, anhedonia level, and odor perception were measured in 40 subjects, using the Vividness of Olfactory Imagery Questionnaire (VOIQ), the Physical Anhedonia Scale, and the European Test of Olfactory Capabilities. &quot;Good&quot; olfactory imagers, defined primarily on the basis of the VOIQ, rated pleasant smells as more familiar and had lower anhedonia scores than &quot;bad&quot; olfactory imagers. Based on self-reported measures, these results suggest that, like olfactory perception, the mental imagery of smells is related to emotion and that, beyond their differences in vividness, good and bad olfactory imagers differ in their experience of emotion and long-term memory of smells.









Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is a prevalent and disabling disorder that is characterized by inattention and/or hyperactivity-impulsivity, impairment in executive functions, structural and functional abnormalities in frontal-striatal circuitry, associations with particular catecholamine gene variants, and responsiveness to dopaminergic and noradrenergic agents. There is a growing integration of findings from basic and clinical studies, of data from different methods (eg, genetics and imaging), and of empirical data with hypotheses drawn from evolutionary thinking. Here we briefly summarize work on the cognitive-affective neuroscience of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

The aim of this paper is to construct a critical evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of the physicalistic theory concerning mental phenomena and consciousness. Physicalism can, better than other theories, explain mental phenomena, such as intentionality and reasonability of human beings and other biological organisms. Modern neuroscience corroborates the conviction that the brain is a physical mind capable of giving meaning to, evaluating and further cognitively and behaviorally transforming complex aspects of the world. On the other hand, the emergence of consciousness from brain states seems to be a paradoxical, intransparent, physical coincidence hardly explained by the mental function of the brain at the physical level. Moreover, the intentionality and reasonability of psychic phenomena per se cannot be explained as a repercussion of the same attributes characterizing the brain function. In conclusion, the old debate between physicalism and other philosophical theories remains open. It can be expected that the progress of sciences will inspire novel approaches to the problem of the relations between matter, mind and consciousness.
This study examines in daily smokers (1) subjective effects and main reason for smoking after controlling for nicotine dependence level in 100 controls and 173 patients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, schizophrenia and (2) the association of specific subjective effects and schizophrenia symptoms. The subjective effects and the main reason for smoking were studied using a questionnaire and the schizophrenia symptoms with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale. Proportions were compared by odds ratios controlling for the effects of sex, age, education, and level of nicotine dependence by logistic regression. Schizophrenia was strongly associated with subjective effects of cheerfulness, agility, alertness, concentration, and calmness. In patients with schizophrenia, a cheerfulness effect was associated with higher depressive symptoms; a calming effect, with higher anxiety symptoms; and a sociability effect, with lower negative symptoms. Compared with controls, desire for calmness as the main reason for smoking was more frequent in patients with schizophrenia. These survey data call for confirmation through experimental studies and may help in the design of more focused smoking cessation programs for these patients.
A mediation effect explains the relationship of a risk factor and an outcome through a mediator variable which is a step in their pathway. Under the assumption of no cycling in the causal relationship, we consider various situations in which a fourth variable may interfere the estimation of a mediation effect as a confounding factor. Our asymptotic results, which are supported by a Monte Carlo study, show that adjusting for confounding factors under certain conditions might lead to biased estimates. A general guideline is provided for when it is appropriate to adjust for confounding factors in estimating a mediation effect. We apply the guideline to the estimation of the mediation effect of Alzheimer's disease pathology in the relationship between the Apolipoprotein E 4 allele and cognitive function among 125 deceased participants from the Religious Orders Study, a longitudinal, clinical-pathologic study of aging and Alzheimer's disease.
The repercussions of unconscious priming on the neural correlates subsequent cognition have been explored previously. However, the neural dynamics during the unconscious processing remains largely uncharted. To assess both the complexity and temporal dynamics of unconscious cognition the present study contrasts the evoked response from classes of masked stimuli with three different levels of complexity; words, consonant strings, and blanks. The evoked response to masked word stimuli differed from both consonant strings and blanks, which did not differ from each other. This response was qualitatively different to any evoked potential observed when stimuli were consciously visible and peaked at 140ms, earlier than is usually associated with differences between words and strings and 100ms earlier than word-consonant string differences in the visible condition. The evoked response demonstrates a qualitatively distinct signature of unconscious cognition and directly demonstrates the extraction of abstract information under subliminal conditions.
Oncolytic viruses can selectively replicate in and lead to tumor cell lysis with minimal infection/replication potential in adjoining non-neoplastic tissue. Because of paramount safety concerns, first-generation oncolytic viruses were designed to be significantly attenuated in their lytic potential. Results from recent clinical trials have revealed the safety of this approach, but have underscored the urgency for design and testing of more tumor-selective and -potent viruses to realize the full therapeutic potential of this revolutionary treatment modality. With the discovery of various molecular/genetic changes associated with neoplasia, tumor-specific transcriptional targeting of viral virulence is being tapped to generate tumor- and tissue-specific variants. This review will focus on the various strategies exploited to generate viruses whose virulence is governed by tumor-specific transcriptional events.
Sustained elevation in cGMP and a concomitant increase in intracellular Ca(2+) levels in the rd1 photoreceptors are followed by a rapid loss of photoreceptors. In a murine-derived photoreceptor cell line, 661W, treated with the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX or the cyclic GMP-gated channel agonist 8-bromo-cGMP, it was previously found that the induced cell death was mediated by calpain and caspase-3. Because oxidative stress is a common product of ionic imbalance or elevated Ca(2+), we tested the role of oxidative stress in cGMP-induced photoreceptor cell death. In the rd1 mouse retina, oxidative stress was found to precede calpain and caspase-3 activation. In 661W cells, the increase in intracellular cGMP and Ca(2+) resulted in the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), the activation of oxidative stress enzymes, and the activation of calpain, followed by apoptosis mediated by the effector caspase-3. All these events, including calpain activation, were ameliorated by docosahexanoic acid (DHA). The cell-permeable inhibitor of calpain, SJA6017, while inhibiting cell death, had no effect on the generation of oxidative stress. These results establish a central role for oxidative stress in cGMP-induced cell death and suggest a ROS-mediated sequential activation of signal transduction events, which provide targets for future treatment strategies.
Cerebral palsy is the most common developmental disorder causing a physical disability arising from an injury to the central nervous system. The majority of pediatric neurologists remain minimally involved in the rehabilitation of these children. Recent advances in basic and clinical neuroscience give hope that effective rehabilitation strategies, based on motor learning science, can be developed for these children. The aim of this review is to alert pediatric neurologists to these advances.
Recent improvements in brain slice technology have made this biological preparation increasingly useful for examining pathophysiology of brain diseases in a tissue context. Brain slices maintain many aspects of in vivo biology, including functional local synaptic circuitry with preserved brain architecture, while allowing good experimental access and precise control of the extracellular environment, making them ideal platforms for dissection of molecular pathways underlying neuronal dysfunction. Importantly, these ex vivo systems permit direct treatment with pharmacological agents modulating these responses and thus provide surrogate therapeutic screening systems without recourse to whole animal studies. Virus or particle mediated transgenic expression can also be accomplished relatively easily to study the function of novel genes in a normal or injured brain tissue context.In this review we will discuss acute brain injury models in organotypic hippocampal and co-culture systems and the effects of pharmacological modulation on neurodegeneration. The review will also cover the evidence of developmental plasticity in these ex vivo models, demonstrating emergence of injury-stimulated neuronal progenitor cells, and neurite sprouting and axonal regeneration following pathway lesioning. Neuro-and axo-genesis are emerging as significant factors contributing to brain repair following many acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore brain slice models may provide a critical contextual experimental system to explore regenerative mechanisms in vitro.

RNA interference (RNAi) is a universal and evolutionarily conserved phenomenon of post-transcriptional gene silencing by sequence-specific mRNA degradation, which is triggered by short double-stranded RNA. This mechanism can be efficiently induced both in vitro and in vivo by expressing target-complementary short hairpin RNA (shRNA) from non-viral and viral vectors, or by the application of short interfering RNA (siRNA). The design of highly selective and efficacious siRNA and shRNA has become commonplace, owing to continuous progress in modeling, bioinformatics and chemistry. Thus, RNAi is attractive for use in functional genomics, target and pathway validation and, potentially, human therapeutics. This review highlights recent findings in the field of RNAi with emphasis on neuropsychiatric aspects.

Acute basilar artery occlusion carries a high risk of disabling stroke or death. Fast recanalization of the vessel is the mainstay of the therapy. Recanalization may be achieved by intravenous or intra-arterial administration of thrombolytics. These procedures are currently used as life-saving interventions, despite the low level of evidence supporting their efficacy, because of the bad prognosis of the disease. Intravenous thrombolysis may be started earlier, but it is less often used, mainly for historic reasons; intra-arterial measures are possibly more effective in achieving recanalization but require extra time before they can be started and demand a considerable amount of resources. The basilar artery does not recanalize in approximately one third of patients; this result has not been modified over the past two decades by these treatments and probably will not change. Combined mechanical and intra-arterial thrombolysis may be more efficient in achieving basilar artery recanalization, but the impact of this combined intervention on the final outcome has not been evaluated. Because time is critical, as in every stroke, implementation of a specific treatment protocol for this condition, including one of the aforementioned treatments, and eventual transfer to a secondary-care unit will save time and improve prognosis.
Although estimates vary, the nervous system appears to be involved in 10% to 15% of patients infected with Borrelia burgdorferi. The resulting disorders, known collectively as neuroborreliosis or nervous system Lyme disease, generally respond well to antimicrobial therapy. Definitive treatment of nervous system infection typically consists of 2 to 4 weeks of parenteral ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, or high-dose penicillin (Class III). However, numerous European studies have shown that oral doxycycline is equally effective in patients with Lyme meningitis and cranial neuritis (Class II and III). This may be equally valid in patients infected with the strains prevalent in the United States, but this remains to be established.
Inadequately assessed and poorly managed pain contributes both to high general medical cost and to increasing numbers of societal problems. A large determining factor of inadequate pain care is the lack of understanding about the complex nature of pain and of a rational approach to its assessment and treatment. The less than adequate assessment of neuropathic pain and its relatively poor response to typical analgesic medications are major determinants to the undertreatment of pain. Other than the important management concept of treating the underlying cause, current approaches to the treatment of pain in general, and neuropathic pain in particular, have shifted away from treatment of individual syndromes toward the identification and management of common symptoms and the mechanisms upon which such symptoms are presumed to be based. This article summarizes the features of neuropathic pain that commonly appear in most peripheral neuropathies, regardless of the mechanism of injury, and provides an approach for the selection of treatment.
The aim of this study was to examine whether severity of epilepsy, motor functioning, and epilepsy-related restrictions change in children with medically intractable epilepsy who are ineligible for epilepsy surgery. The study was a prospective, longitudinal, 2-year follow-up of 28 children (14 females, 14 males). Their median age was 6 years 1 month (range 7mo-15y 4mo). Seizure types were: complex partial seizures (n=16), secondary generalized seizures (n=7), simple partial seizures (n=2), and mixed seizures (n=3). Severity of seizures, motor impairments, motor development, activities of daily life, and epilepsy-related restrictions were rated at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months thereafter. Seizure severity did not change significantly, nor did muscle strength, range of motion, or muscle tone. Motor retardation was ubiquitous but did not increase in 20 children without spasticity. Motor function of eight children with spasticity improved (Gross Motor Function Measure: baseline 70.5 [SD 35.5]; 24 months later 81.6 [SD 29.6], p &lt; 0.05) but remained below reference values in four children. In the entire group, functional skills increased and caregiver assistance lessened. Restrictions did not change significantly. We conclude that during a 2-year follow-up period, in children with medically intractable epilepsy who do not have surgical intervention, seizure severity does not deteriorate, motor impairments do not increase, motor development does not deflect negatively, and activities of daily living and restrictions do not worsen.
Previous research has shown heightened recruitment of new neurons to the chickadee hippocampus in the fall. The present study was conducted to determine whether heightened fall recruitment is associated with the seasonal onset of food-storing by comparing neurogenesis in chickadees and a non-food-storing species, the house sparrow. Chickadees and house sparrows were captured in the wild in fall and spring and received multiple injections of the cell birth marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Birds were held in captivity and the level of hippocampal neuron recruitment was assessed after 6 weeks. Chickadees showed significantly more hippocampal neuronal recruitment than house sparrows. We found no seasonal differences in hippocampal neuronal recruitment in either species. In chickadees and in house sparrows, one-third of new cells labeled for BrdU also expressed the mature neuronal protein, NeuN. In a region adjacent to the hippocampus, the hyperpallium apicale, we observed no significant differences in neuronal recruitment between species or between seasons. Hippocampal volume and total neuron number both were greater in spring than in fall in chickadees, but no seasonal differences were observed in house sparrows. Enhanced neuronal recruitment in the hippocampus of food-storing chickadees suggests a degree of neurogenic specialization that may be associated with the spatial memory requirements of food-storing behavior.
There is a general view that early brain damage leads to a far better outcome than damage later in life. Although there is a grain of truth to this idea, the reality is far more complex. We have identified a set of nine principles that underlie behavioral and anatomical changes after neonatal cortical injury as well as describing a variety of pre- and postnatal factors that modulate brain and behavioral plasticity after neonatal cortical lesions.
An infant's ability to process auditory signals presented in rapid succession (i.e. rapid auditory processing abilities [RAP]) has been shown to predict differences in language outcomes in toddlers and preschool children. Early deficits in RAP abilities may serve as a behavioral marker for language-based learning disabilities. The purpose of this study is to determine if performance on infant information processing measures designed to tap RAP and global processing skills differ as a function of family history of specific language impairment (SLI) and/or the particular demand characteristics of the paradigm used. Seventeen 6- to 9-month-old infants from families with a history of specific language impairment (FH+) and 29 control infants (FH-) participated in this study. Infants' performance on two different RAP paradigms (head-turn procedure [HT] and auditory-visual habituation/recognition memory [AVH/RM]) and on a global processing task (visual habituation/recognition memory [VH/RM]) was assessed at 6 and 9 months. Toddler language and cognitive skills were evaluated at 12 and 16 months. A number of significant group differences were seen: FH+ infants showed significantly poorer discrimination of fast rate stimuli on both RAP tasks, took longer to habituate on both habituation/recognition memory measures, and had lower novelty preference scores on the visual habituation/recognition memory task. Infants' performance on the two RAP measures provided independent but converging contributions to outcome. Thus, different mechanisms appear to underlie performance on operantly conditioned tasks as compared to habituation/recognition memory paradigms. Further, infant RAP processing abilities predicted to 12- and 16-month language scores above and beyond family history of SLI. The results of this study provide additional support for the validity of infant RAP abilities as a behavioral marker for later language outcome. Finally, this is the first study to use a battery of infant tasks to demonstrate multi-modal processing deficits in infants at risk for SLI.
In the mammalian brain, ongoing neurogenesis via the rostral migratory stream (RMS) maintains neuronal replacement in the olfactory bulb throughout life. Mechanisms that regulate the final number of new neurons in this system include proliferation, migration and apoptosis. Here we show that the polysialylated isoforms of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) act as a pro-survival molecule in immature newborn neurons. Confocal microscopic analysis revealed a threefold increase in TUNEL-positive cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the RMS of transgenic animals lacking the gene encoding NCAM (NCAM(-/-)), as compared with wild types. The enhanced apoptotic cell death occurred specifically in the population of mCD24-positive newborn neurons, but not in GFAP-positive astrocytes. Using in vitro cultures of purified SVZ-derived neurons, we demonstrate that the loss or inactivation of PSA on NCAM, as well as the deletion of NCAM, lead to reduced survival in response to neurotrophins including BDNF and NGF. These changes in cell survival are accompanied by an upregulation of p75 neurotrophin receptor expression in vitro as well as in vivo. Furthermore, the negative effects of PSA-NCAM inactivation on cell survival could be prevented by the pharmacological blockade of the p75 receptor-signaling pathway. We propose that PSA-NCAM may promote survival by controlling the expression of the p75 receptor in developing neurons.
In rodents, the formation of ovarian follicles occurs after birth. In recent years, several factors required for follicular assembly and the growth of the newly formed follicles have been identified. We now describe a novel gene, Fxna, identified by differential display in the neonatal rat ovary. Fxna encodes an mRNA of 5.4 kb, and a protein of 898 amino acids. Fxna is a transmembrane metallopeptidase from family M28, localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. In the ovary, Fxna mRNA is expressed in granulosa cells; its abundance is maximal 48 hours after birth, i.e. during the initiation of follicular assembly. Reducing Fxna mRNA levels via lentiviral-mediated delivery of short hairpin RNAs to neonatal ovaries resulted in substantial loss of primordial, primary and secondary follicles, and structural disorganization of the ovary, with many abnormal follicles containing more than one oocyte and clusters of somatic cells not associated with any oocytes. These abnormalities were not attributable to either increased apoptosis or decreased proliferation of granulosa cells. The results indicate that Fxna is required for the organization of somatic cells and oocytes into discrete follicular structures. As an endoplasmic reticulum-bound peptidase, Fxna may facilitate follicular organization by processing precursor proteins required for intraovarian cell-to-cell communication.
The process by which the proper pattern is restored to newly formed tissues during metazoan regeneration remains an open question. Here, we provide evidence that the nervous system plays a role in regulating morphogenesis during anterior regeneration in the planarian Schmidtea mediterranea. RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown of a planarian ortholog of the axon-guidance receptor roundabout (robo) leads to unexpected phenotypes during anterior regeneration, including the development of a supernumerary pharynx (the feeding organ of the animal) and the production of ectopic, dorsal outgrowths with cephalic identity. We show that Smed-roboA RNAi knockdown disrupts nervous system structure during cephalic regeneration: the newly regenerated brain and ventral nerve cords do not re-establish proper connections. These neural defects precede, and are correlated with, the development of ectopic structures. We propose that, in the absence of proper connectivity between the cephalic ganglia and the ventral nerve cords, neurally derived signals promote the differentiation of pharyngeal and cephalic structures. Together with previous studies on regeneration in annelids and amphibians, these results suggest a conserved role of the nervous system in pattern formation during blastema-based regeneration.
Concerning the public discussion on animal experiments using primates, various research fields are demonstrated where non-human primates are necessary for certain scientific reasons at this time. Non-human Primates are used in Germany mainly in regulatory toxicology and pharmaceutical safety studies.A small amount is disposed in different fields of biological or biomedical basic research. This includes in particular neurosciences and infection research. 2006 New and Old World monkeys were needed in Germany in 2005. No chimpanzees are used anymore as laboratory animals in Germany since many years. Several examples are presented to demonstrate that certain research fields need non-human primates as laboratory animals in the foreseeable future.
For many years, it has been known that an increase in cytosolic calcium triggers the fusion of secretory granules and synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane. However, the role of calcium in the intracellular membrane-fusion reactions that coordinate the secretory and endocytic pathways has been less clear. Initially, there was accumulating evidence to indicate that a focally localized and transient calcium signal is required to trigger even those fusion events formerly classified as 'constitutive'-that is, those that normally occur in the absence of global cytosolic calcium increases. Therefore, calcium seemed to be a required fundamental co-factor underlying all biological membrane-fusion steps, perhaps with a conserved mechanism of action. However, although such unification would be gratifying, new data indicate that several intracellular fusion events do not require calcium after all. In this review, the evidence for calcium requirements and its modes of action in constitutive trafficking are discussed. As a challenging perspective, I suggest that the specific absence of calcium requirements for some transport steps in fact expands the function of calcium in trafficking, because divergent luminal calcium concentrations and requirements for fusion might increase the specificity with which intracellular membrane-fusion partners are determined.
Spontaneous haemorrhage within or compressing the spinal cord is a rare condition that requires emergency investigation and treatment. Such a case presenting with rapidly progressive flaccid quadriparesis, with subsequent ventilatory failure is reported. In this case the patient probably had an unfortunate complication of hypertension and over-anticoagulation.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), that affects 2 to 3% of the general population, is characterized by recurrent intrusive thoughts and repetitive, time-consuming behaviors. It is a severely incapacitating mental illness that causes profound impairment in psychosocial functioning and quality of life. Although the physiopathology of OCD is still far from resolved, the existence of a biological basis for OCD is now clearly established and should be interpreted from phenomenological considerations, on the one hand, and in the light of our increasing knowledge of the physiology of cortico-subcortical functional loops, on the other. In a phenomenological view, the heart of the obsessional process is the subject's underlying impression that &quot;something is wrong&quot;. In other words, obsessions may be thought of as the permanent perception of a mistake and/or error in certain behavioral situations. Compulsions occur as behavioral responses aimed at relieving the tensions or anxiety generated by the situation. If obtained, this relief may be felt to be a form of reward. Nevertheless, it is only transient, thereby creating a feeling of considerable anxiety. This contributes to immediately reproducing the behavior in a cyclic manner, on the basis of an internal motivational state through an expectation of the reward. Therefore, it can be assumed that several malfunctioning processes are altered within the OCD: 1) error recognition; and, 2) emotion and motivation. This suggests that there is a dysfunction of the brain regions mediating these cognitive and emotional functions. Experimental neurophysiology in laboratory animals indicates the central role of the fronto-subcortical circuits originating in the orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate cortices, respectively. The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and ventromedial areas are involved in appraisal of the emotional and motivational values of environmental information, and in integrating the subject's prior experience, which is crucial in decision-making. The OFC also contributes to the selection, comparison and judgment of stimuli and error detection. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is comprised of 1) a ventral or affective region that could keep attention on the internal emotional and motivational status and regulation of autonomic responses, and 2) a dorsal and cognitive region that serves a wide range of functions including attention, working memory, error detection, conflict monitoring, response selection, and anticipation of incoming information. Ventral striatum, that is intimately connected to the OFC and ACC, participates in the preparation, initiation and execution of behavioral responses oriented toward reward delivery following the cognitive and emotional integration of behaviorally relevant information at the cortical level. Functional imaging research in humans has shown an increased functional activity in the OFC, ACC, head of the caudate nucleus and thalamus in OCD patients. These functional abnormalities have been found in basal conditions and during provocation tests. Moreover, the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressants with preponderant serotonin-reuptake inhibiting properties and cognitive-behavioral therapies seems to be associated with a progressive reduction in activity of the OFC, ACC and the caudate nucleus. Therefore, these observations are suggestive of the responsibility of 5HT neurotransmission in the dysfunction of the frontal-subcortical loops that emanate from the OFC and ACC. However, several lines of research suggest that the dopamine system, with which 5HT interacts, may play a major role in the expression of OC symptoms. In conclusion, it seems that in OCD there is a dysfunction of the brain regions that belong to the orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate loops in view of evidence obtained from separate and complementary approaches.

The importance of hormone therapy in affording protection against the sequelae of global ischemia in postmenopausal women remains controversial. Global ischemia arising during cardiac arrest or cardiac surgery causes highly selective, delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons. Exogenous estradiol ameliorates global ischemia-induced neuronal death and cognitive impairment in male and female rodents. However, the molecular mechanisms by which estrogens intervene in global ischemia-induced apoptotic cell death are unclear. Here we show that estradiol acts via the classical estrogen receptors, the IGF-I receptor, and the ERK/MAPK signaling cascade to protect CA1 neurons in ovariectomized female rats and gerbils. We demonstrate that global ischemia promotes early dephosphorylation and inactivation of ERK1 and the transcription factor cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), subsequent down-regulation of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2, a known gene target of estradiol and CREB, and activation of caspase-3. Estradiol treatment increases basal phosphorylation of both ERK1 and ERK2 in hippocampal CA1 and prevents ischemia-induced dephosphorylation and inactivation of ERK1 and CREB, down-regulation of Bcl-2 and activation of the caspase death cascade. Whereas ERK/MAPK signaling is critical to CREB activation and neuronal survival, the impact of estradiol on Bcl-2 levels is ERK independent. These findings support a model whereby estradiol acts via the classical estrogen receptors and IGF-I receptors, which converge on activation of ERK/MAPK signaling and CREB to promote neuronal survival in the face of global ischemia.
The mechanisms that transform a normal brain to an epileptic one are not fully understood. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) contributes to neuronal degeneration observed in several neurological disorders and recently has been implicated in neuronal injury that may accompany the process of epileptogenesis. This review presents the hypothesis that IL-1beta may contribute to the development of epilepsy via several mechanisms, including classical effects on neuronal survival and transcription pathways; novel rapid effects on receptor-gated ion channels; and long-lasting effects on expression of selective gene families. Thus, evidence that IL-1beta actions in epilepsy can be independent from the neurotoxic effects of this cytokine is presented.

Children with epilepsy often have attention deficits, even when epilepsy is idiopathic and benign. The mechanisms underlying attention deficits are still unknown and appear to be different between focal and generalized epilepsy. In this study, an attentional capture paradigm was used to study and compare one aspect of attentional control, the resistance to interference from distractors, in 18 children with benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS), 18 children with idiopathic generalized epilepsy and 18 controls aged 7-12 years. The results showed longer response times (RT) and more omissions in the two groups with epilepsy compared to controls. Attentional capture with longer response times in trials with a moving distractor compared to baseline condition with stationary distractors was found in both controls and children with epilepsy. The magnitude of interference from moving distractors was greater in the BECTS group than in the idiopathic generalized epilepsy group and in the controls group. These results suggest an impact of epilepsy on resistance to interference from distractors in children with BECTS.
This study investigates the impact of theory of mind (ToM) deficits on poor insight in schizophrenia. The scale for unawareness of mental disorder (SUMD) was administered to 58 stable outpatients with schizophrenia. First and second order false belief tasks, the Eyes test and a battery of nonToM cognitive measures were administered. The Second order false belief task was the best predictor of each global insight and symptom attribution scores of the SUMD. ToM tasks explained the substantial amount of the variance (ranging from 22.5% to 29.9%) for the insight scores and classified the significant amount of the patients who were aware of the illness correctly. WCST perseveration scores did not contribute to insight scores beyond that contributed by second order false belief tasks. The Second order ToM tasks seems to have critical importance for the awareness of the disorder. Beyond more direct self-evaluation, the awareness of the disorder and its consequences may also require the ability to evaluate the self from the perspective of others. &quot;Understanding the others' belief about another person&quot; may be conceptually very similar to &quot;understanding the others' belief about self&quot; (instead of another person).
Neurosarcoidosis occurs in 5-15% of sarcoidosis cases. Approximately 50% of patients with neurosarcoidosis present with a neurological disease at the time sarcoidosis is first diagnosed. Spinal sarcoidosis is rare. We report the case of a 61-year-old man with a highly aspecific intramedullary lesion as the first manifestation of sarcoidosis. One year after the onset of neurological symptoms, the high levels of angiotensin-converting enzyme and the results of a total body gallium scan and bronchoalveolar lavage supported the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. Isolated single reports indicate that spinal neurosarcoidosis may be the initial manifestation of sarcoidosis. In our case, magnetic resonance imaging of the dorsal spine showed a largely aspecific lesion. Neurosarcoidosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intramedullary cord lesion with leptomeningeal enhancement; a systematic search for evidence of sarcoidosis should be mandatory in all cases for a correct diagnosis and early treatment.
Microvascular decompression (MVD) is an effective and safe treatment in hemifacial spasm (HFS). Postoperative evaluations are usually made by neurosurgeons. Follow-up studies performed by neurologists and postoperative quality of life (QoL) investigations are lacking. All 25 HFS patients operated with MVD in our centre between 2000 and 2004 were evaluated with the recently validated HFS-7 scheme, extended with the item 'sleep disturbance due to HFS' (HFS-8). The patients underwent a careful neurological examination median 3 years after the operation. The evaluation focused on clinical aspects, changes in blood pressure and time until observable effect of MVD. The evaluation of HFS-7 questionnaire and the extended form (HFS-8) showed significant improvement in QoL after MVD. Neurological outcome was in almost all cases excellent or good. Eleven (44%) patients had no neurological deficits at all. Only one patient had serious complications with ipsilateral facial palsy, deafness, balance problems and vertigo. The other patients had minor neurological findings or symptoms. Eighteen (72%) patients experienced early effect within 3 months after MVD; seven (28%) patients had late effect between 6 and 14 months. Median age of the patients with late effect (62.6 years) was significantly higher than in those with early effect (52.7 years).
Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is characterized by disturbed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) dynamics and white matter lesions (WML). Although the morphology of these lesions is described, little is known about the biochemistry. Our aim was to explore the relationship between ventricular CSF markers, periventricular WML and postoperative clinical outcome in patients with NPH. We analysed lumbar and ventricular concentrations of 10 CSF markers, 12 clinical symptoms and signs, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) periventricular white matter hyperintensities (PVH) and ventricular size before and 3 months after shunt surgery in 35 patients with NPH. Higher ventricular CSF neurofilament protein (NFL), an axonal marker, correlated with more extensive PVH. A larger postoperative reduction in NFL correlated with larger reduction in PVH and a more pronounced overall improvement. Albumin ratio, HMPG, NPY, VIP and GD3 increased postoperatively whereas NFL, tau and HVA decreased. Variations in ventricular size were not associated with CSF concentrations of any marker. We conclude that NPH is characterized by an ongoing periventricular neuronal dysfunction seen on MRI as PVH. Clinical improvement after shunt surgery is associated with CSF changes indicating a restitution of axonal function. Other biochemical effects of shunting may include increased monoaminergic and peptidergic neurotransmission, breakdown of blood brain barrier function, and gliosis.

In healthy human subjects, the relative contribution of cortical regions to motor performance varies with the task parameters. Additionally, after stroke, recruitment of cortical areas during a simple motor task varies with corticospinal system integrity. We investigated whether the pattern of motor system recruitment in a task involving increasingly forceful hand grips is influenced by the degree of corticospinal system damage. Nine chronic subcortical stroke patients and nine age-matched controls underwent functional magnetic brain imaging whilst performing repetitive isometric hand grips. Target grip forces were varied between 15% and 45% of individual maximum grip force. Corticospinal system functional integrity was assessed with transcranial magnetic stimulation. Averaged across all forces, there was more task-related activation compared with rest in the secondary motor areas of patients with greater corticospinal system damage, confirming previous reports. However, here we were primarily interested in regional brain activation, which covaried with the amount of force generated, implying a prominent executive role in force production. We found that in control subjects and patients with lesser corticospinal system damage, signal change increased linearly with increasing force output in contralateral primary motor cortex, supplementary motor area and ipsilateral cerebellum. In contrast, in patients with greater corticospinal system damage, force-related signal changes were seen mainly in contralesional dorsolateral premotor cortex, bilateral ventrolateral premotor cortices and contralesional cerebellum, but not ipsilesional primary motor cortex. These findings suggest that the premotor cortices might play a new and functionally relevant role in controlling force production in patients with more severe corticospinal system disruption.
In the mammalian central nervous system, transporter-mediated reuptake may be critical for terminating the neurotransmitter action of D-serine at the strychnine insensitive glycine site of the NMDA receptor. The Na(+) independent amino acid transporter alanine-serine-cysteine transporter 1 (Asc-1) has been proposed to account for synaptosomal d-serine uptake by virtue of its high affinity for D-serine and widespread neuronal expression throughout the brain. Here, we sought to validate the contribution of Asc-1 to D-serine uptake in mouse brain synaptosomes using Asc-1 gene knockout (KO) mice. Total [(3)H]D-serine uptake in forebrain and cerebellar synaptosomes from Asc-1 knockout mice was reduced to 34 +/- 5% and 22 +/- 3% of that observed in wildtype (WT) mice, respectively. When the Na(+) dependent transport components were removed by omission of Na(+) ions in the assay buffer, D-serine uptake in knockout mice was reduced to 8 +/- 1% and 3 +/- 1% of that measured in wildtype mice in forebrain and cerebellum, respectively, suggesting Asc-1 plays a major role in the Na(+) independent transport of D-serine. Potency determination of D-serine uptake showed that Asc-1 mediated rapid high affinity Na(+) independent uptake with an IC(50) of 19 +/- 1 microm. The remaining uptake was mediated predominantly via a low affinity Na(+) dependent transporter with an IC(50) of 670 +/- 300 microm that we propose is the glial alanine-serine-cysteine transporter 2 (ASCT2) transporter. The results presented reveal that Asc-1 is the only high affinity D-serine transporter in the mouse CNS and is the predominant mechanism for D-serine reuptake.
Immature spinal cord, unlike adult, has an ability to repair itself following injury. Evidence for regeneration, structural repair and development of substantially normal locomotor behaviour comes from studies of marsupials due to their immaturity at birth. We have compared morphological, cellular and molecular changes in spinal cords transected at postnatal day (P)7 or P14, from 3 h to 2 weeks post-injury, in South American opossums (Monodelphis domestica). A bridge between severed ends of cords was apparent 5 days post-injury in P7 cords, compared to 2 weeks in P14. The volume of neurofilament (axonal) material in the bridge 2 weeks after injury was 30% of control in P7- but &lt; 10% in P14-injured cords. Granulocytes accumulated at the site of injury earlier (3 h) in P7 than in P14 (24 h)-injured animals. Monocytes accumulated 24 h post-injury and accumulation was greater in P14 cords. Accumulation of GFAP-positive astrocytes at the lesion occurred earlier in P14-injured cords. Neurites and growth cones were identified ultrastructurally in contact with astrocytes forming the bridge. Results using mouse inflammatory gene arrays showed differences in levels of expression of many TGF, TNF, cytokine, chemokine and interleukin gene families. Most of the genes identified were up-regulated to a greater extent following injury at P7. Some changes were validated and quantified by RT-PCR. Overall, the results suggest that at least some of the greater ability to recover from spinal cord transection at P7 compared to P14 in opossums is due to differences in inflammatory cellular and molecular responses.
Studies in the rat have shown that contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) results in devastating pathology, including significant loss of mature oligodendrocytes and astrocytes even in spared white matter. Subsequently, there is increased proliferation of endogenous NG2(+) cells, postulated to contribute to replacement of mature glia chronically, which is important for functional recovery. Studies of mechanisms that stimulate endogenous progenitor cells would be facilitated by using mouse models with naturally occurring and genetically engineered mutations. To determine whether the murine response is similar to that in the rat, we performed contusive SCI on adult female C57Bl/6 mice at the T8-9 level. Animals received bromodeoxyuridine injections in the first week following injury and were killed at 1, 3, 4, 7 or 28 days postinjury (DPI). The overall loss of macroglia and the temporal-spatial response of NG2(+) cells after SCI in the (C57Bl/6) mouse was very similar to that in the (Sprague-Dawley) rat. By 24 h after SCI nearly half of the macroglia in spared ventral white matter had been lost. Cell proliferation was increased at 1-7 DPI, peaking at 3-4 DPI. Dividing cells included NG2(+) cells and Cd11b(+) macrophages and microglia. Furthermore, cells dividing in the first week expressed markers of mature glia at 28 DPI. The similarities in endogenous progenitor cell response to SCI in the mouse and rat suggest that this is a fundamental injury response, and that transgenic mouse models may be used to further probe how this cellular response to SCI might be enhanced to improve recovery after SCI.
Neurotrophins are a large class of trophic factors located throughout the central nervous system. While the role of neurotrophins in neuronal survival and axon guidance is well known, their secondary role in modulating synaptic transmission and cell firing properties is largely unexplored. In this study we examined the expression of neurotrophins in the mouse medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) and investigated the effect of exogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) application on the firing properties of MNTB principal cells. The expression levels of nerve growth factor, BDNF, neurotrophin-3, neurotrophin-4/5 and major receptor tyrosine kinase B was found to be moderate to high at postnatal day 12, indicating that the neurotrophins may have a role following synaptogenesis. A 2-h exposure to exogenous BDNF (100 ng/mL) had a significant effect on principal cell firing properties and voltage-gated potassium currents. Importantly, preincubation in BDNF increased the incidence of multifiring and rebounding cells, and significantly increased the number of action potentials fired in response to a single depolarizing step. BDNF exposure also significantly decreased underlying voltage-gated potassium currents, including both the low- and high-voltage-activated components. Our data show that the neurotrophins, specifically BDNF, may have a novel role in modulating cell excitability in the auditory brainstem.
In the developing visual cortex, the expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) subunit GluR4 precedes that of the other AMPAR subunits GluR1-3, and then declines to become almost absent in adults. The current study shows that the neuronal activity regulates the expression of GluR4 by a culture system in vitro and a dark-rearing (DR) system in vivo. Membrane depolarization by treatment of cultured neurons of the visual cortex with a high concentration of KCl (35 mm; HK) promoted a decline in the expression of GluR4. This effect of HK on the expression of GluR4 was significantly blocked by the addition of an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, (D)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), but not by the voltage-sensitive calcium channel antagonist nifedipine. Moreover, the Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent kinase (CaMKII) inhibitor KN62 and the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H-89 blocked this effect, which suggests the involvement of Ca(2+) influx via NMDAR and the subsequent activation of CaMKII and PKA. Conversely, the MAP kinase inhibitor PD98059 promoted the effect of HK on the expression of GluR4. Significantly, APV, KN62, H-89 and PD98059 either promoted or inhibited the expression of GluR4 even in normal KCl (5 mm) conditions. The developmental change in the expression of GluR4 was significantly attenuated in DR in vivo, and the results suggest that neuronal activity such as visual experience may be involved in the mechanism of the expression of GluR4, which is mediated by NMDAR and tuned by certain protein kinases at an early developmental stage in the visual cortex.
This series of experiments evaluated the effects of amygdala damage on the acquisition and long-term retention of variants of the water task, and tested the hypothesis that the amygdala is an essential neural system for consolidation of hippocampal memories. In Experiment 1, rats with large, neurotoxic lesions of the amygdala (AMYG) showed normal acquisition on the standard spatial version of the water task, as well as normal retention and decay rate profiles on the 24-h and 30-day retention probes. In Experiment 2, AMYG rats showed normal one-trial place learning abilities and could retain this one-trial information over a 24 h delay. Experiment 3 showed that the amygdala lesions used in this study were functionally significant because AMYG rats, from Experiment 2, showed impairments in a discriminative fear conditioning to context paradigm. Experiment 4 was a critical test of the idea that the amygdala is a decisive locus for consolidation of hippocampal memories. AMYG rats were trained to sub-asymptotic levels of performance on the standard version of the water task. Following each training session, the subjects were given a post-training peripheral injection of D-amphetamine. A probe test revealed that normal subjects and AMYG rats showed similar post-training memory improvement effects. Taken together, the results show that hippocampal memory consolidation processes do not require amygdala modulation. Arguments for an alternative view are presented suggesting that there are multiple memory consolidation pathways, one of which may depend on amygdala neural circuitry.
In mammals, day length (photoperiod) is read and encoded in the main circadian clock, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). In turn, the SCN control the seasonal rhythmicity of various physiological processes, in particular the secretion pattern of the pineal hormone melatonin. This hormone then operates as an essential mediator for the control of seasonal physiological functions on some tissues, especially the pars tuberalis (PT). In the European hamster, both hormonal (melatonin) and behavioral (locomotor activity) rhythms are strongly affected by season, making this species an interesting model to investigate the impact of the seasonal variations of the environment. The direct (on SCN) and indirect (via melatonin on PT) effect of natural short and long photoperiod was investigated on the daily expression of clock genes, these being expressed in both tissues. In the SCN, photoperiod altered the expression of all clock genes studied. In short photoperiod, whereas Clock mRNA levels were reduced, Bmal1 expression became arrhythmic, probably resulting in the observed dramatic reduction in the rhythm of Avp expression. In the PT, Per1 and Rev-erbalpha expressions were anchored to dawn in both photoperiods. The daily profiles of Cry1 mRNA were not concordant with the daily variations in plasma melatonin although we confirmed that Cry1 expression is regulated by an acute melatonin injection in the hamster PT. The putative role of such seasonal-dependent changes in clock gene expression on the control of seasonal functions is discussed.
The climbing fibre (CF) input controls cerebellar Purkinje cell (PC) activity as well as synaptic plasticity at parallel fibre (PF)-PC synapses. Under high activity conditions, CFs release not only glutamate, but also the neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). Brief periods of such high CF activity can lead to the induction of long-term depression (LTD) at CF-PC synapses. Thus, we have examined for the first time the role of CRF in regulating excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and long-term plasticity at this synapse. Exogenous application of CRF alone transiently mimicked three aspects of CF-LTD, causing reductions in the CF-evoked excitatory postsynaptic current, complex spike second component and complex spike afterhyperpolarization. The complex spike first component is unaffected by CF-LTD induction and was similarly unaffected by CRF. Application of a CRF receptor antagonist reduced the expression amplitude and induction probability of CF-LTD monitored at the EPSC level. Collectively, these results suggest that under particular sensorimotor conditions, co-release of CRF from climbing fibres could down-regulate excitatory transmission and facilitate LTD induction at CF-PC synapses. Inhibition of either protein kinase C (PKC) or protein kinase A (PKA) attenuated the effects of CRF upon CF-EPSCs. We have previously shown that CF-LTD induction is PKC-dependent, and here demonstrate PKA-dependence as well. These results suggest that both the acute effects of CRF on CF-EPSCs as well as the facilitating effect of CRF on CF-LTD induction can be explained by a CRF-mediated recruitment of PKC and PKA.
Millions of lives are affected by hearing and balance deficits that arise as a consequence of sensory hair cell loss. Those deficits affect mammals permanently, but hearing and balance recover in nonmammals after epithelial supporting cells divide and produce replacement hair cells. Hair cells are not effectively replaced in mammals, but balance epithelia cultured from the ears of rodents and adult humans can respond to hair cell loss with low levels of supporting cell proliferation. We have sought to stimulate vestibular proliferation; and we report here that treatment with glial growth factor 2 (rhGGF2) yields a 20-fold increase in cell proliferation within sheets of pure utricular hair cell epithelium explanted from adult rats into long-term culture. In epithelia from neonates, substantially greater proliferation responses are evoked by rhGGF2 alone, insulin alone and to a lesser degree by serum even during short-term cultures, but all these responses progressively decline during the first 2 weeks of postnatal maturation. Thus, sheets of utricular epithelium from newborn rats average &gt; 40% labelling when cultured for 72 h with bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and either rhGGF2 or insulin. Those from 5- and 6-day-olds average 8-15%, 12-day-olds average &lt; 1% and after 72 h there is little or no labelling in epithelia from 27- and 35-day-olds. These cells are the mammalian counterparts of the progenitors that produce replacement hair cells in nonmammals, so the postnatal quiescence described here is likely to be responsible for at least part of the mammalian ear's unique vulnerability to permanent sensory deficits.
Striatal parvalbumin-containing fast-spiking (FS) interneurons provide a powerful feedforward GABAergic inhibition on spiny projection neurons, through a widespread arborization and electrical coupling. Modulation of FS interneuron activity might therefore strongly affect striatal output. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) exert a modulatory action at various levels in the striatum. We performed electrophysiological recordings from a rat striatal slice preparation to investigate the effects of group I mGluR activation on both the intrinsic and synaptic properties of FS interneurons. Bath-application of the group I mGluR agonist, (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (3,5-DHPG), caused a dose-dependent depolarizing response. Both (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid (LY367385) and 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt), selective mGluR1 antagonists, significantly reduced the amplitude of the membrane depolarization caused by 3,5-DHPG application. Conversely, mGluR5 antagonists, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethylnyl)pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP) and 6-methyl-2-(phenylazo)-3-pyridinol (SIB1757), were unable to affect the response to 3,5-DHPG, suggesting that only mGluR1 contributes to the 3,5-DHPG-mediated excitatory action on FS interneurons. Furthermore, mGluR1 blockade significantly decreased the amplitude of the glutamatergic postsynaptic potentials, whereas the mGluR5 antagonist application produced a small nonsignificant inhibitory effect. Surprisingly, our electron microscopic data demonstrate that the immunoreactivity for both mGluR1a and mGluR5 is expressed extrasynaptically on the plasma membrane of parvalbumin-immunoreactive dendrites of FS interneurons. Together, these results suggest that despite a common pattern of distribution, mGluR1 and mGluR5 exert distinct functions in the modulation of FS interneuron activity.
Deficiency in energy supply, such as occurs during hypoxia, anoxia, metabolic stress and mitochondrial failure, strongly affects the excitability of central neurons. Such lowered energy supply evokes various changes in spontaneous synaptic input to the hippocampal and cortical neurons. However, how this energy deprivation affects synaptic input to motor neurons, which are also vulnerable to energy deprivation, has never been addressed. Here we report for the first time the effect of metabolic stress on synaptic input to motor neurons by recording postsynaptic currents in the hypoglossal nucleus. Chemical anoxia with NaCN (1 mm) and anoxia with 95% N(2) induced a persistent inward current and a marked and robust increase in action potential-independent synaptic input. This increase was abolished by strychnine, but not by picrotoxin, CNQX or MK-801, indicating glycine release facilitation. Blockade of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels and extracellular Ca(2+) deprivation strongly attenuated this facilitation. The amplitude of inward currents evoked by local application of NMDA to the motor neurons in the presence of strychnine was significantly increased during NaCN application. A saturating concentration of d-serine occluded this potentiation, suggesting that released glycine activated the glycine-binding sites of NMDA receptors. By contrast, neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus showed no detectable change in synaptic input in response to NaCN. These data suggest that increase in synaptically released glycine in response to metabolic stress may play an exacerbating role in NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity in motor neurons.
Stimulation of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) by homophilic interactions is known to lead to neurite outgrowth as well as to neuronal survival. Whereas a complex network of signalling molecules is known to be of importance to NCAM-mediated neurite extension, only limited information is available regarding signalling underlying NCAM-mediated neuroprotection. Here, we present data suggesting a difference in the signalling events required for survival of rat dopaminergic neurons as compared with neurite outgrowth from the same cell type. Whereas Fyn, fibroblast growth factor receptor, mitogen-activated protein and ERK kinase, protein kinase A and protein kinase C are required for both responses to NCAM-induced signalling, phospholipase C and Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent kinase II are only necessary for the neurite outgrowth response, but dispensable for neuroprotection.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is now widely used as a 'virtual' lesion paradigm to investigate behavioural functions, but the mechanisms through which it influences neural processing are unclear. To understand the differential effects of TMS on spatially overlapping populations of neurons we manipulated the relative activity levels of visual neurons by adapting subjects to a range of visual stimuli. By applying TMS to the visual cortex representing the central visual field we have shown in two experiments that the behavioural and perceptual effects of TMS depend on the state of adaptation of the neural population stimulated by TMS. Specifically, we have demonstrated that within the stimulated area TMS perceptually facilitates the attributes encoded by the less active neural population. We have demonstrated the generality of this principle for both suprathreshold and subthreshold TMS as well as for colour and orientation-contingent colour using both subjective reports and psychophsyical measures. These findings can explain how TMS disrupts cognitive functions and therefore have implications for all studies which use TMS to disrupt behaviour.
By mediating depolarization-induced Ca(2+) influx, high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels control a variety of cellular events. These heteromultimeric proteins are composed of an ion-conducting (alpha(1)) and three auxiliary (alpha(2)delta, beta and gamma) subunits. The alpha(2)delta subunit enhances the trafficking of the channel complex to the cell surface and increases channel open probability. To exert these effects, alpha(2)delta must undergo important post-translational modifications, including a proteolytic cleavage that separates the extracellular alpha(2) from its transmembrane delta domain. After this proteolysis both domains remain linked by disulfide bonds. In spite of its central role in determining the final conformation of the fully mature alpha(2)delta, almost nothing is known about the physiological implications of this structural modification. In the current report, by using site-directed mutagenesis, the proteolytic site of alpha(2)delta was mapped to amino acid residues Arg-941 and Val-946. Substitution of these residues renders the protein insensitive to proteolytic cleavage as evidenced by the lack of molecular weight shift upon treatment with a disulfide-reducing agent. Interestingly, these mutations significantly decreased whole-cell patch-clamp currents without affecting the voltage dependence or kinetics of the channels, suggesting a reduction in the number of channels targeted to the plasma membrane.
We examined the effects of partial or complete damage to the hippocampus on long-term retention of a Pavlovian conditioned fear response to context. Rats received a single contextual fear-conditioning episode and 1 week, 3 months or 6 months later they received sham, partial (dorsal) or complete NMDA-induced damage of the hippocampus. During a retention test conducted 2 weeks after surgery, the control rats exhibited high levels of freezing in the context, although their level of freezing was significantly lower with longer retention intervals. Rats with complete hippocampal damage displayed very little freezing in the context at each learning-surgery interval. Partial hippocampal damage caused a smaller but consistent deficit in conditioned responding, especially at longer learning-surgery intervals. Neither group of hippocampus-damaged rats showed less retrograde amnesia for more remote memories. We found that the severity of retrograde amnesia for contextual fear conditioning following hippocampal damage is related to the extent of the damage and that there is consistent and severe retrograde amnesia for even remote contextual fear memories. These findings support the idea that the hippocampal formation has an essential and long-lasting, possibly permanent, role in memory for contexts.


Interest is growing in the neurotoxic potential of cannabis on human brain function. We studied non-acute effects of frequent cannabis use on hippocampus-dependent associative memory, investigated with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) in 20 frequent cannabis users and 20 non-users matched for age, gender and IQ. Structural changes in the (para)hippocampal region were measured using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Cannabis users displayed lower activation than non-users in brain regions involved in associative learning, particularly in the (para)hippocampal regions and the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, despite normal performance. VBM-analysis of the (para)hippocampal regions revealed no differences in brain tissue composition between cannabis users and non-users. No relation was found between (para)hippocampal tissue composition and the magnitude of brain activity in the (para)hippocampal area. Therefore, lower brain activation may not signify neurocognitive impairment, but could be the expression of a non-cognitive variable related to frequent cannabis use, for example changes in cerebral perfusion or differences in vigilance.
Previously we reported that basal neuropeptide Y (NPY)-like immunoreactivity-(LI) in hippocampus of the &quot;depressed&quot; Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats was lower compared to the control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) and that electroconvulsive stimuli (ECS) raise NPY-LI in discrete brain regions. Here we studied NPY mRNA expression, NPY Y(1) receptor (Y(1)) mRNA expression and binding sites, and behavior under basal conditions (Sham) and after repeated ECS. Baseline NPY and Y(1) mRNAs in the CA1-2 regions and dentate gyrus were lower while the Y(1) binding was higher in the FSL. ECS had larger effects on both NPY and behavior in the FSL rats. ECS increased NPY mRNA in the CA1-2, dentate gyrus and hypothalamus in FSL, but only in the dentate gyrus in FRL. ECS also increased Y(1) mRNA in the CA1-2, dentate gyrus and the parietal cortex in both strains, while in the hypothalamus the increase was observed only in the FSL rats. Consistently with Y(1) mRNA increase, Y(1) binding was downregulated in the corresponding regions. ECS decreased FSL immobility in the Porsolt swim test. These findings suggest that NPY is involved in depressive disorder and that antidepressant effects of ECS may in part be mediated through NPY.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) has been shown to be an effective measure for pain relief. The aim of the present study was to determine the optimal intensity and interval of repeated 100 Hz TENS for the treatment of chronic inflammatory hyperalgesia in a monoarthritic pain model of the rat, and to assess the changes of the spinal substance P (SP) release in response to TENS treatment. A reliable, reproducible chronic monoarthritic pain model was produced by intra-articular injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) at single ankle joint. The efficacy of 100 Hz TENS treatments with different frequencies and intensities was compared. In the acute period (within 3 weeks) of monoarthritis, twice-a-week schedule of TENS reduced the swelling of the inflamed ankle significantly. In the stable period (4-9 weeks), however, once-a-week schedule produced a significantly better therapeutic effect on both inflammation and arthritic hyperalgesia than that of twice- or five-times-a-week schedule. Using three levels of intensity of TENS, we found that the weaker (1-1-2 mA) stimulation produced significantly better therapeutic effects. Repeated TENS produced a reduction of SP content in spinal perfusate in parallel with the progressive reduction of the arthritic pain scores. Our results suggest that (i) consecutive TENS treatments produced cumulative effect for chronic hyperalgesia, (ii) for chronic inflammatory hyperalgesia, a weaker intensity and more sparsely arranged treatment schedule may produce better therapeutic effect and (iii) a decrease in SP release may serve as one of the possible neurochemical mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of multiple TENS treatments on chronic inflammatory hyperalgesia.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent mitogen for many cells, especially when its levels are elevated under pathological conditions, as seen in tumor cell progression and astroglial activation in neuropathies. While ET-1 is known to cause astroglial proliferation, in the present study, multiple signaling pathways involved in ET-1-mediated astrocyte proliferation were characterized. Treatment with PD98059 and U0126 (MEK inhibitors) inhibited not only ET-1-induced cell proliferation but also ET-1-activated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in U373MG astrocytoma cells. Whereas the nonselective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerythrine attenuated ET-1-induced cell proliferation, it was unable to block ET-1-induced ERK phosphorylation. However, ET-1 did not activate conventional or novel PKCs and did not elevate intracellular calcium. In addition, U73122 (a selective phospholipase C inhibitor), FTI-277 (an H-Ras inhibitor), as well as protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors also did not abolish ET-1-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation. ET-1 treatment increased the activity of total Ras but not H-Ras. The phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway appeared to be involved in signal transduction induced by ET-1, but it did not appear to participate in cross talk with the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Activated ET receptors did not propagate signals either through protein tyrosine kinases or transactivation of EGF receptor tyrosine kinases, which typically trigger Ras-Raf-MAPK pathways. The results indicate that ET-1 stimulates cell proliferation by the activation of MAPK-, PKC-, and PI3K-dependent pathways that appear to function in a parallel manner. There is no apparent, direct &quot;cross talk&quot; between these pathways in U373MG cells, but rather, they might act on the independent but necessary components of the mitogenic effects of ET-1.
Rats with medial prefrontal cortex or sham lesions were trained on a visual discrimination task designed for the eight-arm radial maze. After reaching asymptotic performance on this task, both groups were divided into sub-groups that would experience reversal learning in the same or different context from original training. The results showed that both groups reversed in the different context had accelerated learning compared to the groups reversed in the same context. Reversal learning in rats with medial prefrontal cortex damage was faster than sham animals in the same context. These and other results from a transfer test suggest that the medial prefrontal cortex participates in the behavioral effects of a context-specific inhibitory association acquired during visual discrimination learning.
In the hippocampus, impaired neurophysiology, compromised neurogenesis, and eventually apoptosis accompany cognitive deficits in insulinopenic (type-1) diabetes (T1D). The underlying pathological mechanisms remain to be defined. The hippocampus has a high density of the cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB(1)R), which has been shown to control several brain functions affected by diabetes, such as synaptic plasticity, glucose utilisation, memory consolidation and cognition, and maturation and survival of hippocampal neurons. However, the role of this receptor has not been investigated yet in diabetic encephalopathy. We report now that in the streptozotocin animal model of T1D, the hippocampal densities of CB(1)R protein and of specific CB(1)R binding sites are significantly increased both in the nerve terminals and in total membranes (changes between 13% and 38%), whereas CB(1)R mRNA expression is decreased by 25%, suggesting that CB(1)Rs might play a role in diabetic encephalopathy.
Bortezomib is a new proteasome inhibitor with a high antitumor activity, but also with a potentially severe peripheral neurotoxicity. To establish a preclinical model and to characterize the changes induced on the peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord, bortezomib was administered to Wistar rats (0.08, 0.15, 0.20, 0.30 mg/kg/day twice [2q7d] or three times [3q7d] weekly for a total of 4 weeks). At baseline, on days 14, 21 and 28 after the beginning the treatment period and during a 4-week follow-up period sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV) was determined in the tail of each animal. Sciatic nerve, DRG and spinal cord specimens were processed for light and electron microscope observations and morphometry. At the maximum tolerated dose bortezomib induced a significant reduction in SNCV, with a complete recovery at the end of the follow-up period. Sciatic nerve examination and morphometric determinations demonstrated mild to moderate pathological changes, involving predominantly the Schwann cells and myelin, although axonal degeneration was also observed. Bortezomib-induced changes were also observed in DRG and they were represented by satellite cell intracytoplasmatic vacuolization due to mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum damage, closely resembling the changes observed in sciatic nerve Schwann cells. Only rarely did the cytoplasm of DRG neurons has a dark appearance and clear vacuoles occurring in the cytoplasm. Spinal cord was morphologically normal. This model is relevant to the neuropathy induced by bortezomib in the treatment of human malignancies and it could be useful in increasing our knowledge regarding the mechanisms underlying bortezomib neurotoxicity.
Cognitive deficits and impaired olfactory function are observed in early stages of Huntington's disease (HD). The polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) is strongly associated with plastic events in the brain. During adulthood, it is most abundantly expressed in the hippocampus and the piriform cortex, which are involved in cognition and olfaction, respectively. We show that the numbers of PSA-NCAM-positive cells in the hippocampus and piriform cortex are dramatically reduced in the R6/1 and the R6/2 mouse models of HD. We hypothesize that the decrease in NCAM polysialylation reflects an impaired plasticity and might underlie some of the early symptoms in HD.
Of all cell types, motoneurons (MNs), are possibly the most difficult to maintain in culture, since their development and survival is conditioned by many factors that are still in the course of identification. This may also be the reason why they are difficult to transfect. We succeed to transfect these fragile cells with lipoplex [DOTAP:PC (10:1)-pGFP]-precoated coverslips. Here, we report that this original method, also termed 'surfection' does not perturbate MN development and survival while giving important transfection yield (15%). Lipofectamine 2000 and other well-known auxiliary lipids (DOPE, Chol) give lower surfection yields. The use of (DOTAP:PC)-based lipid vector also can be extended to several neural and non-neural cell lines with appreciable transfection yield such as a glial cell line (GCL) derived from rat spinal cord (65%), HeLa S3 (60%), COS-7 (30%) and HEK 293 cells (20%). The efficiency of DOTAP:PC (10:1) and Lipofectamine 2000 vectors in our surfection method are compared on standard HeLa S3 cell lines. Lipofectamine 2000 (72%) is slightly better than DOTAP:PC (10:1) (60%). However, the surfection method improved the efficiency of Lipofectamine 2000 itself (72%) as compared to the classical (62%) approach. In summary we have developed an original standard surfection protocol for both MN primary cultures and cell lines, thus simplifying laboratory practice; moreover, Lipofectamine 2000 used in this surfection method is more efficient for the cell lines than the manufacturer-recommended method. We emphasize that our method particularly spares fragile cells like MNs from injure and therefore, might be applied to other fragile cell type in primary cultures.
A conditioning lesion to peripheral axons of primary sensory neurons accelerates regeneration of their central axons in vivo or neurite outgrowth if the neurons are grown in vitro. Previous evidence has implicated neuropoietic cytokines and also cyclic AMP in regenerative conditioning. In experiments reported here, delivery through a lentivirus vector of ciliary neurotrophic factor to the appropriate dorsal root ganglion in rats was sufficient to mimic the conditioning effect of peripheral nerve injury on the regeneration of dorsal spinal nerve root axons. Regeneration in this experimental preparation was also stimulated by intraganglionic injection of dibutyryl cyclic AMP but the effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor and dibutyryl cyclic AMP were not additive. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP injection into the dorsal root ganglion induced mRNAs for two other neuropoietic cytokines, interleukin-6 and leukemia inhibitory factor and increased the accumulation of phosphorylated STAT3 in neuronal nuclei. The in vitro conditioning action of dibutyryl cyclic AMP was partially blocked by a pharmacological inhibitor of Janus kinase 2, a neuropoietic cytokine signaling molecule. We suggest that the beneficial actions of increased cyclic AMP activity on axonal regeneration of primary sensory neurons are mediated, at least in part, through the induction of neuropoietic cytokine synthesis within the dorsal root ganglion.
Olfactory bulbectomy is an established animal model of depression that has been mostly investigated in rats. As in human major depression, bulbectomy induces behavioral alterations that can be ameliorated by chronic antidepressant treatment. Furthermore, bulbectomy in rats is known to induce neurodegeneration in some brain areas. The aim of the present study was to evaluate patterns of behavioral alterations and neurodegeneration, and their drug-induced reversibility, in bulbectomized mice. Our results reveal that in mice bulbectomy increases locomotor activity and induces deficits in the passive avoidance test, comparable to the effects seen in rats. Bulbectomy also induced neuronal degeneration, visualized by incorporation of Fluoro-Jade B, in the piriform cortex and the posterolateral cortical amygdaloid nucleus (PLCo). Chronic treatment with the antidepressant amitriptyline protected neurons in both areas and efficiently reversed abnormal locomotor activity induced by bulbectomy. Treatment with citalopram was effective in reversing the behavioral deficits induced by bulbectomy, but did not protect against neurodegeneration. Our data indicate significant overlap between mice and rats in terms of behavioral alterations and neurodegeneration following olfactory bulbectomy. However, there are differences in drug-mediated reversibility of neurodegeneration suggesting that neurodegeneration and protection may be &quot;second-order&quot; features in this animal model of depression. This may also be relevant in the context of studies using genetically altered mice.
Gene transfer is being rigorously evaluated in the laboratory in the preparation for the development of clinical therapies. Many CNS diseases, which have proved more challenging to treat than peripheral disorders, are prime candidates for gene therapy. However, there are numerous considerations in the development of gene therapy, including delivery, maintenance of expression, transgene level regulation, toxicity of the viral vector system and safety of the gene product. The authors review these issues and discuss various approaches used in preclinical studies. Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease are employed as models, in which much research has already been performed, to address disease-specific questions about gene therapy approaches.
Thrombolysis with intravenous alteplase (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator) continues to be the sole recourse for acute ischemic stroke therapy, provided that patients seek treatment preferably within 3 h of stroke onset. The narrow window of efficacy, coupled with the significant risk of hemorrhage and the high mortality rate, preclude the use of alteplase beyond this time frame. Moreover, in part because of safety concerns, only a small percentage (6-15%) of eligible patients is treated with alteplase. Clearly, safer and more effective treatments that focus on improving the shortcomings of the present thrombolysis for stroke need to be identified. Therefore, newer thrombolytics are being developed with the goal of minimizing side effects, while also shortening the time of cerebral reperfusion and extending the therapeutic window of efficacy. Besides thrombolytics, new and potentially useful drugs and devices are also being studied either as monotherapeutic agents or for use in conjunction with alteplase. In animal models of stroke, neuroprotective agents that affect various components of the ischemic injury cascade that results in neurodegeneration have shown promise for the latter. Examples of such agents include spin traps that block oxidative stress, metalloprotease inhibitors that prevent vascular damage, anti-inflammatory drugs that suppress inflammation and transcranial infrared laser irradiation, which promotes recovery of function. Ideally, a successful combination of neuroprotectant (drug or device) and thrombolytic therapy for stroke would minimize the side effects of thrombolysis followed by supplementary neuroprotection thereafter.
Individuals with epilepsy experience a number of sex-specific problems. In women, pregnancy and delivery are obvious issues, fertility problems are more often encountered and they also seem to have a higher frequency of sexual problems. A large number of women with epilepsy experience seizure exacerbation in relation to the menstrual cycle and have higher frequencies of menstrual disturbances and polycystic ovaries. Cosmetic problems affecting skin, hair or weight may also be drug induced. The use of antiepileptic drugs may influence the effect of contraceptives leading to unplanned pregnancies and contraceptives may affect the serum levels of antiepileptic drugs. The care of pregnant women with epilepsy requires attention to a number of guidelines and close cooperation between neurologist and gynecologist is recommended. Although the majority of the women with epilepsy experience normal pregnancies and deliveries, their children have a higher risk of birth defects. At menopause, their seizure pattern may change and some antiepileptic drugs may increase the risk of osteoporosis. The optimal treatment of women with epilepsy should take into account these gender-specific issues in the different stages of life.
Oxidative stress is central to ischemia-reperfusion injury. The role of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in this process is uncertain. In ER signaling, PERK-Nrf2 and Ire-CHOP are two pathways that determine cell fate under stress. PERK-Nrf2 up-regulates antioxidant enzyme expression whereas Ire-CHOP promotes apoptosis. We have identified a novel pathway in ER stress-induced apoptosis after ischemia-reperfusion in vitro involving translational suppression of the survival kinase PKB/Akt (Akt), and elucidated an alternative protective role of antioxidants in the regulation of Akt activity. Using human choriocarcinoma JEG-3 cells, we found that sustained activation of ER stress by tunicamycin or thapsigargin exacerbated apoptosis in oxygen-glucose-deprived cells during reoxygenation. This was mediated via a reduction in phosphorylated Akt secondary to down-regulation of protein translation rather than suppression of phosphorylation. Transient overexpression of wild-type Akt, but not kinase-dead Akt, in JEG-3 cells diminished tunicamycin-OGD reoxygenation-induced apoptosis. The antioxidants Trolox and Edaravone reduced apoptosis, but the protective effect of Trolox was abrogated by the PI3K inhibitor, LY294002. We speculate that sustained ER stress may contribute to the placental dysfunction seen in human pregnancy complications.
Presenilins are required for the function of gamma-secretase: a multiprotein complex implicated in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We analyzed expression of the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene. We show that ERM recognizes avian erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog (Ets) motifs on the PS1 promoter located at -10, +90, +129 and +165, and activates PS1 transcription with promoter fragments containing or not the -10 Ets site. Using yeast two-hybrid selection we identified interactions between the chromatin remodeling factor CHD3/ZFH and the C-terminal 415 amino acids of ERM used as bait. Clones contained the C-terminal region of CHD3 starting from amino acid 1676. This C-terminal fragment (amino acids 1676-2000) repressed transcription of the PS1 gene in transfection assays and PS1 protein expression from the endogenous gene in SH-SY5Y cells. In cells transfected with both CHD3 and ERM, activation of PS1 transcription by ERM was eliminated with increasing levels of CHD3. Progressive N-terminal deletions of CHD3 fragment (amino acids 1676-2000) indicated that sequences crucial for repression of PS1 and interactions with ERM in yeast two-hybrid assays are located between amino acids 1862 and 1877. This was correlated by the effect of progressive C-terminal deletions of CHD3, which indicated that sequences required for repression of PS1 lie between amino acids 1955 and 1877. Similarly, deletion to amino acid 1889 eliminated binding in yeast two-hybrid assays. Testing various shorter fragments of ERM as bait indicated that the region essential for binding CHD3/ZFH is within the amino acid region 96-349, which contains the central inhibitory DNA-binding domain (CIDD) of ERM. N-Terminal deletions of ERM showed that residues between amino acids 200 and 343 are required for binding to CHD3 (1676-2000) and C-terminal deletions of ERM indicated that amino acids 279-299 are also required. Furthermore, data from chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) indicate that CHD3/ZFH interacts with the PS1 promoter in vivo.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a heterogeneous movement disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of dopamine neurons in substantia nigra. We have previously presented genetic evidence for the possible involvement of alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases (ADH; ALDH) by identifying genetic variants in ADH1C and ADH4 that associate with PD. The absence of the corresponding mRNA species in the brain led us to the hypothesis that one cause of PD could be defects in the defense systems against toxic aldehydes in the gastrointestinal tract. We investigated cellular expression of Adh1, Adh3, Adh4 and Aldh1 mRNA along the rodent GI tract. Using oligonucleotide in situ hybridization probes, we were able to resolve the specific distribution patterns of closely related members of the ADH family. In both mice and rats, Adh4 is transcribed in the epithelium of tongue, esophagus and stomach, whereas Adh1 was active from stomach to rectum in mice, and in duodenum, colon and rectum in rats. Adh1 and Adh4 mRNAs were present in the mouse gastric mucosa in nonoverlapping patterns, with Adh1 in the gastric glands and Adh4 in the gastric pits. Aldh1 was found in epithelial cells from tongue to jejunum in rats and from esophagus to colon in mice. Adh3 hybridization revealed low mRNA levels in all tissues investigated. The distribution and known physiological functions of the investigated ADHs and Aldh1 are compatible with a role in a defense system, protecting against alcohols, aldehydes and formaldehydes as well as being involved in retinoid metabolism.
Neisseria meningitidis, or the meningococcus, is the source of significant morbidity and mortality in humans worldwide. Even though mutability has been linked to the occurrence of outbreaks of epidemic disease, meningococcal DNA repair pathways are poorly delineated. For the first time, a collection of meningococcal disease-associated isolates has been demonstrated to express constitutively the DNA glycosylases MutY and Fpg in vivo. DNA sequence analysis showed considerable variability in the deduced amino acid sequences of MutS and Fpg, while MutY and RecA were highly conserved. Interestingly, multi-locus sequence typing demonstrated a putative link between the pattern of amino acid substitutions and levels of spontaneous mutagenicity in meningococcal strains. These results provide a basis for further studies aimed at resolving the genotype/phenotype relationships of meningococcal genome variability and mutator activity.

Negatively reinforced olfactory conditioning has been widely employed to identify learning and memory genes, signal transduction pathways and neural circuitry in Drosophila. To delineate the molecular and cellular processes underlying reward-mediated learning and memory, we developed a novel assay system for positively reinforced olfactory conditioning. In this assay, flies were involuntarily exposed to the appetitive unconditioned stimulus sucrose along with a conditioned stimulus odour during training and their preference for the odour previously associated with sucrose was measured to assess learning and memory capacities. After one training session, wild-type Canton S flies displayed reliable performance, which was enhanced after two training cycles with 1-min or 15-min inter-training intervals. Higher performance scores were also obtained with increasing sucrose concentration. Memory in Canton S flies decayed slowly when measured at 30 min, 1 h and 3 h after training; whereas, it had declined significantly at 6 h and 12 h post-training. When learning mutant t beta h flies, which are deficient in octopamine, were challenged, they exhibited poor performance, validating the utility of this assay. As the Drosophila model offers vast genetic and transgenic resources, the new appetitive conditioning described here provides a useful tool with which to elucidate the molecular and cellular underpinnings of reward learning and memory. Similar to negatively reinforced conditioning, this reward conditioning represents classical olfactory conditioning. Thus, comparative analyses of learning and memory mutants in two assays may help identify the molecular and cellular components that are specific to the unconditioned stimulus information used in conditioning.
Most cells are polarized. Embryonic and stem cells can use their polarity to generate cell diversity by asymmetric cell division, whereas differentiated cells use their polarity to execute specific functions. For example, fibroblasts form an actin-rich leading edge required for cell migration, neurons form distinctive axonal and dendritic compartments important for directional signaling, and epithelial cells have apical and basolateral cortical domains necessary for maintaining tissue impermeability. It is well established that actin and actin-associated proteins are essential for generating molecular and morphological cell polarity, but only recently has it become accepted that microtubules can induce and/or maintain polarity. One common feature among different cell types is that microtubules can establish the position of cortical polarity, but are not required for cortical polarity per se. In this review, we discuss how different cell types utilize microtubules and microtubule-associated signaling pathways to generate cortical cell polarity, highlight common mechanisms, and discuss open questions for directing future research.
Recent studies have described significant demyelination and microglial activation in the cerebral cortex of brains from multiple sclerosis patients. To date, however, experimental models of cortical demyelination or cortical inflammation have not been extensively studied. In this report we describe focal cortical inflammation induced by stereotaxic injection of killed bacteria (BCG), followed 1 month later by subcutaneous injection of the same antigen, a protocol that overcomes the immune privilege of the cortex. Intracerebral BCG injection produced focal microglial activation at the injection site (termed acute lesion). Ten days after peripheral challenge (termed immune-mediated lesion), larger areas and higher densities of activated microglia were found near the injection site. In both paradigms, activated microglia and/or their processes closely apposed neuronal perikarya and apical dendrites. In the immune-mediated lesions, approximately 45% of the axosomatic synapses was displaced by activated microglia. Upon activation, therefore, cortical microglial migrate to and strip synapses from neuronal perikarya. Since neuronal pathology was not a feature of either the acute or immune-mediated lesion, synaptic stripping by activated microglia may have neuroprotective consequences.
Autoimmune neuropathies including Guillain-Barr syndrome are frequently associated with anti-GM1 ganglioside antibodies. These are believed to play a pathogenic role and their clearance from the circulation would be predicted to produce therapeutic benefit. This study examines the conditions required for effective immunoadsorption of anti-GM1 antibodies using glycan-conjugated Sepharose as a matrix. In solution inhibition studies using a range of GM1-like saccharides in conjunction with mouse and human anti-GM1 antibodies, the whole GM1 pentasaccharide beta-Gal-(1-3)-beta-GalNAc-(1-4)-[alpha-Neu5Ac-(2-3)]-beta-Gal-(1-4)-beta-Glc was the favored ligand for maximal inhibiton of antibody-GM1 interactions in comparison with monosaccharides, Gal-(1-3)-beta-GalNAc-betaOMe, and synthetic GM1 mimetics. Immunoadsorption studies comparing binding of mouse monoclonal anti-GM1 antibodies to GM1-Sepharose and beta-Gal-(1-3)-beta-GalNAc-Sepharose confirmed the preference seen in solution inhibition studies. GM1-Sepharose columns were then used to adsorb anti-GM1 immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin M antibodies from human neuropathy sera. Anti-GM1 antibodies subsequently eluted from the columns often showed a striking monoclonal or oligoclonal pattern, indicating that the immune response to GM1 is restricted to a limited number of B-cell clones, even in the absence of a detectable serum paraprotein. These data support the view that immunoadsorption plasmapheresis could potentially be developed for the acute depletion of serum anti-GM1 antibodies in patients with neuropathic disease, and also provide purified human anti-GM1 antibodies for analytical studies.

The analysis of the auditory scene begins from the moment we hear sounds, making it possible for the infant to distinguish the mother's voice from other sounds in the environment. The purpose of the study was to determine, in two experiments, whether the frequency separation threshold, at which the perception of a mixture of sounds turns from being perceived as one stream to two streams, differs between two groups of school-aged children (ages 5-8 and 9-11 years) and adults. The results show a developmental course for the perception of auditory streams that is not simply dependent upon frequency discrimination. This suggests that maturation of the stream segregation process follows a longer developmental course than maturation of simple feature discrimination. The data indicate that the ability to hear distinct sound streams in the environment takes time to develop and becomes sharpened with experience and maturity.
Cancellation experiments between air conduction (AC) and bone conduction (BC) tones were conducted at two frequencies (0.7 and 1.1 kHz) and three levels (40, 50, and 60 dB HL) in three subjects. The tests were divided into three categories: (1) single tone cancellation, (2) simultaneous cancellation of two tones, and (3) cancellation of one tone while a disturbing tone was present. In total, each subject performed twelve cancellation tasks. The hypothesis is that the AC and BC sound transmission behaves as linear systems and they both excite the basilar membrane in the cochlea similarly. The cancellation results are presented as the deviations from this hypothesis; except for a few larger deviations, the intrasubject deviations were generally less than 0.5 dB and 5 degrees. The results from all three test categories indicate that the hypothesis of linear transmission systems and similarity of cochlear stimulation by AC and BC holds. However, due to the subjects' limited ability to conduct optimal cancellation and to imperfect methodology and equipment, the small deviations from perfectly linear cancellation that were observed do neither conclusively prove nor refute the possibility of small differences in the cochlear processing of AC and BC sound. Nonetheless, it is clear that if such differences in the processing of the two stimuli exist, they are small in magnitude.
Genistein is a phytoestrogen, particularly abundant in soybeans that can bind estrogen receptors and sex hormone binding proteins, exerting both estrogenic and antiestrogenic activity. In this study we used the Japanese quail embryo as a test end-point to investigate the effects of early embryonic exposure to genistein on male copulatory behavior and on vasotocin parvocellular system. Both differentiate by the organizational effects of estradiol during development and may therefore represent an optimal model to study the effects of xenoestrogens. We injected two doses of genistein (100 and 1000 microg) into the yolk of 3-day-old Japanese quail eggs. Other eggs were treated with either 25 microg of estradiol benzoate or sesame oil as positive and negative controls. At the age of 6 weeks, behavioral tests revealed a significant decrease of all aspects of copulatory behavior (in comparison to the control group) in estradiol-treated birds. In contrast, genistein-treated animals demonstrated various degrees of decrease in the mean frequencies of some aspects of the sexual behavior. The computerized analysis of vasotocin innervation in medial preoptic, stria terminalis and lateral septum nuclei revealed a statistically significant decreased immunoreactivity in treated animals compared to control ones. These results demonstrate that genistein, similarly to estradiol, has an organizational effect on quail parvocellular vasotocin system and on copulatory behavior. In conclusion, present results confirm, in this avian model, that embryonic exposure to phytoestrogens may have life-long effects on sexual differentiation of brain structures and behaviors.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a family of toxicants that persist in measurable quantities in human and wildlife tissues, despite their ban in production in 1977. Some PCB mixtures can act as endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) by mimicking or antagonizing the actions of hormones in the brain and periphery. When exposure to hormonally active substances such as PCBs occurs during vulnerable developmental periods, particularly prenatally or in early postnatal life, they can disrupt sex-specific patterning of the brain, inducing permanent changes that can later be manifested as improper sexual behaviors. Here, we investigated the effects of prenatal exposure to the PCB mixture Aroclor (A) 1221 on adult female reproductive behaviors in a dose-response model in the Sprague-Dawley rat. Using a paced mating paradigm that permits the female to set the timing of mating and control contact with the male during copulation, we were able to uncover significant differences in female-typical sexual activities in A1221-exposed females. Specifically, A1221 causes significant effects on mating trial pacing, vocalizations, ambulation and the female's likelihood to mate. The results further demonstrate that the intermediate treatment group has the greatest number of disrupted endpoints, suggestive of non-linear dose responses to A1221. These data demonstrate that the behavioral phenotype in adulthood is disrupted by low, ecologically relevant exposures to PCBs, and the results have implications for reproductive success and health in wildlife and women.
In male golden hamsters, agonistic behavior undergoes a pubertal transition from play fighting to adult aggression. Previous studies have shown that this aspect of behavioral development is associated with pubertal increases in glucocorticoids and that daily social stress or injections of a synthetic glucocorticoid accelerate the transition. The goals of this study were to confirm the effects of cortisol on the development of agonistic behavior and to investigate the role of type II corticosteroid receptors in this process. First, animals treated with cortisol during early puberty [from postnatal days 31 (P-31) to P-36] showed an accelerated transition from play fighting to adult aggression. In a second experiment, the behavioral effects of cortisol were blocked by a co-treatment with a type II corticosteroid receptor antagonist. These findings are the first to show a facilitating role for type II corticosteroid receptors in the pubertal development of a social behavior. As such, these findings provide new insights into the neuroendocrine mechanisms controlling behavioral development during puberty.
Neural prostheses are electronic stimulators that activate nerves to restore sensory or motor functions. Implanted neural prostheses receive command signals and in some cases energy to recharge their batteries through the skin by telemetry. Here, we describe a new approach that eliminates the implanted stimulator. Stimulus pulse trains are passed between two surface electrodes placed on the skin. An insulated lead with conductive terminals at each end is implanted inside the body. One terminal is located under the cathodal surface electrode and the other is attached to a nerve targeted for stimulation. A fraction (10%-15%) of the current flowing between the surface electrodes is routed through the implanted lead. The nerve is stimulated when the amount of routed current is sufficient. The aims of this study were to establish some basic electrical properties of the system and test long-term stability in chronic implants. Stimulation of the nerve innervating the ankle flexors produced graded force over the full physiological range at amplitudes below threshold for evoking muscle contractions under the surface electrodes. Implants remained stable for over 8 mo. The findings provide the basis for a new family of neural prostheses.
The stochastic state point process filter (SSPPF) and steepest descent point process filter (SDPPF) are adaptive filter algorithms for state estimation from point process observations that have been used to track neural receptive field plasticity and to decode the representations of biological signals in ensemble neural spiking activity. The SSPPF and SDPPF are constructed using, respectively, Gaussian and steepest descent approximations to the standard Bayes and Chapman-Kolmogorov (BCK) system of filter equations. To extend these approaches for constructing point process adaptive filters, we develop sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) approximations to the BCK equations in which the SSPPF and SDPPF serve as the proposal densities. We term the two new SMC point process filters SMC-PPFs and SMC-PPFD, respectively. We illustrate the new filter algorithms by decoding the wind stimulus magnitude from simulated neural spiking activity in the cricket cercal system. The SMC-PPFs and SMC-PPFD provide more accurate state estimates at low number of particles than a conventional bootstrap SMC filter algorithm in which the state transition probability density is the proposal density. We also use the SMC-PPFs algorithm to track the temporal evolution of a spatial receptive field of a rat hippocampal neuron recorded while the animal foraged in an open environment. Our results suggest an approach for constructing point process adaptive filters using SMC methods.
How to localize the neural electric activities effectively and precisely from the scalp EEG recordings is a critical issue for clinical neurology and cognitive neuroscience. In this paper, based on the spatial sparse assumption of brain activities, proposed is a novel iterative EEG source imaging algorithm, Lp norm iterative sparse solution (LPISS). In LPISS, the lp (p &lt; or =1) norm constraint for sparse solution is integrated into the iterative weighted minimum norm solution of the underdetermined EEG inverse problem, and it is the constraint and the iteratively renewed weight that forces the inverse problem to converge to a sparse solution effectively. The conducted simulation studies with comparison to LORETA and FOCUSS for various dipoles configurations confirmed the validation of LPISS for sparse EEG source localization. Finally, LPISS was applied to a real evoked potential collected in a study of inhibition of return (IOR), and the result was consistent with the previously suggested activated areas involved in an IOR process.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by the compression of the median nerve as it transits the carpal tunnel, with an incidence of about 1% of the population. If surgery is needed, the treatment involves decompression of the median nerve followed sometimes by musculoskeletal outpatient rehabilitation. This paper presents a proof-of-concept pilot clinical trial in which the Rutgers Masters II haptic glove was tested on five subjects, who were two weeks post-hand surgery. Subjects trained for 13 sessions, 30 min per session, three sessions per week, and had no conventional outpatient therapy. Computerized measures of performance showed group effects in hand mechanical energy (1200% for the virtual ball squeezing and DigiKey exercises and 600% for the power putty exercise). Improvement in their hand function was also observed (a 38% reduction in virtual pegboard errors, and 70% fewer virtual hand ball errors). Clinical strength measures showed increases in grip (by up to 150%) and key pinch (up to 46%) strength in three of the subjects, while two subjects had decreased strength following the study. However, all five subjects improved in their tip pinch strength of their affected hand (between 20%-267%). When asked whether they would recommend the virtual reality exercises to others, four subjects very strongly agreed and one strongly agreed that they would.

In recent years, growing evidence supports the efficacy of antipsychotic addition to serotonin reuptake inhibitors in patients with treatment-refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder. This study is the first to investigate the effects of antipsychotic addition on cognitive functioning in obsessive-compulsive disorder patients. Cognitive functioning was evaluated at baseline and at endpoint of an 8-week double-blind, placebo-controlled quetiapine addition trial. Neurocognitive performance was compared between the placebo and quetiapine group and between responders and nonresponders. The neuropsychological test battery consisted of the national adult reading test, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, the Trail Making Test, verbal fluency, the Stroop Color Word Test, the California Verbal Learning Test, the Rey Complex Figure Task, the Continuous Performance Test, and the Digit Symbol Substitution. The results of this study suggest that quetiapine addition to serotonin reuptake inhibitors has no major effects on cognitive functioning in obsessive-compulsive disorder patients, apart from some evidence for a failure to maintain set on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. It is proposed that this failure may be caused by attention difficulties owing to somnolence.
Increasing evidence is now available showing that CD1-restricted T cell responses against non-peptide mycobacterial antigens could play a role in the immune resistance against tuberculosis. BCG, widely used in anti-tubercular vaccination, shares various constituents with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, but does not provide full protection. In the present study we have investigated the pattern of group 1 CD1 molecule expression in adherent mononuclear cells (AMNC) of human peripheral blood, infected in vitro with BCG. Shortly after exposure to BCG, both BCG-positive and BCG-negative AMNC showed a moderate CD1 expression elicited by BCG-induced release of GM-CSF presumably acting through an autocrine and a paracrine mechanism. This was demonstrated using two-color flow cytometry with green fluorescent BCG and anti-CD1 PE-labeled antibodies. However, high CD1 expression induced by exogenously added GM-CSF in AMNC was reduced if target cells were cocultivated with BCG. Monoclonal antibodies against IL-10 partially restored CD1 expression, thus showing that IL-10, released from infected AMNC, is involved, at least in part, in CD1 negative modulation. Therefore, through a complex cytokine network, including not yet identified factor(s), BCG triggers but does not allow full expression of CD1 on AMNC. It cannot be excluded that this mechanism could play a role in the limited efficiency of BCG vaccination.


This study investigated working memory in schizophrenia, using an auditory target detection task specifically designed to separate out brain activity related to the updating of working memory with new information from activity related to target detection and response. Event related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during task performance, using 31 electrodes, from 25 subjects with schizophrenia and 25 matched controls. Subjects with schizophrenia had a reduction in parietal P3 and Late Slow Wave amplitude in the ERP waveforms recorded when the task required subjects to remember a new stimulus. This P3 amplitude attenuation correlated with symptom measures of preoccupation and poor volition. Previous findings of a reduction in P3 amplitude during target detection by subjects with schizophrenia were replicated. These results suggest that there is a specific impairment in the ability to update working memory in schizophrenia, and that this is associated with poverty of engagement with the environment.

Voltage-gated sodium channels are essential for the generation and propagation of action potentials (i.e., electrical impulses) in excitable cells. Although most of our knowledge about sodium channels is derived from decades of studies of mammalian isoforms, research on insect sodium channels is revealing both common and unique aspects of sodium channel biology. In particular, our understanding of the molecular dynamics and pharmacology of insect sodium channels has advanced greatly in recent years, thanks to successful functional expression of insect sodium channels in Xenopus oocytes and intensive efforts to elucidate the molecular basis of insect resistance to insecticides that target sodium channels. In this review, I discuss recent literature on insect sodium channels with emphases on the prominent role of alternative splicing and RNA editing in the generation of functionally diverse sodium channels in insects and the current understanding of the interactions between insect sodium channels and insecticides.



Autopsied brain tissue from Alzheimer's disease patients and old non-demented controls was studied after immunocytochemistry with the 4G8 monoclonal antibody that recognizes amyloid-beta peptides. Intraneuronal 4G8-positive reaction product was detected in all of the studied brains. The same brain regions in the Alzheimer's disease samples consistently showed both more immunopositive neurons and more stained reaction product per neuron than those from the non-demented brains. Ultrastructurally, the immunopositive reaction product accumulated in clusters of cytoplasmic elements that had a lipofuscin-like appearance, showed a fibrogranular content and were also closely apposed to lipid droplets located either on their periphery or within them. The most strongly 4G8-immunopositive elements had diffuse limits with their fibrogranular content free in the cytoplasm, whereas elements either without or showing only light immunoreaction had a limiting membrane. All immunopositive neurons displayed a similar pattern of clumping heterochromatin. The hypothetical neurotoxic role of intraneuronal amyloid-beta peptides free in the cytoplasm is discussed as is the possible relationship between the amyloid-beta peptides recognized by the 4G8 antibody and the lipid droplets which would presumably contain esterified cholesterol.
This case report describes two children who developed hyperammonemia together with frank manic behavior during treatment with a combination of valproic acid and risperidone. One child had been maintained on valproic acid for years and risperidone was added. In the second case, valproic acid was introduced to a child who had been treated with risperidone for years. In both cases, discontinuing the valproic acid resulted in normalization of ammonia levels and cessation of the manic behavior. This case report alerts physicians to the importance of obtaining serum ammonia levels in children treated with valproic acid and risperidone who present with manic behavior.
Olanzapine is a widely used second generation antipsychotic drug. Case reports of intoxications have been published, but reports in the literature of non-fatal intoxications of olanzapine containing repeated measurements of serum levels are scarce. Therefore, this case of non-fatal olanzapine intoxication is presented, in which 19 blood samples were drawn during 2 weeks. The highest (initial) measured value was estimated at 800 pg/L. This patient ingested 550 mg of olanzapine resulting in clinical signs of intoxication, including seizures. Because the patient was found the day after the intoxication, the initial concentration had probably been higher. The pharmacokinetics of olanzapine has been described as linear and dose-proportional throughout the therapeutic dosing range. Large overdoses, however, have been described to show non-linear pharmacokinetics. In this study's series of serum concentrations, a two-phase elimination was seen, with an initial elimination half-life of about 24 h during the first 3 days, followed by a second phase with a half-life of about 2.5 days. The patient in this case recovered completely. Because the elimination time after intoxication can be considerably longer than expected, it is recommended that the patient's serum concentrations after intoxication be monitored.
A phenomenological dual-process model of the electrically stimulated human auditory nerve is presented and compared to threshold and loudness data from cochlear implant users. The auditory nerve is modeled as two parallel processes derived from linearized equations of conductance-based models. The first process is an integrator, which dominates stimulation for short-phase duration biphasic pulses and high-frequency sinusoidal stimuli. It has a relatively short time constant (0.094 ms) arising from the passive properties of the membrane. The second process is a resonator, which induces nonmonotonic functions of threshold vs frequency with minima around 80 Hz. The ion channel responsible for this trend has a relatively large relaxation time constant of about 1 ms. Membrane noise is modeled as a Gaussian noise, and loudness sensation is assumed to relate to the probability of firing of a neuron during a 20-ms rectangular window. Experimental psychophysical results obtained in seven previously published studies can be interpreted with this model. The model also provides a physiologically based account of the nonmonotonic threshold vs frequency functions observed in biphasic and sinusoidal stimulation, the large threshold decrease obtained with biphasic pulses having a relatively long inter-phase gap and the effects of asymmetric pulses.
Animal models have facilitated basic neuroscience research investigating the pathophysiology of tinnitus. It has been hypothesized that partial deafferentation produces a loss of tonic inhibition in the auditory system that may lead to inappropriate neuroplastic changes eventually expressed as tinnitus. The pathological down-regulation of gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) provides a potential mechanism for this loss of inhibition. Using an animal model previously demonstrated to be sensitive to treatments that either induce or attenuate tinnitus, the present study examined the effect of the specific GABA agonist vigabatrin on chronic tinnitus. It was hypothesized that vigabatrin would decrease the evidence of tinnitus by restoring central inhibitory function through increased GABA availability. Vigabatrin has been demonstrated to elevate central GABA levels (Mattson et al. 1995). Tinnitus was induced in rats using a single 1-h unilateral exposure to band-limited noise, which preserved normal hearing in one ear. Psychophysical evidence of tinnitus was obtained using a free-operant conditioned-suppression method: Rats lever-pressed for food pellets and were trained to discriminate between the presence and absence of sound by punishing lever pressing with a mild foot shock (0.5 mA; 1 s) at the conclusion of randomly introduced silent periods (60 s) inserted into background low-level noise. Additional random insertion of pure tone and noise periods of variable intensity enabled the derivation of psychophysical functions that reflected the presence of tinnitus with features similar to 20-kHz tones. Vigabatrin was chronically administered via drinking water at 30 and 81 mg kg-1 day-1, with each dose level tested over 2 weeks, followed by a 0-mg washout test. Vigabatrin completely and reversibly eliminated the psychophysical evidence of tinnitus at both doses. Although vigabatrin has serious negative side effects that have prevented its clinical use in the USA, it is nevertheless a potentially useful tool in unraveling tinnitus pathophysiology.
The deliberate addition of Gaussian noise to cochlear implant signals has previously been proposed to enhance the time coding of signals by the cochlear nerve. Potentially, the addition of an inaudible level of noise could also have secondary benefits: it could lower the threshold to the information-bearing signal, and by desynchronization of nerve discharges, it could increase the level at which the information-bearing signal becomes uncomfortable. Both these effects would lead to an increased dynamic range, which might be expected to enhance speech comprehension and make the choice of cochlear implant compression parameters less critical (as with a wider dynamic range, small changes in the parameters would have less effect on loudness). The hypothesized secondary effects were investigated with eight users of the Clarion cochlear implant; the stimulation was analogue and monopolar. For presentations in noise, noise at 95% of the threshold level was applied simultaneously and independently to all the electrodes. The noise was found in two-alternative forced-choice (2AFC) experiments to decrease the threshold to sinusoidal stimuli (100 Hz, 1 kHz, 5 kHz) by about 2.0 dB and increase the dynamic range by 0.7 dB. Furthermore, in 2AFC loudness balance experiments, noise was found to decrease the loudness of moderate to intense stimuli. This suggests that loudness is partially coded by the degree of phase-locking of cochlear nerve fibers. The overall gain in dynamic range was modest, and more complex noise strategies, for example, using inhibition between the noise sources, may be required to get a clinically useful benefit.
We sought to clarify the nature of the face processing strength commonly observed in individuals with Williams syndrome (WS) by comparing the face recognition ability of persons with WS to that of persons with autism and to healthy controls under three conditions: Upright faces with neutral expressions, upright faces with varying affective expressions, and inverted faces with neutral expressions. No differences were observed under the upright/neutral expression condition. However, the WS group was more accurate than the autism group when discriminating upright faces with varying affective expressions, whereas the opposite pattern emerged when discriminating inverted faces. We interpret these differences as a reflection of the contrasting social features of the two syndromes.
The frequently occurring DNA uptake sequence (DUS), recognized as a 10-bp repeat, is required for efficient genetic transformation in the human pathogens Neisseria meningitidis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Genome scanning for DUS occurrences in three different species of Neisseria demonstrated that 76% of the nearly 2,000 neisserial DUS were found to have two semiconserved base pairs extending from the 5' end of DUS to constitute a 12-mer repeat. Plasmids containing sequential variants of the neisserial DUS were tested for their ability to transform N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeae, and the 12-mer was found to outperform the 10-mer DUS in transformation efficiency. Assessment of meningococcal uptake of DNA confirmed the enhanced performance of the 12-mer compared to the 10-mer DUS. An inverted repeat DUS was not more efficient in transformation than DNA species containing a single or direct repeat DUS. Genome-wide analysis revealed that half of the nearly 1,500 12-mer DUS are arranged as inverted repeats predicted to be involved in rho-independent transcriptional termination or attenuation. The distribution of the uptake signal sequence required for transformation in the Pasteurellaceae was also biased towards transcriptional terminators, although to a lesser extent. In addition to assessing the intergenic location of DUS, we propose that the 10-mer identity of DUS should be extended and recognized as a 12-mer DUS. The dual role of DUS in transformation and as a structural component on RNA affecting transcription makes this a relevant model system for assessing significant roles of repeat sequences in biology.
We describe a novel confocal image acquisition system capable of measuring the sound-evoked motion of the organ of Corti. The hearing organ is imaged with a standard laser scanning confocal microscope during sound stimulation. The exact temporal relation between each image pixel and the sound stimulus is quantified. The motion of the structures under study is obtained by fitting a Fourier series to the time dimension of a continuous sequence of acquired images. Previous versions of this acquisition system used a simple search to find pixels with similar phase values. The Fourier series approach permits substantially faster image acquisition with reduced noise levels and improved motion estimation. The system is validated by imaging various vibrating samples attached to a feedback-controlled piezoelectric translator. When using a rigid sample attached to the translator, the system is capable of measuring motion with peak-to-peak amplitudes smaller than 50 nm with an error below 20% at frequencies between 50 and 600 Hz. Examples of image sequences from the inner ear are given, along with detailed performance characteristics of the method.
Humans use various higher cognitive processes for taste, including memorization, recollection, and imagination, in our dietary lives, as well as in more specialized situations, such as sensory evaluation used in the food industry. So far, the cognitive aspects of taste processing have been studied mainly with psychological approaches, and their neural bases are not yet well understood. Conventional neuroimaging techniques are being used to converge psychological findings with human brain functions. However, these techniques require subjects to be in a supine position and strictly restrict head movements, narrowing the range of experimental paradigms that can be performed. This is especially true for taste studies; it is difficult to taste samples and perform cognitive tasks on them under conventional neuroimaging conditions. Therefore, we have attempted to use functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS), an emerging noninvasive neuroimaging technique, to study human cortical taste cognitive processing. fNIRS, utilizing light to measure cortical hemoglobin concentration changes associated with neural activities, is more tolerant of subject body movement, thus allowing a wider range of experimental tasks for taste. However, it has some shortcomings that needed to be addressed. In this review, we will show how these technical obstacles have been overcome, how fNIRS contributes to the mapping of taste-related brain functions, and further promote the understanding of human taste processing. We propose fNIRS as a potential mediator between psychology and neuroscience.
The highly dynamic nature of voltage-gated Na+ channel (VGSC) expression and its controlling mechanism(s) are not well understood. In this study, we investigated the possible involvement of nerve growth factor (NGF) in regulating VGSC activity in the strongly metastatic Mat-LyLu cell model of rat prostate cancer (PCa). NGF increased peak VGSC current density in a time- and dose-dependent manner. NGF also shifted voltage to peak and the half-activation voltage to more positive potentials, and produced currents with faster kinetics of activation; sensitivity to the VGSC blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) was not affected. The NGF-induced increase in peak VGSC current density was suppressed by both the pan-trk antagonist K252a, and the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor KT5720. NGF did not affect the Nav1.7 mRNA level, but the total VGSC alpha-subunit protein level was upregulated. NGF potentiated the cells' migration in Transwell assays, and this was not affected by TTX. We concluded that NGF upregulated functional VGSC expression in Mat-LyLu cells, with PKA as a signaling intermediate, but enhancement of migration by NGF was independent of VGSC activity.
The elucidation of the molecular pathogenesis of a disease in animal models provides candidate targets for treatment. As specific antagonists for a target are developed and tested in clinical trials, if benefit is achieved, the candidate becomes a validated target. Validated targets stimulate additional research to identify optimal ways of attacking the target and studies in related disease processes to determine if the molecule is also a target in that context. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been identified as a validated target for several retinal vascular diseases. This has led to a flurry of activity resulting in beneficial treatments for patients and intensification of the search for other targets. This review summarizes preclinical and clinical trial results obtained with VEGF antagonists and describes evidence supporting the candidacy of other molecules currently being tested or soon to be tested for target status.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with an abnormal pattern of regional brain function. The expression of this PD-related covariance pattern (PDRP) has been used to assess disease progression and the response to treatment. In this study, we validated the PDRP network as a measure of parkinsonism by prospectively computing its expression (PDRP scores) in (15)O-water (H(2)(15)O) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scans from PD patients and healthy volunteers. The reliability of this measure was also assessed within subjects using a test-retest design in mildly affected and advanced PD patients scanned at baseline and during treatment with levodopa or deep brain stimulation (DBS). We found that PDRP expression was significantly elevated in PD patients (P&lt;0.001) relative to controls in a prospective analysis of brain scans obtained with either H(2)(15)O or FDG PET. A significant correlation (R(2)=0.61; P&lt;0.001) was evident between PDRP scores computed from H(2)(15)O and FDG images in PD subjects scanned with both tracers. Test-retest reproducibility was very high (intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC)&gt;0.92) for PDRP scores measured both within PET session and between sessions separated by up to 2 months. This high reproducibility was observed in both early stage and advanced PD patients scanned at baseline and during treatment. The within-subject variability of this measure was less than 10% for both unmedicated and treated conditions. These findings suggest that the PDRP network is a reproducible and stable descriptor of regional functional abnormalities in parkinsonism. The quantification of PDRP expression in PD patients can serve as a potential biomarker in PET intervention studies for this disorder.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE, protein; APOE, gene) is the major lipid-transport protein in the brain and plays an important role in modulating the outcome and regenerative processes after acute brain injury. The aim of the present study was to determine if gene transfer of the epsilon3 form of APOE improves outcome in a murine model of transient focal cerebral ischaemia. Mice received an intrastriatal injection of vehicle, a second-generation adenoviral vector containing the green fluorescent protein gene (Ad-GFP) or a vector containing the APOE epsilon3 gene (Ad-APOE) 3 days before 60 mins focal ischaemia. Green fluorescent protein expression was observed in cells throughout the striatum and subcortical white matter indicating successful gene transfer and expression. ApoE levels in the brain were significantly increased after Ad-APOE compared with Ad-GFP or vehicle treatment. Ad-APOE treatment reduced the volume of ischaemic damage by 50% compared with Ad-GFP or vehicle treatment (13+/-3 versus 29+/-4 versus 27+/-5 mm(3)). The extent of postischaemic apoE immunoreactivity was enhanced in Ad-APOE compared with Ad-GFP or vehicle treated mice. These results show the ability of APOE gene transfer to markedly improve outcome after cerebral ischaemia and suggest that modulating apoE levels may be a potential strategy in human stroke therapy.
We tested the hypothesis that astrocytic matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) mediates hemorrhagic brain edema. In a clinical case of hemorrhagic stroke, MMP-9 co-localized with astrocytes and neurons in peri-hematoma areas. In a mouse model where blood was injected into striatum, MMP-9 was colocalized with astrocytes surrounding the hemorrhagic lesion. Because MMP-9 is present in blood as well as brain, we compared four groups of wild type (WT) and MMP-9 knockout (KO) mice: WT blood injected into WT brain, KO blood into KO brain, WT blood into KO brain, and KO blood into WT brain. Gel zymography showed that MMP-9 was elevated in WT hemorrhagic brain tissue but absent from KO hemorrhagic brain tissue. Edematous water content was elevated when WT blood was injected into WT brain. However, edema was ameliorated when MMP-9 was absent in either blood or brain or both. To further assess the mechanisms involved in astrocytic induction of MMP-9, we next examined primary mouse astrocyte cultures. Exposure to hemoglobin rapidly upregulated MMP-9 in conditioned media within 1 to 24 h. Hemoglobin-induced MMP-9 was reduced by the free radical scavenger U83836E. Taken together, these data suggest that although there are large amounts of MMP-9 in blood, hemoglobin-induced oxidative stress can trigger MMP-9 in astrocytes and these parenchymal sources of matrix degradation may also be an important factor in the pathogenesis of hemorrhagic brain edema.
Parenting behavior critically shapes human infants' current and future behavior. The parent-infant relationship provides infants with their first social experiences, forming templates of what they can expect from others and how to best meet others' expectations. In this review, we focus on the neurobiology of parenting behavior, including our own functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) brain imaging experiments of parents. We begin with a discussion of background, perspectives and caveats for considering the neurobiology of parent-infant relationships. Then, we discuss aspects of the psychology of parenting that are significantly motivating some of the more basic neuroscience research. Following that, we discuss some of the neurohormones that are important for the regulation of social bonding, and the dysregulation of parenting with cocaine abuse. Then, we review the brain circuitry underlying parenting, proceeding from relevant rodent and nonhuman primate research to human work. Finally, we focus on a study-by-study review of functional neuroimaging studies in humans. Taken together, this research suggests that networks of highly conserved hypothalamic-midbrain-limbic-paralimbic-cortical circuits act in concert to support aspects of parent response to infants, including the emotion, attention, motivation, empathy, decision-making and other thinking that are required to navigate the complexities of parenting. Specifically, infant stimuli activate basal forebrain regions, which regulate brain circuits that handle specific nurturing and caregiving responses and activate the brain's more general circuitry for handling emotions, motivation, attention, and empathy--all of which are crucial for effective parenting. We argue that an integrated understanding of the brain basis of parenting has profound implications for mental health.
A method for urinary peptide(s) and protein hydrolysis, involving autoclaving at 15psi (121 degrees C) for 60min, is described. Using three candidate proteins (bovine serum albumin, casein and gelatin) and urine specimens, the effect of autoclaving with respect to the optimum time required for hydrolysis under both acidic (6N HCl) and alkaline (6N KOH) conditions was studied. Recoveries of total amino acids from proteins and urine hydrolysate(s) suggest that complete hydrolysis of proteins and urinary peptides could be achieved by autoclaving for 30-60min instead of 16h of incubation at 110 degrees C. Further, stability of some of the individual amino acids was also studied. The observed differential stability of amino acids under acidic and alkaline conditions, as demonstrated in this study by HPLC analysis, makes it imperative to choose the appropriate hydrolytic condition while studying the composition of any given amino acids in urinary peptide(s)/protein hydrolysates. Further, the finding that both Pro and Hyp were stable under alkaline conditions of hydrolysis by autoclaving renders this method suitable for assaying these two amino acids from urine hydrolysates, hence its utility in the study of urinary peptide derived Hyp and Pro in bone/cartilage disorders.
A primary pathologic component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the formation of neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau). Expediting the removal of these p-tau species may be a relevant therapeutic strategy. Here we report that inhibition of Hsp90 led to decreases in p-tau levels independent of heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) activation. A critical mediator of this mechanism was carboxy terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP), a tau ubiquitin ligase. Cochaperones were also involved in Hsp90-mediated removal of p-tau, while those of the mature Hsp90 refolding complex prevented this effect. This is the first demonstration to our knowledge that blockade of the refolding pathway promotes p-tau turnover through degradation. We also show that peripheral administration of a novel Hsp90 inhibitor promoted selective decreases in p-tau species in a mouse model of tauopathy, further suggesting a central role for the Hsp90 complex in the pathogenesis of tauopathies. When taken in the context of known high-affinity Hsp90 complexes in affected regions of the AD brain, these data implicate a central role for Hsp90 in the development of AD and other tauopathies and may provide a rationale for the development of novel Hsp90-based therapeutic strategies.
Dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of molecular weight 32 kDa (DARPP-32), encoded by PPP1R1B, is a pivotal integrator of information in dopaminoceptive neurons, regulating the response to neuroleptics, psychotomimetics, and drugs of abuse, and affecting striatal function and plasticity. Despite extensive preclinical work, there are almost no data on DARPP-32 function in humans. Here, we identify, through resequencing in 298 chromosomes, a frequent PPP1R1B haplotype predicting mRNA expression of PPP1R1B isoforms in postmortem human brain. This haplotype was associated with enhanced performance on several cognitive tests that depend on frontostriatal function. Multimodal imaging of healthy subjects revealed an impact of the haplotype on neostriatal volume, activation, and the functional connectivity of the prefrontal cortex. The haplotype was associated with the risk for schizophrenia in 1 family-based association analysis. Our convergent results identify a prefrontal-neostriatal system affected by variation in PPP1R1B and suggest that DARPP-32 plays a pivotal role in cognitive function and possibly in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.


Charles Bland Radcliffe (1822-1889) was one of the physicians who made major contributions to the literature on epilepsy in the mid-19th century, when the modern understanding of the disorder was beginning to emerge, particularly in England. His experimental work was concerned with the electrical properties of frog muscle and nerve. Early in his career he related his experimental findings to the phenomenon of rigor mortis and concluded that, contrary to the general belief of the time, muscle contraction depended on the cessation of nerve input, and muscle relaxation on its presence. He adhered to this counter-intuitive interpretation throughout his life and, based on it, produced an epileptology that was very different from those of his contemporaries and successors. His interpretations were ultimately without any direct influence on the advance of knowledge. However, his idea that withdrawal of an inhibitory process released previously suppressed muscular contractile powers, when applied to the brain rather than the periphery of the nervous system, permitted Hughlings Jackson to explain certain psychological phenomena that accompany or follow some epileptic events. As well, Radcliffe was one of the chief early advocates for potassium bromide, the first effective anticonvulsant.
We report our experience, using mycophenolate mofetil (MyM) as an adjunctive immunosuppressive therapy in patients with severe, refractory and high dose steroid-dependent myasthenia gravis (MG). Five patients were commenced on MyM in addition to other immunosuppressive therapies. All had significant clinical improvement and no subsequent myasthenic crisis requiring intensive care unit admission. MyM was well tolerated and no serious adverse effects were observed. MyM is an effective adjunctive therapy for the treatment of severe, refractory and steroid-dependent MG in our experience.
Many studies have shown that visuospatial orienting attention depends on a network of frontal and parietal areas in the right hemisphere. Rushworth et al. [Rushworth, M. F., Krams, M., &amp; Passingham, R. E. The attentional role of the left parietal cortex: The distinct lateralization and localization of motor attention in the human brain. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 13, 698-710, 2001] have recently provided evidence for a left-lateralized network of parietal areas involved in motor attention. Using two variants of a cued reaction time (RT) task, we set out to investigate whether high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS; 5 Hz) delivered &quot;off-line&quot; in a virtual lesion paradigm over the right or left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) or the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) would affect performance in a motor versus a visual attention task. Although rTMS over the DLPFC on either side did not affect RT performance on a spatial orienting task, it did lead to an increase in the RTs of invalidly cued trials in a motor attention task when delivered to the left DLPFC. The opposite effect was found when rTMS was delivered to the PPC: In this case, conditioning the right PPC led to increased RTs in invalidly cued trials located in the left hemispace, in the spatial orienting task. rTMS over the PPC on either side did not affect performance in the motor attention task. This double dissociation was evident in the first 10 min after rTMS conditioning. These results enhance our understanding of the networks associated with attention. They provide evidence of a role for the left DLPFC in the mechanisms of motor preparation, and confirm Mesulam's original proposal for a right PPC dominance in spatial attention [Mesulam, M. M. A cortical network for directed attention and unilateral neglect. Annals of Neurology, 10, 309-325, 1981].

The isolectin B4 (IB4) stains a subset of small and medium-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons by binding to terminal alpha-galactose on glycoproteins and glycolipids. The enzymes alpha(1,3)galactosyltransferase (1,3GT) and isoglobotriaosylceramide synthase (iGb3S) synthesize the galactose-alpha(1,3)-galactose group, which is the most common carbohydrate containing terminal alpha-galactose. 1,3GT preferentially glycosylates proteins whereas iGb3S glycosylates lipids. We generated antibodies against rat 1,3GT and iGb3S that were used for immunohistochemical staining of DRG cells. Virtually all neurons that bound IB4 expressed both enzymes, suggesting that IB4 binds to both glycoproteins and glycolipids in IB4-positive neurons. 1,3GT immunoreactivity was observed in small and medium-sized neurons and satellite cells. iGb3S immunoreactivity was observed in neurons of varying sizes. Many neurons that expressed these enzymes did not bind IB4. Additionally, the majority of neurons that expressed substance P expressed both enzymes but did not bind IB4. Ultrastructual studies revealed that 1,3GT was predominantly associated with the Golgi apparatus, whereas iGb3S was found near the Golgi apparatus and in large, clear vesicles throughout the soma. These data suggest that, although expression of 1,3GT and/or iGb3S appears to be necessary for IB4 binding, expression of these enzymes is not sufficient to impart IB4 binding.
Neuronal overmigration is the underlying cellular mechanism of cerebral cortical malformations in syndromes of congenital muscular dystrophies caused by defects in O-mannosyl glycosylation. Overmigration involves multiple developmental abnormalities in the brain surface basement membrane, Cajal-Retzius cells, and radial glia. We tested the hypothesis that breaches in basement membrane and the underlying glia limitans are the key initial events of the cellular pathomechanisms by carrying out a detailed developmental study with a mouse model of muscle-eye-brain disease, mice deficient in O-mannose beta31,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 1 (POMGnT1). The pial basement membrane was normal in the knockout mouse at E11.5. It was breached during rapid cerebral cortical expansion at E13.5. Radial glial endfeet, which comprise glia limitans, grew out of the neural boundary. Neurons moved out of the neural boundary through these breaches. The overgrown radial glia and emigrated neurons disrupted the overlying pia mater. The overmigrated neurons did not participate in cortical plate (CP) development; rather they formed a diffuse cell zone (DCZ) outside the original cortical boundary. Together, the DCZ and the CP formed the knockout cerebral cortex, with disappearance of the basement membrane and the glia limitans. These results suggest that disappearance of the basement membrane and the glia limitans at the cerebral cortical surface during development underlies cortical lamination defects in congenital muscular dystrophies and a cellular mechanism of cortical malformation distinct from that of the reeler mouse, double cortex syndrome, and periventricular heterotopia.
Tree shrews are small squirrel-like mammals that are the closest living relative to primates available for detailed neurobiological study. In a recent study (Remple et al. [2006] J. Comp. Neurol. 497:133-154), we provided anatomical and electrophysiological evidence that the frontoparietal cortex of tree shrews has two motor fields (M1 and M2) and five somatosensory fields (3a, 3b, S2, somatosensory caudal area [SC], and parietal ventral area [PV]). In the present study, we injected anatomical tracers into M1, M2, 3a, 3b, SC, and posterior parietal cortex to establish the ipsilateral cortical connections of these areas. The results provide evidence for a number of new cortical areas including medial motor and somatosensory areas (MMA and MSA), three posterior parietal areas (PPd, PPv, and PPc), and an area ventral to temporal inferior cortex (TIV). Ml receives topographic projections from M2, MMA, 3a, and PPv, and nontopographic connections from the temporal anterior and dorsal areas (TA and TD), PPc, TIV, and MSA. The connections of M2 are similar to those of M1, except that M2 receives denser projections from TIV, PPc, and dorsal frontal cortex and sparser input from M1. Areas 3a, 3b, and SC receive dense topographic projections from each other, S2, and PV and sparser connections from PPd and PPv. Area 3a receives additional input from posterior parietal and temporal regions and from M1 and MMA. Overall, the frontoparietal connections of tree shrew cortex are most similar to those of prosimian primates and quite different from those of more distant relatives such as rats.
Dual diagnosis is a problem of tremendous depth and scope, spanning many classes of mental disorders and addictive drugs. Animal models of psychiatric disorders studied in addiction paradigms suggest a unitary nature of mental illness and addiction vulnerability both on the neurocircuit and clinical-behavioral levels. These models provide platforms for exploring the interactive roles of biological, environmental and developmental factors on neurocircuits commonly involved in psychiatric and addiction diseases. While suggestive of the artifice of segregated research, training, and clinical cultures between psychiatric and addiction fields, this research may lead to more parsimonious, integrative and preventative treatments for dual diagnosis.
In cold-blooded species the efficacy of neuromuscular function depends both on the thermal environmental of the animal's habitat and on the concentrations of modulatory hormones circulating within the animal's body. The goal of this study is to examine how temperature variation within an ecologically relevant range affects neuromuscular function and its modulation by the neurohormone serotonin (5-HT) in Homarus americanus, a lobster species that inhabits a broad thermal range in the wild. The synaptic strength of the excitatory and inhibitory motoneurons innervating the lobster dactyl opener muscle depends on temperature, with the strongest neurally evoked muscle movements being elicited at cold (&lt;5 degrees C) temperatures. However, whereas neurally evoked contractions can be elicited over the entire temperature range from 2 to &gt;20 degrees C, neurally evoked relaxations of resting muscle tension are effective only at colder temperatures at which the inhibitory junction potentials are hyperpolarizing in polarity. 5-HT has two effects on inhibitory synaptic signals: it potentiates their amplitude and also shifts the temperature at which they reverse polarity by approximately +7 degrees C. Thus 5-HT both potentiates neurally evoked relaxations of the muscle and increases the temperature range over which neurally evoked muscle relaxations can be elicited. Neurally evoked contractions are maximally potentiated by 5-HT at warm (18 degrees C) temperatures; however, 5-HT enhances excitatory junction potentials in a temperature-independent manner. Finally, 5-HT strongly increases resting muscle tension at the coldest extent of the temperature range tested (2 degrees C) but is ineffective at 22 degrees C. These data demonstrate that 5-HT elicits several temperature-dependent physiological changes in the passive and active responses of muscle to neural input. The overall effect of 5-HT is to increase the temperature range over which neurally evoked motor movements can be elicited in this neuromuscular system.
The mole's nose is covered with mechanosensory structures called Eimer's organs. Each organ contains Merkel cell-neurite complexes, Paciniform corpuscles and intraepidermal free nerve endings. The function of Eimer's organ has been the subject of speculation since the 1800s, but responses from the afferents have never been investigated. Our goal was to explore the function of Eimer's organ by recording primary afferent responses to a range of mechanosensory stimuli. Unit activity from the trigeminal ganglion was recorded from coast (Scapanus orarius) and star-nosed (Condylura cristata) moles, while stimulating the nose with a Chubbuck mechanosensory stimulator, a piezo-electric sweeping stimulator, and hand-held probes. Stimuli included static indentations, sinusoidal displacements, different indentation velocities, displacement amplitudes, and directional stimuli across the skin. Receptive fields were small, sometimes restricted to single Eimer's organs. Responses were consistent with a slowly adapting Merkel cell-neurite complex-like receptor class and a dynamically sensitive Pacinian-like rapidly adapting class. A second rapidly adapting class was hypothesized to represent activity of prominent free nerve endings within a central cell column. Some receptors were most sensitive to stimuli applied in particular directions across the skin. Most receptors relayed mechanosensory input with high temporal fidelity. In addition some receptors were tuned to respond best when stimulated at a velocity matching the velocity of the nose during foraging. These results support the hypothesis that Eimer's organ functions to detect small surface features and textures by encoding and integrating deflection information for multiple Eimer's organs during brief touches.

Inhibition of return (IOR), an inhibitory component of spatial attention that is thought to bias visual search toward novel locations, is considered relatively well preserved with normal aging. We conducted two experiments to assess age-related changes in the temporal pattern of IOR. Inhibitory effects, which were strongly reflected in the performance of both younger adults (ages 18-34 years) and older adults (ages 60-79 years), diminished over a period of 5 s. The time point at which IOR began to diminish was delayed by approximately 1 s for older adults compared with younger adults; this pattern was observed on both a target detection task (Experiment 1) and a color discrimination task (Experiment 2). The finding that timing characteristics of IOR are altered by normal aging has potential implications for the manner in which inhibition aids search performance.
Cholinergic innervation of the heart has been analyzed using cholinergic markers including acetylcholinesterase, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). In the present study we demonstrate putative cholinergic nerves in the rat heart using an antibody to ChAT of a peripheral type (pChAT), which is the product of a splice variant of ChAT mRNA and preferentially localized to peripheral cholinergic nerves. Expression of mRNAs for pChAT and the conventional form of ChAT (cChAT) were verified in the rat atrium by RT-PCR. Localization of both protein products in the atrium was confirmed by Western blotting. Virtually all neurons and small intensely fluorescent cells in the intrinsic cardiac ganglia were stained immunohistochemically for pChAT. The density of pChAT-positive fibers was very high in the conducting system, high in both atria, the right atrium in particular, and low in the ventricular walls. pChAT and VAChT immunoreactivities were closely associated in some fibers and fiber bundles in the ventricular walls. These results indicate that intrinsic cardiac neurons homogeneously express both pChAT and cChAT. Furthermore, innervation of the ventricular walls by pChAT- and VAChT-positive fibers provides morphological evidence for a significant role of cholinergic mechanisms in ventricular functions.
HIV type 1 (HIV-1)-associated dementia (HAD) is believed to occur due to aberrant activation of monocyte-derived macrophages and brain-resident microglial cells by viral proteins as well as by the proinflammatory mediators released by infected cells. To investigate the inflammatory aspects of the disease, we examined the levels of soluble CD40L (sCD40L) in paired samples of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 25 HIV-infected individuals. A significantly higher level of sCD40L was detected in both cerebrospinal fluid and plasma from HIV-infected patients with cognitive impairment, compared with their nonimpaired counterparts. The contribution of sCD40L to the pathogenesis of HAD was then examined by in vitro experiments. rCD40L synergized with HIV-1 Tat to increase TNF-alpha release from primary human monocytes and microglia, in an NF-kappaB-dependent manner. The mechanistic basis for this synergism was attributed to a Tat-mediated up-regulation of CD40 in monocytes and microglia. Finally, the CD40L-mediated increase in TNF-alpha production by monocytes was shown to be biologically important; immunodepletion experiments revealed that TNF-alpha was essential for the neurotoxic effects of conditioned medium recovered from Tat/CD40L-treated monocytes. Taken together, our results show that CD40 signaling in microglia and monocytes can synergize with the effects of Tat, further amplifying inflammatory processes within the CNS and influencing neuronal survival.
Previous studies have shown a significant association between reading skills and the performance on visuo-motor tasks. In order to clarify whether reading and writing skills modulate non-linguistic domains, we investigated the performance of two literacy groups on a visuo-motor integration task with non-linguistic stimuli. Twenty-one illiterate participants and twenty matched literate controls were included in the experiment. Subjects were instructed to use the right or the left index finger to point to and touch a randomly presented target on the right or left side of a touch screen. The results showed that the literate subjects were significantly faster in detecting and touching targets on the left compared to the right side of the screen. In contrast, the presentation side did not affect the performance of the illiterate group. These results lend support to the idea that having acquired reading and writing skills, and thus a preferred left-to-right reading direction, influences visual scanning.
The consequences of congenital brain disorders for adult cognitive function are poorly understood. We studied different forms of memory in 29 young adults with spina bifida meningomyelocele (SBM), a common and severely disabling neural tube defect. Nondeclarative and semantic memory functions were intact. Working memory was intact with low maintenance and manipulation requirements, but impaired on tasks demanding high information maintenance or manipulation load. Prospective memory for intentions to be executed in the future was impaired. Immediate and delayed episodic memory were poor. Memory deficits were exacerbated by an increased number of lifetime shunt revisions, a marker for unstable hydrocephalus. Memory status was positively correlated with functional independence, an important component of quality of life.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) is a common metabolic disorder. DM2 is associated with cognitive impairments, and with depressive symptoms, which occur in about one third of patients. In the current study we compared the cognitive profile and psychological well-being of 119 patients with DM2 (mean age: 66 +/- 6; mean duration: 9 +/- 6 years) with 55 age and education matched-control participants. Groups were compared on cognitive performance in five major cognitive domains, psychological wellbeing [assessed by Symptom Checklist (SCL)-90-R and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II)] and abnormalities on brain MRI. We hypothesized an interrelationship between cognition, MRI abnormalities, and psychological well-being. DM2 patients performed significantly worse than controls on cognitive tasks, especially on tasks that required more mental efficiency, although the differences were modest (effect sizes Cohen d &lt; .6). We speculate that DM2 patients have a diminished ability to efficiently process unstructured information. Patients with DM2 had significantly higher scores on the SCL-90-R (p &lt; .001) and on the BDI-II (p &lt; .001) and worse MRI ratings than controls, but psychological distress did not correlate with cognition, MRI ratings or biomedical characteristics. Contrary to our hypothesis, cognitive disturbances and psychological distress thus seem independent symptoms of the same disease.


Cell replacement therapy is being investigated for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Adult autologous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been induced to differentiate into neuron-like cells harboring a variety of neuronal markers and transcription factors. Neural tissue characteristically contains high proportions of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and arachidonic acid (AA). In this study, evaluation of the fatty acid profile of differentiated neuron-like cells revealed a very low level of DHA, similar to that in MSCs but different from typical neurons. Supplementation of the medium with DHA alone resulted in increased levels of DHA but concomitant low levels of AA. However, supplementation with both DHA and AA yielded a fatty acid profile resembling that of neural tissue. It also resulted in enhanced outgrowth of neurite-like processes, hallmarks of neuronal differentiation. These findings demonstrate the essentiality of DHA and AA supplementation in the process of induced neuronal differentiation and have important implications for the development of cell replacement strategies of neural repair.


In rats, the inhibition of phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) in hippocampus was reported to impair memory acquisition. In the present study we investigated in rats whether PLA(2) inhibition in hippocampus is also related to impairment of memory retrieval. Rats were bilaterally implanted with cannulae in hippocampal CA1 region. After recovery, animals were submitted to one-trial step-down inhibitory avoidance task and tested for long-term memory (LTM) 24 h later. Before test session, animals received infusions of vehicle or the PLA(2) inhibitor PACOCF(3). Inhibition of PLA(2) activity impaired LTM retrieval. Memory impairment was fully reversed once PLA(2) activity was recovered. Moreover, LTM retrieval per se increased PLA(2) activity. To our knowledge, we demonstrated for the first time that PLA(2) activity is required for memory retrieval. Because reduced PLA(2) activity has been found in Alzheimer's disease brains, the present results may be relevant to clarify at least part of the biology of this disorder.
We analyzed (18)F-dopa PET data from 11 members of kindreds with familial progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) to characterize their cerebral dopaminergic dysfunction. Three clinically-affected PSP patients showed reduced (18)F-dopa uptake in the striatum, orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala. One asymptomatic subject exhibited progressive putamen dopaminergic dysfunction. 60% of subjects with abnormal (18)F-dopa scans developed PSP subsequently. This is the first in vivo documentation of cortical dopaminergic deficiency in PSP. Reduced striatal (18)F-dopa uptake in susceptible relatives may predict later clinical disease.
Pathogenic Lrrk2 Y1699C substitution observed in a large German-Canadian kindred presents a neurodegenerative disorder that is reminiscent of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinsonism-Dementia Complex. We screened 54 patients with ALS for seven known Lrrk2 pathogenic substitutions in the Roc, COR and kinase domains. No mutations were observed suggesting that this locus does not have a major influence on the ALS phenotype. However we can not rule out other genetic variation at the LRRK2 locus may play a role in parkinsonian disorders with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and may be considered candidates for genetic screening.
Expression of the Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipids binding protein annexin A2 (ANX2) in the brain is thought to be largely associated with brain pathological conditions such as tumor, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. The recent findings that ANX2 heterotetramer is involved in learning and neuronal activities necessitates a systematic investigation of the physiological expression of ANX2 in the brain. With combination of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, ANX2 mRNA and protein were specifically detected in a group of GABAergic interneurons throughout the brain. Although ANX2 was absent from the interior of pyramidal neurons, it was found on the membrane and seemly the extracellular space of those neurons, where they closely co-localized with glutamate decarboxylase terminals. In cultured developing neurons, ANX2 was present at high concentrations in the growth cones co-distributing with several growth-associated proteins such as growth associated protein 43 (GAP43), turned on after division/Ulip/CRMP (TUC-4), tubulin, and tissue-plasminogen activator. It then became predominantly distributed on the membrane and mostly in axonal branches as neurons grew and extended synaptic networks. ANX2 was also secreted from cultured neurons, in a membrane-bound form that was Ca(2+)-dependent, which was significantly increased by neuronal depolarization. These results may have implications in the function and regulatory mechanism of ANX2 in the normal brain.
The hypothesis tested is that cortical neurotrophins communicate through an inducible autocrine/paracrine mechanism. As ethanol (Et) can induce cortical nerve growth factor (NGF) expression, adult rats were challenged with Et on three consecutive days per week for 6 weeks. The focus of the study was layer V, the chief repository of receptor-expressing neuronal cell bodies. Brains were collected immediately after the sixth Et exposure or 72 h later [i.e., following withdrawal (WD)]. Double-label in situ hybridization-immunohistochemistry studies showed that many neuronal somata co-expressed NGF mRNA with NGF, trkA, or phosphorylated trk (p-trk), essential components of an inducible autocrine system. The frequencies of co-labeling were affected by neither Et nor WD. On the contrary, Et increased the number of NGF mRNA-expressing neurons and the amount of NGF mRNA expressed per cell. Et also increased total cortical concentration of NGF protein, the number of layer V neurons expressing trkA transcript, the amount of trkA mRNA expressed per neuron, and trkA phosphorylation. Following WD, the frequency of NGF-mRNA-expressing cells increased, although transcript and protein content fell. WD induced an increase in trkA mRNA and protein expression, however, p-trk expression was unaffected. Thus, Et treatment reveals that layer V has inducible autocrine/paracrine and anterograde neurotrophin systems. WD unveils the dynamism and recruitability of these systems.
During development of the mammalian cerebral cortex neural stem cells (NSC) first generate neurons and subsequently produce glial cells. The mechanism(s) responsible for this developmental shift from neurogenesis to gliogenesis is unknown. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is believed to play important roles in the development of the mammalian cerebral cortex; it enhances neurogenesis and promotes the differentiation and survival of newly generated neurons. Here, we provide evidence that a truncated form of the BDNF receptor tyrosine kinase B (trkB-t) plays a pivotal role in directing embryonic mouse cortical NSC to a glial cell fate. Expression of trkB-t promotes differentiation of NSC toward astrocytes while inhibiting neurogenesis both in cell culture and in vivo. The mechanism by which trkB-t induces astrocyte genesis is not simply the result of inhibition of full-length receptor with intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity signaling. Instead, binding of BDNF to trkB-t activates a signaling pathway (involving a G-protein and protein kinase C) that induced NSC to become glial progenitors and astrocytes. Thus, the increased expression of trkB-t in the embryonic cerebral cortex that occurs coincident with astrocyte production plays a pivotal role in the developmental transition from neurogenesis to gliogenesis. Our findings suggest a mechanism by which a single factor (BDNF) regulates the production of the two major cell types in the mammalian cerebral cortex.
Mitochondria-deficient cells (rho(o) cells) survive through enhanced glycolytic metabolism in the presence of pyruvate and uridine. The plasma membrane redox system (PMRS) contains several NAD(P)H-related enzymes and plays a key role in maintaining the levels of NAD(+)/NADH and reduced coenzyme Q. In this study, rho(o) cells were used to investigate how the PMRS is regulated under conditions of mitochondrial dysfunction. rho(o) cells exhibited a lower oxygen consumption rate and higher levels of lactate than parental cells, and were more sensitive to glycolysis inhibitors (2-deoxyglucose and iodoacetamide) than control cells. However, they were more resistant to H(2)O(2), consistent with increased catalase activity and decreased oxidative damage (protein carbonyls and nitrotyrosine). PM-associated redox enzyme activities were enhanced in rho(o) cells compared to those in control cells. Our data suggest that all PMRS enzymes and biomarkers tested are closely related to the ability of the PMs to maintain redox homeostasis. These results illustrate that an up-regulated PM redox activity can protect cells from oxidative stress as a result of an improved antioxidant capacity, and suggest a mechanism by which neurons adapt to conditions of impaired mitochondrial function.
The nucleus accumbens is believed to play a critical role in mediating the behavioral responses to rewarding stimuli. Although most studies of the accumbens focus on dopamine, it receives afferents from many other nuclei, including noradrenergic cell groups in the brainstem. We used in vivo microdialysis to measure extracellular levels of both norepinephrine and dopamine in the accumbens shell and core. Regional analysis of shell and core and border regions demonstrated that norepinephrine was high in shell and decreased from medial shell to lateral core, where baseline levels were low or undetectable. Conversely, extracellular dopamine in core was twice the level seen in shell. Both catecholamines increased following a single injection of amphetamine (2 mg/kg, i.p.). The norepinephrine response was greater and long-lasting in shell compared with core. The maximal dopamine response was higher in core than in shell, but the duration of the effect was comparable in both regions. The distinct neurochemical characteristics of shell and core are likely to contribute to the functional heterogeneity of the two subregions. Furthermore, norepinephrine may be involved in many of the functions generally attributed to the accumbens, either directly or indirectly via modulation of extracellular dopamine.
The development of microarray technology makes it possible to simultaneously assay the expression level of hundreds to tens of thousands of mRNA transcripts in one experiment. Genome-wide transcriptional analysis has increasing importance for many areas of neuroendocrinology research. The expense and technical complexity of microarray experiments can make it difficult to navigate the terrain of rival platforms and technologies. In this review, we provide a practical view and comparison of various microarray technologies. Affymetrix arrays, high-density cDNA arrays, membrane arrays and experimental design and data analysis are all discussed by researchers currently using these techniques to study gene regulation in neuroendocrine tissues.
Many clinical trials compare one specific treatment to a control or standard treatment. In HIV therapeutics, such fixed-regimen designs may be problematic as individualized treatment regimens are standard practice. Designing and implementing a trial that allows individualized treatment options poses particular challenges. In this example of a clinical trial in NeuroAIDS, it is hypothesized that some antiretroviral drugs [i.e., those that penetrate the blood-brain barrier sufficiently to inhibit HIV in the central nervous system (CNS)] will improve HIV neurocognitive impairment, whereas non-penetrating antiretrovirals will not be as effective in improving neurocognitive function. To test this hypothesis, a uniquely designed strategy trial was developed that consists of three essential components: (1) a scoring system that ranks regimens for CNS penetration based on semiquantitative criteria, (2) committee-established individualized regimen options that allow randomization to opposite ends of the CNS penetration spectrum, and (3) timely implementation across multiple centers via web-based resources. For the proposed trial, the three components are combined with an adaptive randomization scheme to minimize potential confounding by several important factors. A small pilot study demonstrated the feasibility and acceptability to providers. In conclusion, an innovative design can provide solutions to challenging practical issues in trials with multiple treatment options.
&quot;Metabolomics&quot;, the measurement of metabolite concentrations and fluxes in cell systems, is an emerging science that has enormous potential and several unique characteristics. The current applications for this field are, primarily, toxicological profiling and biomarker studies. This review of metabolomics research highlights the identification of reliable biomarkers with emphasis on neuroAIDS. Such identification of candidate markers will be advantageous for tracking the progression of human immunodeficiency virus/central nervous system (HIV/CNS) disease to gain maximal benefit from antiretroviral treatment and to provide insight into the mechanism of related neuropathogenesis.
On May 15 and 16, 2006, the National Institute of Mental Health sponsored a workshop designed to facilitate discussion and collaboration between basic and clinical investigators in neuroAIDS. Day 2 of the meeting featured a series of talks by clinical investigators. Three of these (those by J. McArthur, P. Tebas, and C. Flexner) are described in detail here. The remaining four talks (those by R. Ellis, R. Price, S. Letendre, and R. Robertson) are briefly introduced here, and full-length papers may be found elsewhere in this issue of the Journal.
The goals of this component were to discuss the potential for NeuroAIDS therapeutics. The presentations included discussions of biomarkers, pathogenic mechanisms of disease, laboratory models, and the development of adjunctive therapies for neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative disorders with a focus on NeuroAIDS. Talks by Dana Giulian on the use of CSF biomarkers for therapeutic trial design in dementia, Howard Fox on the SIV model of NeuroAIDS, Christine Zink on minocycline and its antiretroviral activities, and Katrina L. Mealey on the means to improve drug access to the brain by regulation P-glycoprotein, rounded out the session. It was acknowledged that although a number of compounds including selegiline, nimodipine, and memantine were studied in clinical trials and showed some trends towards clinical improvement none showed significance. Drugs such as minocycline, sodium valproate, and P-glycoprotein regulators were discussed and now are being developed. Partnerships between public institutions and private companies were discussed. Multidisciplinary teams are likely required to see such research to fruition, and the developmental schemes from the molecule to the laboratory to the animal to the clinic were discussed and developed in the session.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common chronic demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) and the major cause of neurological disability in young adults in Western countries. In spite of intensive research efforts, treatment options established to date do not sufficiently prevent the accumulation of tissue damage and clinical disability in patients with MS. We here describe recently identified molecules responsible for the inflammatory and the neurodegenerative processes in MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and review new treatment options targeting both aspects of this disease.

A number of factors more or less unique to multiple sclerosis have suggested that this disease may be particularly amenable to cell-based reparative therapies. The relatively focussed damage to oligodendrocytes and myelin at least in early disease implies that only a single population of cells need be replaced-and that the daunting problem of re-establishing connectivity does not apply. The presence of significant though partial spontaneous myelin repair in multiple sclerosis proves there to be no insurmountable barrier to remyelination intrinsic to the CNS: the therapeutic challenge becomes that of supplementing this spontaneous process, rather than creating repair de novo. Finally, the large body of available knowledge concerning the biology of oligodendrocytes, and the success of experimental myelin repair, have allowed cautious optimism that future prospects for such therapies are not unrealistic. Nonetheless, particular and significant problems are not hard to list: the occurrence of innumerable lesions scattered throughout the CNS, axon loss, astrocytosis, and a continuing inflammatory process, to name but a few. Here we review the progress and the areas where difficulties have yet to be resolved in efforts to develop remyelinating therapies for multiple sclerosis.
Neurology encompasses all aspects of medicine and surgery, but is closer to orthopaedic surgery than many other specialities. Both neurological deficits and bone disorders lead to locomotor system abnormalities, joint complications and limb problems. The main neurological conditions that require the attention of an orthopaedic surgeon are disorders that affect the lower motor neurones. The most common disorders in this group include neuromuscular disorders and traumatic peripheral nerve lesions. Upper motor neurone disorders such as cerebral palsy and stroke are also frequently seen and discussed, as are chronic conditions such as poliomyelitis. The management of these neurological problems is often coordinated in the neurology clinic, and this group, probably more than any other, requires a multidisciplinary team approach.
The aim of this study was to investigate a possible association between haemochromatosis (HFE) gene mutations and the prevalence of Parkinson's disease. The HFE gene encodes a protein that modulates iron absorption. Several studies have documented increased iron levels in the basal ganglia in patients with Parkinson's disease. In a study on patients with concurrent hereditary haemochromatosis and Parkinson's disease, abnormal deposition of iron in the basal ganglia was suggested as an inductor of Parkinson's disease. In this study, genotype frequencies of the HFE mutations C282Y, H63D and S65C were estimated in 388 patients with Parkinson's disease and compared with frequencies found in comparable studies. No significant differences were found in frequencies between the patients and comparable populations. This study does not indicate increased susceptibility to Parkinson's disease in HFE gene mutation carriers in Norway.

Relapsing fever (RF) is a multisystemic borrelial infection with frequent neurologic involvement referred to as neuroborreliosis. The absence of an effective antibody response results in persistent infection. To study the consequences to the brain of persistent infection with the RF spirochete Borrelia turicatae, we studied B cell (Igh6-/-) and B and T (Rag1-/-) cell-deficient mice inoculated with isogenic serotypes 1 (Bt1) or 2 (Bt2). We found that Bt1 was more tissue tropic than Bt2, not only for brain but also for heart. Igh6-/- mice developed more severe clinical disease than Rag1-/- mice. Bt1-infected brains had widespread microgliosis/brain macrophage activation despite localization of spirochetes in the leptomeninges rather than the brain parenchyma itself. Oligoarray analysis revealed that CXCL13 was the most upregulated gene in the brain of Bt1-infected Igh6-/- mice. CXCL13 was also the most abundant of the chemokines we measured in infected blood. Persistent infection did not result in injury to the brain. Treatment with exogenous interleukin-10 reduced microgliosis in the brain and production of CXCL13 in the blood. We concluded that brain involvement in B cell-deficient mice persistently infected with B. turicatae is characterized by prominent microgliosis and production of CXCL13 without detectable injury.
The occurrence of neuroinflammation after spinal cord injury (SCI) is well established, but its function is debated, with both beneficial and detrimental consequences ascribed. A discriminate of the role of neuroinflammation may be the time period after SCI, and there is evidence to favor early neuroinflammation being undesirable, whereas the later evolving phase may have useful roles. Here, we have focused on the inflammatory response in the first 24 hours of SCI in mice. We found elevation of interleukin (IL)-1beta and other cytokines and chemokines within 15 minutes to 3 hours of injury. The early neuroinflammation in SCI is likely to be CNS-derived and involves microglia, as demonstrated by in situ hybridization for IL-1beta in microglia, by an in vitro model of SCI in which elevation of inflammatory cytokines occurs in the absence of a dynamic source of infiltrating leukocytes, and by the correlation of decreased levels of inflammatory molecules and microglia activity in IL-1beta-null mice. Nonetheless, as there are no specific immunohistochemical markers that clearly differentiate microglia from their peripheral counterparts, macrophages, the latter cannot be definitively excluded as participants in early neuroinflammation in mouse SCI. These results of an instantaneous inflammatory response validate approaches to modulate microglia/macrophage activity to improve recovery from SCI.
Using drifting compound grating stimuli matched in energy and frequency spectrum, we previously showed that neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) were tuned to line-like, edge-like, and intermediate one-dimensional features. Because these compound grating stimuli were drifting, allowing for potential interaction between shape and motion, we examine here the dependence of V1 feature tuning on drift speed. We find that the feature selectivity and specificity of individual V1 neurons strongly depend on speed. A simple model explains these observations in terms of an interaction between linear filtering by the receptive field and the static nonlinearity of spike threshold, embedded in a recurrent network. Although the speed-dependent behaviors in single V1 neurons preclude their acting as extractors of one-dimensional features, the population as a whole retains a representation of a full suite of features.
The physiological control of stepping is governed both by signals descending from supraspinal systems and by circuitry residing within the lumbosacral spinal cord. The goal of this study was to evaluate the capacity of physiologically based controllers to restore functional overground locomotion after neurological damage, such as spinal cord injury when used in conjunction with functional electrical stimulation. For this purpose we implemented and tested two controllers: 1) an intrinsically timed system that generated a predetermined rhythmic output and 2) a sensory-based system that used feedback signals to make appropriate transitions between the unloaded (flexion) and loaded (extension) phases of the gait cycle. A third controller, a combination of the intrinsically timed and sensory-driven controllers, was implemented and two sessions were conducted to demonstrate the functional advantages of this approach. The controllers were tested in anesthetized cats, implanted with intramuscular electrodes in six major extensor and flexor muscles of the hindlimbs. The cats were partially supported on a sliding trolley that was propelled by the hindlimbs along a 2.5-m instrumented walkway. Ground reaction forces and limb positions were measured by force plates in the walkway and by accelerometers secured to the legs of the cat, respectively. The controllers were used to generate patterns of stimulation that would elicit alternating flexor (swing) and extensor (stance) movements in the hindlimbs. Using either the intrinsically timed or sensory-driven controllers, the cats were able to travel a distance of 2.5 m, taking five to 12 steps. Functional stepping sequences were more easily achieved using the intrinsically timed controller as the result of a lower sensitivity to the selection of initial stimulation parameters. However, unlike the sensory-driven controller, the intrinsically timed controller was unable to adjust to overcome walkway resistance and muscle fatigue. Neither system was consistently able to ensure load-bearing stepping. Therefore we propose the use of a &quot;combined controller&quot; that relies heavily on intrinsic timing but that can be reset based on sensory signals. A combined controller such as this one may provide the best solution for restoring robust overground locomotion after spinal cord injury.
It was recently shown that the persistent Na(+) current (I(NaP)) is generated in the proximal axon in response to somatic depolarization in neocortical pyramidal neurons, although the involvement of I(NaP) in spike initiation is still unclear. Here we show a potential role of I(NaP) in spike initiation of primary sensory neurons in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (MTN) that display a backpropagation of the spike initiated in the stem axon toward the soma in response to soma depolarization. Riluzole (10 muM) and tetrodotoxin (TTX, 10 nM) caused an activation delay or a stepwise increase in the threshold for evoking soma spikes (S-spikes) without affecting the spike itself. Simultaneous patch-clamp recordings from the soma and axon hillock (AH) revealed that bath application of 50 nM TTX increased the delay in spike activation in response to soma depolarization, leaving the spike-backpropagation time from the AH to soma unchanged. This indicates that the increase in activation delay occurred in the stem axon. Furthermore, under a decreasing intracellular concentration gradient of QX-314 from the soma to AH created by QX-314-containing and QX-314-free patch pipettes, the amplitude and maximum rate of rise (MRR) of AH-spikes decreased with an increase in the activation delay following repetition of current-pulse injections, whereas S-spikes displayed decreases of considerably lesser degree in amplitude and MRR. This suggests that compared to S-spikes, AH-spikes more accurately reflect the attenuation of axonal spike by QX-314, consistent with the nature of spike backpropagation. These observations strongly suggest that low-voltage-activated I(NaP) is involved in spike initiation in the stem axon of MTN neurons.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction pathways have been implicated in underlying mechanisms of synaptic plasticity and learning. However, the differential roles of the MAPK family members extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38 in learning remain to be clarified. Here, an in vitro model of classical conditioning was examined to assess the roles of ERK and p38 MAPK in this form of learning. Previous studies showed that NMDA-mediated trafficking of synaptic glutamate receptor 4 (GluR4)-containing AMPA receptors (AMPARs) underlies conditioning in this preparation and that this is accomplished through GluR4 interactions with the immediate-early gene protein Arc and the actin cytoskeleton. Here, it is shown that attenuation of conditioned responses (CRs) by ERK and p38 MAPK antagonists is associated with significantly reduced synaptic localization of GluR4 subunits. Western blotting reveals that p38 MAPK significantly increases its activation levels during late stages of conditioning during CR expression. In contrast, ERK MAPK activation is enhanced in early conditioning during CR acquisition. The results suggest that MAPKs have a central role in the synaptic delivery of GluR4-containing AMPARs during in vitro classical conditioning.
Anesthetics may induce specific changes that alter the balance of activity within neural networks. Here we describe the effects of the GABA(A) receptor potentiating anesthetic etomidate on sensory processing, studied in a cerebellum-like structure, the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of mormyrid fish, in vitro. Previous studies have shown that the ELL integrates sensory input and removes predictable features by comparing reafferent sensory signals with a descending electromotor command-driven corollary signal that arrives in part through parallel fiber synapses with the apical dendrites of GABAergic interneurons. These synapses show spike timing-dependent depression when presynaptic activation is associated with postsynaptic backpropagating dendritic action potentials. Under etomidate, almost all neurons become tonically hyperpolarized. The threshold for action potential initiation increased for both synaptic activation and direct intracellular depolarization. Synaptically evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) were also strongly potentiated and prolonged. Current source density analysis showed that backpropagation of action potentials through the apical dendritic arborization in the molecular layer was reduced but could be restored by increasing stimulus strength. These effects of etomidate were blocked by bicuculline or picrotoxin. It is concluded that etomidate affects both tonic and phasic inhibitory conductances at GABA(A) receptors and that increased shunting inhibition at the level of the proximal dendrites also contributes to increasing the threshold for action potential backpropagation. When stimulus strength is sufficient to evoke backpropagation, repetitive association of synaptic excitation with postsynaptic action potential initiation still results in synaptic depression, showing that etomidate does not interfere with the molecular mechanism underlying plastic modulation.
In the natural world, we experience and adapt to multiple extrinsic perturbations. This poses a challenge to neural circuits in discriminating between different context-appropriate responses. Using event-related fMRI, we characterized the neural dynamics involved in this process by randomly delivering a position- or velocity-dependent torque perturbation to subjects' arms during a target-capture task. Each perturbation was color-cued during movement preparation to provide contextual information. Although trajectories differed between perturbations, subjects significantly reduced error under both conditions. This was paralleled by reduced BOLD signal in the right dentate nucleus, the left sensorimotor cortex, and the left intraparietal sulcus. Trials included &quot;NoGo&quot; conditions to dissociate activity related to preparation from execution and adaptation. Subsequent analysis identified perturbation-specific neural processes underlying preparation (&quot;NoGo&quot;) and adaptation (&quot;Go&quot;) early and late into learning. Between-perturbation comparisons of BOLD magnitude revealed negligible differences for both preparation and adaptation trials. However, a network-level analysis of BOLD coherence revealed that by late learning, response preparation (&quot;NoGo&quot;) was attributed to a relative focusing of coherence within cortical and basal ganglia networks in both perturbation conditions, demonstrating a common network interaction for establishing arbitrary visuomotor associations. Conversely, late-learning adaptation (&quot;Go&quot;) was attributed to a focusing of BOLD coherence between a cortical-basal ganglia network in the viscous condition and between a cortical-cerebellar network in the positional condition. Our findings demonstrate that trial-to-trial acquisition of two distinct adaptive responses is attributed not to anatomically segregated regions, but to differential functional interactions within common sensorimotor circuits.
Although the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is commonly assumed to be a relay for striatal (STR) output, anatomical evidence suggests the two structures are connected in parallel, raising the possibility that parallel STN and STR firing patterns mediate behavioral processes. The STR is known to play a role in associative and limbic processes, and although behavioral studies suggest that the STN may do so as well, evaluation of this hypothesis is complicated by a lack of pertinent STN physiological data. We recorded concurrent STN and STR firing patterns in rats learning an operant nose-poke task. Both structures responded in similar proportions to task events including instructive cues, discriminative nose-pokes, and sucrose reinforcement. Neuronal responses to reinforcement comprised phasic excitations preceding reinforcement and inhibitions afterward; the inhibition was attenuated when reinforcement was absent. Reinforcement responses occurred more frequently during later training sessions in which discriminative action was required, suggesting that responses were context-dependent. Nose-pokes were typically preceded by excitations; there also was a nonsignificant trend toward inhibition encoding correct nose-pokes. Sustained changes in firing rate coinciding with specific task events suggested that both nuclei were encoding behavioral sequences; this is the first report of such behavior in the STN. Our findings also reveal complex STN responses to reinforcement. Thus both STN and STR neurons show concurrent involvement in motor, limbic, and associative processes.
The optimal patterns of synaptic conductances for spike generation in central neurons is a subject of considerable interest. Ideally such conductance time courses should be extracted from membrane potential (V(m)) activity, but this is difficult because the nonlinear contribution of conductances to the V(m) renders their estimation from the membrane equation extremely sensitive. We outline here a solution to this problem based on a discretization of the time axis. This procedure can extract the time course of excitatory and inhibitory conductances solely from the analysis of V(m) activity. We test this method by calculating spike-triggered averages of synaptic conductances using numerical simulations of the integrate-and-fire model subject to colored conductance noise. The procedure was also tested successfully in biological cortical neurons using conductance noise injected with dynamic clamp. This method should allow the extraction of synaptic conductances from V(m) recordings in vivo.
The olfactory bulb, a second-order sensory brain region, relays afferent input from olfactory receptor neurons to piriform cortex and other higher brain centers. Although large inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) are evident in in vivo intracellular recordings from mitral cells, the functional significance of these synaptic responses has not been defined. In many brain regions, IPSPs can function to either inhibit spiking by transiently suppressing activity or can evoke spiking directly by triggering rebound discharges. We used whole cell patch-clamp recordings from mitral cells in olfactory bulb slices to investigate the mechanisms by which IPSPs regulate mitral cell spike discharges. Mitral cells have unusual intrinsic membrane properties that support rebound spike generation in response to small-amplitude (3-5 mV) but not large-amplitude hyperpolarizing current injections or IPSPs. Rebound spiking occurring in mitral cells was dependent on recovery of subthreshold Na currents, and could be blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microM) or the subthreshold Na channel blocker riluzole (10 microM). Surprisingly, larger-amplitude hyperpolarizing stimuli impeded spike generation by recruiting a transient outward I(A)-like current that was sensitive to high concentrations of 4-aminopyridine and Ba. The interplay of voltage-gated subthreshold Na channels and transient outward current produces a narrow range of IPSP amplitudes that generates rebound spikes. We also found that subthreshold Na channels boost subthreshold excitatory stimuli to produce membrane voltages where granule-cell-mediated IPSPs can produce rebound spikes. These results demonstrate how the intrinsic membrane properties of mitral cells enable inhibitory inputs to bidirectionally control spike output from the olfactory bulb.
Animals return to rewarded locations. An example of this is conditioned place preference (CPP), which is widely used in studies of drug reward. Although CPP is expressed as increased time spent in a previously rewarded location, the behavioral strategy underlying this change is unknown. We continuously monitored rats (n = 22) in a three-room in-line configuration, before and after morphine conditioning in one end room. Although sequential room visit durations were variable, their probability distribution was exponential, indicating that the processes controlling visit durations can be modeled by instantaneous room exit probabilities. Further analysis of room transitions and computer simulations of probabilistic models revealed that the exploratory bias toward the morphine room is best explained by an increase in the probability of a subset of rapid, direct transitions from the saline- to the morphine-paired room by the central room. This finding sharply delineates and constrains possible neural mechanisms for a class of self-initiated, goal-directed behaviors toward previously rewarded locations.
When rats and mice are free to explore a familiar environment they spend more time in a previously rewarded location. This conditioned place preference (CPP) results from an increased probability of initiating transitions from an unrewarded location to one previously paired with reward. We recorded nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons while rats explored a three-room in-line apparatus. Before place conditioning, approximately equal proportions of NAc neurons show excitations or inhibitions when the rat is in each of the rooms (morphine paired, center or saline paired). Conditioning increased the proportion of neurons inhibited while the rat was in the morphine room and neurons excited in the saline room. Many of the neurons in these two groups responded during room transitions. Furthermore, the postconditioning increase in the population of neurons with room-selective responding persisted for several weeks after the last morphine treatment. This long-lasting change in population responses of NAc neurons to initially neutral locations is a neural correlate of the change in location preference manifest as CPP.
Neuron-glia signaling is important for neural development and functions. This signaling may be regulated by neuronal activity and undergo modification similar to long-term potentiation (LTP) of neuronal synapses, a hallmark of neuronal plasticity. We found that tetanic stimulation of Schaffer collaterals (Sc) in the hippocampus that induced LTP in neurons also resulted in LTP-like persistent elevation of Sc-evoked slow depolarization in perisynaptic astrocytes. The elevated slow depolarization in astrocytes was abolished by NMDA receptor antagonist and K(+) channel inhibitors, but not by Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA loaded in the recorded astrocytes, suggesting involvement of an increased extracellular K(+) accumulation accompanying LTP of neuronal synapses. The increased K(+) accumulation and astrocyte depolarization after LTP induction may reduce the efficiency of glial glutamate transporters, which may contribute to the enhanced synaptic efficacy. The neuronal activity-induced persistent enhancement of neuron-glia signaling may thus have important physiological relevance.
Emotional and traditional Stroop effects were contrasted in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-equated, non-demented individuals to examine (a) differences in the speed of processing emotional versus neutral words; and (b) the extent to which the emotional valence influences interference effects. Individuals with moderate AD experienced larger traditional Stroop interference effects than did healthy elderly or individuals with mild AD. Emotional Stroop effects were evident among individuals with moderate AD and significantly greater than elderly and individuals with mild AD who exhibited minimal effects. For negative words, significant differences were only observed between individuals with moderate AD and healthy elderly. Emotional Stroop effects among individuals with AD were not statistically different for positive and negative words. The impact of stimulus intensity level and AD-associated changes to the prefrontal cortex and amygdala on emotional Stroop effects requires further investigation.
Mirror writing refers to the production of individual letters, whole words or sentences in reverse direction. Unintentional mirror writing has been observed in young children and brain-damaged people and interpreted as the manifestation of different cognitive impairments. We report on a mirror writing patient following left hemisphere stroke and the mirror writing phenomena in one sample of children learning to write. We propose a unitary account of mirror writing as the unavailability of the appropriate movement direction representation, either because the right configuration has yet to be specified fully (children learning to write) or because of its damage (acquired brain injury). For this reason, we propose that the lack of directional information relevant to writing be labelled 'directional apraxia'.
Extracellular ion concentrations change during seizures in seizure models. [K(+)](o) increases and [Ca(2+)](o) decreases, resulting from population discharges, enhanced neuronal excitability, though not obviously before seizure onset. In acute pharmacological epilepsy models, there are striking increases in preictal high-frequency (gamma) electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. It is not known whether enhanced gamma EEG results in ionic changes, because gamma and ions have not been measured simultaneously. In this study, unanesthetized, paralyzed rats were given intravenous injections of kainic acid or picrotoxin to induce EEG discharges. Changes in EEG, [K(+)](o), and [Ca(2+)](o) in cortex and hippocampus were recorded. Kainic acid caused small [K(+)](o) fluctuations, without a temporal relationship of these with increased gamma EEG or with onset of discharges. Gamma EEG increases after picrotoxin also failed to affect [K(+)](o) and [Ca(2+)](o). Picrotoxin-induced electrical discharges led to [K(+)](o) rises of &gt;9 mM and [Ca(2+)](o) falls of 0.1-0.2 mM. Kainic acid-induced discharges generated only moderate (2-3 mM) rises in [K(+)](o) and no changes in [Ca(2+)](o). In both models, there were large potassium rises (15-80 mM) and calcium falls (&gt;0.5 mM), suggesting spreading depressions. Small [K(+)](o) fluctuations after kainic acid are consistent with disruption in potassium homeostasis, possibly because of depolarization of astrocytes. To reveal possible latent [K(+)](o) or [Ca(2+)](o) changes, we injected fluorocitrate intracortically to impair astrocytic function, before administering picrotoxin. Even fluorocitrate did not cause gamma-related ion changes but did cause low-magnitude, transient, potassium increases and slower potassium homeostasis during discharges, minor changes consistent with involvement of both astrocytes and neurons in [K(+)](o) regulation. (c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is a not uncommon event in adolescents and young adults. Although it does not result in clear morphological brain defects, it is associated with long-term cognitive, emotional, and behavioral problems. Herein, we characterized the biochemical and behavioral changes associated with experimental mTBI in mice that may act as either targets or surrogate markers for interventional therapy. Specifically, mTBI was induced by 30-g and 50-g weight drop, and at 8 and 72 hr thereafter markers of cellular apoptosis-caspase-3, Bax, apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), and cytochrome-c (Cyt-c)-were quantified by Western blot analysis in hippocampus ipsilateral to the impact. Levels of amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) were also measured, and specific behavioral tests-passive avoidance, open field, and forced swimming (Porsolt) paradigms-were undertaken to assess learning, emotionality, and emotional memory. In the absence of hemorrhage or infarcts, as assessed by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining, procaspase-3 and Bax levels were markedly altered following mTBI at both times. No cleaved caspase-3 was detected, and levels of AIF and Cyt-c, but not APP, were significantly changed at 72 hr. Mice subjected to mTBI were indistinguishable from controls by neurological examination at 1 and 24 hr, and by passive avoidance/open field at 72 hr, but could be differentiated in the forced swimming paradigm. In general, this model mimics the diffuse effects of mTBI on brain function associated with the human condition and highlights specific apoptotic proteins and a behavioral paradigm as potential markers for prospective interventional strategies.
Combined hemorrhagic shock (Shock) and unilateral common carotid artery occlusion (Stroke) results in a decrease of oxygen availability to peripheral tissues and organs and the central nervous system (CNS). A variety of biochemical processes ensue, including organ failure, cellular apoptosis, and necrosis. The present study used male, Sprague-Dawley rats to assess the impact of cerebral insult. Using heat-shock protein 25 and 70 (HSP25, HSP70) as biomarkers, measured 24 h after injury, we tested the hypothesis that pharmacological induction of preconditioning can offer cytoprotection from combined Stroke and Shock. The compound, diazoxide (DZ), is known to induce preconditioning through its effect as a mitochondrial potassium ATP (mK(ATP)) channel opener and succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor. When administered 24 h prior to Stroke and Shock (delayed preconditioning), DZ increased cerebral cortical and hippocampal levels of HSP25 and HSP70. A more clinically relevant treatment paradigm was tested, where DZ was administered after the induction of Stroke and Shock (postconditioning). When administered 60 min (but not 10 min) after the induction of Stroke and Shock, DZ significantly increased HSP25 and HSP70 expression in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Taken together, these results suggest that DZ treatment may be efficacious for CNS injury resulting from blood loss and anoxia from combined cerebral ischemia and hemorrhagic shock. &quot;Postconditioning&quot; triggered by DZ, immediately before resuscitation, is a potentially effective treatment for ischemia-reperfusion injury from combined Stroke and Shock.


As the occurrence of restless legs syndrome (RLS) in diabetes is controversial, the aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of RLS in a cohort of patients with diabetic neuropathy and to analyze the features of the associated neuropathy. We investigated the occurrence of RLS diagnosed in accordance with the criteria of the International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group in a cohort of patients with polyneuropathy and mononeuropathy multiplex associated with diabetes mellitus (DM), or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) in a retrospective study. RLS was present in 33/99 patients with neuropathy associated with DM/IGT/IFG (84 with distal polyneuropathy and 15 with multiple mononeuropathy). Comparing patients with or without RLS, small fiber sensory neuropathy was more common in the RLS patients (15/33 vs. 15/66), as were symptoms of burning feet (10/33 vs. 6/66). In several patients, RLS was responsive to neuropathic pain medications. The frequent occurrence of RLS in association with thermal dysesthesias may reflect the involvement of small sensory fibers in the form of hyperexcitable C fibers or A-delta fiber deafferentation. We suggest that RLS may be triggered by abnormal sensory inputs from small fibers, especially involved in neuropathy associated with DM/IGT/IFG. Our data show that RLS is a relevant feature of diabetic neuropathy, as a frequent and potentially treatable manifestation of small fiber involvement in the course of DM and IGT/IFG.
The majority of human peripheral nerve injuries occur in the upper limb but the majority of studies in the rat are performed in the hindlimb. The upper and lower limbs differ in dexterity and control by supraspinal systems, so an upper limb model is a better representation of the common form of human injury. The purpose of this study was to further develop a rat model involving lesions of the median and ulnar nerves. To produce different degrees of misdirection of axons following nerve repair, we studied nerve crush, cut and repair of the two nerves, and cut and repair with crossover. Assessment of functional recovery was performed using a battery of motor and sensory tests: the staircase test, which assesses skilled forepaw reaching; grip strength meter, which assesses grip strength; pawprint analysis, which assesses toe spread and print length; horizontal ladder, which assesses forepaw placement during skilled locomotion; modified Randall-Selitto device and electronic von Frey probes, which assess fine touch; and cold probes, which assess temperature sensation. All tests revealed deficits in forepaw function after nerve injury except the print length and modified Randall-Selitto device. The time course of functional recovery was observed over 15 weeks. The final degree of functional recovery achieved was related to the misdirection of axon regeneration. The tests that most clearly revealed the effects of axon misdirection on function were the skilled paw reaching and grip strength tests. The lesion model and functional tests that we have developed will be useful in testing therapeutic strategies for treating the consequences of inaccurate axon regeneration following peripheral nerve injury in humans.
We produced a mouse monoclonal antibody using cDNA and peptide immunization against the putative second extra-cellular domain of human peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22). It reacted specifically with human PMP22 and not with other human myelin proteins and did not react with bovine, rat, or mouse PMP22. The antibody stained the compact myelin of human peripheral nerve motor and sensory axons and did not stain central nervous system tissue. PMP22 reactivity was detected in the spinal roots of the human fetus at 19-20 weeks of gestation. The staining pattern of the PMP22 antibody resembled that of a monoclonal antibody directed against the myelin protein zero.
Serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptors have been implicated in the symptoms of schizophrenia. However, there is limited in vivo evidence for an interaction of antipsychotic drugs with 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated behavioral effects. We therefore investigated in rats the action of several antipsychotic drugs on prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of sensorimotor gating that is deficient in schizophrenia. Disruption of PPI at the 100-ms interstimulus interval (ISI), but not the 30-ms ISI, was induced by treatment with 0.5 mg/kg 8-hydroxy-di-propylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT), the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist. In rats pretreated with 0.25 mg/kg haloperidol (4-[-4-(p-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidino]-4'-fluoro butyrophenone) or raclopride [3,5-dichloro-N-(1-ethylpyrrolidin-2-ylmethyl)-2-hydroxy-6-methoxybenzamide tartrate], the disruption of PPI was no longer significant. Of the atypical antipsychotic drugs clozapine (8-chloro-11-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-5H-dibenzo[b,e][1,4]-diazepine), olanzapine (2-methyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-10H-thieno[2,3-b][1,5]benzodiazepine), risperidone [3-[2-[-4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl) piperidino] ethyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-2-methyl-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one)], amisulpride (4-amino-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-5-(ethylsulfonyl)-o-anisamide), and aripiprazole (7-[4-[-4[-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]butoxy]-3,4-dihydrocarbostyrilor 7-[4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl) piperazin-1-yl]butoxy]-1,2,3,4,-tetrahydroquinolin-2-one), only aripiprazole significantly reduced the effect of 8-OH-DPAT on PPI. This effect was mimicked by pretreatment with the 5-HT(1A) receptor partial agonist, buspirone [N-[4-[4-(2-pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-8-azaspiro[4.5]decane-7,9-dione hydrochloride]. On the other hand, some of the antipsychotic drugs and other pretreatments showed complex, prepulse-dependent effects on their own. These data show little in vivo interaction of several atypical antipsychotic drugs with the disruption of PPI mediated by 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation. The action of haloperidol and raclopride suggests a major involvement of dopamine D(2) receptors in this effect, possibly downstream from the initial serotonergic stimulation. The action of aripiprazole could be mediated by its partial agonist properties at 5-HT(1A) receptors or its dopamine D(2)-blocking properties.
The microglial activation plays an important role in neurodegenerative diseases by producing several proinflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide (NO). We found that three types of isoflavones and their metabolites that are transformed by the human intestinal microflora suppress lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced release of NO and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in primary cultured microglia and BV2 microglial cell lines. The inhibitory effect of the isoflavone metabolites (aglycon form) was more potent than that of isoflavones (glycoside form). The RNase protection assay showed that the isoflavone metabolites regulated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and the cytokines at either the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level. A further molecular mechanism study was performed for irisolidone, a metabolite of kakkalide, which had the most potent anti-inflammatory effect among the six isoflavones tested. Irisolidone significantly inhibited the DNA binding and transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and activator protein-1. Moreover, it repressed the LPS-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation without affecting the activity of c-Jun N-terminal kinase or p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. The level of NF-kappaB inhibition by irisolidone correlated with the level of iNOS, TNF-alpha, and interleukin (IL)-1beta suppression in LPS-stimulated microglia, whereas the level of ERK inhibition correlated with the level of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta repression. Overall, the repression of proinflammatory cytokines and iNOS gene expression in activated microglia by isoflavones such as irisolidone might have therapeutic potential for various neurodegenerative diseases including ischemic cerebral disease.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily and function as ligand-modulated transcription factors that regulate gene expression in many important biological processes. The PPARdelta subtype has the highest expression in the brain and is postulated to play a major role in neuronal cell function; however, the precise physiological roles of this receptor remain to be elucidated. Herein, we show that the high-affinity PPARdelta agonists L-165041 [4-[3-(4-acetyl-3-hydroxy-2-propylphenoxy)-propoxyl]phenoxy]-acetic acid] and GW501516 [2-methyl4-((4-methyl-2-(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,3-triazol-5-yl)-methylsulfanyl)phenoxy acetic acid] protect against cytotoxin-induced SH-SY5Y cell injury in vitro and both ischemic brain injury and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity in vivo. In the SH-SY5Y studies, treatment with L-165041 or GW501516 significantly and concentration-dependently attenuated cell death following thapsigargin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, or staurosporine exposure, with the extent of damage correlated with the level of caspase-3 inhibition. In the transient (90 min) middle cerebral artery occlusion model of ischemic brain injury in rats, i.c.v. infusion of L-165041 or GW501516 significantly attenuated the ischemic brain damage measured 24 h after reperfusion. Moreover, the PPARdelta agonists also significantly attenuated MPTP-induced depletion of striatal dopamine and related metabolite contents in mouse brain. These results demonstrate that subtype-selective PPARdelta agonists possess antiapoptotic properties in vitro, which may underlie their potential neuroprotective potential in in vivo experimental models of cerebral ischemia and Parkinson's disease (PD). These findings suggest that PPARdelta agonists could be useful tools for understanding the role of PPARdelta in other neurodegenerative disorders, as well as attractive therapeutic candidates for stroke and neurodegenerative diseases such as PD.
The occupancy by lorazepam of the benzodiazepine binding site of rat brain GABA(A) receptors was compared when measured using either in vivo binding of [(3)H]flumazenil (8-fluoro 5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5-a][1,4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxylic acid ethyl ester) in terminal studies or [(11)C]flumazenil binding in anesthetized animals assessed using a small animal positron emission tomography (PET) scanner (micro-PET). In addition, as a bridging study, lorazepam occupancy was measured using [(3)H]flumazenil in vivo binding in rats anesthetized and dosed under micro-PET conditions. Plasma lorazepam concentrations were also determined, and for each occupancy method, the concentration required to produce 50% occupancy (EC(50)) was calculated because this parameter is independent of the route of lorazepam administration. For the in vivo binding assay, lorazepam was dosed orally (0.1-10 mg/kg), whereas for the micro-PET study, lorazepam was given via the i.v. route as a low dose (0.75 mg/kg bolus) and then a high dose (0.5 mg/kg bolus then 0.2 mg/ml infusion). The lorazepam plasma EC(50) in the [(11)C]flumazenil micro-PET study was 96 ng/ml [95% confidence intervals (CIs) = 74-124 ng/ml], which was very similar to the [(3)H]flumazenil micro-PET simulation study (94 ng/ml; 95% CI = 63-139 ng/ml), which in turn was comparable with the [(3)H]flumazenil in vivo binding study (134 ng/ml; 95% CI = 119-151 ng/ml). These data clearly show that despite the differences in dosing (i.v. in anesthetized versus orally in conscious rats) and detection (in vivo dynamic PET images versus ex vivo measurements in filtered and washed brain homogenates), [(11)C]flumazenil micro-PET produces results similar to [(3)H]flumazenil in vivo binding.
The basal (swelling-induced) and receptor-stimulated effluxes of (125)I(-) and taurine have been monitored to determine whether these two osmolytes are released from human SH-SY5Y cells under hypotonic conditions via common or distinct mechanisms. Under basal conditions, both (125)I(-) (used as a tracer for Cl(-)) and taurine were released from the cells in a volume-dependent manner. The addition of thrombin, mediated via the proteinase-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) subtype, significantly enhanced the release of both (125)I(-) and taurine (3-6-fold) and also increased the threshold osmolarity for efflux of these osmolytes (&quot;set-point&quot;) from 200 to 290 mOsM. Inclusion of a variety of broad-spectrum anion channel blockers and of 4-[(2-butyl-6,7-dichloro-2-cyclopentyl-2,3-dihydro-1-oxo-1H-inden-5-yl)oxy]butanoic acid attenuated the release of both (125)I(-) and taurine under basal and receptor-stimulated conditions. Basal release of (125)I(-) and taurine was independent of Ca(2+) or the activity of protein kinase C (PKC). However, although PAR-1-stimulated taurine efflux was attenuated by either a depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) or inhibition of PKC by chelerythrine, the enhanced release of (125)I(-) was independent of both parameters. Stimulated efflux of (125)I(-) after activation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors was also markedly less dependent on Ca(2+) availability and PKC activity than that observed for taurine release. These results indicate that, although the osmosensitive release of these two osmolytes from SH-SY5Y cells may occur via pharmacologically similar membrane channels, the receptor-mediated release of (125)I(-) and taurine is differentially regulated by PKC activity and Ca(2+) availability.
There is increasing recognition that norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors (NRIs and SRIs) are efficacious in treating some types of pain. To date, studies have not systematically evaluated the relative activity at the NE and/or 5-HT transporter required for maximal efficacy in rodent pain models. Known selective NE and 5-HT reuptake inhibitors reboxetine, desipramine, fluoxetine, and paroxetine were evaluated in both in vitro and in vivo assays. Using the spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain, the compounds differentially reversed tactile allodynia. Evaluation of a broader spectrum of reuptake inhibitors in the para-phenylquinone (PPQ)-induced abdominal constriction model, a model of acute visceral pain, demonstrated that both the SRIs and the NRIs significantly blocked abdominal constrictions. However, the magnitude of this effect was greater following treatment with compounds having greater affinity for NRI compared with SRI affinity. In addition, isobolographic analyses indicated significant synergistic effects for all combinations of desipramine and fluoxetine in the PPQ model of visceral pain. Collectively, the present results support the hypothesis that compounds with greater NRI activity should be more effective for the treatment of pain than compounds having only SRI activity, and this hypothesis is also supported by clinical data. These studies also suggest that the potency and effectiveness of NRIs might be enhanced by the presence of 5-HT activity.
Cholesterol is a prominent component of nerve terminals. To examine cholesterol's role in central neurotransmission, we treated hippocampal cultures with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin, which reversibly binds cholesterol, or mevastatin, an inhibitor of cholesterol biosynthesis, to deplete cholesterol. We also used hippocampal cultures from Niemann-Pick type C1-deficient mice defective in intracellular cholesterol trafficking. These conditions revealed an augmentation in spontaneous neurotransmission detected electrically and an increase in spontaneous vesicle endocytosis judged by horseradish peroxidase uptake after cholesterol depletion by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin. In contrast, responses evoked by action potentials and hypertonicity were severely impaired after the same treatments. The increase in spontaneous vesicle recycling and the decrease in evoked neurotransmission were reversible upon cholesterol addition. Cholesterol removal did not impact on the low level of evoked neurotransmission seen in the absence of synaptic vesicle SNARE protein synaptobrevin-2 whereas the increase in spontaneous fusion remained. These results suggest that synaptic cholesterol balances evoked and spontaneous neurotransmission by hindering spontaneous synaptic vesicle turnover and sustaining evoked exo-endocytosis.
Antidromic cortical excitation has been implicated as a contributing mechanism for high-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS). Here, we examined the reliability of antidromic responses of type 2 corticofugal fibres in rat over a stimulation frequency range compatible to the DBS used in humans. We activated antidromically individual layer V neurones by stimulating their two subcortical axonal branches. We found that antidromic cortical excitation is not as reliable as generally assumed. Whereas the fast conducting branches of a type 2 axon in the highly myelinated brainstem region follow high-frequency stimulation, the slower conducting fibres in the poorly myelinated thalamic region function as low-pass filters. These fibres fail to transmit consecutive antidromic spikes at the beginning of high-frequency stimulation, but are able to maintain a steady low-frequency (6-12 Hz) spike output during the stimulation. In addition, antidromic responses evoked from both branches are rarely present in cortical neurones with a more hyperpolarized membrane potential. Our data indicate that axon-mediated antidromic excitation in the cortex is strongly influenced by the myelo-architecture of the stimulation site and the excitability of individual cortical neurones.


Brain functional MRI (fMRI) provides an indirect mapping of cerebral activity, based on the detection of local changes in blood flow and oxygenation levels that are associated with neuronal activity (BOLD contrast). fMRI allows noninvasive studies of normal and pathological aspects of the brain's functional organization. It is based on the comparison of two or more cognitive states. Echoplanar imaging is the technique of choice, providing the quickest study of the entire brain. Activation maps are calculated from a statistical analysis of the local signal changes. fMRI has become one of the most widely used functional imaging techniques in neuroscience. In clinical practice, fMRI can identify eloquent areas involved in motor and language functions in surgical patients and can evaluate the risk of postoperative neurological deficit.





The consequences of human lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection can be severe, including aseptic meningitis in immunocompetent individuals, hydrocephalus or chorioretinitis in fetal infection, or a highly lethal outcome in immunosuppressed individuals. In murine models of LCMV infection, CD8(+) T cells play a primary role in providing protective immunity, and there is evidence that cellular immunity may also be important in related arenavirus infections in humans. For this reason, we sought to identify HLA-A2 supertype-restricted epitopes from the LCMV proteome and evaluate them as vaccine determinants in HLA transgenic mice. We identified four HLA-A*0201-restricted peptides-nucleoprotein NP(69-77), glycoprotein precursor GPC(10-18), GPC(447-455), and zinc-binding protein Z(49-58)-that displayed high-affinity binding (&lt; or =275 nM) to HLA-A*0201, induced CD8(+) T-cell responses of high functional avidity in HLA-A*0201 transgenic mice, and were naturally processed from native LCMV antigens in HLA-restricted human antigen presenting cells. One of the epitopes (GPC(447-455)), after peptide immunization of HLA-A*0201 mice, induced CD8(+) T cells capable of killing peptide-pulsed HLA-A*0201-restricted target cells in vivo and protected mice against lethal intracranial challenge with LCMV.
Sub-Saharan Africa is undergoing epidemiological transition. Stroke and other vascular diseases increasingly contribute to the burden of disease. There are no systematic reviews of stroke mortality, prevalence, incidence, and case fatality. We combined a thorough search and critical assessment of the published research. Stroke mortality is as high, perhaps higher, than in high-income regions and increases with age in sub-Saharan Africa as in high-income countries, but the absolute number of stroke deaths remains low. There are no adequate community-based stroke incidence studies. Hospital-based incidence is lower than in high-income regions, but higher in young people, possibly due to hospital admission bias. There are no community-based data on case fatality, but hospital-based case fatality is higher than elsewhere. The prevalence of stroke is lower than in high-income regions, but disabling stroke is as prevalent. As the region develops economically, the incidence of stroke and other vascular diseases will increase unless interventions are implemented. Only community-based incidence studies will accurately reveal the burden of stroke.



The clinical manifestations of Wilson disease (WD) are varied and challenging. We conducted the current study to present the phenotypic characteristics and follow-up for a large cohort of patients with WD. We reviewed the medical records of 282 cases of WD (male:female ratio, 196:86) for clinical features, investigations, treatment, and outcome data. The clinical presentations were as follows: hepatic, 42 (14.9%); hepato-neurologic, 10 (3.5%); neurologic, 195 (69.1%); pure psychiatric, 7 (2.4%); osseomuscular, 6 (2.1%); and &quot;presymptomatic,&quot; 15 (5.3%). Mean age was 15.9 years. Presymptomatic patients and those with the hepatic form of WD were younger and patients with osseomuscular and psychiatric forms were older than neurologic patients. The mean duration of illness at the time of diagnosis was 28 months. Predominant neurologic features were as follows: parkinsonism, 62.3%; dystonia, 35.4%; cerebellar, 28%; pyramidal signs, 16%; chorea, 9%; athetosis, 2.2%; myoclonus, 3.4%; and behavioral abnormalities, 16%. Kayser-Fleischer (KF) rings were seen as follows: neurologic patients, 100%; hepatic patients, 86%; and presymptomatic patients, 59%. Positive family history was noted in 47% and consanguinity in 54%. Patients born of consanguineous parents had an earlier age of onset and shorter duration of illness before presentation. Serum ceruloplasmin was decreased in 93% and 24-hour urinary copper excretion was increased in 70% of patients. Neuroimaging (computed tomography/magnetic resonance imaging) and electrophysiologic abnormalities were seen in many patients. Overall, 195 patients were on D-penicillamine therapy and 182 on zinc sulphate. Follow-up data, available for 225 patients, for a mean duration of 46 months, revealed improvement in 176, no change in 20, and deterioration in 6. Twenty-three patients died. To conclude, despite increased awareness and recognition and significant inroads into therapeutic frontiers, follow-up remains poor in developing countries and a return to previous level of functioning is not universal.
Increased suicide rates for military personnel suffering from post-traumatic stress disorders have been reported in various countries. Although it is known that some peacekeepers are exposed to potentially traumatic events and are thus at risk of suffering from post-traumatic stress reactions, only a few studies have examined suicide rates in this group. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the suicide rate among former Swedish peacekeeping personnel. We compared 39,768 former Swedish peacekeepers to the general population in the National General Population Registry and the Cause-of-Death Registry. A lower number of suicides was found among former Swedish peacekeepers than in the general population. In conclusion, Swedish personnel serving in international peace-keeping operations do not show a higher suicide rate than the general population. Unique problems associated with this research area are discussed.
Functional screening can reveal a hidden function of a gene. cDNA library-based functional screening has flourished in various fields of biology so far, such as cancer biology, developmental biology and neuroscience. In the postgenomic era, however, various sequence database and public full-length cDNA resources are available, which now allow us to perform more straightforward, gene-oriented screening. Furthermore, the advent of RNA interference techniques has made it possible to perform effective loss-of-function screening. Gene-based functional screening is able to bridge the gap between genes and biological phenomena and raise important biological questions which should be tackled by integration of 'omic' datasets. These possible roles of functional screening will become more and more important in modern molecular biology moving toward the system level understanding of living organisms.
We have studied the stability of the dopaminergic phenotype in a conditionally immortalized human mesencephalic cell line, MESC2.10. Even though MESC2.10 cells exhibit features of dopaminergic neurons in vitro, none of the cells expressed tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) after transplantation into a rat model of Parkinson's disease. We examined whether this is caused by cell death or loss of transmitter phenotype. Cells were cultured in differentiation medium, then harvested and replated into the same medium where they continued to express TH, whereas replated cells fed medium lacking differentiation factors (dibutyryl cAMP and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) did not. Interestingly, cultures grown in the absence of differentiation factors could regain TH expression once exposed to differentiation medium. Our data suggest that TH expression in vitro is inducible in neurons derived from the MESC2.10 cell line and that the dopaminergic phenotype of these cells in vivo might be unstable.
Menkes disease (MD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutations in the copper transporter, ATP7A, a P-type ATPase. We previously used the olfactory system to demonstrate that ATP7A expression is developmentally, not constitutive, regulated, peaking during synaptogenesis when it is highly expressed in extending axons in a copper-independent manner. Although not known to be associated with axonal functions, we explored the possibility that the inability of mutant ATP7A to support axon outgrowth contributes to the neurodegeneration seen in MD. In vivo analysis of the olfactory system in mottled brindled (Atp7aMobr) mice, a rodent model for MD, demonstrates that ATP7A deficiency affects olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) maturation. Disrupted OSN axonal projections and mitral/tufted cell dendritic growth lead to altered synapse integrity and glomerular disorganization in the olfactory bulbs of Atp7aMobr mice. Our data indicate that the neuronal abnormalities observed in MD are a result of specific age-dependent developmental defects. This study demonstrates a role for ATP7A and/or copper in axon outgrowth and synaptogenesis, and will further help identify the cause of the neuropathology that characterizes MD.
Synapses are formed and stabilized by concerted interactions of pre-, intra-, and post-synaptic components; however, the precise nature of the intrasynaptic components in the CNS remains obscure. Potential intrasynaptic components include extracellular matrix molecules such as laminins; here, we isolate beta2-containing laminins, including perhaps laminins 13 (alpha3beta2gamma3) and 14 (alpha4beta2gamma3), from CNS synaptosomes suggesting a role for these molecules in synaptic organization. Indeed, hippocampal synapses that form in vivo in the absence of these laminins are malformed at the ultrastructural level and this malformation is replicated in synapses formed in vitro, where laminins are provided largely by the post-synaptic neuron. This recapitulation of the in vivo function of laminins in vitro suggests that the malformations are a direct consequence of the removal of laminins from the synapse. Together, these results support a role for neuronal laminins in the structural integrity of central synapses.
As the research on cellular changes has shed invaluable light on the pathophysiology and biochemistry of brain tumors, clinical and experimental use of molecular imaging methods is expanding and allows quantitative assessment. The term molecular imaging is defined as the in vivo characterization and measurement of biologic processes at the cellular and molecular level. Molecular imaging sets forth to probe the molecular abnormalities that are the basis of disease rather than to visualize the end effects of these molecular alterations and, therefore, provides different additional biochemical or molecular information about primary brain tumors compared to histological methods &quot;classical&quot; neuroradiological diagnostic studies. Common clinical indications for molecular imaging contain primary brain tumor diagnosis and identification of the metabolically most active brain tumor reactions (differentiation of viable tumor tissue from necrosis), prediction of treatment response by measurement of tumor perfusion, or ischemia. The interesting key question remains not only whether the magnitude of biochemical alterations demonstrated by molecular imaging reveals prognostic value with respect to survival, but also whether it identifies early disease and differentiates benign from malignant lesions. Moreover, an early identification of treatment success or failure by molecular imaging could significantly influence patient management by providing more objective decision criteria for evaluation of specific therapeutic strategies. Specially, as molecular imaging represents a novel technology for visualizing metabolism and signal transduction to gene expression, reporter gene assays are used to trace the location and temporal level of expression of therapeutic and endogenous genes. Molecular imaging probes and drugs are being developed to image the function of targets without disturbing them and in mass amounts to modify the target's function as a drug. Molecular imaging helps to close the gap between in vitro and in vivo integrative biology of disease.
The primary mechanism for clearance of extracellular dopamine (DA) is uptake mediated by the dopamine transporter (DAT), which is governed, in part, by the number of functional DATs on the cell surface. Previous studies have shown that amphetamine (AMPH) decreases DAT cell surface expression, whereas insulin reverses this effect through the action of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Therefore, it is possible that AMPH causes DAT cell surface redistribution by inhibiting basal insulin signaling. Here, we show in a heterologous expression system and in murine striatal synaptosomes that AMPH causes a time-dependent decrease in the activity of Akt, a protein kinase immediately downstream of PI3K. This effect was blocked by the DAT inhibitor cocaine, suggesting that AMPH must interact with DAT to inhibit Akt. We also showed that AMPH is able to stimulate Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) activity, both in the heterologous expression system as well as in murine striatal synaptosomes. The ability of AMPH to decrease Akt activity was blocked by the CaMKII inhibitor 2-[N-(2-hydroxyethyl)]-N-(4-methoxybenzenesulfonyl)]amino-N-(4-chlorocinnamyl)-N-methylbenzylamine (KN93), but not by its inactive analog 2-[N-(4-methoxybenzenesulfonyl)]amino-N-(4-chlorocinnamyl)-N-methylbenzylamine (KN92). Furthermore, preincubation with KN93 prevented the AMPH-induced decrease in DAT cell surface expression. Thus, AMPH, but not cocaine, decreases Akt activity through a CaMKII-dependent pathway, thereby providing a novel mechanism by which AMPH regulates insulin signaling and DAT trafficking.
Restraining excitatory neurotransmission within a seizure focus provides a nondestructive treatment strategy for intractable neocortical epilepsy. Clostridial toxin light chain (LC) inhibits synaptic transmission by digesting a critical vesicle-docking protein, synaptobrevin, without directly altering neuronal health. This study tests the treatment efficacy of adenoviral vector delivered LC (AdLC) on a model of seizures in rats induced by motor cortex penicillin (PCN) injection. LC expression significantly reduced electroencephalogram (EEG) frequency, amplitude, duration, and latency compared to control groups injected with either an adenoviral vector bearing green fluorescent protein (AdGFP) or phosphate buffered solution (PBS). Correspondingly, LC gene expression improved behavioral manifestations including seizure severity and latency. There was no statistical difference in motor function before and after vector administration between treatment and control groups. Histological analysis revealed spatially discrete LC expression with corresponding synaptobrevin depletion in the cortex surrounding the injection site. Thus, vector-mediated LC gene delivery is capable of improving both the EEG and behavioral manifestations of PCN-induced focal neocortical seizures through synaptobrevin depletion.
Development of neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) reduces the clinical efficacy of interferon beta (IFNbeta) treatment in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate NAb seroprevalence (frequency of patients with NAbs) and immunogenicity (titer levels) of IFNbeta preparations in a clinical setting. We analysed 1115 consecutive MS patients, treated with one of the three available IFNbeta preparations, for an average of 40 months (1-120 months), for the presence of NAbs with the MxA protein induction assay. Overall, 32% of patients were positive for NAbs with neutralizing titers above 10. The frequency of NAbs, ie, the seroprevalence, was 13% in Avonex-treated patients, 43% for Betaferon, 39% for Rebif22 and 30% for Rebif44. In addition, the potential to induce high titer levels, ie, the immunogenicity, was observed to differ between preparations. Avonex, showing the lowest seroprevalence, also showed low immunogenicity and typically induced low titers. Betaferon, showing the highest seroprevalence when inducing NAbs, induced lower titers compared to Rebif22 and Rebif44. Treatment duration over five years only marginally correlated with decreased seroprevalence and titer levels. In conclusion, NAbs to IFNbeta are common in a clinical setting and the IFNbeta preparations differ not only in NAb seroprevalence, but also in immunogenicity.
The patterns of normal daily activity that are required to maintain normal skeletal muscle properties remain unknown. The present study was designed to determine whether spinal cord isolation can be used as a reliable experimental model of neuromuscular inactivity, that is, as a baseline for the absence of activity. Electromyograms (EMGs) were recorded from selected hindlimb muscles of unanesthetized rats over 24-hour periods before and 7, 30, 60, and 90 days after surgical isolation of the lumbar spinal cord. Our data indicate that some rat slow muscle fibers pre-surgery were activated for less than 3 hours per day. Spinal cord isolation (SI) reduced the mean daily integrated EMG (IEMG) and daily EMG duration in the primary slow extensor muscle (soleus) to &lt;1% of control, and in the primary fast extensor muscles [medial gastrocnemius (MG) and vastus lateralis (VL)] to &lt;2% of control. These parameters were decreased to &lt;8% and 3% of control, respectively, in a primary fast flexor muscle, the tibialis anterior (TA). From 30 to 90 days post-SI, the mean amplitudes of the spontaneous EMG bursts were relatively normal in the soleus, increased approximately 2-fold in the MG and VL, and increased approximately 4-fold in the TA. Some evidence of the normal antagonistic flexor-extensor relationship was apparent in the brief periods of recorded activity post-SI. These results indicate that SI eliminates nearly all of the normal EMG activity in the hindlimb muscles in the presence of relatively normal muscle innervation and functional intraspinal neural circuitry.
Reducing-body myopathy (RBM) is a rare myopathy characterized by the presence of unique sarcoplasmic inclusions called reducing bodies (RBs). We characterized the aggresomal features of RBs that contained gamma-tubulin, ubiquitin, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperones, together with a set of membrane proteins, in a family with hereditary RBM. Increased messenger ribonucleic acid and protein levels of a molecular chaperone, glucose-related protein 78, were also observed. These results suggest that the unfolded protein response caused by the accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum plays an important role in the formation of RBs.
Autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (ARHSP) with thin corpus callosum (TCC) is a common and clinically distinct form of familial spastic paraplegia that is linked to the SPG11 locus on chromosome 15 in most affected families. We analyzed 12 ARHSP-TCC families, refined the SPG11 candidate interval and identified ten mutations in a previously unidentified gene expressed ubiquitously in the nervous system but most prominently in the cerebellum, cerebral cortex, hippocampus and pineal gland. The mutations were either nonsense or insertions and deletions leading to a frameshift, suggesting a loss-of-function mechanism. The identification of the function of the gene will provide insight into the mechanisms leading to the degeneration of the corticospinal tract and other brain structures in this frequent form of ARHSP.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are common, heritable neurodevelopmental conditions. The genetic architecture of ASDs is complex, requiring large samples to overcome heterogeneity. Here we broaden coverage and sample size relative to other studies of ASDs by using Affymetrix 10K SNP arrays and 1,181 [corrected] families with at least two affected individuals, performing the largest linkage scan to date while also analyzing copy number variation in these families. Linkage and copy number variation analyses implicate chromosome 11p12-p13 and neurexins, respectively, among other candidate loci. Neurexins team with previously implicated neuroligins for glutamatergic synaptogenesis, highlighting glutamate-related genes as promising candidates for contributing to ASDs.
Perceptual transparency is a surprising phenomenon in which a number of regions of different shades organize into overlaying transparent objects. We recorded single neuron responses from Macaca mulatta area V2 to a display of two bright and two dark squares that appeared as two overlaying bars. We found that neurons assign border ownership according to the transparent interpretation, representing the shapes of the bars rather than the squares.
The establishment of synaptic connections requires precise alignment of pre- and postsynaptic terminals. The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) receptor GFRalpha1 is enriched at pre- and postsynaptic compartments in hippocampal neurons, suggesting that it has a function in synapse formation. GDNF triggered trans-homophilic binding between GFRalpha1 molecules and cell adhesion between GFRalpha1-expressing cells. This represents the first example of a cell-cell interaction being mediated by a ligand-induced cell adhesion molecule (LICAM). In the presence of GDNF, ectopic GFRalpha1 induced localized presynaptic differentiation in hippocampal neurons, as visualized by clustering of vesicular proteins and neurotransmitter transporters, and by activity-dependent vesicle recycling. Presynaptic differentiation induced by GDNF was markedly reduced in neurons lacking GFRalpha1. Gdnf mutant mice showed reduced synaptic localization of presynaptic proteins and a marked decrease in the density of presynaptic puncta, indicating a role for GDNF signaling in hippocampal synaptogenesis in vivo. We propose that GFRalpha1 functions as a LICAM to establish precise synaptic contacts and induce presynaptic differentiation.
Most sensory systems are primarily specialized to detect one sensory modality. Here we report that olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) in the mammalian nose can detect two distinct modalities transmitted by chemical and mechanical stimuli. As revealed by patch-clamp recordings, many OSNs respond not only to odorants, but also to mechanical stimuli delivered by pressure ejections of odor-free Ringer solution. The mechanical responses correlate directly with the pressure intensity and show several properties similar to those induced by odorants, including onset latency, reversal potential and adaptation to repeated stimulation. Blocking adenylyl cyclase or knocking out the cyclic nucleotide-gated channel CNGA2 eliminates the odorant and the mechanical responses, suggesting that both are mediated by a shared cAMP cascade. We further show that this mechanosensitivity enhances the firing frequency of individual neurons when they are weakly stimulated by odorants and most likely drives the rhythmic activity (theta oscillation) in the olfactory bulb to synchronize with respiration.
Neurotransmitter release from mammalian sensory neurons is controlled by Ca(V)2.2 N-type calcium channels. N-type channels are a major target of neurotransmitters and drugs that inhibit calcium entry, transmitter release and nociception through their specific G protein-coupled receptors. G protein-coupled receptor inhibition of these channels is typically voltage-dependent and mediated by Gbetagamma, whereas N-type channels in sensory neurons are sensitive to a second G protein-coupled receptor pathway that inhibits the channel independent of voltage. Here we show that preferential inclusion in nociceptors of exon 37a in rat Cacna1b (encoding Ca(V)2.2) creates, de novo, a C-terminal module that mediates voltage-independent inhibition. This inhibitory pathway requires tyrosine kinase activation but not Gbetagamma. A tyrosine encoded within exon 37a constitutes a critical part of a molecular switch controlling N-type current density and G protein-mediated voltage-independent inhibition. Our data define the molecular origins of voltage-independent inhibition of N-type channels in the pain pathway.
Directed fusion of transmitter-laden vesicles enables rapid intercellular signaling in the central nervous system and occurs at synapses within gray matter. Here we show that action potentials also induce the release of glutamate from axons in the corpus callosum, a white matter region responsible for interhemispheric communication. Callosal axons release glutamate by vesicular fusion, which induces quantal AMPA receptor-mediated currents in NG2(+) glial progenitors at anatomically distinct axo-glial synaptic junctions. Glutamate release from axons was facilitated by repetitive stimulation and could be inhibited through activation of metabotropic autoreceptors. Although NG2(+) cells form associations with nodes of Ranvier in white matter, measurements of conduction velocity indicated that unmyelinated fibers are responsible for glutamatergic signaling with NG2(+) glia. This activity-dependent secretion of glutamate was prevalent in the developing and mature mouse corpus callosum, indicating that axons within white matter both conduct action potentials and engage in rapid neuron-glia communication.
Throughout adulthood, new neurons are continuously added to the dentate gyrus, a hippocampal subregion that is important in spatial learning. Whether these adult-generated granule cells become functionally integrated into memory networks is not known. We used immunohistochemical approaches to visualize the recruitment of new neurons into circuits supporting water maze memory in intact mice. We show that as new granule cells mature, they are increasingly likely to be incorporated into circuits supporting spatial memory. By the time the cells are 4 or more weeks of age, they are more likely than existing granule cells to be recruited into circuits supporting spatial memory. This preferential recruitment supports the idea that new neurons make a unique contribution to memory processing in the dentate gyrus.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is a severe neurological disorder characterized by mental retardation, motor dysfunction and epilepsy. We show that the molecular and cellular deficits of an AS mouse model can be rescued by introducing an additional mutation at the inhibitory phosphorylation site of alphaCaMKII. Moreover, these double mutants no longer show the behavioral deficits seen in AS mice, suggesting that these deficits are the direct result of increased inhibitory phosphorylation of alphaCaMKII.
The past two decades have been a barren time for the discovery of novel drugs for psychiatric disorders, in particular those that could revolutionize disease treatment. In our first 'Viewpoint' article this month, we present the opinions of experts from across the field of neuroscience on how the effectiveness of psychiatric drug discovery could be enhanced.
Psychiatric disorders such as depression, anxiety and schizophrenia are leading causes of disability worldwide, and have a huge societal impact. However, despite the clear need for better therapies, and major advances in the understanding of the molecular basis of these disorders in recent years, efforts to discover and develop new drugs for neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly those that might revolutionize disease treatment, have been relatively unsuccessful. A multidisciplinary approach will be crucial in addressing this problem, and in the first Advances in Neuroscience for Medical Innovation symposium, experts in multiple areas of neuroscience considered key questions in the field, in particular those related to the importance of neuronal plasticity. The discussions were used as a basis to propose steps that can be taken to improve the effectiveness of drug discovery for psychiatric disorders.
Many cell adhesion molecules are localized at synaptic sites in neuronal axons and dendrites. These molecules bridge pre- and postsynaptic specializations but do far more than simply provide a mechanical link between cells. In this review, we will discuss the roles these proteins have during development and at mature synapses. Synaptic adhesion proteins participate in the formation, maturation, function and plasticity of synaptic connections. Together with conventional synaptic transmission mechanisms, these molecules are an important element in the trans-cellular communication mediated by synapses.
Recent work on brightness, color, and form has suggested that human visual percepts represent the probable sources of retinal images rather than stimulus features as such. Here we investigate the plausibility of this empirical concept of vision by allowing autonomous agents to evolve in virtual environments based solely on the relative success of their behavior. The responses of evolved agents to visual stimuli indicate that fitness improves as the neural network control systems gradually incorporate the statistical relationship between projected images and behavior appropriate to the sources of the inherently ambiguous images. These results: (1) demonstrate the merits of a wholly empirical strategy of animal vision as a means of contending with the inverse optics problem; (2) argue that the information incorporated into biological visual processing circuitry is the relationship between images and their probable sources; and (3) suggest why human percepts do not map neatly onto physical reality.
Statistical nonparametric modeling tools that enable the discovery and approximation of functional forms (e.g., tuning functions) relating neural spiking activity to relevant covariates are desirable tools in neuroscience. In this article, we show how stochastic gradient boosting regression can be successfully extended to the modeling of spiking activity data while preserving their point process nature, thus providing a robust nonparametric modeling tool. We formulate stochastic gradient boosting in terms of approximating the conditional intensity function of a point process in discrete time and use the standard likelihood of the process to derive the loss function for the approximation problem. To illustrate the approach, we apply the algorithm to the modeling of primary motor and parietal spiking activity as a function of spiking history and kinematics during a two-dimensional reaching task. Model selection, goodness of fit via the time rescaling theorem, model interpretation via partial dependence plots, ranking of covariates according to their relative importance, and prediction of peri-event time histograms are illustrated and discussed. Additionally, we use the tenfold cross-validated log likelihood of the modeled neural processes (67 cells) to compare the performance of gradient boosting regression to two alternative approaches: standard generalized linear models (GLMs) and Bayesian P-splines with Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling. In our data set, gradient boosting outperformed both Bayesian P-splines (in approximately 90% of the cells) and GLMs (100%). Because of its good performance and computational efficiency, we propose stochastic gradient boosting regression as an off-the-shelf nonparametric tool for initial analyses of large neural data sets (e.g., more than 50 cells; more than 10(5) samples per cell) with corresponding multidimensional covariate spaces (e.g., more than four covariates). In the cases where a functional form might be amenable to a more compact representation, gradient boosting might also lead to the discovery of simpler, parametric models.
How does the visual cortex encode color? I summarize a theory in which cortical double-opponent color neurons perform a role in color constancy and a complementary set of color-luminance neurons function to selectively correct for color fringes induced by chromatic aberration in the eye. The theory may help to resolve an ongoing debate concerning the functional properties of cortical receptive fields involved in color coding.
A key problem in reinforcement learning is how an animal is able to learn a sequence of movements when the reward signal only occurs at the end of the sequence. We describe how a hierarchical dynamical model of motor function is able to solve the problem of delayed reward in learning movement sequences using associative (Hebbian) learning. At the lowest level, the motor system encodes simple movements or primitives, while at higher levels the system encodes sequences of primitives. During training, the network is able to learn a high level motor program composed of a specific temporal sequence of motor primitives. The network is able to achieve this despite the fact that the reward signal, which indicates whether or not the desired motor program has been performed correctly, is received only at the end of each trial during learning. Use of a continuous attractor network in the architecture enables the network to generate the motor outputs required to produce the continuous movements necessary to implement the motor sequence.
Normal cognitive function depends on sufficient supply and efficient utilization of oxygen in the brain. Prospective studies on respiratory function and dementia are lacking. This study investigated the relationship between midlife respiratory function and incidence of dementia in a population-based sample of 1291 women followed from 1974 to 2003. Respiratory function was measured by peak expiratory flow in 1974, and forced vital capacity and forced expiratory volume in 1980. Dementia diagnoses were based on information from neuropsychiatric examinations, informant interviews, hospital records and registry data. Better respiratory function in midlife was associated with a lower late-life risk of developing dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Per 1 standard deviation increase in peak expiratory flow, forced vital capacity and forced expiratory volume, hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) for dementia were 0.77 (0.65-0.91), 0.72 (0.57-0.92) and 0.75 (0.59-0.95), respectively, and for AD 0.76 (0.62-0.94), 0.71 (0.54-0.95) and 0.74 (0.56-0.98), respectively, after adjustment for potential confounders. These data reinforce the advantages of maintaining good respiratory function in midlife, even though causation cannot be established.
Tg2576 mice, a transgenic model of amyloid pathology associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), develop measurable levels of soluble amyloid beta1-40 and 1-42 by 6 months of age and amyloid plaque deposition in cortex, hippocampus and amygdala by 10 months of age. To investigate whether non-hippocampal learning strategies would predominate coincident with the age-related increase in Abeta load in the hippocampal region, we measured learning strategies in the T-maze and a redundant cued version of the water maze. Each of these tasks can be solved using either hippocampal or non-hippocampal learning strategies and has proved sensitive to hippocampal disruption in other settings. The results revealed subtle differences in T-maze and water maze performance in Tg2576 mice compared to controls. Surprisingly, however, Tg2576 mice were not impaired relative to non-transgenic littermates on any measures of hippocampal dependent behavior assessed in these tasks. These data suggest that the medial temporal lobe retains considerable function in 15-month-old Tg2576 mice despite significant Abeta pathology.
Ageing is associated with a decrease in the brain content of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), such as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and with decreased neuroplasticity. The glutamate receptor subunits GluR2 and NR2B play a significant role in forebrain synaptic plasticity. We investigated GluR2 and NR2B in the aged prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum, and tested if treatment with a preparation containing EPA and DHA can reverse age-related changes. The study compared adult and old (3-4 and 24-26 month) rats, and the latter were fed a standard diet or a diet supplemented for 12 weeks with omega-3 PUFA at 270mg/kg/day (ratio EPA to DHA 1.5:1). Ageing was associated with decreases in the GluR2 and NR2B subunits in all structures. These decreases were fully reversed by omega-3 PUFA supplementation. Age-related changes in the phospholipid PUFA content were also seen. Decreases in DHA were mostly corrected by supplementation. This study supports the neuroprotective effect of omega-3 fatty acids in brain ageing, and illustrates specific mechanisms underlying this effect.
Diabetic retinopathy is a leading cause of blindness among adults in the western countries. It has been reported that neurodegeneration may occur in diabetic retinas, but the mechanisms underlying retinal cell death are poorly understood. We found that high glucose increased the number of cells with condensed nuclei and the number of TUNEL-positive cells, and caused an increase in the translocation of phosphatidylserine to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane, indicating that high glucose induces apoptosis in cultured retinal neural cells. The activity of caspases did not increase in high glucose-treated cells, but apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) levels decreased in the mitochondria and increased in the nucleus, indicating a translocation to the nucleus where it may cause DNA fragmentation. These results demonstrate that elevated glucose induces apoptosis in cultured retinal neural cells. The increase in apoptosis is not dependent on caspase activation, but is mediated through AIF release from the mitochondria.
The calcium-binding Mts1/S100A4 protein plays an important role in motility and metastatic activity of tumor cells. Recently we showed that Mts1/S100A4 is expressed in white matter astrocytes and influences their migration in vitro and in vivo. Here, we have investigated the role of Mts1/S100A4 expression in C6 glioma cells or surrounding astrocytes for migration of C6 cells on astrocytes, using short interference (si) RNA to silence Mts1/S100A4 expression. We find that in vitro, the migration of Mts1/S100A4 expressing and silenced C6 cells on astrocytes is predominantly dependent on the expression of Mts1/S100A4 in astrocytes, i.e. C6 cells preferably migrate on Mts1/S100A4-silenced astrocytes. In vivo, Mts1/S100A4-positive C6 cells preferably migrate in white matter. In contrast Mts1/S100A4-silenced C6 cells avoid white matter and migrate in gray matter and meninges. Thus, the migration pattern of C6 cells is affected by their intrinsic Mts1/S100A4 expression as well as Mts1/S100A4 expression in astrocytes. To investigate if Mts1/S100A4 has a significant role on brain tumor progression, we made quantitative RT-PCR analysis for the expression of S100A4/Mts1 in various grades of astrocytic tumors. Our data showed that high-grade glioblastomas express higher amount of S100A4/Mts1 than low-grade astrocytic tumors.
Sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent form of dementia in the elderly. A non-conservative polymorphism in the urokinase-type plasminogen activator gene (PLAU_1=RS2227564) has been analyzed, but data are conflicting on whether it is a risk factor for AD. To clarify whether this genetic variant modifies AD risk in the Italian population, we ran a case-control association study on 192 AD and 126 age-matched controls. We did not find any association between PLAU_1 genotype and AD in the whole AD population, but when we stratified our sample by APOE-epsilon4 status, we found a significant association between PLAU_1 genotype (C/T+T/T) and APOE-epsilon4 negative AD subjects (p=0.02, chi(2)-test). The PLAU_1 genotype did not appear to affect the plasma Abeta42 concentration. Our data support a role for PLAU_1 as an independent genetic risk factor for AD in the Italian population for those subjects who do not have the APOE-epsilon4 allele.
Evidence from several areas of neuroscience has led to the notion that copper and zinc could be modulators of neuronal excitability. In order to contribute to test this idea, we characterized the changes induced by these divalent metal ions on the extracellularly recorded action potential firing rates of undissociated olfactory epithelium neurons. Our main finding is that at low concentrations, 1-100 nM for Cu(2+) and 1-50 microM for Zn(2+), they induced a concentration dependent increase in the neuronal firing rate. In contrast, at higher concentrations, 1-5 microM for Cu(2+) and 100-500 microM for Zn(2+), they decreased the firing rate. Based on these and previous results of our laboratory we propose that the biphasic effect of Cu(2+) and Zn(2+) exposure on neuronal firing may be explained by the interaction of these ions with high and low affinity sites in sodium channels whose occupancy leads to activation or inhibition of the sodium current, which is consistent with the proposed modulatory role of these metal ions on neuronal excitability.
Previous studies found normal or even superior performance of autistic patients on visuospatial tasks requiring local search, like the Embedded Figures Task (EFT). A well-known interpretation of this is &quot;weak central coherence&quot;, i.e. autistic patients may show a reduced general ability to process information in its context and may therefore have a tendency to favour local over global aspects of information processing. An alternative view is that the local processing advantage in the EFT may result from a relative amplification of early perceptual processes which boosts processing of local stimulus properties but does not affect processing of global context. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in 12 autistic adolescents (9 Asperger and 3 high-functioning autistic patients) and 12 matched controls to help distinguish, on neurophysiological grounds, between these two accounts of EFT performance in autistic patients. Behaviourally, we found autistic individuals to be unimpaired during the EFT while they were significantly worse at performing a closely matched control task with minimal local search requirements. The fMRI results showed that activations specific for the local search aspects of the EFT were left-lateralised in parietal and premotor areas for the control group (as previously demonstrated for adults), whereas for the patients these activations were found in right primary visual cortex and bilateral extrastriate areas. These results suggest that enhanced local processing in early visual areas, as opposed to impaired processing of global context, is characteristic for performance of the EFT by autistic patients.
The Magn. Reson. Imaging (MRI) study of normal brain development currently conducted by the Brain Development Cooperative Group represents the most extensive MRI study of brain and behavioral development from birth through young adulthood ever conducted. This multi-center project, sponsored by four Institutes of the National Institutes of Health, uses a combined longitudinal and cross-sectional design to characterize normal, healthy brain and behavioral development. Children, ages newborn through 18-plus years of age, receive comprehensive behavioral, neurological and multimodal MRI evaluations via Objective-2 (birth through 4-years 5-months of age) and Objective-1 (4-years 6-months through 18 years of age and older). This report presents methods (e.g., neurobehavioral assessment, brain scan) and representative preliminary results (e.g., growth, behavior, brain development) for children from newborn through 4-years 5-months of age. To date, 75 participants from birth through 4-years 5-months have been successfully brain scanned during natural sleep (i.e., without sedation); most with multiple longitudinal scans (i.e., 45 children completing at least three scans, 22 completing four or more scans). Results from this younger age range will increase our knowledge and understanding of healthy brain and neurobehavioral development throughout an important, dynamic, and rapid growth period within the human life span; determine developmental associations among measures of brain, other physical characteristics, and behavior; and facilitate the development of automated, quantitative MR image analyses for neonates, infants and young children. The correlated brain MRI and neurobehavioral database will be released for use by the research and clinical communities at a future date.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a disorder that is difficult to treat with psycho- or pharmacotherapy. In order to identify involved neurocircuitry, we investigated the cerebral metabolic alterations in the activity-based anorexia (ABA) rat model, where restriction of the food intake period induces hyperactivity and decreased body weight. Cerebral (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake was investigated in rats in the activity-based anorexia model (n=9) and compared to controls (n=10), using a CTI Focus microPET 220. Regional metabolic changes were investigated using statistical parametric mapping (SPM2) and correlated to weight and hyperactivity measures on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Higher regional metabolism was found in ABA rats in the mediodorsal thalamus, ventral pontine nuclei and cerebellum, while hypometabolism was seen in the left rhinal and bilateral insular cortex, and bilateral ventral striatum (p&lt;0.001). A positive correlation was observed between body weight loss and brain metabolism in the cingulate cortex and surrounding motor and somatosensory cortex (p&lt;0.001). Thus, in the ABA model metabolic changes are present in brain areas related to disease status and weight loss, which share several characteristics with the human disease.
A biophysical model of the coupling between neuronal activity and the BOLD signal that allows for explicitly evaluating the role of both excitatory and inhibitory activity is formulated in this paper. The model is based on several physiological assumptions. Firstly, in addition to glycolysis, the &quot;glycogen shunt&quot; is assumed for excitatory synapses as a mechanism for energy production in the astrocytes. As a result, oxygen-to-glucose index (OGI) is not constant but varies with excitatory neuronal activity. In contrast, a constant OGI=6 (glycolysis) is assumed for inhibitory synapses. Finally we assume that cerebral blood flow is not directly controlled by energy usage, but it is only related to excitatory activity. Simulations' results show that increases in excitatory activity amplify the oscillations associated with the transient BOLD response, by increasing the initial dip, the maximum, and the post-stimulus undershoot of the signal. In contrast, increasing the inhibitory activity evoked an overall decrease of the BOLD signal along the whole time interval of the response. Simultaneous increase of both types of activity is then expected to reinforce the initial dip and the post-stimulus undershoot, while respective effects on the maximum tend to counteract each other. Two mechanisms for negative BOLD response (NBS) generation were predicted by the model: (i) when inhibition was present alone or together with low activation levels and (ii) when deactivation occurred independently of the accompanying inhibition level. Interestingly, NBS was associated with negative oxygen consumption changes only for the case of mechanism (ii).
Virtual microscopy involves the conversion of histological sections mounted on glass microscope slides to high-resolution digital images. Virtual microscopy offers several advantages over traditional microscopy, including remote viewing and data sharing, annotation, and various forms of data mining. We describe a method utilizing virtual microscopy for generation of internet-enabled, high-resolution brain maps and atlases. Virtual microscopy-based digital brain atlases have resolutions approaching 100,000 dpi, which exceeds by three or more orders of magnitude resolutions obtainable in conventional print atlases, MRI, and flat-bed scanning. Virtual microscopy-based digital brain atlases are superior to conventional print atlases in five respects: (1) resolution, (2) annotation, (3) interaction, (4) data integration, and (5) data mining. Implementation of virtual microscopy-based digital brain atlases is located at BrainMaps.org, which is based on more than 10 million megapixels (35 terabytes) of scanned images of serial sections of primate and non-primate brains with a resolution of 0.46 microm/pixel (55,000 dpi). The method can be replicated by labs seeking to increase accessibility and sharing of neuroanatomical data. Online tools offer the possibility of visualizing and exploring completely digitized sections of brains at a sub-neuronal level and can facilitate large-scale connectional tracing, histochemical, and stereological analyses.
Impaired self- and own body processing in patients with schizophrenia and individuals along the schizophrenia spectrum have been associated with dysfunctional cortical activation at the temporo-parietal junction. Here we investigated whether strength or duration of temporo-parietal junction activation during an own body processing task correlates with level of abnormal self-processing in healthy subjects as measured by the frequency of spontaneously experienced schizotypal body schema alterations (perceptual aberrations) and dissociative experiences. Participants carried out a mental imagery task with respect to their own body. Behavioral data and high density EEG were measured. EEG data were analyzed using evoked potential mapping and electrical neuroimaging. Participants completed two validated self-report questionnaires, one asking about perceptual aberration and one about dissociative experiences. The own body transformation task activated the right temporo-parietal junction at 310-390 ms. Participants' reaction times and duration of activation at the right temporo-parietal junction, but not its strength, were found to correlate positively with perceptual aberration scores. No relationship was found with dissociative experiences scores. Brain activations proceeding and following activation of the right temporo-parietal junction did not correlate with scores on either scale. The positive correlation between performance and right temporo-parietal activation in an own body transformation task with perceptual aberrations scores in our healthy population suggests that disturbances in self- and body processing in individuals along the schizophrenia spectrum might be due to prolonged, rather than stronger activation of the right temporo-parietal junction. We argue that this might reflect local pathology, pathologies in cortico-cortical connections and/or re-entry of top-down processing.
The performance of small animal PET for neuroreceptor studies in a psychopharmacological challenge paradigm is not yet well-described. Therefore, we used microPET and [(11)C]raclopride to map the availability of dopamine D(2/3) receptors in brain of anesthetized rats, first in a baseline condition, and again after challenge with saline or d-amphetamine. Parametric maps of the specific binding (binding potential, pB) were calculated using a reference tissue input from cerebellum, and spatially normalized to a digitized stereotaxic coordinate system for rat brain. In volumes of interest (VOIs), the mean baseline pB (n=6) was 2.05 in dorsal striatum (caudate-putamen), and 1.34 in ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens), and did not significantly differ upon retest 2 h later. The availability of [(11)C]raclopride binding sites at baseline was 8% higher in the right striatum. Challenge with amphetamine sulfate (1 mg/kg, i.v., n=4) decreased pB by 19% in both ventral and dorsal striatum. We have earlier predicted that blockade of monoamine oxidase (MAO) should potentiate the amphetamine-evoked dopamine release, thus enhancing the displacement of [(11)C]raclopride binding in vivo. However, pretreatment of rats with pargyline hydrochloride (4 mg/kg, n=4; 20 mg/kg, n=4) 1 day prior to PET did not potentiate the amphetamine-evoked reduction in dopamine receptor availability within the extended striatum. We conclude that small animal PET can be used to investigate stimulant-induced dopamine release, but that the spatial resolution is insufficient to detect differences between relative changes in dorsal vs. ventral divisions of the rat striatum. Furthermore, the present results do not reveal potentiation of the amphetamine-evoked release of dopamine in rats with MAO inhibition.
Human decision making has become one of the major research-foci in economics, marketing and in neuroscience. This study integrates perspectives from these disciplines by examining neurophysiological correlates to Reference-dependence of utility evaluations in real market contexts both before and after choice. First, by comparing buying and selling decisions, we observe an activation of the amygdala only in the latter. We interpret this as loss aversion with respect to prior possessions. This finding contributes to the settling of an ongoing fundamental dispute in economic theory by indicating the absence of loss aversion for money in routine transactions. Second, ex post satisfaction statements are accompanied by an activation of the reward processing orbitofrontal cortex, if the evaluation context is framed by a high external reference price instead of a lower internal reference price. This indicates a nonrational Reference-dependence--despite the neoclassical view of a rational Homo Economicus--of satisfaction measures and challenges a central marketing variable.
Moya-Moya is a rare cerebrovascular occlusive disease characterized by bilateral stenosis or occlusion at the terminal portion of the internal carotid artery and abnormal vascular network at the base of the brain, named &quot;moya-moya&quot;. In children, Moya-Moya disease usually presents with ischemic cerebrovascular events, mainly TIA or lacunar stroke, leading to mental deterioration. In adults, especially in females, it presents with intracranial haemorrhages. We describe the case of an adult patient with an atherosclerotic Moya-Moya disease which presented with a cerebral borderzone infarction.
Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is a plasma lipoprotein that consists of a low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-like particle containing APO B-100 and apolipoprotein(a), linked by a disulphide bridge. There is evidence that higher serum level of Lp(a) is a predictor of various vascular diseases, such as myocardial infarction, coronary stenosis, re-occlusion of aortocoronary bypass vein grafts, peripheral atherosclerosis and cerebral infarction [1-4]. We describe a young man with a cryptogenic stroke with very high serum level of Lp(a) as the only vascular risk factor.

We report a role for Nogo receptors (NgRs) in macrophage efflux from sites of inflammation in peripheral nerve. Increasing numbers of macrophages in crushed rat sciatic nerves express NgR1 and NgR2 on the cell surface in the first week after injury. These macrophages show reduced binding to myelin and MAG in vitro, which is reversed by NgR siRNA knockdown and by inhibiting Rho-associated kinase. Fourteen days after sciatic nerve crush, regenerating nerves with newly synthesized myelin have fewer macrophages than cut/ligated nerves that lack axons and myelin. Almost all macrophages in the cut/ligated nerves lie within the Schwann cell basal lamina, while in the crushed regenerating nerves the majority migrate out. Furthermore, crush-injured nerves of NgR1- and MAG-deficient mice and Y-27632-treated rats show impaired macrophage efflux from Schwann cell basal lamina containing myelinated axons. These data have implications for the resolution of inflammation in peripheral nerve and CNS pathologies.

Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is the primary regulator of several bioactive lipid amides including anandamide. Inhibitors of FAAH are potentially useful for the treatment of pain, anxiety, depression, and other nervous system disorders. However, FAAH inhibitors must display selectivity for this enzyme relative to the numerous other serine hydrolases present in the human proteome in order to be therapeutically acceptable. Here we employed activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) to assess the selectivity of FAAH inhibitors in multiple rat and human tissues. We discovered that some inhibitors, including carbamate compounds SA-47 and SA-72, and AM404 are exceptionally selective while others, like URB597, BMS-1, OL-135, and LY2077855 are less selective, displaying multiple off-targets. Since proteins around 60kDa constitute the major off-targets for URB597 and several other FAAH inhibitors with different chemical structures, we employed the multi-dimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT) approach to analyze their identities. We identified multiple carboxylesterase isozymes as bona fide off-targets of FAAH inhibitors. Consistently, enzymatic assay confirmed inhibition of carboxylesterase activities in rat liver by FAAH inhibitors. Since carboxylesterases hydrolyze a variety of ester-containing drugs and prodrugs, we speculate that certain FAAH inhibitors, by inhibiting carboxylesterases, might have drug-drug interactions with other medicines if developed as therapeutic agents.
Gaboxadol is a selective extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor agonist (SEGA) which enhances slow-wave sleep, and may act principally at extrasynaptic GABA(A)alpha4betadelta receptors. Drug discrimination is a very useful approach for exploring in vivo pharmacological similarities and differences between compounds and was therefore used to compare gaboxadol and zolpidem, an established hypnotic drug, against zopiclone, S-zopiclone, indiplon and tiagabine, all of which have been reported to enhance sleep. Gaboxadol generalised to itself, but not to zolpidem, zopiclone, S-zopiclone, R-zopiclone, indiplon or tiagabine. By contrast, zolpidem generalised to itself, zopiclone, S-zopiclone and indiplon, but not to R-zopiclone (the inactive enantiomer of zopiclone), gaboxadol or tiagabine. This suggests that zolpidem, zopiclone, S-zopiclone and indiplon share a discriminative stimulus, which may be mediated by their efficacy at GABA(A)alpha1betagamma receptors. Gaboxadol and tiagabine each have a different discriminative stimulus from all the other drugs tested.
The effect of a pro-erectile dose of apomorphine, a mixed dopamine receptor agonist, and of PD-168077 (N-[4-(2-cyanophenyl)piperazin-1-ylmethyl]-3-methylbenzamide maleate), a selective dopamine D4 receptor agonist, injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus on the concentration of extra-cellular dopamine and its main metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the dialysate from the nucleus accumbens was studied in male rats. As expected, apomorphine (0.1microg) and PD-168077 (0.1microg) induced penile erection episodes, which occurred concomitantly to an increase in extra-cellular dopamine and DOPAC concentration in the dialysate from the shell of the nucleus accumbens, as measured by intracerebral microdialysis. When induced by apomorphine, these effects were reduced by 80% by raclopride, a selective D2/D3 receptor antagonist (1microg) and only by 40-45% by L-745,870 (1microg), a selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist. When induced by PD-168077, these effects were reduced by more than 80% by L-745,870 (1microg), but only by 35-40% by raclopride. Irrespective of the dopamine agonist used to induce penile erection, the pro-erectile effect and the concomitant increase in dopamine and DOPAC concentration in the nucleus accumbens dialysate were almost completely abolished by d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin(1microg), a potent oxytocin receptor antagonist, given into the lateral ventricles. The present results suggest that stimulation of dopamine receptors (mainly of the D2 to D4 subtype) in the paraventricular nucleus induces the release of oxytocin in brain areas that influence the activity of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons mediating the appetitive and reinforcing effects of sexual activity. This provides evidence for a role of oxytocin in neural circuits that integrate the activity of neural pathways controlling the consummatory aspects of sexual behaviour (e.g., penile erection) with those controlling sexual motivation and sexual arousal.
The preclinical pharmacology of the alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) partial agonist varenicline, a novel smoking cessation agent is described. Varenicline binds with subnanomolar affinity only to alpha4beta2 nAChRs and in vitro functional patch clamp studies in HEK cells expressing nAChRs show that varenicline is a partial agonist with 45% of nicotine's maximal efficacy at alpha4beta2 nAChRs. In neurochemical models varenicline has significantly lower (40-60%) efficacy than nicotine in stimulating [(3)H]-dopamine release from rat brain slices in vitro and in increasing dopamine release from rat nucleus accumbens in vivo, while it is more potent than nicotine. In addition, when combined with nicotine, varenicline effectively attenuates the nicotine-induced dopamine release to the level of the effect of varenicline alone, consistent with partial agonism. Finally, varenicline reduces nicotine self-administration in rats and supports lower self-administration break points than nicotine. These data suggest that varenicline can reproduce to some extent the subjective effects of smoking by partially activating alpha4beta2 nAChRs, while preventing full activation of these receptors by nicotine. Based on these findings, varenicline was advanced into clinical development and recently shown to be an effective and safe aid for smoking cessation treatment.
The effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) on neuronal excitability, evaluated as depolarization-induced firing rate, and on amino acid release, measured as electrically-evoked [(3)H]GABA and [(3)H]d-aspartate efflux, were investigated in rat primary cortical neuronal cultures. 5-HT displayed a concentration-dependent, bimodal effect on neuronal excitability: at 3-10microM it increased excitability through 5-HT(2A) receptors, and was blocked by the selective 5-HT(2A) antagonist MDL 100907, whereas at 30-100microM it reduced excitability through 5-HT(1A) receptors, and was, in turn, blocked by the selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100135. The electrically-evoked [(3)H]GABA efflux was concentration-dependently inhibited by 5-HT (pEC(50)=4.74) and such inhibition was prevented by WAY 100135, but not by GR 55562, a selective 5-HT(1D/B) receptor antagonist. Conversely, 5-HT concentration-dependently increased stimulus-evoked [(3)H]d-aspartate efflux (pEC(50)=4.71). The increase was facilitated by methiothepin and was reversed into inhibition by ICS 205930, a selective 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist. In the presence of ICS 205930, the inhibition induced by 5-HT was prevented by the selective 5-HT(1D/B) receptor antagonist GR 55562, but not by WAY 100135. These findings suggest that 5-HT inhibits GABA release through 5-HT(1A) receptors and exerts a dual modulation on glutamate release, mostly facilitatory (through 5-HT(3) receptors) but also inhibitory (through 5-HT(1D/B) receptors), leading to a prevalently positive modulation of the excitatory signal by amino acid neurotransmitter containing neurons.
The present study evaluated whether hypolocomotion elicited by subcutaneous administration of the non-specific 5-HT/preferential 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist mCPP during novelty exposure was due to an enhanced anxiety-like state. The effects of mCPP on exploratory behavior during exposure to a new environment (novelty) were studied in male C57BL/6N mice. Subcutaneous injection of mCPP (1 and 3mg/kg) and the preferential 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist MK212 (0.7 and 1mg/kg) induced hypolocomotion during novelty exposure. The selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist SB242084 (0.3mg/kg) reversed the mCPP-induced hypolocomotion into hyperlocomotion. In contrast, MK212 induced hypolocomotion that was blocked by SB242084, indicating a specific 5-HT(2C) receptor involvement. When injected intracerebroventricularly, mCPP (30microg) elicited hypolocomotion, whereas the same dose mildly increased locomotion when injected into the dorsal hippocampus. Since anxiety affects autonomic functions, effects of mCPP on cardiovascular function were studied by radio-telemetry in the home cage of unrestrained mice. Subcutaneous injection of mCPP (3mg/kg) had no significant effect on heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure. In summary, in view of lack of autonomic effects, and the lack of hypoactivity upon forebrain stimulation, the hypolocomotion induced by systemic mCPP cannot be explained by an enhanced anxiety-like state.
Atomoxetine is a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) which has not yet been assessed using pharmacological neuroimaging for its effects on rat brain activity. The pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response was determined in rat brain regions following administration of atomoxetine. Rats were individually placed into a 2.35T Bruker magnet for 60min to achieve basal recording of changes in signal intensity. Either saline (n=9) or atomoxetine hydrochloride (2mg/kg; i.p.; n=10) was then administered and recording continued for a further 90min. Data were analysed for BOLD random effects using statistical parametric maps and time course analysis. The main changes observed were widespread negative BOLD responses in the caudate putamen and changes in brain regions associated with the cortico-basal thalamic loop circuits. BOLD changes in the basal ganglia help explain its efficacy in reducing hyperactivity observed in ADHD patients. Although positive BOLD changes in the prefrontal cortex were limited to the ventral orbital cortex this is an area associated with behavioral control and may be of relevance to the use of the drug in ADHD.
The present study used pharmacological and gene ablation techniques to examine the involvement of kappa opioid receptors (KOPr) in modulating the convulsant effects of two mechanistically different drugs: cocaine and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ; GABA-A receptor antagonist) in mice. Systemic administration of the selective KOPr-1 agonist, U69593 (0.16-0.6mg/kg; s.c.), failed to modify cocaine-evoked convulsions or cocaine kindling. Similarly, no alteration in responsiveness to cocaine was observed in wild-type mice that received the selective KOPr-1 antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI; 5mg/kg) or in mice lacking the gene encoding KOPr-1. In contrast to cocaine, U69593 attenuated the seizures induced by acute or repeated PTZ administration. Nor-BNI decreased the threshold for PTZ-evoked seizures and increased seizure incidence during the initial induction of kindling relative to controls. Decreased thresholds for PTZ-induced seizures were also observed in KOPr-1 knock out mice. Together, these data demonstrate an involvement of endogenous KOPr systems in modulating vulnerability to the convulsant effects of PTZ but not cocaine. Furthermore, they demonstrate that KOPr-1 activation protects against acute and kindled seizures induced by this convulsant. Finally, the results of our study suggest that KOPr-1 antagonists will not have therapeutic utility against cocaine-induced seizures, while they may prove beneficial in attenuating several actions of cocaine that have been linked to its abuse.
Semantic fluency tasks, with the categories of birds and furniture as stimuli, were administered to normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Normal subjects showed a gender-related double dissociation consistent with the literature data because men were more fluent with the birds category and women with the furniture category. Also, patients with AD showed a Gender x Category interaction, but the double dissociation between birds and furniture was not present because of a prevalent impairment of the living category birds that was irrespective of gender. This pattern of impairment in patients with AD was independent from the disease stage. The authors conclude that (a) gender-related categorical effects cannot be considered as inborn, sex-related cognitive differences but as familiarity effects and (b) both lesion-related and familiarity-related factors must be taken into account to explain category-specific effects of patients with brain damage and patients with AD.
About 50 years of demolition work, it's time now for a return to the grand syntheses. Two of the great syntheses of the 19th century have now been shattered. Marxism lies in fragments. And psychoanalysis has largely drifted outside of psychiatry to find a new and doubtless temporary home in departments of literary studies. To be sure, the third of the great syntheses, Darwin's theory of evolution, remains intact. But otherwise, as far as the eye can see, there is rubble. The time for new attempts at synthesis is now nigh. After decades of pioneering work in the neurosciences, the fundamental importance of brain biology in the human condition has now become evident. Surely one of the new syntheses will draw upon neurochemistry and neurophysiology, and it is to the great credit of the Hungarian neurosciences that pharmacologist Joseph Knoll has now ventured a first attempt. This attempt will be widely discussed and will form the platform for other work that may end up building firm bridges between &quot;neuroenhancers&quot; and behavior - and, what's more, to show how this relationship has shaped the evolution of thousands of years of human destiny, a great synthesis indeed.
Cannabis use is a hypothesized gateway to subsequent abuse of other drugs such as heroin. We currently assessed whether Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure during adolescence modulates opiate reinforcement and opioid neural systems in adulthood. Long-Evan male rats received THC (1.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)) or vehicle every third day during postnatal days (PNDs) 28-49. Heroin self-administration behavior (fixed ratio-1; 3-h sessions) was studied from young adulthood (PND 57) into full adults (PND 102). THC-pretreated rats showed an upward shift throughout the heroin self-administration acquisition (30 microg/kg/infusion) phase, whereas control animals maintained the same pattern once stable intake was obtained. Heightened opiate sensitivity in THC animals was also evidenced by higher heroin consumption during the maintenance phase (30 and 60 microg/kg/infusion) and greater responding for moderate-low heroin doses (dose-response curve: 7.5, 15, 30, 60, and 100 microg/kg/injection). Specific disturbance of the endogenous opioid system was also apparent in the brain of adults with adolescent THC exposure. Striatal preproenkephalin mRNA expression was exclusively increased in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell; the relative elevation of preproenkephalin mRNA in the THC rats was maintained even after heroin self-administration. Moreover, mu opioid receptor (muOR) GTP-coupling was potentiated in mesolimbic and nigrostriatal brainstem regions in THC-pretreated animals. muOR function in the NAc shell was specifically correlated to heroin intake. The current findings support the gateway hypothesis demonstrating that adolescence cannabis exposure has an enduring impact on hedonic processing resulting in enhanced opiate intake, possibly as a consequence of alterations in limbic opioid neuronal populations.
The negative physical and affective aspects of opioid abstinence contribute to the prolongation of substance abuse. Withdrawal treatment is successful only in a subset of subjects, yet little is known about the neurobiological causes of these individual differences. Here, we compare the somatic and motivational components of opioid withdrawal in animals with high reactivity (HR) vs low reactivity (LR) to novelty, a phenotype associated with differential vulnerability to drug abuse. During withdrawal, HR relative to LR showed increased teeth chattering and eye twitching episodes, somatic signs associated with adrenergic modulation. Given the role of noradrenergic circuitry of the extended amygdala in opioid withdrawal, we examined adrenergic receptor gene expression in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST) and central nucleus of the amygdala. Relative to LR, HR rats exhibit a selective increase in beta(1) adrenergic receptor expression in lateral and medial BST. To uncover the functional relevance of this difference, we microinjected betaxolol, a selective beta(1) receptor antagonist, into dorsal BST and assessed somatic and affective responses during withdrawal. Betaxolol microinjection dose-dependently decreased teeth chattering episodes in HR to levels observed in LR animals. Moreover, the antagonist blocked conditioned place aversion, a measure of negative affect associated with withdrawal, in HR but not in LR animals. Our results reveal for the first time that reactivity to novelty predicts somatic and affective aspects of opiate dependence, and that beta(1) receptors in BST are implicated in opiate withdrawal but only in novelty-seeking individuals.
The hypothesis that prior cannabis exposure increases the likelihood of becoming addicted to other drugs can be evaluated by giving rats a history of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure, then allowing them to self-administer other drugs. In Experiment 1, THC pre-exposure did not alter the acquisition of cocaine self-administration or the amount of cocaine taken under a fixed-ratio 1 (FR1) schedule, with one response required for each injection. Under a progressive-ratio schedule, with the response requirement increasing exponentially with each injection, cocaine-seeking was significantly reduced in THC-exposed rats, suggesting that the regimen of THC exposure used in the present study caused cocaine to be devalued as a reinforcer. In contrast, in an earlier study that used the same regimen, a history of THC exposure did not alter the value of heroin as a reinforcer under the progressive-ratio schedule, but it increased heroin self-administration under the FR1 schedule. Experiment 2 examined how this regimen of THC pre-exposure alters the locomotor effects of cocaine and heroin. THC pre-exposure produced cross-tolerance to the motor-depressant effects of heroin; this may explain the shortened post-injection pauses exhibited by THC-exposed rats under FR1 heroin self-administration. When given cocaine, THC-exposed rats exhibited normal increases in locomotion, but they avoided the center of the open field, suggesting that this THC pre-exposure regimen enhances the anxiogenic effects of cocaine. This enhanced anxiogenic effect-which was verified in Experiment 3 using another model of anxiety, the light-dark test-may explain the reduced reinforcing value of cocaine observed in THC-exposed rats in Experiment 1.
As prenatal methamphetamine (MA) exposure results in long-term hippocampus-dependent cognitive deficits, the increased MA use in women of childbearing age is of great concern. As mice are most commonly used in genetic models, we started to study the potential effects of neonatal MA exposure in female and male mice on brain function 3 months later. As histamine (HA) might mediate some effects of MA in adulthood, we also tested whether in neonates HA might mediate the long-term effects of MA using HA H(3) receptor agonists and antagonists. Stimulation of HA H(3) receptors by H(3) agonists inhibits HA synthesis and release, whereas inhibition of H(3) receptors by H(3) receptor antagonists increases HA release. MA (5 mg/kg), the H(3) receptor antagonist thioperamide (5 mg/kg), and the H(3) receptor agonist immepip (5 mg/kg) alone or in the presence of MA (5 mg/kg) were administered once daily from postnatal days 11 to 20 and the mice were tested at 3 months of age. Here we show that in mice exposure to MA early in life causes sex-dependent impairments in object recognition, spatial learning, and memory in the water maze, and pre-pulse inhibition in adulthood. HA mediates these impairments. Increasing HA release mimicked, whereas inhibiting HA release blocked the long-term detrimental MA effects. This model could be used to determine the role of genetic and environmental factors in MA-dependent cognitive impairments and to develop therapeutic strategies to inhibit them.
The ambient temperature (T(A)) under which rodents are exposed to (+/-)3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) affects the direction and magnitude of the body temperature response, and the degree of hypo/hyperthermia generated in subjects can modify the severity of lasting brain changes in 'neurotoxicity' models. The thermoregulatory effects of MDMA have not been well described in non-human primates and it is unknown if T(A) has the potential to affect acute hyperthermia and therefore other lasting consequences of MDMA. The objective of this study was to determine if the temperature alteration produced by MDMA in nonhuman primates depends on T(A) as it does in rats and mice. Body temperature and spontaneous home cage activity were monitored continuously in six male rhesus monkeys via radiotelemetry. The subjects were challenged intramuscularly with 0.56-2.4 mg/kg (+/-)MDMA under each of three T(A) conditions (18, 24, and 30 degrees C) in a randomized order. The temperature was significantly elevated following injection with all doses of MDMA under each ambient temperature. The magnitude of mean temperature change was approximately 1 degrees C in most conditions suggesting a closely controlled thermoregulatory response in monkeys across a range of doses and ambient temperatures. Activity levels were generally suppressed by MDMA; however, a 50% increase over vehicle was observed after 0.56 MDMA under the 30 degrees C condition. It is concluded that MDMA produces a similar degree of hyperthermia in rhesus monkeys across a range of T(A) conditions that result in hypothermia or exaggerated hyperthermia in rodents. Monkey temperature responses to MDMA appear to be more similar to humans than to rodents and therefore the monkey may offer an improved model of effects related to MDMA-induced hyperthermia.
Several common postdischarge symptoms, such as sleep disorders, headache, drowsiness or general malaise, evoke disturbances of circadian rhythms due to jet lag (ie crossing time zones) or shift work rotation. Considering that general anesthesia is associated with numerous effects on the central nervous system, we hypothesized that it may also act on the circadian timing system. We first determined the effects of the circadian timing on general anesthesia. We observed that identical doses of propofol showed marked circadian fluctuations in duration of effects, with a peak at the middle of the resting period (ie 7 h after lights on). Then, we examined the effects of general anesthesia on circadian timing, by analysing stable free-running circadian rhythms (ie in constant environmental conditions), an experimental approach used widely in circadian biology. Free-running rats were housed in constant darkness and temperature to assess possible phase-shifting effects of propofol anesthesia according to the time of the day. When administered around (+/-2 h) the daily rest/activity transition point, a 30-min propofol anesthesia induced a 1-h phase advance in the free-running rest-activity rhythm, while anesthesia had no significant resetting effect at other times of the day. Anesthesia-induced hypothermia was not correlated with the phase-shifting effects of propofol anesthesia. From our results, anesthesia itself can reset circadian timing, and acts as a synchronizing cue for the circadian clock.
Prenatal nicotine exposure (PNE) has been associated with increased prevalence of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), major depressive disorder (MDD) and substance abuse in exposed children and adolescents. Whether these syndromes are caused by nicotine exposure, or genetic and psychosocial adversities associated with maternal smoking is not completely clear. Animal models suggest a direct impact of PNE. However, the fact that nicotine is forcefully administrated in these paradigms raises some questions about the specificity of these findings. Pregnant C57BI/6J mice were allowed to choose drinking saccharin/nicotine solutions or pure water. Controls could choose saccharin solutions or pure water. Offspring were tested in spontaneous locomotion, fear-associated learning (trace conditioning), addictive (conditioned place preference), and depression-like (learned helplessness) behaviors. There was no significant difference in weight or pup number between the prenatal treatment groups. A significant effect of PNE was observed on spontaneous locomotion, preference for a cocaine-associated place, and latency to escape in the learned helplessness paradigm. Surprisingly, PNE mice exhibited an increased learning of trace-conditioned fear-associated cues. The hyperlocomotive behavior reported in animal models of PNE is not likely an artifact of forceful nicotine administration. The increased prevalence of ADHD, MDD and substance abuse observed in PNE children and adolescents is probably caused by direct behavioral teratogenic effects of PNE. The role of PNE as a risk factor of syndromes associated to increased learning of fear-associated cues such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) warrants further evaluation.
This study was undertaken to examine the effects of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors fluvoxamine and paroxetine on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). In the novel object recognition test, repeated administration of PCP (10 mg/kg/day, 10 days) significantly decreased the exploratory preference in the retention test session, but not in the training test session. PCP-induced cognitive deficits were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (2-week) administration of fluvoxamine (20 mg/kg/day), but not paroxetine (10 mg/kg/day). Furthermore, the effect of fluvoxamine on PCP-induced cognitive deficits was antagonized by co-administration of the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist NE-100 (1 mg/kg/day). Moreover, PCP-induced cognitive deficits were also significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (2-week) administration of the selective sigma-1 receptor agonist SA4503 (1 mg/kg/day) or neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate (DHEA-S; 25 mg/kg/day). The effects of SA4503 or DHEA-S were also antagonized by co-administration of NE-100 (1 mg/kg/day), suggesting the role of sigma-1 receptors in the active mechanisms of these drugs. In contrast, acute single administration of these drugs (fluvoxamine, paroxetine, SA4503) alone or combination with NE-100 did not alter PCP-induced cognitive deficits. The present study suggests that agonistic activity of fluvoxamine at sigma-1 receptors plays a role in the active mechanisms of fluvoxamine on PCP-induced cognitive deficits in mice. Therefore, sigma-1 receptor agonists such as fluvoxamine would be potential therapeutic drugs for the treatment of the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia.

In this study, we attempted to elucidate whether or not an acute inhibition of glutamate transports activity with l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (l-trans PDC) would cause neuroexcitoxicity in the hippocampus. We used in vivo microdialysis and X-band electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy to measure the changes in the redox state during the perfusion of l-trans PDC. ESR signals from rats using l-trans PDC were characteristically a six-line spectra, for which the hfc was a(N)=1.57mT and a(H)=0.25mT; these hfc's were obtained from the lipoxygenase/linoleic acid system that was used for the generation of lipid radicals. The antioxidant effect was measured using an ESR analysis to monitor sequential changes in the signal amplitude of nitroxide radical in the dialysate of both l-trans PDC and control animals. The pattern showed exponential decay with median half-life of the nitroxide radical took significantly longer in the l-trans PDC group. Acute changes in the glutamate transport resulted in the generation of a lipid radical and a depletion in the anti-oxidant effect in the hippocampus. Our data indicate that a dysfunction of a glutamate transport resulted in the collapse of the redox state, which thus eventually led to neuronal necrosis in the hippocampus. This study provides clear evidence for the mechanisms associated with neuronal disorder in relation to glutamate.
Two mechanisms of brain cell death coexist, necrosis and apoptosis. We investigated the correlation between the apoptotic index and the expression of apoptosis modulators and stress response in an ultraviolet-induced cortical microinfarct. Adult rat neocortex was exposed to an ultraviolet beam and brains removed at different intervals after injury were paraffin-embedded and processed for TUNEL assay and immunohistochemistry against apoptotic modulators Bax and Bcl-2, and stress protein HSP70. During the 12-72h postirradiation period, apoptotic nuclei decreased from 11% to 4% in the infarcted area whereas only 1.2% of such nuclei was seen in the perilesional area. While Bcl-2 was always negative in the lesion focus, Bax was positive at all survival times, mainly in glial cells. HSP70 was expressed over a broad area of the ipsilateral hemisphere from 3h after brain injury, firstly in neurons and progressively in glial cells and finally in endothelium. At longer survival times, positive cells could be also seen in the contralateral hemisphere. Apoptosis seems to play only a quantitatively modest role in the progression of brain damage in penumbra areas despite the wide expression of pro-apoptotic factors. On the other hand HSP70 appears to be one of the main protective responses to injury stress.
The temporal course of semantic and phonological retrieval when producing words in the second language was investigated using ERP technique. In the experiment, less proficient Chinese-English bilinguals were required to name pictures in their second language. Before performing this task, they carried out a dual choice go/nogo task on the basis of a picture's semantic information (i.e., whether the picture was of an object or an animal) and phonological information (e.g., whether the picture's English name starts with the letter C or F). During the time window of 200-600ms after stimulus onset, nogo trials generated a more negative ERP profile relative to go trials. A clear-cut N200 was obtained from their difference waves. Overall, the peak latency of N200 elicited by semantic information is earlier than that by phonological information. It takes unbalanced bilinguals approximate 170ms to retrieve phonological information after semantic information becomes available in the second language production. These findings suggest that the semantic information is encoded earlier than the phonological information during the second language production.
To determine whether there is any change by aging in mechanical hyperalgesia (delayed onset muscle soreness) after lengthening contraction (LC, also termed as eccentric contraction), we applied LC to the dorsi-flexors of the hind legs in young (7-week-old) and aged (130-week-old) rats and examined the change in mechanical withdrawal threshold of the exercised muscle with a Randall-Selitto apparatus and by c-Fos expression in the dorsal horn. The baseline mechanical withdrawal threshold did not differ among two age groups. One day after LC the withdrawal threshold started to decrease in both age groups, however, the duration of decreased withdrawal threshold was different: young rats had their withdrawal threshold lowered only for 3 days after LC while that of aged rats remained lowered two more days, showing delayed recovery in aged rats. Induction of c-Fos expression in the spinal dorsal horn by compression of the muscle was examined in aged animals 3 days after LC. Significantly larger numbers of c-Fos positive neurons was observed in the superficial dorsal horn than the control animals (no treatment). This increase was observed not only in L4 but also in L5, a wider distribution than in young animals (L4 only) in our previous report [Taguchi, T., Matsuda, T., Tamura, R., Sato, J., Mizumura, K., 2005a. Muscular mechanical hyperalgesia revealed by behavioural pain test and c-Fos expression in the spinal dorsal horn after eccentric contraction in rats.
The striae longitudinales mediales corporis callosi, or medial longitudinal striae of the corpus callosum, are two slender bands of myelinated fibers that form longitudinal ridges in the indusium griseum on the superior aspect of each half of the corpus callosum. They were first described by the Italian physician Giovanni Maria Lancisi, who served as the personal physician of three successive Popes. This essay offers an account of this eminent physician, his era, and his philosophical background, as well as a description of the anatomic structures that bear his name.
The entactogen +/-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) is a popular recreational drug among college, high school, and, occasionally, middle school students. Preclinical research examining the acute and long-term effects of MDMA has predominately been conducted in reproductively mature subjects but there has been increasing interest in adolescent and in utero exposure. This review examines the acute and long-term responses to MDMA during perinatal, adolescent, and adult periods. The ability of MDMA to alter core body temperature emerges gradually during ontogeny while a reduction in body weight is evident at all ages. Learning and working-memory are also altered independent of the developmental stage of exposure. Current evidence suggests adults are more sensitive to the long-term serotonin depletions following MDMA but younger ages also exhibit substantial and rapid neuroplasticity. Sexually dimorphic MDMA responses have been identified for the acute hyperthermic and motoric effects of MDMA with pubescent males being especially susceptible. Several physiological, behavioral, and neurochemical MDMA issues requiring further study are also outlined.
Historically, acute solvent neurotoxicity was strongly related to reversible narcotic states that could be detected by neurobehavioral tests (e.g., simple reaction time). Nowadays, the occupational exposure to chemicals is markedly reduced and the avoidance of chemosensory effects is more important for the regulation of solvents. Exemplarily, this study examines if the chemosensory perception of 2-ethylhexanol is capable to distract performance in demanding neurobehavioral tasks. In two experiments three time-weighted average concentrations of 2-ethylhexanol (C(TWA): 1.5, 10, and 20 ppm) were investigated. In experiment A (n=24) variable concentrations over time (4h) were used, experiment B (n=22) investigated constant concentrations. The experiments were conducted in a 29 m3 exposure laboratory. Cross-over designs with randomized sequences of exposures were used. Among the 46 male participants 19 subjects reported enhanced chemical sensitivity; the other 27 subjects did not show this personality feature. During the exposure periods neurobehavioral tests were presented twice (beginning; end), the intensity of chemosensory perceptions were rated thrice. The intensity of chemosensory perceptions showed a clear dose-dependency. Subjects' performance in the vigilance test was not affected by the different exposures. Moreover, the results of neurobehavioral tests measuring executive function were neither affected by the C(TWA) concentration nor by the exposure peaks. With increasing C(TWA), a subgroup of the chemically sensitive subjects showed deteriorated accuracy in a divided attention task. Especially the 20 ppm conditions were very annoying. Only during the constant 10 ppm condition the time courses of the annoyance and nasal irritation ratings indicated some adaptation. In general, with the applied neurobehavioral tests distractive effects of acute 2-ethylhexanol exposures up to 20 ppm could not be confirmed. In sensitive groups such distractive effects of irritating solvents might be conceivable and moreover, in cooperation with researchers from cognitive neuroscience more sensitive functions and tests should be developed and incorporated.
The core features of pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) are impairment in social interaction and restricted ranges of interest and activities with obsessive/compulsive traits. Clinical characteristics of PDD range across a variety of psychophysiological areas, from vigilance and autonomic arousal through attention to higher cognitive functions such as memory and language. The author reviewed hypotheses on the neurological background of PDD, which includes brainstem, cerebellum, prefrontal cortex, mirror neuron system, and amygdala and related circuit. Among them, the amygdala hypothesis appears to be most successful in explaining the core feature of PDD, i.e. social impairment. It is expected that advance in cognitive neuroscience on social behavior will clarify the link between neurological and clinical findings of Asperger's disorder.

Many genes from retinoid metabolism cause retinitis pigmentosa. Peropsin, an opsin-like protein with unknown function, is specifically expressed in apical retinal pigment epithelium microvilli. Since rhodopsin and RGR, another opsin-like protein, cause retinitis pigmentosa, we used D-HPLC to screen for the peropsin gene RRH in 331 patients (288 with retinitis pigmentosa and 82 with other retinal dystrophies). We found 13 nonpathogenic variants only, among which a c.730_731delATinsG that truncates the last two transmembrane-spanning fragments and the Lys284 required for retinol binding, but does not segregate with the disease phenotype. We conclude that RRH is not a frequent gene in retinitis pigmentosa.


The goal of genetic association studies is to identify common (&gt;5%) risk factors in complex disease traits. Herein we describe the first replicable 'functional' risk allele for Parkinson's disease. The leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2) G2385R substitution is associated with familial parkinsonism, late-, and early-onset Parkinson's disease in ethnic Chinese Taiwanese. Crucially, we provide evidence of identity-by-descent and suggest that Lrrk2 G2385R carriers originate from one ancestor some 4800 years ago, at the start of Chinese civilization. Moreover, our findings demonstrate that common genetic coding variants contribute to Parkinson's disease in a population specific manner which may have important implications for future genome-wide association studies.
A healthy 5-year-old male reported a clicking sound in both ears. Neurologic examination was normal except for an audible clicking noise that could be heard when within 10 cm of either ear and bilateral rapid rhythmic movements of the soft palate. All tests were normal including magnetic resonance imaging brain scan. One year after onset, his objective tinnitus and palatal tremor were no longer present.
The novel neuropeptides orexin-A and orexin-B derive from a common 130-amino acid precursor molecule (prepro-orexin), are mainly localized to neurons within and around the lateral hypothalamus, and exhibit high affinity to the closely related G-Protein-coupled receptors orexin 1 and 2 receptor (OX1R, OX2R). Orexinergic neurons send their axons to the hippocampal formation (CA1, CA2 and dentate gyrus), which expresses OX1Rs. Recent studies have shown that central administration of orexin-A and orexin-B have effects on learning and memory but literature concerning the role of orexinergic system in cognition remains controversial. More recently, antagonists have been described. The most potent and selective is SB-334867-A, which has an affinity of 40 nM at OX1R which is at least 50-fold selective over OX2R. It is likely that the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration may block OX1Rs in many brain regions. Previously we have shown that intra-CA1 injection of SB-334867-A impairs acquisition, consolidation and retrieval of spatial memory in MWM task. In the present study, the effect of pre-training, post-training and pre-probe of trial intra-DG (dentate gyrus) administration of SB-334867-A (1.5, 3, 6 microg/0.5 microl) on acquisition, consolidation and retrieval in a single-day testing version of MWM (Morris water maze) task was examined. Our results show impaired acquisition and consolidation of MWM task for SB-334867-A as compared with the control group. However, SB-334867-A had no effect on retrieval in spatial memory. Also, this antagonist had no effect on escape latency of a non-spatial visual discrimination task. Therefore, it seems that endogenous orexin-A and orexin-B, through DG OX1Rs, play an important role in spatial learning and memory in the rat.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) modulates various biological functions, including nociception, via selective stimulation of the N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOP). Here we used the NOP selective antagonist UFP-101 to characterize the receptor involved in the spinal antinociceptive effects of N/OFQ evaluated in the mouse tail withdrawal assay and to investigate the mechanism underlying this action by assessing excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC) in laminas I and II of the mouse spinal cord dorsal horn with patch-clamp techniques. Intrathecal (i.t.) injection of N/OFQ in the range of 0.1-10 nmol produced a dose dependent antinociceptive effect, which was prevented by UFP-101, but not by naloxone. In contrast the antinociceptive effect of the mu-opioid peptide receptor agonist endomorphin-1 was blocked by naloxone but not by UFP-101. Moreover, N/OFQ and endomorphin-1 induced a significant antinociceptive effect in wild type mice while in mice knockout for the NOP receptor gene only endomorphin-1 was found to be active. In mouse spinal cord slices 1 microM N/OFQ reduced EPSC to 60+/-4% of control values. This inhibitory effect was reversed in a concentration dependent manner by UFP-101 (pA2 value 6.44). The present results demonstrate that N/OFQ-induced spinal antinociception in vivo and inhibition of spinal excitatory transmission in vitro are mediated by receptors of the NOP type.
Conditioned flavor-taste preference (CFTP) is a robust form of learning in which animals acquire a preference for a flavor (e.g. Kool-Aid) previously mixed with a highly preferred tastant (e.g. fructose) over a flavor previously mixed with a less-preferred tastant (e.g. saccharin). Here, the role of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate-glycine receptor (NR) was probed using systemic MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist, and D-cycloserine (DCS), a glycine agonist. Rats were injected with MK-801 (100 microg/kg) or vehicle 30 min prior to a daily 2-h conditioning session with 1-bottle access to a Kool-Aid flavor (grape or cherry) mixed with either 8% fructose (CS+/F) or 0.2% saccharin (CS-/S). CFTP expression was measured in 2-bottle preference tests between the Kool-Aid flavors mixed with 0.2% saccharin (CS+/S vs. CS-/S). While vehicle-treated rats acquired a preference for CS+/S over CS-/S, MK-801 prior to conditioning completely blocked CFTP learning. The effect of MK-801 was specific to CFTP acquisition, because follow-up experiments demonstrated that MK-801 did not induce a conditioned taste aversion, cause state-dependent learning, or affect CFTP expression. In a second approach, rats were injected with DCS (15 mg/kg) 60 min prior to daily conditioning. In contrast to MK-801, administration of DCS prior to conditioning enhanced CFTP learning (but not reversal conditioning). These results demonstrate that NR neurotransmission is critical for CFTP learning. Furthermore, enhancement of CFTP learning by DCS suggests that endogenous levels of glycine or D-serine may be a limiting factor in CFTP learning.
Exposure to traumatic stress can result in a number of pathophysiological conditions, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD is characterized by a number of persistently heightened physiological and behavioral indicators, including increased sensory arousal and increased startle response. Similar effects can be seen in an animal model of PTSD in which stress results from restraint and inescapable tailshocks to rats. The present study used this animal model to investigate the effects of prazosin, an alpha(1) adrenoceptor antagonist, on stress-induced elevation of acoustic startle response (ASR). To investigate this, male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with 0.5 mg/kg of prazosin 30 min before restraint and inescapable tail shock on three consecutive days. ASR testing was performed 1, 4, 7 and 10 days post-stress and compared to baseline and control values. Results show a significant reduction of ASR hyperarousal in the group treated with prazosin prior to stress compared to vehicle treated stressed animals and controls. Pre-stress treatment with lower levels of prazosin (0.25, 0.1 and 0.05 mg/kg) showed similar results. These findings further implicate an alpha(1) adrenoceptor role in the pathophysiological response to traumatic stress and suggest a potential preventative role for prazosin.
Classical agonists of the dopamine D1 receptor activate both adenylyl cyclase and phospholipase C (PLC) signaling pathways. As a result, the extent to which these two pathways are essentially involved in various effects produced by D1 receptor agonists is currently uncertain. In the present report we examined the effects of SKF 83822, a dopamine D1 agonist which has been reported to activate adenylyl cyclase, but not PLC, on behavior and immediate early gene (IEG) expression in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. SKF 83822 (25-100 microg/kg) induced dose dependent contralateral rotation in these subjects, and, additionally, stimulated strong expression of the IEG products c-Fos, Fra2, Zif/268 and Arc in the deinnervated striatum. All of these effects could be antagonized by pretreatment with the selective D1 dopamine antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg). Although PLC may be involved in many effects mediated through dopamine D1 receptors, these results suggest that direct activation of PLC is not necessary for the induction of either rotation or IEG expression in dopamine depleted rats.
The effects of five antidepressants (escitalopram, paroxetine, duloxetine, venlafaxine, and reboxetine) on the sleep architecture were investigated in freely moving rats in the light phase of a 12:12 h light:dark cycle following a single i.p. dose of antidepressant. Overall, paroxetine and escitalopram exhibited the least sleep disruptive profiles, whereas duloxetine, venlafaxine, and reboxetine increased the time spent awake and suppressed paradoxical sleep. Analysis of the EEG at 1 h intervals revealed only subtle differences from the overall picture. The effect of venlafaxine on disruption of sleep architecture could not be readily explained by its in vitro serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake inhibitory potencies. In vivo microdialysis experiments in the ventral hippocampus of freely moving rats revealed that venlafaxine affected the 5-HT and NA systems equally at the doses tested. Duloxetine (7.7 mg/kg) induced maximal blockade of the 5-HT transporter and duloxetine 7.7 mg/kg also modulated the noradrenaline system. Thus, in this animal model, the enhancement of noradrenergic activity is more disruptive on the sleep architecture than enhancement of serotonergic activity.
Conditional gene knockout represents an extremely powerful approach to study the function of single genes in the nervous system. The Cre-LoxP system is the most advanced technology for spatial and temporal control of genetic inactivation, and there is rapid progress using this methodology in neuroscience research. In this approach, mice with LoxP sites flanking the gene of interest (floxed mice) are bred with transgenic mice expressing Cre recombinase under the control of a selected promoter (Cre mice). This promoter is critical in that it determines the time and site of Cre expression. Cre enzyme, in turn, recombines the floxed gene and produces gene knockout. Here we review Cre mouse lines that have been developed to target either the entire brain, selected brain areas, or specific neuronal populations. We then summarize phenotypic consequences of conditional gene targeting in the brain for more than 40 genes, as reported to date. For many broadly expressed genes, brain-restricted knockout has overcome lethality of conventional knockout (KO) and has highlighted a specific role of the encoded protein in some aspect of brain function. In the case of neural genes, data from null mutants in specific brain sites or neurons has refined our understanding of the role of individual molecules that regulate complex behaviors or synaptic plasticity within neural circuits. Among the many developing functional genomic approaches, conditional gene targeting in the mouse has become an excellent tool to elucidate the function of the approximately 5000 known or unknown genes that operate in the nervous system.
Melanopsin is the photopigment that confers photosensitivity upon intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs). This subset of retinal ganglion cells comprises less than 2% of all RGCs in the mammalian retina. The paucity of melanopsin-positive cells has made studies on melanopsin signaling difficult to pursue in ipRGCs. To address this issue, we have established several cell lines consisting of a transformed human embryonic kidney cell line (HEK293) stably expressing human melanopsin. With these cell lines, we have investigated the intracellular rise in calcium triggered upon light activation of melanopsin. Our human melanopsin-expressing cells exhibit an irradiance-dependent increase in intracellular calcium. Control cells expressing human melanopsin, where the Schiff-base lysine has been mutated to alanine, show no responses to light. Chelating extracellular calcium has no effect on the light-induced increase in intracellular calcium suggesting that calcium is mobilized from intracellular stores. This involvement of intracellular stores has been confirmed through their depletion by thapsigargin, which inhibits a subsequent light-induced increase in intracellular calcium. Addition of the nonselective cation channel blocker lanthanum does not alter light-induced rises in intracellular calcium, further supporting that melanopsin triggers a release of internal calcium from internal stores. HEK293 cells stably expressing melanopsin have proven to be a useful tool to study melanopsin-initiated signaling.
The analysis of transitions in stochastic neurodynamical systems is essential to understand the computational principles that underlie those perceptual and cognitive processes involving multistable phenomena, like decision making and bistable perception. To investigate the role of noise in a multistable neurodynamical system described by coupled differential equations, one usually considers numerical simulations, which are time consuming because of the need for sufficiently many trials to capture the statistics of the influence of the fluctuations on that system. An alternative analytical approach involves the derivation of deterministic differential equations for the moments of the distribution of the activity of the neuronal populations. However, the application of the method of moments is restricted by the assumption that the distribution of the state variables of the system takes on a unimodal Gaussian shape. We extend in this paper the classical moments method to the case of bimodal distribution of the state variables, such that a reduced system of deterministic coupled differential equations can be derived for the desired regime of multistability.
Activated platelets release a multifaceted blend of growth factors that has stimulatory effects on mesenchymal cells, both in vitro and in vivo, which imply beneficial effects on wound repair and tissue regeneration. Previous studies on fibroblast cultures have revealed that more potent growth factors, with respect to cell proliferation, are released in acidic preparations of lysed platelet concentrates in comparison with neutral and alkaline preparations. The current study was intended to investigate the influence of pH on lysed platelet concentrates with respect to release of growth factors, cell proliferation and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in human osteoblast-like cells (hFOB 1.19). Cell proliferation was assessed with the MTT kit, ALP activity by conventional enzymatic reaction kinetics and growth factors platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Osteoblast-like cells were stimulated with lysed platelet concentrates preincubated at pH 4.4, 5.4, 7.4, and 7.6. A 3-13-fold increase of cell proliferation was found in comparison with controls and the most evident increase was observed with platelets activated at pH 5.4. The highest ALP activity was observed in preparations at pH 7.6. Platelets incubated in an acidic environment (pH 5.4) induced a higher proliferation compared with preincubation at neutral or alkaline pH and the level of PDGF was also found to be higher in acidic preincubations. The level of TGF-beta was, in contrast, lowest at pH 4.4. We suggest, based on these experimental findings, that acidic milieu influence platelets to release growth factors more potent to stimulate osteoblast proliferation than neutral and alkaline platelet preparations. Lysed platelet concentrates prepared at an alkaline pH might release additional components with stimulating effects resulting in other features than cell proliferation. This is the first report, to our knowledge, about a pH dependent stimulatory effect of lysed platelet concentrates on human osteoblast-like cell proliferation. Lysed platelet concentrates, preincubated in acidic or alkaline buffers, may benefit fracture healing, implant fixation and might also be advantageous in the treatment of wounds with platelet constituents; however, this has to be investigated in extended experimental and clinical settings.

Animal models are a promising method to approach the basic mechanisms of the neurobiological disturbances encountered in mental disorders. Depression is characterized by a decrease of REM sleep latency and an increase of rapid eye movement density. In schizophrenia, electrophysiological, tomographic, pharmacological and neurochemical activities are all encountered during REM sleep. Mental retardation and dementia are characterized by rather specific REM sleep disturbances. Identification of the genetic support for these abnormalities (endophenotypes) encountered during REM sleep could help to develop specific treatments.
Recent studies have shown overall accuracy rates of 72% and 88% using baseline and/or 1-week change in QEEG biomarkers to predict clinical outcome to treatment with various antidepressant medications. In some cases, findings have been replicated across academic institutions and have been studied in the context of randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Recent EEG findings are corroborated by studies that use techniques with greater spatial resolution (eg, PET, MEG) in localizing brain regions pertinent to clinical response. As such, EEG measurements increasingly are validated by other physiologic measurements that have the ability to assess deeper brain structures. Continued progress along these lines may lead to the realized promise of QEEG biomarkers as predictors of antidepressant treatment outcome in routine clinical practice. In the larger context, use of QEEG technology to predict antidepressant response in major depression may mean that more patients will achieve response and remission with less of the trial-and-error approach that currently accompanies antidepressant treatment.
Artificial grammar learning (AGL) is one of the most commonly used paradigms for the study of implicit learning and the contrast between rules, similarity, and associative learning. Despite five decades of extensive research, however, a satisfactory theoretical consensus has not been forthcoming. Theoretical accounts of AGL are reviewed, together with relevant human experimental and neuroscience data. The author concludes that satisfactory understanding of AGL requires (a) an understanding of implicit knowledge as knowledge that is not consciously activated at the time of a cognitive operation; this could be because the corresponding representations are impoverished or they cannot be concurrently supported in working memory with other representations or operations, and (b) adopting a frequency-independent view of rule knowledge and contrasting rule knowledge with specific similarity and associative learning (co-occurrence) knowledge.
Linking together cognitive neurosciences of aging with the study of psychological and neurophysiological properties of consciousness opens rich fundamental and clinical perspectives. Indeed, several aspects of cognitive aging seem to deal with modifications of processes directly involved in conscious processing. In the light of this relation between consciousness and aging, three tracks of experimental research are proposed and discussed.





Reviews the book, Neuropsychotherapie (Neuropsychotherapy) and its English translation, Neuropsychotherapy: How the Neurosciences Inform Effective Psychotherapy, by Klaus Grawe (2004). In the last two decades, momentous advances have occurred in neuroscientific knowledge of complex human behavior and experience. At the same time, there has been a steady accretion of research-based information on the technique, process, and outcome of psychotherapy. In Neuropsychotherapie, Klaus Grawe has undertaken the integration of these two trends. He proceeds from the expectation that the breakthroughs in neuroscience are crucial both for the understanding of psychotherapy and for the further enhancement of its effectiveness. Grawe's book is a landmark and a breakthrough, and its impact will be felt for a great many years. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved).
Reviews the book, Evidence-based Psychotherapy: Where Theory and Practice Meet edited by Carol D. Goodheart, Alan E. Kazdin, and Robert J. Sternberg (see record 2006-02969-000). The distinguished editors and authors of Evidence-Based Psychotherapy: Where Theory and Practice Meet have created an intellectual atmosphere in the book that paves the way for generative development of evidence-based practice (EBP) in psychotherapy in the future. The book is organized into three sections: 1) &quot;The Practice Perspective,&quot; 2) &quot;The Research Perspective,&quot; and 3) &quot;Training, Policy, and Cautions.&quot; This book is an important addition to the debate on EBP in psychotherapy and highlights issues that extend well beyond the role of psychotherapy in EBP. It is highly recommended for practitioners and researchers alike and is likely to invite thoughtful questioning and reflection on core assumptions at both ends of the spectrum. Moreover, the book would serve as a useful primer on the issues germane to EBP in psychotherapy training for graduate students and psychiatric residents. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved).
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a cyclic 19-amino acid neuropeptide exclusively synthesized in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) and the zona incerta (ZI) that has been implicated in the regulation of energy balance. Despite what is known about the orexigenic effect of MCH, whether MCH has distinct cardiovascular and metabolic effects has yet to be determined. Thus, our goal here was to characterize the concurrent cardiovascular, metabolic, and behavioral responses of male rats to chronic intracerebroventricular (icv) infusion of MCH. Male Long-Evans rats were instrumented with telemetry transmitters for measurement of heart rate (HR) and housed in room calorimeters for assessment of food intake and oxygen consumption (VO(2)) at standard lab ambient temperature (23 degrees C) in order to examine physiological responses to chronic infusion of MCH (8 microg/d and 16 microg/d). Our findings provide the first evidence that chronic administration of MCH induces bradycardia and reduced mean arterial pressure, while it did not affect VO(2). A second experiment was performed in which the physiological responses to an acute icv infusion of MCH were observed. The results of experiment 2 indicate that MCH leads to a low HR that is maintained during the first 2 h post-infusion, the time period during which MCH acutely stimulated feeding. Collectively, these findings confirm that MCH may be an important modulator of sympathetic nervous system activity and thus may play a critical role in coordinating normal responses to negative energy balance.
Advanced age and presence of intracerebral amyloid deposits are known to be major risk factors for development of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and both have been associated with microglial activation. However, the specific role of activated microglia in AD pathogenesis remains unresolved. Here we report that microglial cells exhibit significant telomere shortening and reduction of telomerase activity with normal aging in rats, and that in humans there is a tendency toward telomere shortening with presence of dementia. Human brains containing high amyloid loads demonstrate a significantly higher degree of microglial dystrophy than nondemented, amyloid-free control subjects. Collectively, these findings show that microglial cell senescence associated with telomere shortening and normal aging is exacerbated by the presence of amyloid. They suggest that degeneration of microglia is a factor in the pathogenesis of AD.
This study was designed to explore how adults with autism and Asperger syndrome (ASD) would visually process compound figures. They were tested in two tasks, one involving hierarchical global/local stimuli, the other involving face-like or geometrical stimuli where the processing of the inter-elemental spatial relationships was emphasized. Adults with ASD showed, like controls, a preference for the global level of the hierarchical stimuli. With the stimuli involving inter-elemental spatial relationship manipulations, the adults with ASD showed a preference for local elements, whereas controls did not show a preference. This supports earlier findings from children with ASD, suggesting that though individuals with autism may process global aspects of stimuli in priority, they tend to specific aspects in stimuli containing both local and configural elements.
In seasonal species, photoperiod (i.e. daylength) tightly regulates reproduction to ensure that birth occurs at the most favorable time of year. In mammals, a distinct photoneuroendocrine circuit controls this process via the pineal hormone melatonin. This hormone is responsible for the seasonal regulation of reproduction, but the anatomical substrate and the cellular mechanism through which melatonin modulates sexual activity is far from understood. The Syrian hamster is widely used to explore the photoneuroendocrine system, because it is a seasonal model in which sexual activity is promoted by long summer days (LD) and inhibited by short winter days (SD). Recent evidences indicate that the products of the KiSS-1 gene, kisspeptins, and their specific receptor GPR54, represent potent stimulators of the sexual axis. We have shown that melatonin impacts on KiSS-1 expression to control reproduction in the Syrian hamster. In this species, KiSS-1 is expressed in the antero-ventral-periventricular and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus at significantly higher levels in hamsters kept in LD as compared to SD. In the arcuate nucleus, the downregulation of KiSS-1 expression in SD appears to be mediated by melatonin and not by secondary changes in gonadal hormones. Remarkably, a chronic administration of kisspeptin restores testicular activity in SD hamsters, despite persisting photoinhibitory conditions. Overall, these findings are consistent with a role of KiSS-1/GPR54 in the seasonal control of reproduction. We propose that the photoperiod, via melatonin, modulates KiSS-1 neurons to drive the reproductive axis.
For some neurobiologists, present biological descriptions of the brain may integrate the theoretical frame initiated by Freud. The recent acquisitions of neurobiology prove a plasticity of the neural network anabling the inscription of the experiment. The neuroplasticity constitutes the cornerstone of the reconciliation between the psychoanalysis and neurosciences. The brain must not be considered as a rigid organ, determined and determining but well as a dynamic structure, in constant rebuilding. Contrary to the genetic determinism, the plasticity involves diversity and singularity. The variations of the feasible offered by the plasticity are seducing but to what extent towards the constraint of genetics and the epigenetic ? Both concepts, plasticity and epigenesis are well distinct. An epigenetic phenomenon associated to a maternal behaviour seems to have been proved recently in the rat. Attachment and depression require reflection in the sight of epigenesis and plasticity. The Freud concepts are not always applied to biological patterns without any clumsiness. Demonstrating psychoanalysis from neurosciences or the contrary does not seem very realistic. On the other hand there should a good reason to give rise to exchange, to make a clear distinction between psychoanalytical unconsciousness and neurological unconsciousness, and put an end to the groundless opposition between mental and cerebral.

Schizophrenia is characterized by cognitive, social, and emotional impairments and by psychotic symptoms. Neuroimaging studies have reported abnormalities within the prefrontal cortex and it has been hypothesized that schizophrenia results from poor or miswired anatomical/functional connections. We have compared the functional connectivity within the frontal cortex in control and schizophrenic subjects during the realization of a Continuous Performance Task. The connectivity pattern within the frontal cortex was uncovered by the analysis of the correlation matrix computed from the fMRI time series in frontal areas for 14 schizophrenic patients and 14 control subjects. In control subjects, the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLFCr) activity correlated i) positively with the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the posterior part of the supplementary motor area, ii) negatively with the medial and anterior/inferior part of the frontal cortex. In the schizophrenic group, these relations were abolished or strongly lowered. The negative relation between the DLFCr and the medial frontal cortex has been proposed to play a key role in setting a harmonious balance between the direction of attention to the external world and the expression of the individual believes and self-referential activities, and therefore, the impaired relation of right DLFCr with other frontal areas could explain a distorted perception of external world in relation with internal motivations.


The incomplete prediction of clinical phenotype from genotype in monogenic disorders assumes other complex mechanisms are responsible. Recent examples derived from well-known human diseases will be discussed in this review in the context of the roles of modifier genes, digenic and triallelic inheritance, and the consequence of imprinting and opposite transcripts in known human genetic disorders. Specifically, this review will focus on cystic fibrosis, Huntington's disease, sensory neural deafness due to Connexin gene mutations, Bardet-Biedl syndrome, and the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome as there is evidence that complex inheritance is responsible for at least part of the phenotypic variability that is not explainable by the genotype alone. This review is meant to extend and complement the other topics in this issue as the concept of atypical inheritance is explored in more detail.

Social neuroscience suggests medial pre-frontal cortex (mPFC) as necessary for social cognition. However, the mPFC activates less to members of extreme outgroups that elicit disgust, an emotion directed toward both people and objects. This study aimed to counteract that effect. Participants made either superficial categorical age estimations or individuating food-preference judgments about people, while fMRI recorded neural activity. Besides replicating the reduced mPFC activity to extreme outgroups that elicit disgust, this study demonstrates that the same type of judgment for these individuals is processed in a region anatomically distinct from social groups that elicit exclusively social emotions (pity, envy, pride). Finally, inferring individuating information (food preferences) increases mPFC activation above superficial categorical judgments. This evidence fits differentiated mPFC processing of extreme outgroups, which activate mPFC less than other groups, but suggests that individuation increases activation.
The International Campaign for Cures of Spinal Cord Injury Paralysis established a panel tasked with reviewing the methodology for clinical trials for spinal cord injury (SCI), and making recommendations on the conduct of future trials. This is the third of four papers. It examines inclusion and exclusion criteria that can influence the design and analysis of clinical trials in SCI, together with confounding variables and ethical considerations. Inclusion and exclusion criteria for clinical trials should consider several factors. Among these are (1) the enrollment of subjects at appropriate stages after SCI, where there is supporting data from animal models or previous human studies; (2) the severity, level, type, or size of the cord injury, which can influence spontaneous recovery rate and likelihood that an experimental treatment will clinically benefit the subject; and (3) the confounding effects of various independent variables such as pre-existing or concomitant medical conditions, other medications, surgical interventions, and rehabilitation regimens. An issue of substantial importance in the design of clinical trials for SCI is the inclusion of blinded assessments and sham surgery controls: every effort should be made to address these major issues prospectively and carefully, if clear and objective information is to be gained from a clinical trial. The highest ethical standards must be respected in the performance of clinical trials, including the adequacy and clarity of informed consent.

Many forms of deafness result from degeneration of the sensory cells for hearing, the hair cells in the cochlea. Stem cells offer a potential cell-based therapy for the treatment of deafness. Here, we investigate whether adult olfactory precursor cells can differentiate into hair cells in culture. Precursor cells were isolated from mouse olfactory neuroepithelium, were sphere-forming, showed proliferative capacity, and contained cells expressing neuronal and non-neuronal proteins. To induce differentiation, precursor cells were cocultured with cochlear cells and/or cochlear supernatant. Differentiated precursor cells were immunopositive for specific hair cell markers, including myosin VIIa, FM1-43, calretinin, phalloidin, and espin, and resembled hair cells anatomically and immunocytochemically in culture. The results demonstrate for the first time that adult olfactory precursor cells can differentiate into hair cell-like cells, thus providing a potential autotransplantation therapy for hearing loss.
The ability to differentiate human ESCs (hESCs) to defined lineages in a totally controlled manner is fundamental to developing cell-based therapies and studying human developmental mechanisms. We report a novel, scaleable, and widely applicable system for deriving and propagating neural stem cells from hESCs without the use of animal products, proprietary formulations, or genetic manipulation. This system provides a definitive platform for studying human neural development and has potential therapeutic implications.

Microinfusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells of urethane-anesthetized rats resulted in long lasting (20-30 min) induction of hippocampal synchrony at the field and cellular level. Power but not frequency of NMDA-induced theta was significantly greater than tail pinch-induced theta activity. This effect was antagonized by intrahippocampal infusion of AP5, but unaffected by i.v. atropine sulfate. During AP5 blockade tail pinch theta frequency and power were significantly reduced. Microinfusion of NMDA into the medial septum also resulted in long lasting induction of hippocampal theta field activity. Contrary to the results of hippocampal NMDA microinfusions, frequency but not power of NMDA-induced theta was significantly greater than tail pinch- induced theta activity. Microinfusion of AP5 into the medial septum significantly lowered power of tail pinch-induced theta but did not affect frequency. Wheel running behavior of rats induced by low levels of electrical stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) was completely abolished by microinfusion of AP5 into the medial septum, accompanied by a significant reduction in theta power and frequency. Wheel running and theta were maintained at control levels with high intensity PH stimulation. We propose that: (1) the glutamatergic septohippocampal projection represents a third pathway capable of generating hippocampal field and cellular synchrony, independent of that generated by the septohippocampal cholinergic and GABAergic projections, and (2) the septohippocampal glutamatergic projection serves to function as an interface between cholinergic and GABAergic modulated sensory processing Type 2 theta and movement related Type 1 theta.
Changes in the synaptic content of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors lead to synaptic efficacy modifications, involved in synaptic plasticity mechanisms believed to underlie learning and memory formation. Early in development, GluR4 is highly expressed in the hippocampus, and GluR4-containing AMPA receptors are inserted into synapses. During synapse maturation, the number of AMPA receptors at the synapse is dynamically regulated, and both addition and removal of receptors from postsynaptic sites occur through regulated mechanisms. GluR4 delivery to synapses in rat hippocampal slices was shown to require protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of GluR4 at serine 842 (Ser842). Protein kinase C (PKC) can also phosphorylate Ser842, and we have shown that PKCgamma can associate with GluR4. Here we show that activation of PKC in retina neurons, or in human embryonic kidney 293 cells cotransfected with GluR4 and PKCgamma, increases GluR4 surface expression and Ser842 phosphorylation. Moreover, mutation of amino acids R821A, K825A and R826A at the GluR4 C-terminal, within the interacting region of GluR4 with PKCgamma, abolishes the interaction between PKCgamma and GluR4 and prevents the stimulatory effect of PKCgamma on GluR4 Ser842 phosphorylation and surface expression. These data argue for a role of anchored PKCgamma in Ser842 phosphorylation and targeting to the plasma membrane. The triple GluR4 mutant is, however, phosphorylated by PKA, and it is targeted to the synapse in CA1 hippocampal neurons in organotypic rat hippocampal slices. The present findings show that the interaction between PKCgamma and GluR4 is specifically required to assure PKC-driven phosphorylation and surface membrane expression of GluR4.
Automatic evaluations are crucial for survival, but conscious self-reflection enables the formulation of nuanced evaluations to serve long-term goals. To operate effectively, both automatic and reflective evaluative processes need to integrate stored representations from previous experience (attitudes) with current contexts and goals, but contexts and goals have a more prominent role in reflective evaluation. Recent neuroimaging data provide new insights into the structure and function of evaluation and the dynamic ways that attitudes and reflective processing contribute to evaluation. In this paper, we propose a new iterative-reprocessing (IR) model of the neural bases of evaluation that highlights the role of the prefrontal cortex in the reprocessing of evaluative information. This model makes predictions that inform social-cognitive and cognitive-neuroscientific accounts of evaluation.
Avian embryos are exposed not only to endogenous sex steroids, which are produced by their gonads and have a key role in sexual differentiation, but also to maternal steroids transferred into the egg yolk, which can modulate the development of individual differences in behavior. Studies of maternal hormones have primarily focused on ultimate questions (evolutionary trade-offs, functional significance), whereas proximate mechanistic questions have been largely ignored. A central problem that must be addressed is how exposure to maternal hormones affects the individual phenotype without interfering with sexual differentiation. Separate effects could result from the action of different hormones, at different doses or at different times, on different targets.
Neuronal avalanches are spatiotemporal patterns of neuronal activity that occur spontaneously in superficial layers of the mammalian cortex under various experimental conditions. These patterns reflect fast propagation of local synchrony, display a rich spatiotemporal diversity and recur over several hours. The statistical organization of pattern sizes is invariant to the choice of spatial scale, demonstrating that the functional linking of cortical sites into avalanches occurs on all spatial scales with a fractal organization. These features suggest an underlying network of neuronal interactions that balances diverse representations with predictable recurrence, similar to what has been theorized for cell assembly formation. We propose that avalanches reflect the transient formation of cell assemblies in the cortex and discuss various models that provide mechanistic insights into the underlying dynamics, suggesting that they arise in a critical regime.
Chronic changes in the level of neuronal activity (over a period of days) trigger compensatory changes in synaptic function that seem to contribute to the homeostatic restoration of neuronal activity. Changes in both quantal amplitude and vesicle release contribute to homeostatic synaptic plasticity, but they are often considered as the same phenomenon. In this review, we propose a new approach to studying how neuronal activity is sensed and changes in synaptic function are expressed during synaptic compensation. Changes in quantal amplitude and vesicle release should be considered separately in an attempt to identify the sensors that trigger homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Although data are limited, current evidence suggests that the sensors triggering changes in the quantal amplitude and vesicle release exist at different locations. Furthermore, it is important to recognize that at least two different mechanisms underlie changes in quantal amplitude during homeostatic synaptic plasticity: changes in both the number of postsynaptic receptors and loading of synaptic vesicles with neurotransmitter. Finally, modulation of the probability of neurotransmitter release contributes to the changes in vesicle release associated with homeostatic synaptic plasticity. An improved understanding of where and how neuronal activity is sensed, in addition to the types of changes in synaptic function that are induced, will be needed both to design future experiments and to understand the consequences of synaptic compensation following injury to the nervous system.
Action potentials in amacrine cells are important for lateral propagation of signals across the inner retina, but it is unclear how many subclasses of amacrine cells contain voltage-gated sodium channels or can fire action potentials. This study investigated the ability of amacrine cells with narrow ( &lt;200 microm) and wide (&gt;200 microm) dendritic fields to fire action potentials in response to depolarizing current injections and light stimulation. The pattern of action potentials evoked by current injections revealed two distinct classes of amacrine cells; those that responded with a single action potential (single-spiking cells) and those that responded with repetitive action potentials (repetitive-spiking cells). Repetitive-spiking cells differed from single-spiking cells in several regards: Repetitive-spiking cells were more often wide field cells, while single-spiking cells were more often narrow field cells. Repetitive-spiking cells had larger action potential amplitudes, larger peak voltage-gated NaV currents lower action potential thresholds, and needed less current to induce action potentials. However, there was no difference in the input resistance, holding current or time constant of these two classes of cells. The intrinsic capacity to fire action potentials was mirrored in responses to light stimulation; single-spiking amacrine cells infrequently fired action potentials to light steps, while repetitive-spiking amacrine cells frequently fired numerous action potentials. These results indicate that there are two physiologically distinct classes of amacrine cells based on the intrinsic capacity to fire action potentials.
Random dot cinematograms were used to probe motion perception in human observers ranging from 23 to 81 years of age. Stimuli were either broadband directional Noise, which produces no experience of global motion flow, or a narrower band directional Signal, which tended to produce experiences of coherent, global direction flow. On each trial, subjects rated their certainty that a Signal had been presented, and used a computer mouse to indicate the direction of perceived global flow. At all ages, sensitivity to motion and accuracy of perceived direction improved significantly as stimulus duration increased from 75 to 470 ms. However, older subjects (&gt;70 years of age) were significantly less sensitive to motion, and were significantly less accurate at identifying the direction of movement. A control experiment, which found that older subjects accurately perceived and remembered the orientation of a line, ruled out the possibility that the observed deficits in motion perception were due to an inability on the part of older subjects to manipulate the computer mouse. Those control results also showed that both younger and older observers maintained robust visual representations over durations ranging from .24 to 6.0s. The motion detection and identification results obtained from subjects less than 70 years of age were well fit by a simple multichannel model of motion, although different levels of additive internal noise were needed to fit detection data and direction-identification data, suggesting that motion direction and identification are constrained by different mechanisms. To fit the data from the oldest subjects, however, the values of model parameters had to be significantly altered, either by increasing the level of additive internal noise substantially, or by a smaller increase in noise coupled with an increase in the bandwidth of the model's directionally selective channels. These results are qualitatively consistent with recent neurophysiological studies showing weaker directional selectivity and higher spontaneous noise in visual neurons of senescent monkeys and cats.
Models of visual motion processing that introduce priors for low speed through Bayesian computations are sometimes treated with scepticism by empirical researchers because of the convenient way in which parameters of the Bayesian priors have been chosen. Using the effects of motion adaptation on motion perception to illustrate, we show that the Bayesian prior, far from being convenient, may be estimated on-line and therefore represents a useful tool by which visual motion processes may be optimized in order to extract the motion signals commonly encountered in every day experience. The prescription for optimization, when combined with system constraints on the transmission of visual information, may lead to an exaggeration of perceptual bias through the process of adaptation. Our approach extends the Bayesian model of visual motion proposed byWeiss et al. [Weiss Y., Simoncelli, E., &amp; Adelson, E. (2002). Motion illusions as optimal perception Nature Neuroscience, 5:598-604.], in suggesting that perceptual bias reflects a compromise taken by a rational system in the face of uncertain signals and system constraints.
Studies of object-based attention (OBA) have suggested that attentional selection is intimately associated with discrete objects. However, the relationship of this association to the basic visual features ('textons') which guide the segregation of visual scenes into 'objects' remains largely unexplored. Here we study this hypothesized relationship for one of the most conspicuous features of early vision: orientation. To do so we examine how attention spreads through uniform (one 'object') orientation-defined textures (ODTs), and across texture-defined boundaries in discontinuous (two 'objects') ODTs. Using the divided-attention paradigm we find that visual events that are known to trigger orientation-based texture segregation, namely perceptual boundaries defined by high orientation and/or curvature gradients, also induce a significant cost on attentional selection. At the same time we show that no effect is incurred by the absolute value of the textons, i.e., by the general direction (or, the 'grain') of the texture-in conflict with previous findings in the OBA literature. Collectively these experiments begin to reveal the link between object-based attention and texton-based segregation, a link which also offers important cross-disciplinary methodological advantages.


In the present study dopamine was measured in the hypothalamus, brainstem, pancreatic islets and plasma, using HPLC. Dopamine D2 receptor changes in the hypothalamus, brainstem and pancreatic islets were studied using [3H] YM-09151-2 in streptozotocin-induced diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic rats. There was a significant decrease in dopamine content in the hypothalamus (P&lt;0.001), brainstem (P&lt;0.001), pancreatic islets (P&lt;0.001) and plasma (P&lt;0.001) in diabetic rats when compared to control. Scatchard analysis of [3H] YM-09151-2 in the hypothalamus of diabetic rats showed a significant decrease in Bmax (P&lt;0.001) and Kd, showing an increased affinity of D2 receptors when compared to control. Insulin treatment did not completely reverse the changes that occurred during diabetes. There was a significant decrease in Bmax (P&lt;0.01) with decreased affinity in the brainstem of diabetic rats. The islet membrane preparation of diabetic rats showed a significant decrease (P&lt;0.001) in the binding of [3H] YM-09151-2 with decreased Kd (P&lt;0.001) compared to control. The increase in affinity of D2 receptors in hypothalamus and pancreatic islets and the decreased affinity in brainstem were confirmed by competition analysis. Thus our results suggest that the decreased dopamine D2 receptor function in the hypothalamus, brainstem and pancreas affects insulin secretion in diabetic rats, which has immense clinical relevance to the management of diabetes.

Many patients with traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) report pain that persists indefinitely and is resistant to available therapeutic approaches. We recently showed that microglia become activated after experimental SCI and dynamically maintain hyperresponsiveness of spinal cord nociceptive neurons and pain-related behaviors. Mechanisms of signaling between microglia and neurons that help to maintain abnormal pain processing are unknown. In this study, adult male Sprague Dawley rats underwent T9 spinal cord contusion injury. Four weeks after injury when lumbar dorsal horn multireceptive neurons became hyperresponsive and when behavioral nociceptive thresholds to mechanical and thermal stimuli were decreased, we tested the hypothesis that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) contributes to signaling between microglia and neurons. Immunohistochemical data showed specific localization of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (pERK1/2), an upstream regulator of PGE2 release, to microglial cells and a neuronal localization of the PGE2 receptor E-prostanoid 2 (EP2). Enzyme immunoassay analysis showed that PGE2 release was dependent on microglial activation and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Pharmacological antagonism of PGE2 release was achieved with the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) inhibitor PD98059 [2-(2-amino-3-methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one] and the microglial inhibitor minocycline. Cyclooxygenase-2 expression in microglia was similarly reduced by MEK1/2 inhibition. PD98059 and EP2 receptor blockade with AH6809 (6-isopropoxy-9-oxoxanthene-2-carboxylic acid) resulted in a decrease in hyperresponsiveness of dorsal horn neurons and partial restoration of behavioral nociceptive thresholds. Selective targeting of dorsal horn microglia with the Mac-1-SAP immunotoxin, a chemical conjugate of mouse monoclonal antibody to CD11b and the ribosome-inactivating protein saporin, resulted in reduced microglia staining, reduction in PGE2 levels, and reversed pain-related behaviors [corrected]. On the basis of these observations, we propose a PGE2-dependent, ERK1/2-regulated microglia-neuron signaling pathway that mediates the microglial component of pain maintenance after injury to the spinal cord.
The identification of neuron types within circuits is fundamental to understanding their relevance to behavior. In the vestibular nuclei, several classes of neurons have been defined in vivo on the basis of their activity during behavior, but it is unclear how those types correspond to neurons identified in slice preparations. By targeting recordings to neurons labeled in transgenic mouse lines, this study reveals that the continuous distribution of intrinsic parameters observed in medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurons can be neatly subdivided into two populations of neurons, one of which is GABAergic and the other of which is exclusively glycinergic or glutamatergic. In slice recordings, GABAergic neurons labeled in the EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein)-expressing inhibitory neuron (GIN) line displayed lower maximum firing rates (&lt;250 Hz) than glycinergic and glutamatergic neurons labeled in the yellow fluorescent protein-16 (YFP-16) line (up to 500 Hz). In contrast to cortical and hippocampal interneurons, GABAergic MVN neurons exhibited wider action potentials than glutamatergic (and glycinergic) neurons. Responses to current injection differed between the neurons labeled in the two lines, with GIN neurons modulating their firing rates over a smaller input range, adapting less during steady depolarization, and exhibiting less rebound firing than YFP-16 neurons. These results provide a scheme for robust classification of unidentified MVN neurons by their physiological properties. Finally, dye labeling in slices shows that both GABAergic and glycinergic neurons project to the contralateral vestibular nuclei, indicating that commissural inhibition is accomplished through at least two processing streams with differential input and output properties.
Speech perception is supported by both acoustic signal decomposition and semantic context. This study, using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, investigated the neural basis of this interaction with two speech manipulations, one acoustic (spectral degradation) and the other cognitive (semantic predictability). High compared with low predictability resulted in the greatest improvement in comprehension at an intermediate level of degradation, and this was associated with increased activity in the left angular gyrus, the medial and left lateral prefrontal cortices, and the posterior cingulate gyrus. Functional connectivity between these regions was also increased, particularly with respect to the left angular gyrus. In contrast, activity in both superior temporal sulci and the left inferior frontal gyrus correlated with the amount of spectral detail in the speech signal, regardless of predictability. These results demonstrate that increasing functional connectivity between high-order cortical areas, remote from the auditory cortex, facilitates speech comprehension when the clarity of speech is reduced.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been reported to play a critical role in modulating plasticity in developing sensory cortices. In the visual cortex, maturation of neuronal circuits involving GABAergic neurons has been shown to trigger a critical period. To date, several classes of GABAergic neurons are known, each of which are thought to play distinct functions. Of these, parvalbumin (PV)-containing, fast-spiking (FS) cells are suggested to be involved in the initiation of the critical period. Here, we report that BDNF plays an essential role in the normal development of PV-FS cells during a plastic period in the barrel cortex. We found that characteristic electrophysiological properties of PV-FS cells, such as low spike adaptation ratio, reduced voltage sags in response to hyperpolarization, started to develop around the second postnatal week and attained adult level in several days. We also found that immunoreactivity against PV was also acquired after the similar developmental time course. Then, using BDNF-/- mice, we found that these electrophysiological as well as chemical properties were underdeveloped or did not appear at all. We conclude BDNF regulates the development of electrophysiological and immunohistochemical characteristics in PV-FS cells. Because BDNF is suggested to regulate the initiation of plasticity, our results strongly indicate that BDNF is involved in the regulation of the critical period by promoting the functional development of PV-FS GABAergic neurons.
The supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) undergo a dramatic function-related plasticity during dehydration. We hypothesize that alterations in steady-state transcript levels might be partially responsible for this remodeling. In turn, regulation of transcript abundance might be mediated by transcription factors. We used microarrays to identify changes in the expression of mRNAs encoding transcription factors in response to water deprivation in the SON. We observed downregulation of 10 and upregulation of 28 transcription factor transcripts. For five of the upregulated mRNAs, namely gonadotropin inducible ovarian transcription factor 1 (Giot1), Giot2, cAMP-responsive element binding protein 3-like 1, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta, and activating transcription factor 4, in situ hybridization was used to confirm the array results, demonstrating a significant increase in expression in SON and PVN magnocellular neurons (MCNs) after 3 d of water deprivation and, in some cases, upregulation in parvocellular PVN neurons. Using a viral vector expressing a potent inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA), we show that the osmotically induced increase in the abundance of transcripts encoding Giot1 is mediated in vivo by the PKA pathway. We thus suggest that signaling pathways activated by dehydration in MCNs mediate transcription factor gene activation, which, in turn, regulate target genes that mediate HNS remodeling.
Axotomized neurons within the damaged CNS are thought to be prevented from functional regeneration by inhibitory molecules such as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and myelin-associated inhibitors. Here, we provide a transgenic test of the role of CSPGs in limiting regeneration, using the gfap promotor to express a CSPG-degrading enzyme chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) in astrocytes. Corticospinal axons extend within the lesion site, but not caudal to it, after dorsal hemisection in the transgenic mice. The presence of the gfap-ChABC transgene yields no significant improvement in motor function recovery in this model. In contrast, functionally significant sensory axon regeneration is observed after dorsal rhizotomy in transgenic mice. These transgenic studies confirm a local efficacy for reduced CSPG to enhance CNS axon growth after traumatic injury. CSPGs appear to function in a spatially distinct role from myelin inhibitors, implying that combination-based therapy will be especially advantageous for CNS injuries.

Numerous studies have shown sex and/or estrous cycle differences in the acoustic startle reflex (ASR) and its prepulse inhibition (PPI) in humans and animals. However, few have examined the effects of hormone manipulations on these behaviors. This study paired gonadectomy (GDX) in adult male rats with testing for ASR and PPI at 2, 4, 9, 16, 23, 30 and 37 days after surgery. Initial studies of control, GDX and GDX rats given testosterone propionate revealed no group differences in PPI, but did reveal phasic facilitation of the ASR in GDX rats that was greatest on the first and final testing sessions and that was attenuated by testosterone. A second study addressing roles for estrogen and androgen signaling tested new control and GDX rats along with GDX rats given estradiol or the non-aromatizable androgen, 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone and revealed no group differences in PPI, and increases in ASR in GDX rats that were largest during the first and final testing sessions and that were attenuated by both hormone replacements. However, while responses in GDX rats given testosterone were similar to those of controls, ASR in estradiol- and to a lesser extent in dihydrotestosterone-treated GDX rats were typically lower than in controls. This may suggest that hormone modulation of the ASR requires synergistic estrogen and androgen actions. In the male brain where this can be achieved by local steroid metabolism, the enzymes responsible, e.g., aromatase, could help identify loci in the startle circuitry that may be especially relevant for the hormone modulation observed.
Throughout the 24-hour day, the occurrence of sleep and wakefulness is closely related to changes in body temperatures. Changes in skin temperature may causally affect the ability to initiate and maintain sleep. First, we briefly summarize a previously proposed neurobiological mechanism that couples skin temperature to sleep propensity. Next we review previous findings on the relation between skin temperature and sleep-onset latency, indicating that sleep propensity can be enhanced by warming the skin to the level that normally occurs prior to--and during--sleep. Finally, we present new data indicating age- and insomnia-related changes in the sleep-onset latency response to foot warming, and evaluate whether different methods of foot warming could provide an applicable strategy to address sleep complaints. Foot temperature manipulations included footbaths before sleep onset (1), and heatable bed socks applied either before (2) or after lights-off (3). In adults, sleep-onset was accelerated by warm and neutral bed socks after lights-off and correlated to the increase in foot temperature. This increase was attenuated in elderly subjects. In elderly subjects without sleep difficulties, sleep onset could be accelerated with neutral bed socks after lights-off and a warm footbath prior to lights-off. In elderly insomniacs, none of the treatments accelerated sleep onset. We illustrate that elderly subjects show an attenuated increase in foot temperature after lights-off and lose the relationship between pre-sleep heat-loss activation and sleep latency. The sensitivity of sleep propensity to foot warming changes with age and is attenuated in age-related insomnia.
We investigated the potential of low-level exposures to the chemical warfare nerve agent, sarin, to produce adverse effects. Rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and African green monkeys (Chlorocebus acthiops) were trained on a serial probe recognition (SPR) task before IM administration of a low-level concentration (5.87 microg/kg or 2.93 microg/kg) of sarin. Blood was sampled before agent administration and at various times following administration. Sarin administration did not disrupt performance on the SPR task in either species. Major dependent measures characterizing performance (accuracy, number of completed trials per session, average choice response time) were largely unaffected on the day sarin was administered as well as on subsequent testing sessions occurring over several weeks following administration. Analyses of red blood cell (RBC) and plasma samples revealed that sarin administration produced a substantial degree of inhibition of circulating acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in RBC fractions and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) in plasma fractions, which only slowly recovered. In this regard, AChE activity was inhibited to a greater extent than BChE activity. Blood samples were also evaluated for regenerated sarin, which was found in RBC and plasma fractions in both species and showed orderly elimination functions. More sarin was regenerated from RBC fractions than from plasma fractions. Elimination of regenerated sarin was much slower in RBC than plasma and exceeded the expected time of AChE aging, suggesting the presence of additional sarin binding sites. In general, effects were similar in both species. Taken together, our results show that while the concentrations of sarin administered were clearly biochemically active, they were below those that are required to produce a disruption of behavioral performance.
Unilateral dopamine depletion in rats induced by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigrostriatal system causes permanent impairments in limb use. The disturbances in limb use, including impairments in skilled reaching, are most severe on the side contralateral to the lesion. A number of studies, however, have also described ipsilateral deficits in skilled reaching. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of sequential bilateral striatal 6-OHDA lesions on skilled reaching movements in rats to compare the contribution of contra- versus ipsilateral motor control. Rats were trained in a reaching task to grasp food pellets with their preferred paw prior to receiving an intrastriatal 6-OHDA injection on the side contralateral to the preferred paw. The lesion significantly reduced reaching success along with qualitative impairments in limb use. In addition, animals displayed asymmetry in limb use and contraversive rotation bias after an apomorphine challenge. Three weeks later, animals received a second lesion induced by intrastriatal 6-OHDA injection into the hemisphere ipsilateral to the preferred paw. This lesion exaggerated the previous impairments in limb use and further reduced reaching success of the preferred paw. In the ladder rung walking task, additional impairments were found only in the forelimb ipsilateral to the first lesion. The findings of additive effects of sequential bilateral lesions suggest that both the contra- and ipsilateral striatum control single limb use. This supports the notion of bilateral control of skilled forelimb use by the mesostriatal dopaminergic system.
An existing attentional-associative model of classical conditioning [Schmajuk N, Lam Y, Gray JA. Latent inhibition: a neural network approach. J Exp Psychol: Anim Behav Process 1996;22:321-49] is applied to the description of reinstatement in animals and humans. According to the model, inhibitory associations between the context (CX) and unconditioned stimulus (US) are formed during extinction, which help preserve the association between the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the US. However, summation and retardation tests fail to reveal these associations because (a) the CX is not attended or (b) a CX-CS configural stimulus formed during extinction is both poorly attended and weakly active during testing. When US presentations and testing occur in the same context, reinstatement is the consequence of a decreased CX inhibition and the increased attention to the CS, which activates the remaining CS-US association. When US presentations occur in the context of extinction but the CS is tested in a different context, reinstatement results from an increased attention to the CS and the combination of CS-CX and CX-US excitatory associations. The assumption that associations between CSs are impaired following neurotoxic hippocampal lesions or in amnesia, is sufficient to describe absence of reinstatement in those cases. However, additional assumptions might be needed to describe the effect of hippocampal lesions on other postextinction manipulations.
Interactions among reproductive season, testosterone (T) and female presence were investigated on the structure and function of forebrain and neuromuscular systems controlling courtship and copulation in the green anole lizard. Under breeding (BS) or non-breeding (NBS) environmental conditions, male green anoles were implanted with either T or blank capsules and exposed to one of three female stimulus conditions: physical, visual or no female contact. T and at least visual exposure to females increased courtship displays (extension of a throat fan, or dewlap), and these effects were greater during the BS than NBS. T also facilitated copulation, and did so to a greater extent in the BS. The hormone increased soma size in the preoptic area (POA) and amygdala (AMY), and in the AMY the effects were greater in the BS than NBS. Cross-sectional areas of copulatory organs and associated muscle fibers were enhanced by T, and more so in the BS than NBS. However, no effects on morphology of dewlap motoneurons or muscles or copulatory motoneurons were detected. Thus, (1) changes in behavior and neural and/or muscular morphology are not always parallel and (2) differences in responsiveness to T exist across seasons and among tissues.
Recent studies suggest running wheel activity to be naturally rewarding and reinforcing; considering the shared neuro-behavioural characteristics with drug-induced reward situations, wheel running behaviour gains interest as a tool to study mechanisms underlying reward-sensitivity. Previously, we showed that wheel running has the potential to disrupt the daily organization of home cage behaviour in female C57BL/6 [de Visser L, van den Bos R, Spruijt BM. Automated home cage observations as a tool to measure the effects of wheel running on cage floor locomotion. Behav Brain Res 2005;160:382-8]. In the present study, we investigated the effects of novelty-induced stress on wheel running and its impact on home cage behaviour in male C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice. Our aim was to determine whether wheel running may be used as a tool to study both genetic and environmentally induced differences in sensitivity to rewarding behaviour in mice. One group of male mice was placed in an automated home cage observation system for 2 weeks with a wheel integrated in the cage. A second group of mice was allowed to habituate to this cage for 1 week before a running wheel was introduced. Results showed a pronounced sensitising effect of novelty on the level of wheel running in C57Bl/6 mice but not in DBA mice. Overall levels of wheel running were higher in DBA/2 mice. Furthermore, wheel running affected circadian rhythmicity in DBA/2 mice but not in C57BL/6 mice. From these findings we tentatively suggest that wheel running behaviour could serve as a tool to study the interaction between genetic and environmental factors in sensitivity to rewarding behaviour in mice. As it is displayed spontaneously and easy to monitor, wheel running may be well suitable to be included in high-throughput phenotyping assays.
Unilateral damage to sensorimotor cortical (SMC) regions can profoundly impair skilled reaching function in the contralesional forelimb. Such damage also results in impairments and compensatory changes in the less-affected/ipsilesional forelimb, but these effects remain poorly understood. Furthermore, anesthetization of the ipsilesional hand in humans with cerebral infarcts has been reported to produce transient functional improvements in the paretic hand [Floel A, Nagorsen U, Werhahn KJ, Ravindran S, Birbaumer N, Knecht S, et al. Influence of somatosensory input on motor function in patients with chronic stroke. Ann Neurol 2004;56:206-12; Voller B, Floel A, Werhahn KJ, Ravindran S, Wu CW, Cohen LG. Contralateral hand anesthesia transiently improves poststroke sensory deficits. Ann Neurol 2006;59:385-8]. One aim of this study was to sensitively assay the bilateral effects of unilateral ischemic SMC damage on performance of a unimanual skilled reaching task (the single pellet retrieval task) that rats had acquired pre-operatively with each forelimb. The second aim was to determine whether partially recovered contralesional reaching function is influenced by anesthetization of the ipsilesional forelimb. Unilateral SMC lesions were found to result in transient ipsilesional impairments in reaching success and significant ipsilesional abnormalities in reaching movements compared with sham-operates. There were major contralesional reaching impairments which improved during a 4 week training period, but movements remained significantly abnormal. Anesthetization of the ipsilesional forelimb with lidocaine at this time attenuated the contralesional movement abnormalities. These findings indicate that unilateral ischemic SMC lesions impair skilled reaching behavior in both forelimbs. Furthermore, after partial recovery in the contralesional forelimb, additional improvements can be induced by transient anesthetization of the ipsilesional forelimb. This is consistent with the effects of unilateral anesthetization in humans which have been attributed to the modulation of competitive interhemispheric interactions. The present findings suggest that such interactions are also likely to influence skilled reaching function in rats.


Unlike those used in the West, a typical Chinese multiplication table includes only smaller-operand-first entries (e.g., 3 x 7=21, but not 7 x 3=21). Due to this unique feature, multiplication for Chinese subjects has been found to show an operand-order effect. The present study aims to investigate the neural bases of the operand-order effect. Subjects were 20 Mainland Chinese subjects who learned as children the half multiplication table (i.e., smaller-operand-first entries only) and 20 Hong Kong and Macao Chinese subjects who learned as children the whole multiplication table (i.e., both smaller- and larger-operand-first entries) under the British and Portuguese educational systems, respectively. ERP data showed that, for those who learned the half table (Mainland Chinese), but not for those who learned the whole table (Hong Kong and Macao Chinese), the larger-operand-first problems elicited greater negative potentials across representative electrodes of the whole scalp, emerging at about 120 ms after the onset of the second operand and lasting until around 750 ms. These results suggest that the particular experience of acquiring multiplication facts had pronounced impact on their representations in the brain.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors mediate the majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain. Recent studies have shown that activation of PKA regulates the membrane trafficking of the AMPA receptor Glu receptor 1 (GluR1) subunit, but the role of direct phosphorylation of GluR1 in regulating receptor redistribution is not clear. Here we show that phosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit on serine 845 by PKA is required for PKA-induced increases in AMPA receptor cell-surface expression because it promotes receptor insertion and decreases receptor endocytosis. Furthermore, dephosphorylation of GluR1 serine 845 triggers NMDA-induced AMPA receptor internalization. These findings strongly suggest that dynamic changes in direct phosphorylation of GluR1 by PKA are crucial in the modulation of AMPA receptor trafficking and synaptic plasticity.
Recent recordings of place field activity in rodent hippocampus have revealed correlates of current, recent past, and imminent future events in spatial memory tasks. To analyze these properties, we used a brain-based device, Darwin XI, that incorporated a detailed model of medial temporal structures shaped by experience-dependent synaptic activity. Darwin XI was tested on a plus maze in which it approached a goal arm from different start arms. In the task, a journey corresponded to the route from a particular starting point to a particular goal. During maze navigation, the device developed place-dependent responses in its simulated hippocampus. Journey-dependent place fields, whose activity differed in different journeys through the same maze arm, were found in the recordings of simulated CA1 neuronal units. We also found an approximately equal number of journey-independent place fields. The journey-dependent responses were either retrospective, where activity was present in the goal arm, or prospective, where activity was present in the start arm. Detailed analysis of network dynamics of the neural simulation during behavior revealed that many different neural pathways could stimulate any single CA1 unit. That analysis also revealed that place activity was driven more by hippocampal and entorhinal cortical influences than by sensory cortical input. Moreover, journey-dependent activity was driven more strongly by hippocampal influence than journey-independent activity.
Physiological studies suggest that decision networks read from the neural representation in the middle temporal area to determine the perceived direction of visual motion, whereas psychophysical studies tend to characterize motion perception in terms of the statistical properties of stimuli. To reconcile these different approaches, we examined whether estimating the central tendency of the physical direction of global motion was a better indicator of perceived direction than algorithms (e.g., maximum likelihood) that read from directionally tuned mechanisms near the end of the motion pathway. The task of human observers was to discriminate the global direction of random dot kinematograms composed of asymmetrical distributions of local directions with distinct measures of central tendency. None of the statistical measures of image direction central tendency provided consistently accurate predictions of perceived global motion direction. However, regardless of the local composition of motion directions, a maximum-likelihood decoder produced global motion estimates commensurate with the psychophysical data. Our results suggest that mechanism-based, read-out algorithms offer a more accurate and robust guide to human motion perception than any stimulus-based, statistical estimate of central tendency.
The atypical antipsychotic drugs (AAPDs) have markedly enhanced the treatment of schizophrenias but their use has been hindered by the major weight gain elicited by some AAPDs. We report that orexigenic AAPDs potently and selectively activate hypothalamic AMP-kinase, an action abolished in mice with deletion of histamine H1 receptors. These findings may afford a means of developing more effective therapeutic agents and provide insight into the hypothalamic regulation of food intake.
HIV infection of the central nervous system can result in neurologic dysfunction with devastating consequences in AIDS patients. NeuroAIDS is characterized by neuronal injury and loss, yet there is no evidence that HIV can infect neurons. Here we show that the HIV-encoded protein tat triggers formation of a macromolecular complex involving the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP), postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) at the neuronal plasma membrane, and that this complex leads to apoptosis in neurons negative as well as positive for NMDA receptors and also in astrocytes. Blockade of LRP-mediated tat uptake, NMDA receptor activation, or neuronal nitric oxide synthase significantly reduces ensuing neuronal apoptosis, suggesting that formation of this complex is an early step in tat toxicity. We also show that the inflammatory chemokine, CCL2, protects against tat toxicity and inhibits formation of the complex. These findings implicate the complex in HIV-induced neuronal apoptosis and suggest therapeutic targets for intervention in the pathogenesis of NeuroAIDS.
G protein-coupled receptors are key regulators of cellular communication, mediating the efficient coordination of a cell's responses to extracellular stimuli. When stimulated these receptors modulate the activity of a wide range of intracellular signalling pathways that facilitate the ordered development, growth and reproduction of the organism. There is now a growing body of evidence examining the mechanisms by which G protein-coupled receptors are able to regulate the expression, activity, localization and stability of cell cycle regulatory proteins that either promote or inhibit the initiation of DNA synthesis. In this review, we will detail the intracellular pathways that mediate the G protein-coupled receptor regulation of cellular proliferation, specifically the progression from the G1 phase to the S phase of the cell cycle.
Chronic unexplained pain poses a major problem in both clinical practice and society. The traditional psychological explanations have recently been supplemented by neurobiological data from functional neuroimaging studies, particularly functional MRI. Sensitization, hypersensitivity of the nervous system for sensory stimuli, is an important element in several theories about the pathophysiology of chronic pain. Functional MRI has yielded evidence for central sensitization in several chronic pain syndromes; such sensitization seems to occur mainly in regions of secondary pain processing, i.e. outside the primary pathways for sensory stimuli. More accurate insight into the underlying cerebral processes opens up possibilities for the diagnosis and treatment of chronic unexplained pain.
Although a mutation (R553H) in the forkhead box (FOX)P2 gene is associated with speech/language disorder, little is known about the function of FOXP2 or its relevance to this disorder. In the present study, we identify the forkhead nuclear localization domains that contribute to the cellular distribution of FOXP2. Nuclear localization of FOXP2 depended on two distally separated nuclear localization signals in the forkhead domain. A truncated version of FOXP2 lacking the leu-zip, Zn2+ finger, and forkhead domains that was observed in another patient with speech abnormalities demonstrated an aggregated cytoplasmic localization. Furthermore, FOXP2 (R553H) mainly exhibited a cytoplasmic localization despite retaining interactions with nuclear transport proteins (importin alpha and beta). Interestingly, wild type FOXP2 promoted the transport of FOXP2 (R553H) into the nucleus. Mutant and wild type FOXP2 heterodimers in the nucleus or FOXP2 R553H in the cytoplasm may underlie the pathogenesis of the autosomal dominant speech/language disorder.
Synapses onto dendritic spines in the lateral amygdala formed by afferents from the auditory thalamus represent a site of plasticity in Pavlovian fear conditioning. Previous work has demonstrated that thalamic afferents synapse onto LA spines expressing glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits, but the GluR subunit distribution at the synapse and within the cytoplasm has not been characterized. Therefore, we performed a quantitative analysis for alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits GluR2 and GluR3 and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits NR1 and NR2B by combining anterograde labeling of thalamo-amygdaloid afferents with postembedding immunoelectron microscopy for the GluRs in adult rats. A high percentage of thalamo-amygdaloid spines was immunoreactive for GluR2 (80%), GluR3 (83%), and NR1 (83%), while a smaller proportion of spines expressed NR2B (59%). To compare across the various subunits, the cytoplasmic to synaptic ratios of GluRs were measured within thalamo-amygdaloid spines. Analyses revealed that the cytoplasmic pool of GluR2 receptors was twice as large compared to the GluR3, NR1, and NR2B subunits. Our data also show that in the adult brain, the NR2B subunit is expressed in the majority of in thalamo-amygdaloid spines and that within these spines, the various GluRs are differentially distributed between synaptic and non-synaptic sites. The prevalence of the NR2B subunit in thalamo-amygdaloid spines provides morphological evidence supporting its role in the fear conditioning circuit while the differential distribution of the GluR subtypes may reflect distinct roles for their involvement in this circuitry and synaptic plasticity.
Although a fronto-parietal network has consistently been implicated in the control of visual spatial attention, the network that guides spatial attention in the auditory domain is not yet clearly understood. To investigate this issue, we measured brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging while participants performed a cued auditory spatial attention task. We found that cued orienting of auditory spatial attention activated a medial-superior distributed fronto-parietal network. In addition, we found cue-triggered increases of activity in the auditory sensory cortex prior to the occurrence of an auditory target, suggesting that auditory attentional control operates in part by biasing processing in sensory cortex in favor of expected target stimuli. Finally, an exploratory cross-study comparison further indicated several common frontal and parietal regions as being involved in the control of both visual and auditory spatial attention. Thus, the present findings not only reveal the network of brain areas underlying endogenous spatial orienting in the auditory modality, but also suggest that the control of spatial attention in different sensory modalities is enabled in part by some common, supramodal neural mechanisms.
Phocein is an intracellular protein highly expressed in neurons. It is the major partner of the striatin family members which are scaffolding proteins involved in signaling and trafficking. Due to its association with dynamin via direct interactions with nucleotide diphosphate kinase (NDPK) and EPS15, phocein has been implicated in vesicular trafficking, acting in particular in the endocytic process. This review focuses on immuno-cytochemical studies showing the strict localization of phocein in Purkinje cell dendritic spines involved in excitatory transmission in the cerebellum of postnatal and adult rodents. Immunogold labeling sometimes detects phocein in close vicinity with endocytic-like membrane profiles suggesting that phocein plays a role in endocytosis. Furthermore, co-localization of phocein and SG2NA within spines suggests that their interactions have a functional significance in the molecular cascades that underly membrane trafficking in post-synaptic structures. As the striatin family members are highly concentrated in dendritic spines, their interactions with phocein might be involved in mediating synaptic plasticity through spine remodeling by endocytosis.
Because a limited study previously showed that alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn), the major pathogenic protein for Parkinson disease, was expressed in differentiating brain tumors as well as various peripheral cancers, the main objective of the present study was to determine whether alpha-syn might be involved in the regulation of tumor differentiation. For this purpose, alpha-syn and its non-amyloidogenic homologue beta-syn were stably transfected to human osteosarcoma MG63 cell line. Compared with beta-syn-overexpressing and vector-transfected cells, alpha-syn-overexpressing cells exhibited distinct features of differentiated osteoblastic phenotype, as shown by up-regulation of alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin as well as inductive matrix mineralization. Further studies revealed that proteasome activity was significantly decreased in alpha-syn-overexpressing cells compared with other cell types, consistent with the fact that proteasome inhibitors stimulate differentiation of various osteoblastic cells. In alpha-syn-overexpressing cells, protein kinase C (PKC) activity was significantly decreased, and reactivation of PKC by phorbol ester significantly restored the proteasome activity and abrogated cellular differentiation. Moreover, activity of lysosome was up-regulated in alpha-syn-overexpressing cells, and treatment of these cells with autophagy-lysosomal inhibitors resulted in a decrease of proteasome activity associated with up-regulation of alpha-syn expression, leading to enhance cellular differentiation. Taken together, these results suggest that the stimulatory effect of alpha-syn on tumor differentiation may be attributed to down-regulation of proteasome, which is further modulated by alterations of various factors, such as protein kinase C signaling pathway and a autophagy-lysosomal degradation system. Thus, the mechanism of alpha-syn regulation of tumor differentiation and neuropathological effects of alpha-syn may considerably overlap with each other.
This work examined the colocalization, trafficking, and interactions of key proteins involved in lipolysis during brief cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) activation. Double label immunofluorescence analysis of 3T3-L1 adipocytes indicated that PKA activation increases the translocation of hormonesensitive lipase (HSL) to perilipin A (Plin)-containing droplets and increases the colocalization of adipose tissue triglyceride lipase (Atgl) with its coactivator, Abhd5. Imaging of live 3T3-L1 preadipocytes transfected with Aquorea victoria-based fluorescent reporters demonstrated that HSL rapidly and specifically translocates to lipid droplets (LDs) containing Plin, and that this translocation is partially dependent on Plin phosphorylation. HSL closely, if not directly, interacts with Plin, as indicated by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments. In contrast, tagged Atgl did not support FRET or BiFC with Plin, although it did modestly translocate to LDs upon stimulation. Abhd5 strongly interacted with Plin in the basal state, as indicated by FRET and BiFC. PKA activation rapidly (within minutes) decreased FRET between Abhd5 and Plin, and this decrease depended upon Plin phosphorylation. Together, these results indicate that Plin mediates hormone-stimulated lipolysis via direct and indirect mechanisms. Plin indirectly controls Atgl activity by regulating accessibility to its coactivator, Abhd5. In contrast, Plin directly regulates the access of HSL to substrate via close, if not direct, interactions. The differential interactions of HSL and Atgl with Plin and Abhd5 also explain the findings that following stimulation, HSL and Atgl are differentially enriched at specific LDs.
Kallikrein type serine proteases, KLK8/neuropsin, KLK6, and KLK7, have been implicated in the proliferation and differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes and in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. However, their mechanistic roles in these processes remain largely unknown. We applied 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate on the wild type (WT) and the Klk8 gene-disrupted (Klk8(-/-)) mouse skin, inducing keratinocyte proliferation similar to the human psoriatic lesion. Klk8 mRNA as well as Klk6 and Klk7 mRNA were up-regulated after 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate application in the WT mice. In contrast, Klk8(-/-) mice showed minimum increases of Klk6 and Klk7 transcripts, the proteins, and enzymatic activities. Relative to the WT, the Klk8(-/-) skin showed less proliferation and an increase in the number of cell layers in the stratum corneum. However, overexpression of Klk8 by adenovirus vector in knock-out keratinocytes did not result in an increase in Klk6 or Klk7 mRNA. The inefficient cleavage of adhesion molecules DSG1 and CDSN in Klk8(-/-) skin contributes to a delay in corneocyte shedding, resulting in the hyperkeratosis phenotype. We propose that in psoriatic lesion, KLK8 modulates hyperproliferation and prevents excessive hyperkeratosis by shedding the corneocytes.
While altered activities in sensory neurons were noticed in neuropathic pain, caused by highly diverse insults to the peripheral nervous system, such as diabetes, alcohol ingestion, cancer chemotherapy and drugs used to treat AIDS, other infections and autoimmune diseases, as well as trauma, our understanding of how these various peripheral neuropathies manifest as altered neuronal activity is still rudimentary. The recent development of models of several of those neuropathies has, however, now made it possible to address their impact on primary afferent nociceptor function. We compared changes in mechanically-evoked C-fiber activity, in models of painful peripheral neuropathy induced by drinking ethanol (alcohol) or administering 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for AIDS therapy, two co-morbid conditions in which pain is thought to be mediated by different second messenger signaling pathways. In C-fiber afferents, ddC decreased conduction velocity. In contrast, alcohol but not ddC caused enhanced response to mechanical stimulation (i.e., decrease in threshold and increase in response to sustained threshold and supra-threshold stimulation) and changes in pattern of evoked activity (interspike interval and action potential variability analyses). These marked differences in primary afferent nociceptor function, in two different forms of neuropathy that produce mechanical hyperalgesia of similar magnitude, suggest that optimal treatment of neuropathic pain may differ depending on the nature of the causative insult to the peripheral nervous system, and emphasize the value of studying co-morbid conditions that produce painful peripheral neuropathy by different mechanisms.

Calcineurin (PP2B) is a Ca(2+)-dependent protein phosphatase enriched in the brain that takes part in intracellular signaling pathways regulating synaptic plasticity and neuronal functions. Calcineurin-dependent pathways are important for complex brain functions such as learning and memory. More recently, they have been suggested to play a role in the processing of emotional information. The aim of this study was to investigate whether calcineurin may be involved in the effect of antidepressants. We first found that chronic antidepressant treatment in mice leads to an increase of calcineurin levels in the hippocampus. We then studied the behavioral and molecular responses to fluoxetine of mice with a genetic overactivation of calcineurin in the hippocampus (constitutively-activated calcineurin transgenic mouse line #98, CN98 mice). We observed that CN98 mice are more sensitive to the behavioral effect of fluoxetine and desipramine tested in the tail suspension test. Moreover, the basal expression of growth factor brain-derived neurotrophic factor and subunit 1 of AMPA glutamate receptor, GluR1, both of which are modified after chronic antidepressant administration, are altered in the hippocampus of CN98 mice. These results suggest that calcineurin-dependent dephosphorylation plays an important role in the mechanisms of action of antidepressants, providing a new starting point for developing improved therapeutic treatments for depression.
Persistent herpes zoster-associated pain is a significant clinical problem and an area of largely unmet therapeutic need. Progress in elucidating the underlying pathophysiology of zoster-associated pain and related co-morbidity behavior, in addition to appropriately targeted drug development has been hindered by the lack of an appropriate animal model. This study further characterizes a recently developed rat model of zoster-associated hypersensitivity and investigates (a) response to different viral strains; (b) relationship between viral inoculum concentration ('dose') and mechanical hypersensitivity ('response'); (c) attenuation of virus-associated mechanical hypersensitivity by clinically useful analgesic drugs; and (d) measurement of pain co-morbidity (anxiety-like behavior) and pharmacological intervention in the open field paradigm (in parallel with models of traumatic peripheral nerve injury). Varicella zoster virus was propagated on fibroblast cells before s.c. injection into the glabrous footpad of the left hind limb of adult male Wistar rats. Control animals received injection of uninfected fibroblast cells. Hind-limb reflex withdrawal thresholds to mechanical, noxious thermal and cooling stimuli were recorded at specified intervals post-infection. Infection with all viral strains was associated with a dose-dependent mechanical hypersensitivity but not a thermal or cool hypersensitivity. Systemic treatment with i.p. morphine (2.5 mg/kg), amitriptyline (10 mg/kg), gabapentin (30 mg/kg), (S)-(+)-ibuprofen (20 mg/kg) and the cannabinoid WIN55,212-2 (2 mg/kg) but not the antiviral, acyclovir (50 mg/kg), was associated with a reversal of mechanical paw withdrawal thresholds. In the open field paradigm, virus-infected and nerve-injured animals demonstrated an anxiety-like pattern of ambulation (reduced entry into the central area of the open arena) which was positively correlated with mechanical hypersensitivity. This may reflect pain-related co-morbidity. Further, anxiety-like behavior was attenuated by acute i.p. administration of gabapentin (30 mg/kg) in nerve-injured, but not virus-infected animals. This model will prove useful in elucidating the pathophysiology of zoster-associated pain and provide a tool for pre-clinical screening of analgesic drugs.
We investigated intermediary metabolism using (13)C-glucose and (13)C-acetate tracers followed by (13)C-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) isotopomer analysis in rat hippocampal slice preparations, the most widely used preparation for electrophysiological studies. Slices displayed a stable metabolic activity over a wide range of superfusion periods in the absence or presence of 50 muM 4-aminopyridine (4AP), which triggers an intermittent burst-like neuronal firing. This caused an increase of tricarboxylic acid (TCA)-related amino acids (glutamate, aspartate and GABA) and shortened the time required to reach metabolic and isotopic steady state (3 h in the presence of 4AP and 7 h in its absence). (13)C-NMR isotopomer analysis revealed an increase in TCA flux in astrocytes and in GABA compartments greater than in putative glutamatergic neurons and the fitting of these data further indicated that the metabolic network in GABAergic and glutamatergic compartments has a different design and reacts differently to the stimulation by the presence of 4AP. These results show that (13)C-isotopomer analysis allows estimating metabolic parameters/fluxes under both steady- and non-steady-state metabolic conditions in hippocampal slices, opening the possibility of combining electrophysiological and metabolic studies in the same preparation.
Our goal in the current report was to design a new functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) task to probe the role of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in processing of salient symptom-related cues during the simultaneous performance of an unrelated task in drug-addicted persons. We used a novel fMRI color-word drug Stroop task in 14 individuals with cocaine use disorders; subjects had to press for color of drug vs. matched neutral words. Although there were no accuracy or speed differences between the drug and neutral conditions in the current sample of subjects, drug words were more negatively valenced than the matched neutral words. Further, consistent with prior reports in individuals with other psychopathologies using different Stroop fMRI paradigms, our more classical color-word Stroop design revealed bilateral activations in the caudal-dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (cdACC) and hypoactivations in the rostro-ventral anterior cingulate cortex/medial orbitofrontal cortex (rACC/mOFC). A trend for larger rACC/mOFC hypoactivations to the drug than neutral words did not survive whole-brain corrections. Nevertheless, correlation analyses indicated that (1) the more the cdACC drug-related activation, the more negative the valence attributed to the drug words (r=-0.86, P&lt;0.0001) but not neutral words; and (2) the more the rACC/mOFC hypoactivation to drug minus neutral words, the more the errors committed specifically to the drug minus neutral words (r=0.85, P&lt;0.0001). Taken together, results suggest that this newly developed drug Stroop fMRI task may be a sensitive biobehavioral assay of the functions recruited for the regulation of responses to salient symptom-related stimuli in drug-addicted individuals.
We have combined anatomical and functional methodologies to provide a comprehensive analysis of the properties of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) on developing dopamine (DA) neurons of Sprague-Dawley rats. Double-labeling in situ hybridization was used to examine the expression of nAChR subunit mRNAs within developing midbrain DA neurons. As brain maturation progressed there was a change in the pattern of subunit mRNA expression within DA neurons, such that alpha3 and alpha4 subunits declined and alpha6 mRNA increased. Although there were strong similarities in subunit mRNA expression in substantia nigra (SNc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA), there was higher expression of alpha4 mRNA in SNc than VTA at gestational day (G) 15, and of alpha5, alpha6 and beta3 mRNAs during postnatal development. Using a superfusion neurotransmitter release paradigm to functionally characterize nicotine-stimulated release of [(3)H]DA from striatal slices, the properties of the nAChRs on DA terminals were also found to change with age. Functional nAChRs were detected on striatal terminals at G18. There was a decrease in maximal release in the first postnatal week, followed by an increase in nicotine efficacy and potency during the second and third postnatal weeks. In the transition from adolescence (postnatal days (P) 30 and 40) to adulthood, there was a complex pattern of functional maturation of nAChRs in ventral, but not dorsal, striatum. In males, but not females, there were significant changes in both nicotine potency and efficacy during this developmental period. These findings suggest that nAChRs may play critical functional roles throughout DA neuronal maturation.
Neurotrophic factors, including basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are known to be affected by exposure to stressful experiences. Here, we examine the effects of behaviorally controllable (escapable tailshock, ES) or uncontrollable (inescapable tailshock, IS) stress on the expression of FGF-2 and BDNF mRNA in subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the hippocampal formation (HF) of male Sprague-Dawley rats. ES rats were placed in Plexiglas boxes equipped with a free spinning wheel and IS rats were placed in identical boxes with the wheels fixed. ES and IS rats were yoked such that they received the same tailshocks, but the ES rat could terminate each shock for both rats. No stress controls (NS) remained in their home cages. Rats were killed 0, 2, 24, or 72 h after termination of the stress session. In situ hybridization was performed to measure FGF-2 and BDNF mRNA in the mPFC and HF. In the mPFC, ES produced a significant increase in FGF-2 mRNA expression at 0 and 2 h post-stress. In the HF, ES produced a greater increase in FGF-2 mRNA expression than IS and NS only in CA2. ES also produced an increase in BDNF mRNA expression in the anterior cingulate at 0 h post-stress. No effects of stressor controllability on BDNF were observed in the HF, although both ES and IS decreased BDNF mRNA in the DG. FGF-2 in the mPFC may be involved in emotional regulation (&quot;coping&quot;) during stressful experiences.
Endomorphins 1 and 2 are newly discovered opioid tetrapeptides whose structure is more resistant to enzymatic degradation than that of other opioid peptides. Endomorphins 1 and 2 are considered as endogenous ligands with a high affinity for mu receptors. A number of studies have shown that opioid peptides per se can induce release of nitric oxide from rodent and human immune cells. Endomorphins seemed to be involved in the process of vasodilatation by stimulating release of nitric oxide. In our study we stimulated in vitro J774 macrophages with different concentrations of endomorphin 1 or 2 for measuring nitric oxide release and nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS 2) mRNA expression. Results showed that 48 h incubation did not enhance nitric oxide release when measured with the Griess method. On the other hand, using real-time amperometric detection of nitric oxide release shortly after challenge with endomorphins, we showed that only 10(-6) M endomorphin 1 was able to stimulate nitric oxide release from a J774 macrophage cell line by activation of NOS 2 isoenzyme. The peak release was 1000-1500 s after stimulation and was in the range of nitric oxide release stimulated with 10 microg/ml lipopolysaccharide. In contrast to this, endomorphin 2 failed to induce nitric oxide release in all tested concentrations. Using a specific inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase 2 (N-(3-[aminomethyl]benzyl)acetamidine, 1400W) we eliminated the stimulatory effect of endomorphin 1 on nitric oxide release. The expression of mRNA for NOS 2 in J774 macrophages, after 30 min incubation with either lipopolysaccharide or 10(-6) M endomorphin 1 was not upregulated. As expected, lipopolysaccharide induced de novo NOS 2 transcription within 4 h. At the same time, in contrast to lipopolysaccharide, mRNA expression of cells treated with endomorphin 1 was downregulated. Since a mu-opioid receptor specific antagonist beta-funaltrexamine hydrochloride inhibited nitric oxide release from endomorphin 1-treated cells, the effect seemed to be mu-opioid receptor mediated.
Neurokinin-3 (NK(3)) receptors are prevalent within the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA), where their activation can affect motor and motivational behaviors as well as cardiovascular function and stress responses. These actions are mediated, in part, by dopaminergic neurons in each region. To determine the relevant sites for activation of these receptors, we examined the electron microscopic localization of NK(3) receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme in dopaminergic neurons in the SN and VTA of rat brain. In each region, immunogold-silver labeling for NK(3) receptors was detected in many somatodendritic profiles, some of which contained TH-immunoreactivity. NK(3)-immunogold particles were largely associated with endomembranes resembling smooth endoplasmic reticulum, and only occasionally located on the plasma membrane in TH-labeled dendrites. In comparison with these dendrites, non-TH immunoreactive dendrites contained significantly more total (VTA) and more plasmalemmal (VTA and SN) NK(3)-immunogold particles. In each region, NK(3) gold particles also were seen in axonal as well as glial profiles, some of which contacted TH-immunoreactive dendrites. The NK(3)-labeled axon terminals formed either symmetric or asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses, the latter of which were significantly more prevalent in the VTA, compared with SN. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence indicating that NK(3) receptors are available in cytoplasmic reserve in dopaminergic neurons, but more immediately accessible at the plasmalemmal surface of non-dopaminergic dendrites in both the SN and VTA. The activation of these receptors, together with the NK(3) receptors in either the presynaptic axon terminals or glia may contribute to the diverse physiological effects of tachykinins in each region, and most prominently involving excitatory inputs to the VTA.
The semaphorin family of guidance molecules plays a role in many aspects of neural development, and more recently semaphorins have been implicated to contribute to the failure of injured CNS neurons to regenerate. While semaphorin expression patterns after neural injury are partially understood, little is known about the expression of their signal transducing transmembrane receptors, the plexins. Therefore, in this study, we compared the expression patterns of all class A plexins (Plxn-A1, A2, A3, A4) in mouse CNS (rubrospinal) and peripheral nervous system (PNS)-projecting (facial) motoneurons for up to two weeks following axonal injury. Using in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis, in rubrospinal neurons, Plxn-A1 mRNA and protein and Plxn-A4 expression did not change as a result of injury while Plxn-A2 mRNA increased and Plxn-A3 mRNA was undetectable. In facial motoneurons, Plxn-A1, -A3 and -A4 mRNA expression increased, Plxn-A2 mRNA decreased while Plxn-A1 protein expression did not change following injury. We demonstrate that with the exception of the absence of Plxn-A3 mRNA in rubrospinal neurons, both injured rubrospinal (CNS) and facial (PNS) neurons maintain expression of all plexin A family members tested. Hence, there are distinct expression patterns of the individual plexin-A family members suggesting that regenerating rubrospinal and facial motoneurons have a differential ability to transduce semaphorin signals.
Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-modulated (HCN) channels contribute to rhythmic spontaneous activity in the heart and CNS. Ectopic spontaneous neuronal activity has been implicated in the development and maintenance of acute and chronic hyperalgesia, allodynia and spontaneous pain. Previously, we documented that systemic administration of ZD7288, a specific blocker of pacemaker current (I(h)), decreased ectopic activity in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and reversed tactile allodynia in spinal nerve ligated (SNL) rats [Chaplan SR, Guo HQ, Lee DH, Luo L, Liu C, Kuei C, Velumian AA, Butler MP, Brown SM, Dubin AE (2003) Neuronal hyperpolarization-activated pacemaker channels drive neuropathic pain. J Neurosci 23:1169-1178]. Spontaneous pain is the chief clinical manifestation of peripheral nerve injury; however, a role for I(h) in spontaneous pain has not been described. Here, in further rat studies, we report that systemic administration of ZD7288 reversed spontaneous pain induced by mild thermal injury (MTI) and tactile allodynia induced by SNL and MTI. In contrast, ZD7288 did not reduce thermal hyperalgesia. An important locus of action appears to be in the skin since intraplantar (local) administration of ZD7288 completely suppressed tactile allodynia arising from MTI and SNL and reduced spontaneous pain due to MTI. Immunohistochemical staining of plantar skin sections detected HCN1-HCN4 expression in mechanosensory structures (e.g., Meissner's corpuscles and Merkel cells). Collectively, these data suggest that expression and modulation of I(h) in the peripheral nervous system, including specialized sensory structures, may play a significant role in sensory processing and contribute to spontaneous pain and tactile allodynia.
Echinoderm microtubule-associated protein (EMAP) is the major microtubule binding protein in dividing sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus) eggs. Echinoderm microtubule-associated protein like protein 4 (Eml4, restrictedly overexpressed proliferation-associated protein 120 kDa (Ropp120)) is one of the five mammalian EMAP homologues, the cellular function of which remains to be elucidated. In our first set of experiments we determined the spatio-temporal expression pattern of Eml4 in mouse brain. Our results demonstrate that Eml4 is a highly developmentally regulated gene with high expression levels in the developing nervous system of E11 embryos declining to low levels in adult. Spatially, Eml4 expression becomes restricted to the olfactory bulb, hippocampus and cerebellum. Transient transfection of a fusion construct of full-length mouse Eml4 with green fluorescent protein (GFP-Eml4) into Cos7 and HeLa cells resulted in colocalization of GFP-Eml4 with microtubules. This colocalization was observed both with microtubules of non-dividing cells and with the mitotic spindle of dividing cells. In addition, transient overexpression of GFP-Eml4 in Cos7 cells resulted in microtubules that were resistant to nocodazole treatment suggesting that Eml4 stabilizes microtubules. A consequence of microtubule stabilization is a net reduction in the amount of free tubulin. Microtubule stabilizing proteins therefore are expected to indirectly decrease the microtubule growth rate. Indeed, transient transfection of GFP-Eml4 resulted in a marked decrease in the microtubule growth rate, which is in line with our hypothesis that Eml4 functions as a microtubule stabilizing protein. In summary, our results suggest that Eml4 is a developmentally regulated protein that colocalizes with and stabilizes microtubules.
The subventricular zone along the anterior horn (SVZa) of the cerebral lateral ventricle of adult mammals contains multipotent progenitor cells, which supposedly exist in an angiogenic niche. Numerous signals are known to modulate the precursor cell proliferation, migration or differentiation, in rodent models. In contrast, the data on signals regulating the primate SVZa precursors in vivo are scarce. We analyzed the expression at protein level of a panel of angiogenic and/or neurotrophic factors and their receptors in SVZa of adult macaque monkeys, under normal condition or after transient global ischemia which enhances endogenous progenitor cell proliferation. We found that fms-like tyrosine kinase 1 (Flt1), a receptor for vascular endothelial cell growth factor, was expressed by over 30% of the proliferating progenitors, and the number of Flt1-positive precursors was significantly increased by the ischemic insult. Smaller fractions of mitotic progenitors were positive for the neurotrophin receptor tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) B or the hematopoietic receptor Kit, while immature neurons expressed Flt1 and the neurotrophin receptor TrkA. Further, SVZa astroglia, ependymal cells and blood vessels were positive for distinctive sets of ligands/receptors, which we characterized. The presented data provide a molecular phenotypic analysis of cell types comprising adult monkey SVZa, and suggest that a complex network of angiogenic/neurotrophic signals operating in an autocrine or paracrine manner may regulate SVZa neurogenesis in the adult primate brain.
One important complication of diabetes is damage to the peripheral nervous system. However, in spite of the number of studies on human and experimental diabetic neuropathy, the current therapeutic arsenal is meagre. Consequently, the search for substances to protect the nervous system from the degenerative effects of diabetes has high priority in biomedical research. Neuroactive steroids might be interesting since they have been recently identified as promising neuroprotective agents in several models of neurodegeneration. We have assessed whether chronic treatment with progesterone (P), dihydroprogesterone (DHP) or tetrahydroprogesterone (THP) had neuroprotective effects against streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy at the neurophysiological, functional, biochemical and neuropathological levels. Using gas chromatography coupled to mass-spectrometry, we found that three months of diabetes markedly lowered P plasma levels in male rats, and chronic treatment with P restored them, with protective effects on peripheral nerves. In the model of STZ-induced of diabetic neuropathy, chronic treatment for 1 month with P, or with its derivatives, DHP and THP, counteracted the impairment of nerve conduction velocity (NCV) and thermal threshold, restored skin innervation density, and improved Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity and mRNA levels of myelin proteins, such as glycoprotein zero and peripheral myelin protein 22, suggesting that these neuroactive steroids, might be useful protective agents in diabetic neuropathy. Interestingly, different receptors seem to be involved in these effects. Thus, while the expression of myelin proteins and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity are only stimulated by P and DHP (i.e. two neuroactive steroids interacting with P receptor, PR), NCV, thermal nociceptive threshold and intra-epidermal nerve fiber (IENF) density are also affected by THP, which interacts with GABA-A receptor. Because, a therapeutic approach with specific synthetic receptor ligands could avoid the typical side effects of steroids, future experiments will be devoted to evaluating the role of PR and GABA-A receptor in these protective effects.
We have previously described a black-hooded mutant rat (BH.7A/Ztm-ci3/ci3) that displays abnormal lateralized circling behavior, but normal auditory and vestibular functions. Neurochemical determination of dopamine and dopamine metabolite levels in striatum, nucleus accumbens and substantia nigra showed that ci3 rats have a significant asymmetry in striatal dopamine in that dopamine levels were significantly lower in the hemisphere contralateral to the preferred direction of turning. Consistent with this finding, immunohistological examination of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area yielded a significant laterality in the medial part of substantia nigra pars compacta with a lower density of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the contralateral hemisphere of mutant circling rats, while no laterality was seen in unaffected rats of the background strain. In the present study, quantitative autoradiography was used to examine the binding of [(3)H]SCH 23390, [(3)H]raclopride and [(3)H]7-OH-DPAT (7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin) to dopamine D1, D2, and D3 receptors, respectively, in various brain regions of ci3 rats and unaffected rats of the background strain (BH.7A(LEW)/Won). No significant differences between circling rats and controls were obtained for D1 and D2 receptor binding in any region, but mutant rats differed from controls in dopamine D3 binding in several regions. A significant decrease in D3 binding was seen in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, the islands of Calleja, and the subependymal zone of ci3 mutant rats. Furthermore, a significant laterality in D3 binding was determined in ci3 rats in that binding was lower in the contralateral hemisphere in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and the islands of Calleja. Our data indicate that alterations of dopamine D3 receptors may be involved in the behavioral phenotype of the ci3 rat, thus substantiating the findings from a recent genetic linkage analysis that indicated the D3 receptor gene as a candidate gene in this rat mutant.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) modifies glial activation and the CNS inflammatory response in an isoform-specific manner. Peptides derived from the receptor-binding region of apoE have been demonstrated to maintain the functional activity of the intact protein, and to improve histological and functional deficits after closed head injury. In the current study, APOE2, APOE3, and APOE4 targeted replacement (TR) mice expressing the human apoE protein isoforms (apoE2, apoE3 and apoE4) were used in a clinically relevant model of closed head injury to assess the interaction between the humanized apoE background and the therapeutic apoE mimetic peptide, apoE(133-149). Treatment with the apoE-mimetic peptide reduced microglial activation and early inflammatory events in all of the targeted replacement animals and was associated with histological and functional improvement in the APOE2TR and APOE3TR animals. Similarly, brain beta amyloid protein (Abeta)(1-42) levels were increased as a function of head injury in all of the targeted replacement mice, while treatment with apoE peptide suppressed Abeta(1-42) levels in the APOE2TR and APOE3TR animals. These results suggest a pharmacogenomic interaction between the therapeutic effects of the apoE mimetic peptide and the human apoE protein isoforms. Furthermore, they suggest that administration of apoE-mimetic peptides may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of acute and chronic neurological disease.
Many studies have now demonstrated that neurons in the visual cortex of cats and monkeys change their activity when stimuli are presented beyond their classical receptive field, and that these responses are not readily apparent from their receptive field properties. However few studies have been conducted to investigate the discharge properties of neurons in the visual cortex of animals when they are allow to freely view natural images. We employ tetrodes, which enable simultaneous and separable recordings of small numbers of neighboring neurons, to record 102 single units from 59 sites from areas 17 and 18 of two alert cats. While the animals viewed either natural images or black screens, they made frequent saccadic eye movements and gaze fixations. Fixations onto an image's location increased neuronal firing peaking at 80-100 ms after the fixation onset, to then decrease steadily with time despite continuous fixation. Saccades trigger a fast decrease in firing rate for both images and darkness. When we examined the incidence of correlated firing, we observed significant synchrony during the initial phases of visual fixations when the animals viewed natural scenes. Such synchrony was absent during saccadic eye movements and during eye movements in darkness. Our data revealed that scanning of natural scenes is associated with a rapid succession of distinct fixation-related activation patterns that included transient rate changes and excess coincident firing. The transient nature of these synchronization phenomena suggests a fast acting mechanism, which is in good agreement with the evidence that basic operations of scene analysis must be accomplished within a few tens of milliseconds in primary visual cortex.
Recent in vitro studies have found that astrocytes exert powerful control over the number of neuronal synapses, leading us to consider why glia can exert this control and what the underlying mechanism(s) may be. To understand the potential possibility, we studied the formation of synapses and synaptic function in primary rat cortical neurons. We found that primary cultured neonatal rat cortical astrocytes modulate synaptogenesis and synaptic function through producing and secreting estradiol into culture medium. The concentration of estradiol produced by pure cultured astrocytes increased in correspondence with the days of culture and the number of proliferating astrocytes, which peaked at 266+/-22 ng/l around day 14 of culture. When astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) was added into pure cultured cortical neurons, the number of synapses formed between cortical neurons increased by nearly sixfold. The mean frequency and the amplitude of mini-postsynaptic currents (mPSCs) increased from 13+/-4 events/min and 20.5+/-2 pA to 73+/-16 events/min and 29.1+/-3 pA, respectively. In the meantime, the level of estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) expressed on neonatal rat cortical neurons was significantly up-regulated. Moreover, the effect of ACM on synaptic formation and transmission was blocked by tamoxifen (estrogen receptor antagonist) in culture. After the treatment of tamoxifen, the number of synapses on neurons decreased from 79+/-9 to 32+/-3. The mean amplitude and frequency of mPSCs were also dropped to 24.5+/-2 pA and 35+/-10/min, respectively. Unexpectedly, exogenic estradiol can mimic the effect of ACM on synaptic formation and transmission. Finally, to understand whether astrocyte-derived estradiol regulates the synaptic transmission via presynapse, the release of presynaptic vesicle from neuron was monitored by FM 4-64 assay. The results showed that when ACM or exogenic estradiol was added into neurons, the kinetics of vesicle release speed are similar to that of neuronal cultured with astrocytes, which were faster than that of just pure neuronal cultures. These observations suggest that estrogen synthesized and secreted by astrocytes can regulate synapse formation and synaptic transmission.
Cigarette smoking is significantly more prevalent in individuals with schizophrenia than in non-affected populations. Certain neurocognitive deficits and disruptions common in schizophrenia may be altered by smoking, leading to the hypothesis that schizophrenics engage in smoking behavior to alleviate specific neurocognitive symptoms of the disorder. Additionally, research suggests that individuals with schizophrenia have altered auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) and abnormalities in evoked gamma oscillations which are both indices of sensory information processing. This study was conducted to examine the effect of acute administration of nicotine and the non-specific nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine on the P20 and N40 components of the ERP and evoked gamma oscillations in mice. Acute nicotine (1 mg/kg) significantly increased P20 amplitude, an effect that was blocked by pretreatment with mecamylamine (2 mg/kg). Additionally, acute nicotine increased the normal burst of evoked gamma following an auditory stimulus. The increase in evoked gamma was also blocked by mecamylamine pretreatment. Although acute nicotine decreased amplitude of the N40 component, this decrease was not attenuated by mecamylamine. These results replicate findings that nicotine may enhance early sensory information processing through the nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptor system in an established model (ERPs) and extend these findings in an emerging, novel model (evoked gamma oscillations) of sensory information processing. The results also support the hypothesis that nicotine may be beneficial to individuals with deficits in neurocognitive functions, such as those suffering from schizophrenia.
Previous studies have demonstrated that opioid receptors in the prefrontal ventrolateral orbital cortex (VLO) are involved in anti-nociception. The aim of this current study was to examine whether opioid receptors in the VLO have effects on the hypersensitivity induced by contralateral L5 and L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL), termed as mirror neuropathic pain (MNP) in the male rat. Morphine (1.0, 2.5, 5.0 microg) microinjected into the VLO contralateral to the SNL depressed the mechanical paw withdrawal assessed by von Frey filaments and the cold plate (4 degrees C)-induced paw lifting in a dose-dependent manner on the side without SNL. These effects were antagonized by microinjection of the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1.0 mug) into the same VLO site. Microinjection of endomorphin-1 (5.0 microg), a highly selective mu-opioid receptor agonist, and [d-Ala(2), d-Leu(5)]-enkephalin (DADLE, 10 microg), a delta-/mu-receptor agonist, also depressed the MNP. The effects of both drugs were blocked by selective mu-receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA, 3.75 microg), but the effect of the DADLE was not influenced by the selective delta-receptor antagonist naltrindole (5.0 microg). Microinjection of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist spiradoline mesylate salt (U-62066) (100 microg) had no effect on the MNP. These results suggest that the VLO is involved in opioid-induced inhibition of the MNP and the effect is mediated by mu- (but not delta- and kappa-) opioid receptors.
The involvement of cholinergic transmission in heroin self-administration and the reinstatement of heroin-seeking was examined in rats trained to nose-poke for i.v. heroin. Systemic treatment with physostigmine, an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase, modestly reduced the acquisition and rate of heroin self-administration, and this suppression of heroin intake was reversed by pretreatment with scopolamine but not by mecamylamine. Following 10-14 days of self-administration, rats were left in the home environment for 14 days. Subsequently, rats were evaluated for extinction of nose-pokes during the first hour after being returned to the self-administration apparatus. One hour later a conditioned stimulus (house light, light in the nose-poke hole, sound of the infusion pump) was presented to initiate cue-induced reinstatement. Physostigmine produced a dose-dependent inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement, but only the dose of 0.5 mg/kg significantly decreased nose-poke responding in the extinction test. Chronic treatment with physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg) did not impair performance during acquisition of heroin self-administration. However, during a subsequent reinstatement test conducted in the absence of physostigmine pretreatment, heroin seeking was significantly below that of rats chronically pretreated with saline. To evaluate brain regions mediating the effects of systemic drug treatment on reinstatement, physostigmine was microinjected into the nucleus accumbens (NAc) or ventral tegmental area (VTA). Microinjection of physostigmine into the NAc prior to presenting conditioned cues inhibited the reinstatement of heroin-seeking, without affecting extinction responding. In contrast, microinjection of physostigmine into the VTA augmented the reinstatement induced by conditioned cues and extinction responding. Inactivation of either NAc or VTA by microinjecting tetrodotoxin blocked both extinction responding and cue-induced reinstatement. These data demonstrate that cholinergic transmission influences heroin self-administration and reinstatement. Moreover, cue-induced reinstatement was inhibited by physostigmine in the NAc and potentiated by cholinergic stimulation in the VTA.
Mood stabilizing drugs lithium and valproate are the most commonly used treatments for bipolar disorder. Previous studies in our laboratory indicate that chronic treatment with lithium and valproate inhibits oxidative damage in primary cultured rat cerebral cortical cells. Glutathione, as the major antioxidant in the brain, plays a key role in defending against oxidative damage. The purpose of this study was to determine the role of glutathione in the neuroprotective effects of lithium and valproate against oxidative damage. We found that chronic treatment with lithium and valproate inhibited reactive oxygen metabolite H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in primary cultured rat cerebral cortical cells, while buthionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutathione rate-limiting synthesis enzyme glutamate-cysteine ligase, reduced the neuroprotective effect of lithium and valproate against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death. Further, we found that chronic treatment with lithium and valproate increased glutathione levels in primary cultured rat cerebral cortical cells and that the effects of lithium and valproate on glutathione levels were dose-dependent in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Chronic treatment with lithium and valproate also increased the expression of glutamate-cysteine ligase in both rat cerebral cortical cells and SH-SY5Y cells. In addition, chronic treatment with other mood stabilizing drugs lamotrigine and carbamazepine, but not antidepressants desipramine and fluoxetine, increased both glutathione levels and the expression of glutamate-cysteine ligase in SH-SY5Y cells. These results suggest that glutathione plays an important role in the neuroprotective effects of lithium and valproate, and that glutathione may be a common target for mood stabilizing drugs.
We investigated the effects of prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES), an endocrine disrupter on learning behavior and synaptic functions. Specifically, we determined the activity of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and related kinases that play an essential role in long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus in mice that were prenatally exposed to DES. Treatment with DES resulted in increased CaMKII autophosphorylation and Ca(2+)-independent activity in the hippocampus and cortex of male mice. Impaired passive avoidance correlated with this increased CaMKII autophosphorylation, as did the enhanced early phase of LTP (E-LTP) in hippocampus. These data suggest that prenatal exposure to DES induces deficits in passive avoidance responses as a result of increased CaMKII activity and hippocampal LTP.
In order to understand the functional maturation of the CNS, it is essential to first describe the functional maturation of sensory processing. We have approached this topic by following the ontogenetic patterning of neural circuit formation related to cranial and spinal sensory input using voltage-sensitive dye imaging. In previous studies, we have described the functional maturation of synapses in brainstem/midbrain neural circuits. Here, we elucidate the functional maturation of forebrain circuits by investigating neural networks related to the olfactory nerve (N. I) of chicken embryo. In the isolated N. I-olfactory bulb-forebrain preparation, application of electrical stimulation to N. I elicited excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP)-related slow optical signals in the olfactory bulb. The slow signal was mainly mediated by glutamate, and was easily fatigued with repetitive stimuli because of the immaturity of synapses in the embryonic CNS. Ontogenetically, the slow signal was detected from the 6-day embryonic stage, suggesting that functional synaptic connections between N. I and olfactory bulb emerge around this stage. In addition, from the 8-day embryonic stage, another response area was discriminated within the forebrain, which corresponded to the higher-ordered nucleus of the olfactory pathway. In comparison with our previous studies concerning the functional development of other cranial nerve-related sensory nuclei in the embryonic brainstem and midbrain, these results suggest that the olfactory pathway is functionally generated in the early stages of development when neural networks related to other visceral and somatic sensory inputs are also in the process of developing.
Cannabinoid receptors (CBr) stimulation induces numerous central and peripheral effects. A growing interest in the beneficial properties of manipulating the endocannabinoid system has led to the possible involvement of CBr in the control of brain inflammation. In the present study we examined the effect of the CBr agonist, (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)-pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenyl-methanone mesylate (WIN-55212-2), on microglial activation and spatial memory performance, using a well-characterized animal model of chronic brain inflammation produced by the infusion of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 250 ng/h for 3 weeks) into the fourth ventricle of young rats. WIN-55212-2 (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg/day, i.p.) was administered for 3 weeks. During the third week of treatment, spatial memory ability was examined using the Morris water-maze task. We found that 0.5 and 1 mg/kg WIN-55212-2 reduced the number of LPS-activated microglia, while 1 mg/kg WIN-55212-2 potentiated the LPS-induced impairment of performance in the water maze task. Cannabinoid receptors 1 were not expressed by microglia and astrocytes, suggesting an indirect effect of WIN-55212-2 on microglia activation and memory impairment. Our results emphasize the potential use of CBr agonists in the regulation of inflammatory processes within the brain; this knowledge may lead to the use of CBr agonists in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases associated with chronic neuroinflammation, such as Alzheimer disease.
ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels are weak inward rectifiers that appear to play an important role in protecting neurons against ischemic damage. Cerebral stroke is a major health issue, and vulnerability to stroke damage is regional within the brain. Thus, we set out to determine whether K(ATP) channels protect cortical neurons against ischemic insults. Experiments were performed using Kir6.2(-/-) K(ATP) channel knockout and Kir6.2(+/+) wildtype mice. We compared results obtained in Kir6.2(-/-) and wildtype mice to evaluate the protective role of K(ATP) channels against focal ischemia in vivo, and, using cortical slices, against anoxic stress in vitro. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the presence of K(ATP) channels in the cortex of wildtype, but not Kir6.2(-/-), mice. Results from in vivo and in vitro experimental models indicate that Kir6.2-containing K(ATP) channels in the cortex provide protection from neuronal death. Briefly, in vivo focal ischemia (15 min) induced severe neurological deficits and large cortical infarcts in Kir6.2(-/-) mice, but not in wildtype mice. Imaging analyses of cortical slices exposed briefly to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) revealed a substantial number of damaged cells (propidium iodide-labeled) in the Kir6.2(-/-) OGD group, but few degenerating neurons in the wildtype OGD group, or in the wildtype and Kir6.2(-/-) control groups. Slices from the three control groups had far more surviving cells (anti-NeuN antibody-labeled) than slices from the Kir6.2(-/-) OGD group. These findings suggest that stimulation of endogenous cortical K(ATP) channels may provide a useful strategy for limiting the damage that results from cerebral ischemic stroke.
Recent studies have localized the glutamatergic cell marker type-2 vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT2) to distinct peptidergic neurosecretory systems that regulate hypophysial functions in rats. The present studies were aimed to map the neuronal sources of VGLUT2 in the median eminence and the posterior pituitary, the main terminal fields of hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons. Neurons innervating these regions were identified by the uptake of the retrograde tract-tracer Fluoro-Gold (FG) from the systemic circulation, whereas glutamatergic perikarya of the hypothalamus were visualized via the radioisotopic in situ hybridization detection of VGLUT2 mRNA. The results of dual-labeling studies established that the majority of neurons accumulating FG and also expressing VGLUT2 mRNA were located within the paraventricular, periventricular and supraoptic nuclei and around the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and the preoptic area. In contrast, only few FG-accumulating cells exhibited VGLUT2 mRNA signal in the arcuate nucleus. Dual-label immunofluorescent studies of the median eminence and posterior pituitary to determine the subcellular location of VGLUT2, revealed the association of VGLUT2 immunoreactivity with SV2 protein, a marker for small clear vesicles in neurosecretory endings. Electron microscopic studies using pre-embedding colloidal gold labeling confirmed the localization of VGLUT2 in small clear synaptic vesicles. These data suggest that neurosecretory neurons located mainly within the paraventricular, anterior periventricular and supraoptic nuclei and around the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and the preoptic area secrete glutamate into the fenestrated vessels of the median eminence and posterior pituitary. The functional aspects of the putative neuropeptide/glutamate co-release from neuroendocrine terminals remain to be elucidated.
Adrenergic modulation of glutamatergic spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) was investigated in mechanically dissociated rat ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) neurons using a conventional whole-cell patch clamp technique. Noradrenaline (NA) reversibly increased mEPSC frequency without affecting the current amplitude in a concentration-dependent manner, indicating that NA acts presynaptically to facilitate the probability of spontaneous glutamate release. NA (10 microM) action on glutamatergic mEPSC frequency was completely blocked by 1 microM ICI-188551 [(+/-)-1-[2,3-(dihydro-7-methyl-1H-inden-4-yl)oxy]-3-[(1-methyl-ethyl)amino]-2-butanol], a selective beta(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, and mimicked by 1 microM formoterol, a selective beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist. Neither alpha-adrenoceptor nor beta(1)-adrenoceptor blockers affected the NA-induced increase in mEPSC frequency. NA action on glutamatergic mEPSC frequency was completely occluded in the presence of either 10 microM forskolin, an adenylyl cyclase (AC) activator, or blocked by 1 microM SQ22536 [9-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-9H-purin-6-amine], a selective AC inhibitor. Furthermore, the NA-induced increase in mEPSC frequency was completely attenuated by either 1 muM KT5720 or 1 microM H-89 (N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide), specific PKA inhibitors. However, NA still could increase mEPSC frequency either in the Ca(2+)-free external solution or in the presence of 1 microM thapsigargin. The results suggest that activation of presynaptic beta(2)-adrenoceptors facilitates spontaneous glutamate release to VMH neurons via cAMP/PKA signal transduction pathway. beta(2)-Adrenoceptor-mediated presynaptic modulation of excitatory glutamatergic transmission would therefore be expected to play a pivotal role in the regulation of a variety of behavioral functions, which are mediated by the VMH.
Hyperglycemia has been shown to worsen the outcome of brain ischemia in several animal models but few experimental studies have investigated impairments in cognition induced by ischemic brain lesions in hyperglycemic animals. The Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rat naturally develops type 2 diabetes characterized by mild hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. We hypothesized that GK rats would display more severe cerebral damage due to hyperglycemia-aggravated brain injury and, accordingly, more severe cognitive impairments. In this study, recovery of motor and cognitive functions of GK and healthy Wistar rats was examined following extradural compression (EC) of the sensorimotor cortex. For this purpose, tests of vestibulomotor function (beam-walking) and combined tests of motor function and learning (locomotor activity from day (D) 1 to D5, operant lever-pressing from D14 to D25) were used. EC consistently reduced cerebral blood flow in both strains. Anesthesia-challenge and EC resulted in pronounced hyperglycemia in GK but not in Wistar rats. Lower beam-walking scores, increased locomotor activity, impairments in long-term habituation and learning of operant lever-pressing were more pronounced and observed at later time-points in GK rats. Fluoro-Jade, a marker of irreversible neuronal degeneration, revealed consistent degeneration in the ipsilateral cortex, hippocampus and thalamus at 2, 7 and 14 days post-compression. The amount of degeneration in these structures was considerably higher in GK rats. Thus, GK rats exhibited marked hyperglycemia during EC, as well as longer-lasting behavioral deficits and increased neurodegeneration during recovery. The GK rat is thus an attractive model for neuropathologic and cognitive studies after ischemic brain injury in hyperglycemic rats.
The cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) enzyme is part of the inflammatory pathway and is induced within the brain by a variety of pathological events, including ischemia. Pharmacological agents that inhibit COX-2 have been found to be neuroprotective in a number of injury models, and long-term administration of these drugs has been shown to induce plastic changes in the brain. In the current experiment, we investigated the effectiveness of stimulating cortical plasticity following stroke injury through the administration of the COX-2 inhibitor drug NS398. Furthermore, we determined whether the induced plastic changes improved functional outcome following motor cortex stroke. Chronic drug administration was found to induce dendritic hypertrophy in cells in the parietal cortex, and this anatomical change was associated with the animals making significantly more reach attempts, as well as successful reaches during a skilled reaching task. Additional motor tests however revealed that the treatment did not affect the level of motor recovery, as the animals showed chronic impairments in the Schallert cylinder, and the forepaw inhibition tasks. Short-term administration of the drug, immediately following the stroke did not induce any dendritic changes, nor was it found to improve behavioral performance on any of the motor tasks. Based on these results we conclude that the plastic changes that are induced by long-term COX-2 inhibitor administration provide some benefit to functional outcome following ischemic cortical injury.
Teneurins are a highly conserved family of four type II transmembrane proteins that are expressed in the CNS. The protein possesses several functional domains including a unique bioactive 40-41 amino acid sequence at the extracellular terminus. Synthetic versions of this teneurin C-terminal-associated peptide (TCAP) can modulate cyclic AMP accumulation, cell proliferation and teneurin mRNA levels in vitro. Furthermore, i.c.v. injections of TCAP-1 into rat brain induce major changes in acoustic startle response behavior 3 weeks after administration, suggesting that the peptide may act to alter interneuron communication via changes in neurite and axon outgrowth. Synthetic mouse/rat TCAP-1 was used to treat cultured immortalized mouse hypothalamic cells, to determine if TCAP-1 could directly regulate neurite and axon growth. TCAP-1-treated cells showed a significant increase in the length of neurites accompanied by a marked increase in beta-tubulin transcription and translation as determined by real-time PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. Changes in alpha-actinin-4 transcription and beta-actin protein expression were also noted. Immunofluorescence confocal microscopy using beta-tubulin antiserum showed enhanced resolution of beta-tubulin cytoskeletal elements throughout the cell. In order to determine if the effects of TCAP-1 could be reproduced in primary neuronal cultures, primary cultures of E18 rat hippocampal cells were treated with 100 nM TCAP-1. The TCAP-1-treated hippocampal cultures showed a significant increase in both the number of cells, dendritic branching and the presence of large and fasciculated beta-tubulin immunoreactive axons. These data suggest that TCAP acts, in part, as a functional region of the teneurins to regulate neurite and axonal growth of neurons.
Single injections of morphine induce a state of acute opioid dependence in humans and animals, measured as precipitated withdrawal when an antagonist is administered 4-24 h after morphine. Additional morphine exposure at daily or weekly intervals results in further increases in withdrawal severity, suggesting that acute opioid dependence reflects the early stages in the development of a chronic state of dependence. The current study evaluated the role of the nucleus accumbens (NAC), bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST), interstitial nucleus of posterior limb of the anterior commissure (IPAC), and central amygdala (CeA) in the expression of antagonist-precipitated suppression of operant responding for food as a measure of withdrawal from acute opioid dependence. Rats trained on a fixed-ratio 15 schedule received one or four daily injections of morphine, with the lipophobic opioid antagonist methylnaloxonium (16-2000 ng) infused into one of the brain regions or the lateral ventricle (i.c.v.) 4 h after the final morphine injection. After acute morphine methylnaloxonium was more potent upon infusion into the NAC (17.9-fold potency shift), BNST (6.8-fold) and CeA (5.5-fold) than it was upon i.c.v. administration. Following repeat morphine the NAC and BNST but not CeA continued to show greater sensitivity relative to i.c.v. infusion (12.9-, 8.7-, and 3.2-fold potency shifts, respectively). The IPAC was insensitive to methylnaloxonium after acute or repeat morphine at doses that reliably suppressed responding upon i.c.v. infusion (125-500 ng). Thus, among the components of extended amygdala examined in this study, rapid neuroadaptation within the nucleus accumbens and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis appear to play the most prominent role in antagonist-precipitated suppression of operant responding during the early stages in the development of opioid dependence.
The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus integrates different hormonal and neural signals to control neuroendocrine events, feeding, energy balance and reproduction. Previous studies have shown that in adult female rats the arcuate nucleus undergoes a cyclic fluctuation in the number of axo-somatic synapses during the estrous cycle, in parallel to the variation of ovarian hormone levels in plasma. In the present study we have used an unbiased stereological analysis in conjunction with postembedding immunocytochemistry to assess whether the synaptic remodeling during the estrous cycle in rats is specific for certain types of synapses. Our findings indicate that there is a significant decrease in the number of GABAergic axo-somatic synapses on proestrus afternoon and estrus day compared with other days of the estrous cycle. This decrease in GABAergic synapses is accompanied by an increase in the number of dendritic spine synapses. The synaptic density appears to cycle back to proestrus morning values on metestrus day. In contrast, the number of synapses on dendritic shafts does not change during the cycle. These results indicate that a rapid and selective synaptic turnover of arcuate synapses occurs in physiological circumstances.
Zinc is released from a subset of cerebral cortical neurons whereupon it exerts a powerful modulatory influence on excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. A number of studies have suggested that alterations in the regulation of zinc may contribute to the genesis of epilepsy. Here, we tested this hypothesis by examining the distribution of zinc-containing axon terminals in rats selectively bred for an innate susceptibility (FAST) or resistance (SLOW) to the development of kindling-induced seizures. Zinc was stained histochemically and levels of staining were quantitatively assessed. We found that the levels of synaptic zinc were significantly lower in the SLOW rats throughout the telencephalon. This relative reduction was most pronounced in limbic cortices where levels were less than 30% of FAST rats. These results suggest that innate differences in the homeostatic regulation of synaptic zinc, particularly in limbic cortices, may underlie differences in epileptogenicity.
In vivo electrophysiology and microdialysis were used to investigate the physiological role of 5-HT(2C) receptors in the control of substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) function. Extracellular single-unit recordings were performed from putative GABA-containing neurons in the SNr of anesthetized rats, and local GABA release was studied by in vivo microdialysis in the SNr of awake freely-moving rats. Systemic administration of the selective 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist (S)-2-(chloro-5-fluoro-indol-1-yl)-1-methylethylamine 1:1 C(4)H(4)O(4) (RO 60-0175) caused a dose-dependent excitation of about 30% of the SNr neurons recorded. However, the remaining neurons were either inhibited or unaffected by systemic RO 60-0175, in similar proportion. Local application of RO 60-0175 by microiontophoresis caused excitation in the majority of SNr neurons tested (48%), whereas a group of neurons was inhibited (16%) or unaffected (36%). Both the excitatory and the inhibitory effects of systemic and microiontophoretic RO 60-0175 were completely prevented by pretreatment with SB 243213 [5-methyl-1-({2-[(2-methyl-3-pyridyl)oxy]-5-pyridyl}carbamoyl)-6-trifluoromethylindoline], a selective and potent 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist. Consistent with these electrophysiological data, both systemic and intranigral administration of RO 60-0175 and m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), a non-selective 5-HT(2C) agonist, markedly increased extracellular GABA levels in the SNr. The stimulatory effect of systemic and local RO 60-0175 on GABA release was completely prevented by systemic administration of SB 243213, whereas local application of SB 243213 into the SNr only partially blocked RO 60-0175-induced GABA release. It is concluded that selective activation of 5-HT(2C) receptors stimulates GABA-ergic function in the SNr, and the clinical relevance of these data is discussed.
The severely ataxic and epileptic mouse leaner (Ln) carries a natural splice site mutation in Cacna1a, leading to a C-terminal truncation of the encoded Ca(v)2.1 alpha(1) protein. Ca(v)2.1 is a neuronal Ca(2+) channel, mediating neurotransmitter release at many central synapses and the peripheral neuromuscular junction (NMJ). With electrophysiological analyses we demonstrate severely reduced ( approximately 50%) neurotransmitter release at Ln NMJs. This equals the reduction at NMJs of Cacna1a null-mutant (Ca(v)2.1-KO) mice, which display a neurological phenotype remarkably similar to that of Ln mice. However, using selective Ca(v) channel blocking compounds we revealed a compensatory contribution profile of non-Ca(v)2.1 type channels at Ln NMJs that differs completely from that at Ca(v)2.1-KO NMJs. Our data indicate that the residual function and presence of Ln-mutated Ca(v)2.1 channels precludes presynaptic compensatory recruitment of Ca(v)1 and Ca(v)2.2 channels, and hampers that of Ca(v)2.3 channels. This is the first report directly showing at single synapses the deficits and plasticity in transmitter release resulting from the Ln mutation of Cacna1a.
Reduced levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus have been implicated in human affective disorders and behavioral stress responses. The current studies examined the role of BDNF in the behavioral consequences of inescapable stress, or learned helplessness. Inescapable stress decreased BDNF mRNA and protein in the hippocampus of sedentary rats. Rats allowed voluntary access to running wheels for either 3 or 6 weeks prior to exposure to stress were protected against stress-induced reductions of hippocampal BDNF protein. The observed prevention of stress-induced deceases in BDNF, however, occurred in a time course inconsistent with the prevention of learned helplessness by wheel running, which is evident following 6 weeks, but not 3 weeks, of wheel running. BDNF suppression in physically active rats was produced by administering a single injection of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) just prior to stress. Despite reduced levels of hippocampal BDNF mRNA following stress, physically active rats given the combination of fluoxetine and stress remained resistant against learned helplessness. Sedentary rats given both fluoxetine and stress still demonstrated typical learned helplessness behaviors. Fluoxetine by itself reduced BDNF mRNA in sedentary rats only, but did not affect freezing or escape learning 24 h later. Finally, bilateral injections of BDNF (1 mug) into the dentate gyrus prior to stress prevented stress-induced reductions of hippocampal BDNF but did not prevent learned helplessness in sedentary rats. These data indicate that learned helplessness behaviors are independent of the presence or absence of hippocampal BDNF because blocking inescapable stress-induced BDNF suppression does not always prevent learned helplessness, and learned helplessness does not always occur in the presence of reduced BDNF. Results also suggest that the prevention of stress-induced hippocampal BDNF suppression is not necessary for the protective effect of wheel running against learned helplessness.
Previous studies have shown that rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation (RSD) exerts a detrimental effect on some memory tasks. However, whether post-learning RSD impairs memory for fear extinction, an important model of inhibitory learning, remains to be elucidated. The present study examined the effects of post-extinction RSD from 0 to 6 h and 6 to 12 h on recall of fear extinction tested 24 h after extinction training. We found that RSD from 0 to 6 h significantly increased freezing when recall of extinction of cued fear was tested in the context in which rats received extinction training whereas RSD from 6 to 12 h had no effect (experiments 1 and 2, two hippocampus-independent memory tasks). RSD at either time point had no effect on freezing when recall of extinction of cued fear was tested in the context different from that in which extinction training occurred (experiment 3, a hippocampus-dependent memory task). Additionally, we observed no effect of RSD at either time point on freezing during recall test for extinction of contextual fear (experiment 4, a hippocampus-dependent memory task). These results suggest that the effects of post-extinction RSD on memory for fear extinction are complex. RSD impairs recall of fear extinction in hippocampus-independent tasks, but does not affect recall of fear extinction in hippocampus-dependent tasks. Our findings extend previous research on the effects of RSD on learning and memory and support the notion that REM sleep is involved in memory process of certain tasks.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCPII) is a transmembrane glycoprotein expressed in various tissues. When expressed in the brain it cleaves the neurotransmitter N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG), yielding free glutamate. In jejunum it hydrolyzes folylpoly-gamma-glutamate, thus facilitating folate absorption. The prostate form of GCPII, known as prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA), is an established cancer marker. The NAAG-hydrolyzing activity of GCPII has been implicated in a number of pathological conditions in which glutamate is neurotoxic (e.g. amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, schizophrenia, and stroke). Inhibition of GCPII was shown to be neuroprotective in tissue culture and in animal models. GCPII is therefore an interesting putative therapeutic target. However, only very limited and controversial data on the expression and localization of GCPII in human brain are available. Therefore, we set out to analyze the activity and expression of GCPII in various compartments of the human brain using a radiolabeled substrate of the enzyme and the novel monoclonal antibody GCP-04, which recognizes an epitope on the extracellular portion of the enzyme and is more sensitive to GCPII than to the homologous GCPIII. We show that this antibody is more sensitive in immunoblots than the widely used antibody 7E11. By Western blot, we show that there are approximately 50-300 ng of GCPII/mg of total protein in human brain, depending on the specific area. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that astrocytes specifically express GCPII in all parts of the brain. GCPII is enzymatically active and the level of activity follows the expression pattern. Using pure recombinant GCPII and homologous GCPIII, we conclude that GCPII is responsible for the majority of overall NAAG-hydrolyzing activity in the human brain.
Type 2 diabetes is a common metabolic disease with a rising global prevalence. It is associated with slowly progressive end-organ damage in the eyes and kidneys, but also in the brain. The latter complication is often referred to as &quot;diabetic encephalopathy&quot; and is characterized by mild to moderate impairments in cognitive functioning. It is also associated with an increased risk of dementia. To date, its pathogenetic mechanisms are largely unclear. Cognitive impairments in patients with type 2 diabetes have been associated both with vascular risk factors, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia, and with diabetes-related factors, such as glycemic control, duration of the disease and treatment modality. Studies that address these associations generally focus on statistical (in)dependence of certain risk factors in the association between type 2 diabetes and cognitive decline rather than the causality of the association, which, from a mechanistic point of view, is more relevant. In this review we describe the association between type 2 diabetes and cognitive dysfunction and dementia. Furthermore, potential determinants of impaired cognition in type 2 diabetes are addressed both from the perspective of statistical associations and from a mechanistic point of view.
Previous research indicates that dopamine controls both the speed of an internal clock [Maricq, A.V., Church, R.M., 1983. The differential effects of haloperidol and methamphetamine on time estimation in the rat. Psychopharmacology 79, 10-15] and sharing of resources between the timer and other cognitive processes [Buhusi, C.V., 2003. Dopaminergic mechanisms of interval timing and attention. In: Meck, W.H. (Ed.), Functional and Neural Mechanisms of Interval Timing. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, pp. 317-338]. For example, dopamine agonist methamphetamine increases the speed of an internal clock and resets timing after a gap, while dopamine antagonist haloperidol decreases the speed of an internal clock and stops timing during a gap [Buhusi, C.V., Meck, W.H., 2002. Differential effects of methamphetamine and haloperidol on the control of an internal clock. Behav. Neurosci. 116, 291-297]. Using a 20-s peak-interval procedure with gaps we examined the acute effects of clozapine (2.0mg/kg i.p.), which exerts differential effects on dopamine and serotonin in the cortex and striatum, two brain areas involved in interval timing and working memory. Relative to saline, clozapine injections shifted the response functions leftward both in trials with and without gaps, suggesting that clozapine increased the speed of an internal clock and facilitated the maintenance of the pre-gap interval in working memory. These results suggest that clozapine exerts effects in different brain areas in a manner that allows for the pharmacological separation of clock speed and working memory as a function of peak trials without and with gaps.
Evidence suggests that the online combination of non-verbal magnitudes (durations, numerosities) is central to learning in both human and non-human animals [Gallistel, C.R., 1990. The Organization of Learning. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA]. The molecular basis of these computations, however, is an open question at this point. The current study provides the first direct test of temporal subtraction in a species in which the genetic code is available. In two experiments, mice were run in an adaptation of Gibbon and Church's [Gibbon, J., Church, R.M., 1981. Time left: linear versus logarithmic subjective time. J. Exp. Anal. Behav. 7, 87-107] time left paradigm in order to characterize typical responding in this task. Both experiments suggest that mice engaged in online subtraction of temporal values, although the generalization of a learned response rule to novel stimulus values resulted in slightly less systematic responding. Potential explanations for this pattern of results are discussed.
Many studies of contingency judgments have used a task in which, on each trial, the participant is free either to respond or not to respond, and an outcome may, or may not, be presented. Typically, the experimenter specifies a nominal value for the contingency between responding and outcome, but the actual values of a variety of variables experienced by a particular participant depend on that participant's frequency of responding. The results of computer simulations of various strategies for implementing the contingency manipulation, and the results of an experiment, indicate that the same nominal contingency value will lead to considerable variability in the actual contingency experienced by participants. Moreover, nominal contingency manipulations are confounded with the probability that the subject experiences an outcome. While researchers might be aware of these issues, not enough attention has been paid to their potential impact.
The present study examined the effects of photoperiod on spatial and temporal memory in adult Sprague-Dawley rats that were conceived and reared in different day lengths, i.e., short day (SD-8:16 light/dark) and long day (LD-16:8 light/dark). Both male and female LD rats demonstrated increased spatial memory capacity as evidenced by a lower number of choices to criterion in a 12-arm radial maze task relative to the performance of SD rats. SD rats also demonstrated a distortion in the content of temporal memory as evidenced by a proportional rightward shift in the 20 and 60 s temporal criteria trained using the peak-interval procedure that is consistent with reduced cholinergic function. The conclusion is that both spatial and temporal memory are sensitive to photoperiod variation in laboratory rats in a manner similar to that previously observed for reproductive behaviour.

We report the discovery of chroman 28, a potent and selective antagonist of human, nonhuman primate, rat, and rabbit bradykinin B1 receptors (0.4-17 nM). At 90 mg/kg s.c., 28 decreased plasma extravasation in two rodent models of inflammation. A novel method to calculate entropy is introduced and ascribed approximately 30% of the gained affinity between &quot;flexible&quot; 4 (Ki = 132 nM) and &quot;rigid&quot; 28 (Ki = 0.77 nM) to decreased conformational entropy.

Sensory neurons innervating the skin encode the familiar sensations of temperature, touch and pain. An explosion of progress has revealed unanticipated cellular and molecular complexity in these senses. It is now clear that perception of a single stimulus, such as heat, requires several transduction mechanisms. Conversely, a given protein may contribute to multiple senses, such as heat and touch. Recent studies have also led to the surprising insight that skin cells might transduce temperature and touch. To break the code underlying somatosensation, we must therefore understand how the skin's sensory functions are divided among signalling molecules and cell types.

Ras-mediated signaling pathways participate in multiple aspects of neural development and function. For example, Ras signaling lies downstream of neurotrophic factors and Trk family receptor tyrosine kinases to regulate neuronal survival and morphological differentiation, including axon extension and target innervation. Neurofibromin, the protein encoded by the tumor suppressor gene Nf1, is a negative regulator of Ras [Ras-GAP (GTPase-activating protein)], and we previously demonstrated that Nf1 null embryonic sensory and sympathetic neurons can survive and differentiate independent of neurotrophin support. In this report, we demonstrate that Nf1 loss in adult sensory neurons enhances their intrinsic capacity for neurite outgrowth and collateral branching in vitro and in vivo after dorsal root injury. In contrast to the permanent sensory deficits observed in control mice after dorsal rhizotomy, neuron-specific Nf1 mutant mice spontaneously recover proprioceptive function. This phenomenon appears to be mediated both by a cell-autonomous capacity of spared Nf1-/- DRG neurons for increased axonal sprouting, and by non-cell-autonomous contribution from Nf1-/- neurons in the denervated spinal cord.
We performed a systematic analysis of phase locking in pairs of electrically coupled neocortical fast-spiking (FS) and low-threshold-spiking (LTS) interneurons and in a conductance-based model of a pair of FS cells. Phase-response curves (PRCs) were obtained for real interneurons and the model cells. We used PRCs and the theory of weakly coupled oscillators to make predictions about phase-locking characteristics of cell pairs. Phase locking and the robustness of phase-locked states to differences in intrinsic frequencies of cells were directly examined by driving interneuron pairs through a wide range of firing frequencies. Calculations using PRCs accurately predicted that electrical coupling robustly synchronized the firing of interneurons over all frequencies studied (FS, approximately 25-80 Hz; LTS, approximately 10-30 Hz). The synchronizing ability of electrical coupling and the robustness of the phase-locked states were directly dependent on the strength of coupling but not on firing frequency. The FS cell model also predicted the existence of stable antiphase firing at frequencies below approximately 30 Hz, but no evidence for stable antiphase firing was found using the experimentally determined PRCs or in direct measures of phase locking in pairs of interneurons. Despite significant differences in biophysical properties of FS and LTS cells, their phase-locking behavior was remarkably similar. The wide spikes and shallow action potential afterhyperpolarizations of interneurons, compared with the model, prohibited antiphase behavior. Electrical coupling between cortical interneurons of the same type maintained robust synchronous firing of cell pairs for up to approximately 10% heterogeneity in their intrinsic frequencies.
Limbic and cortical neurocircuits profoundly influence hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responses to stress yet have little or no direct projections to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Numerous lines of evidence suggest that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) is well positioned to relay limbic information to the PVN. The BST comprises multiple anatomically distinct nuclei, of which some are known to receive direct limbic and/or cortical input and to heavily innervate the PVN. Our studies test the hypothesis that subregions of the BST differentially regulate HPA axis responses to acute stress. Male Sprague Dawley rats received bilateral ibotenate lesions, targeting either the principal nucleus in the posterior BST or the dorsomedial/fusiform nuclei in the anteroventral BST. Posterior BST lesions elevated plasma ACTH and corticosterone in response to acute restraint stress, increased stress-induced PVN c-fos mRNA, and elevated PVN corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and parvocellular arginine vasopressin (AVP) mRNA expression relative to sham-lesion animals. In contrast, anterior BST lesions attenuated the plasma corticosterone response and decreased c-fos mRNA induction in the PVN but did not affect CRH and parvocellular AVP mRNA expression in the PVN. These data suggest that posterior BST nuclei are involved in inhibition of the HPA axis, whereas the anteroventral BST nuclei are involved in HPA axis excitation. The results indicate that the BST contains functional subdomains that play different roles in integrating and processing limbic information in response to stress and further suggest that excitatory as well as inhibitory limbic information is funneled through these important cell groups.
The glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) pathway plays an important role in mediating neuronal fate and synaptic plasticity. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), abnormal activation of this pathway might play an important role in neurodegeneration, and compounds such as lithium that modulate GSK3beta activity have been shown to reduce amyloid production and tau phosphorylation in amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic (tg) mice. However, it is unclear whether regulation of GSK3beta is neuroprotective in APP tg mice. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to determine whether pharmacological or genetic manipulations that block the GSK3beta pathway might ameliorate the neurodegenerative alterations in APP tg mice and to better understand the mechanisms involved. For this purpose, two sets of experiments were performed. First, tg mice expressing mutant human APP under the Thy1 promoter (hAPP tg) were treated with either lithium chloride or saline alone. Second, hAPP tg mice were crossed with GSK3beta tg mice, in which overexpression of this signaling molecule results in a dominant-negative (DN) effect with inhibition of activity. hAPP tg mice that were treated with lithium or that were crossed with DN-GSK3beta tg mice displayed improved performance in the water maze, preservation of the dendritic structure in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, and decreased tau phosphorylation. Moreover, reduced activation of GSK3beta was associated with decreased levels of APP phosphorylation that resulted in decreased amyloid-beta production. In conclusion, the present study showed that modulation of the GSK3beta signaling pathway might also have neuroprotective effects in tg mice by regulating APP maturation and processing and further supports the notion that GSK3beta might be a suitable target for the treatment of AD.
Repeated injections of cocaine and morphine in laboratory rats cause a variety of molecular neuroadaptations in the cAMP signaling pathway in nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area. Here we report similar neuroadaptations in postmortem tissue from the brains of human smokers and former smokers. Activity levels of two major components of cAMP signaling, cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and adenylate cyclase, were abnormally elevated in nucleus accumbens of smokers and in ventral midbrain dopaminergic region of both smokers and former smokers. Protein levels of the catalytic subunit of PKA were correspondingly higher in the ventral midbrain dopaminergic region of both smokers and former smokers. Protein levels of other candidate neuroadaptations, including glutamate receptor subunits, tyrosine hydroxylase, and other protein kinases, were within normal range. These findings extend our understanding of addiction-related neuroadaptations of cAMP signaling to tobacco smoking in human subjects and suggest that smoking-induced brain neuroadaptations can persist for significant periods in former smokers.
Ovulation is initiated by a surge of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion by the brain. GnRH is normally under negative feedback control by ovarian steroids. During sustained exposure to estradiol in the late follicular phase of the reproductive cycle, however, the feedback action of this steroid switches to positive, inducing the surge. Here, we used an established ovariectomized, estradiol-treated (OVX+E) mouse model exhibiting daily surges to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this switch. Specifically, we examined changes in GABA transmission to GnRH neurons, which can be excited by GABA(A) receptor activation. Spontaneous GABAergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs) were recorded in GnRH neurons from OVX+E and OVX mice in coronal and sagittal slices. There were no diurnal changes in PSC frequency in cells from OVX mice in either slice orientation. In OVX+E cells in both orientations, PSC frequency was low during negative feedback but increased at surge onset. During the surge peak, this increase subsided in coronal slices but persisted in sagittal slices. Comparison of PSCs before and during tetrodotoxin (TTX) treatment showed TTX decreased PSC frequency in OVX+E cells in sagittal slices, but not coronal slices. This indicates estradiol acts on multiple GABAergic afferent populations to increase transmission through both activity-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Estradiol also increased PSC amplitude during the surge. Estradiol and the diurnal cycle thus interact to induce shifts in both GABA transmission and postsynaptic response that would produce appropriate changes in GnRH neuron firing activity and hormone release.
Pulsatile neuropeptide secretion is associated with burst firing patterns; however, intracellular signaling cascades leading to bursts remain unclear. We explored mechanisms underlying burst firing in oxytocin (OT) neurons in the supraoptic nucleus in brain slices from lactating rats. Application of 10 pm OT for 30 min or progressively rising OT concentrations from 1 to 100 pm induced burst firing in OT neurons in patch-clamp recordings. Burst generation was blocked by OT antagonist and ionotropic glutamate receptor blockers or tetanus toxin. Blocking G-protein activation with suramin or intracellular GDP-beta-S, but not intracellularly administered antibody against the OT-receptor (OTR) C terminus, blocked bursts. Moreover, pretreatment of slices with pertussis toxin, an inhibitor of G(i/o)-proteins, did not block OT-evoked bursts, suggesting that G(i)/G(o) activation is unnecessary for burst generation. Thus, we further examined G alpha(q/11)-associated signaling pathways in OT-evoked bursts. Inhibition of phospholipase C or RhoA/Rho kinase did not block bursts. Activation of G betagamma subunits using myristoylated G betagamma-binding peptide (mSIRK) caused bursts, whereas intracellularly loaded antibody against G beta subunit blocked OT-evoked bursts. Blocking Src family kinase, but not phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, occluded OT-evoked bursts. Similar to the effects of OT on EPSCs, mSIRK inhibited tonic EPSCs and elicited EPSC clustering. Finally, suckling caused dissociation of OTRs and G beta subunits from G alpha(q/11) subunits shown by coimmunoprecipitation and immunocytochemistry, supporting crucial roles for OTRs and G betagamma subunits in the milk-ejection reflex. We conclude that G betagamma subunits play a dominant role in burst firing evoked by applied OT or by suckling.
To understand how electrical signal processing in cortical pyramidal neurons is executed by ion channels, it is essential to know their subcellular distribution. M-channels (encoded by Kv7.2-Kv7.5/KCNQ2-KCNQ5 genes) have multiple important functions in neurons, including control of excitability, spike afterpotentials, adaptation, and theta resonance. Nevertheless, the subcellular distribution of these channels has remained elusive. To determine the M-channel distribution within CA1 pyramidal neurons, we combined whole-cell patch-clamp recording from the soma and apical dendrite with focal drug application, in rat hippocampal slices. Both a M-channel opener (retigabine [N-(2-amino-4-(4-fluorobenzylamino)-phenyl) carbamic acid ethyl ester]) and a blocker (XE991 [10,10-bis(4-pyridinylmethyl)-9(10H)-antracenone]) changed the somatic subthreshold voltage response but had no observable effect on local dendritic responses. Under conditions promoting dendritic Ca2+ spikes, local somatic but not dendritic application of M-channel blockers (linopirdine and XE991) enhanced the Ca2+ spikes. Simultaneous dendritic and somatic whole-cell recordings showed that the medium afterhyperpolarization after a burst of spikes underwent strong attenuation along the apical dendrite and was fully blocked by somatic XE991 application. Finally, by combining patch-clamp and extracellular recordings with computer simulations, we found that perisomatic M-channels reduce the summation of EPSPs. We conclude that functional M-channels appear to be concentrated in the perisomatic region of CA1 pyramidal neurons, with no detectable M-channel activity in the distal apical dendrites.
Dentate granule cell (DGC) neurogenesis persists throughout life in the mammalian hippocampal dentate gyrus and increases after epileptogenic insults. The DGC layer in human and experimental mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) often shows abnormal dispersion and the appearance of hilar-ectopic DGCs. In the pilocarpine mTLE model, hilar-ectopic DGCs arise as a result of an aberrant chain migration of neural progenitors. Reelin is a secreted migration guidance cue that persists in the adult rodent and human hippocampus. We tested the hypothesis that loss of Reelin in the epileptic dentate gyrus leads to aberrant chain migration of DGC precursors. We found that interneuron subsets typically lost in human and experimental mTLE express Reelin, and DGC progenitors express the downstream Reelin signaling molecule Disabled 1 (Dab1). Prolonged seizures decreased Reelin immunoreactivity in the adult rat dentate gyrus and increased Dab1 expression in hilar-ectopic neuroblasts. Exogenous Reelin increased detachment of chain-migrating neuroblasts in dentate gyrus explants, and blockade of Reelin signaling increased chain migration. These findings suggest that Reelin modulates DGC progenitor migration to maintain normal DGC integration in the neonatal and adult mammalian dentate gyrus. Loss of Reelin expression in the epileptic adult hippocampus, moreover, likely contributes to ectopic chain migration and aberrant integration of newborn DGCs.
Previous studies have shown that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), an integral mediator of the stress response, and opioids regulate the activity of the locus-coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system during stress in a reciprocal manner. Furthermore, repeated opiate exposure sensitizes noradrenergic neurons to CRF. Previous studies have shown that mu-opioid receptors (muORs) are prominently distributed within somatodendritic processes of catecholaminergic neurons in the LC and axon terminals containing opioid peptides and CRF converge within the LC. To further examine cellular sites for interactions between CRF receptor type 1 (CRFr) and muOR, immunofluorescence and electron microscopic analysis of the rat LC was conducted. Triple immunofluorescence showed prominent co-localization of the CRFr and muOR in noradrenergic somata in the LC. Ultrastructural analysis confirmed dual localization of CRFr and muOR in common dendritic processes in the LC. Semi-quantitative analysis showed that of the dendrites exhibiting CRFr immunolabeling, 57% expressed muOR immunoreactivity. These data provide ultrastructural evidence that CRFr and muOR are co-localized in LC neurons, a cellular substrate that may underlie opiate-induced sensitization of brain noradrenergic neurons to CRF.
Ample evidence from earlier studies of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors, GluR3 included, suggests that alternative splicing not only enriches AMPA receptor diversity but also, more importantly, creates receptor variants that are functionally different. However, it is not known whether alternative splicing affects the receptor channel opening that occurs in the microsecond time domain. Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique combined with whole-cell recording, we characterized the channel opening rate process for two alternatively spliced variants of GluR3, i.e., GluR3flip and GluR3flop. We show that the alternative splicing that generates flip and flop variants of GluR3 receptors regulates the channel opening process by controlling the rate of channel closing but not the rate of channel opening or the glutamate binding affinity. Specifically, the flop variant closes its channel almost 4-fold faster than the flip variant. We therefore propose that the function of the flip-flop sequence module in the channel opening process of AMPA receptors is to stabilize the open channel conformation, presumably by its pivotal structural location. Furthermore, a comparison of the flip isoform among all AMPA receptor subunits, based on the magnitude of the channel opening rate constant, suggests that GluR3 is kinetically more similar to GluR2 and GluR4 than to GluR1.

Whether fundamental visual attributes, such as color, motion, and shape, are analyzed separately in specialized pathways has been one of the central questions of visual neuroscience. Although recent studies have revealed various forms of cross-attribute interactions, including significant contributions of color signals to motion processing, it is still widely believed that color perception is relatively independent of motion processing. Here, we report a new color illusion, motion-induced color mixing, in which moving bars, the color of each of which alternates between two colors (e.g., red and green), are perceived as the mixed color (e.g., yellow) even though the two colors are never superimposed on the retina. The magnitude of color mixture is significantly stronger than that expected from direction-insensitive spatial integration of color signals. This illusion cannot be ascribed to optical image blurs, including those induced by chromatic aberration, or to involuntary eye movements of the observer. Our findings indicate that color signals are integrated not only at the same retinal location, but also along a motion trajectory. It is possible that this neural mechanism helps us to see veridical colors for moving objects by reducing motion blur, as in the case of luminance-based pattern perception.
Dopaminergic (DA) neurons exhibit a short-latency, phasic response to unexpected, biologically salient stimuli. The superior colliculus (SC) is also sensitive to such stimuli and sends a projection directly to DA-containing regions of the ventral midbrain. Recent evidence suggests that the SC is a critical relay for transmitting short-latency visual information to DA neurons. An important question is whether the ventral midbrain is an exclusive target of tectonigral neurons, or whether the tectonigral projection is a collateral branch of other tectofugal pathways. Double-label retrograde anatomical tracing techniques were used to address this issue. Injections of either Diamidino Yellow or Fluorogold into substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) were combined with larger injections of True Blue into one of the following efferent projections of the SC: 1) target regions of the ipsilateral ascending projection to the thalamus; 2) the crossed descending tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway; 3) target structures of the ipsilateral descending projection; and 4) the contralateral superior colliculus. Moderate numbers of double-labeled neurons were observed following combined injections into substantia nigra and individual nuclei in the thalamus (ventromedial nucleus, 21.3%; central lateral, 18.4%; parafasicular nucleus 6.0%). Much less double-labeling was associated with injections into either of the descending projections (crossed, 1.0-3.2%; uncrossed, 0.2-2.7%) or the contralateral SC (0.7-1.9%). These results suggest: i) the SC may provide a coordinated input concerning the occurrence of unpredicted sensory events to both the substantia nigra and striatum (via the thalamus); and ii) few gaze-related motor signals are simultaneously relayed to DA-containing regions of the ventral midbrain.
Despite numerous reports that different markers are expressed by horizontal cells in the avian retina, it remains unknown whether different types of horizontal cells can be defined by differences in their immunocytochemical profiles. The purpose of this study was to rectify this deficiency. We identified horizontal cells by indirect immunofluorescence with antibodies to calretinin, trkA, GABA, Prox1, AP2alpha, Pax6, islet1, and Lim1 + 2. We found two major groups of horizontal cells, those that express trkA and those that express calretinin. The trkA-immunoreactive (-IR) horizontal cells had small, round somata and robust, bulbous dendritic endings, whereas calretinin-IR horizontal cells had large, polygonal cell bodies and fine, diffuse dendritic endings, both contacting the calbindin-IR pedicles of double cones. Weak gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunoreactivity was observed only in a few of the trkA-IR horizontal cells, whereas the overlap of calretinin and GABA immunoreactivities was 100%. The majority of trkA-IR horizontal cells expressed islet1, and the majority of calretinin-IR horizontal cells expressed Lim1 + 2, AP2alpha, and Pax6. Islet1 immunoreactivity was observed in a small fraction of calretinin-IR/non-trkA-IR cells. In agreement with previous reports, we detected Prox1 immunoreactivity in all types of horizontal cells. These immunolabeling profiles suggest that there are four immunochemically distinct subtypes of horizontal cells in the postnatal chick retina, which may match the four types that have been observed in Golgi-impregnated pigeon and turtle retinas.
RET (for &quot;rearranged during transfection&quot;) is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase signaling receptor for members of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of ligands. We used RET immunohistochemistry (IHC), double-labeling immunofluorescence (IF), and in situ hybridization (ISH) in adult nave and nerve-injured rats to study the distribution of RET in the spinal cord. In the dorsal horn, strong RET-immunoreactive (-ir) fibers were abundant in lamina II-inner (II(i)), although this labeling was preferentially observed after an antigen-unmasking procedure. After dorsal rhizotomy, RET-ir fibers in lamina II(i) completely disappeared from the dorsal horn, indicating that they were all primary afferents. After peripheral axotomy, RET-ir in primary afferents decreased in lamina II(i) and appeared to increase slightly in laminae III and IV. RET-ir was also observed in neurons and dendrites throughout the dorsal horn. Some RET-ir neurons in lamina I had the morphological appearance of nociceptive projection neurons, which was confirmed by the finding that 53% of RET-ir neurons in lamina I colocalized with neurokinin-1. GDNF-ir terminals were in close proximity to RET-ir neurons in the superficial dorsal horn. In the ventral horn, RET-ir was strongly expressed by motoneurons, with the strongest staining in small, presumably gamma-motoneurons. Increased RET expression following peripheral axotomy was most pronounced in alpha-motoneurons. The expression and regulation pattern of RET in the spinal cord are in line with its involvement in regenerative processes following nerve injury. The presence of RET in dorsal horn neurons, including nociceptive projection neurons, suggests that RET also has a role in signal transduction at the spinal level. This role may include mediating the effects of GDNF released from nociceptive afferent fibers.
Adult mice carrying a null mutation of the prostanoid receptor EP3R (EP3R(-/-) mice) exhibit increased frequency of feeding during the light cycle of the day and develop an obese phenotype under a normal fat diet fed ad libitum. EP3R(-/-) mice show increased motor activity, which is not sufficient to offset the increased feeding leading to increased body weight. Altered &quot;nocturnal&quot; activity and feeding behavior is present from a very early age and does not seem to require age-dependent factors for the development of obesity. Obesity in EP3R(-/-) mice is characterized by elevated leptin and insulin levels and &gt;20% higher body weight compared with WT littermates. Abdominal and subcutaneous fat and increased liver weight account for the weight increase in EP3R(-/-) mice. These observations expand the roles of prostaglandin E(2) signaling in metabolic regulation beyond the reported stimulation of leptin release from adipose tissue to involve actions mediated by EP3R in the regulation of sleep architecture and feeding behavior. The findings add to the growing literature on links between inflammatory signaling and obesity.
The Streptococcus pneumoniae toxin pneumolysin belongs to the group of cholesterol-dependent cytolysins. It produces rapid cell lysis at higher concentrations or apoptosis at lower concentrations. In cell membranes, it forms prepores and pores. Here, we show that sublytic concentrations of pneumolysin produce rapid activation of Rho and Rac GTPases and formation of actin stress fibers, filopodia, and lamellipodia. That Rac1-specific and Rho-associated kinase (ROCK)-specific inhibitors reverted the formation of lamellipodia and stress fibers, respectively, identifies RhoA and Rac1 as key toxin effectors. Live imaging excluded macropore formation (as judged by membrane impermeability toward calcein) but indicated very early membrane depolarization [as judged by bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid)trimethine oxanol staining], indicative of formation of micropores with ion channel properties. That Rac1-dependent lamellipodia formation was reverted by the voltage-gated calcium channel inhibitor SKF96365 and by toxin exposure in calcium-free medium suggests a role for calcium influx via endogenous calcium channels in the Rac1 activation. Cellular cholesterol depletion by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin or incubation of the toxin with cholesterol before cell treatment eliminated its membrane binding and the subsequent GTPase activation. Thus, that our experiments show small GTPase activation by a cholesterol-dependent cytolysin suggests a membrane cholesterol-dependent activation mechanism.
Our previous studies of DARPP-32 in striatal slices have shown that activation of D1 receptors leads to cAMP-dependent dephosphorylation of Thr-75, the Cdk5 site in DARPP-32. In the current study, we have elucidated a mechanism whereby protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is activated by a cAMP/PKA-dependent pathway, leading to dephosphorylation of Thr-75. PP2A consists of a catalytic C subunit that associates with the scaffolding A subunit and a variety of B subunits. We have found that the A/C subunits of PP2A, in association with the B56delta (or PPP2R5D) regulatory subunit, is an active DARPP-32 phosphatase. The B56delta subunit expressed in HEK293 cells forms a heterotrimeric assembly that catalyzes PKA-mediated dephosphorylation at Thr-75 in DARPP-32 (also cotransfected into HEK293 cells). The B56delta subunit is phosphorylated by PKA, and this increases the overall activity of PP2A in vitro and in vivo. Among four PKA-phosphorylation sites identified in B56delta in vitro, Ser-566 was found to be critical for the regulation of PP2A activity. Moreover, Ser-566 was phosphorylated by PKA in response to activation of D1 receptors in striatal slices. Based on these studies, we propose that the B56delta/A/C PP2A complex regulates the dephosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr-75, thereby helping coordinate the efficacy of dopaminergic neurotransmission in striatal neurons. Moreover, stimulation of protein phosphatase activity by this mechanism may represent an important signaling pathway regulated by cAMP in neurons and other types of cell.
The hippocampus and adjacent medial temporal lobe structures are known to support declarative memory, but there is not consensus about what memory functions the hippocampus might support that are distinct from the functions of the adjacent cortex. One idea is that the hippocampus is specifically important for allocentric spatial memory, e.g., the hippocampus is especially needed to remember object locations when there is a shift in viewpoint between study and test. We tested this proposal in two experiments. Patients with damage limited to the hippocampus were given memory tests for object locations in a virtual environment. In the first experiment, participants studied locations of a variable number of images (one to five) and tried to remember the image locations from either the same viewpoint as during study (shift of 0 degrees) or a different viewpoint (shift of 55 degrees, 85 degrees, or 140 degrees). In each viewpoint condition (shifts of 0 degrees, 55 degrees, 85 degrees, and 140 degrees), patients performed normally when remembering one or two image locations. Further, performance declined to a similar degree in each viewpoint condition as patients tried to remember increasing numbers of image locations. In the second experiment, participants tried to remember four images after viewpoint shifts of 0 degrees, 55 degrees, 85 degrees, or 140 degrees. Patients were mildly impaired at all conditions (shifts of 0 degrees, 55 degrees, 85 degrees, and 140 degrees), and the impairment was no greater when viewpoint shifted. We conclude that damage to the hippocampus does not selectively impair viewpoint-independent spatial memory. Rather, hippocampal damage impairs memory as the memory load increases.
Serine racemase (SR) generates D-serine, a coagonist with glutamate at NMDA receptors. We show that SR is physiologically S-nitrosylated leading to marked inhibition of enzyme activity. Inhibition involves interactions with the cofactor ATP reflecting juxtaposition of the ATP-binding site and cysteine-113 (C113), the site for physiological S-nitrosylation. NMDA receptor physiologically enhances SR S-nitrosylation by activating neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS). These findings support a model whereby postsynaptic stimulation of nitric-oxide (NO) formation feeds back to presynaptic cells to S-nitrosylate SR and decrease D-serine availability to postsynaptic NMDA receptors.
Two hallmarks of measles virus (MV) infection are the ability of the virus to cause immunosuppression and the resultant enhanced susceptibility of the infected host to microbial insults. We investigated the effect of MV infection on the ability of dendritic cells (DCs) to induce IL-12 via toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling. When infected with MV, transgenic mice which expressed human SLAM receptor on their DCs were defective in the selective synthesis of IL-12 in DCs in response to stimulation of TLR4 signaling, but not to engagements of TLR2, 3, 7 or 9. MV suppressed TLR4-mediated IL-12 induction in DCs even in the presence of co-stimulation with another ligand for TLR2, 3, 7, or 9. While MV V and C proteins were not responsible for IL-12 inhibition, interaction of MV hemagglutinin with human SLAM facilitated the suppression. These results suggest that MV, by altering DC function, renders them unresponsive to secondary pathogens via TLR4.
A simple and reproducible high-performance liquid chromatographic method was developed for simultaneous determination of sulfamethoxazole (SMX) and trimethoprim (TMP) in human plasma. The method entailed injection of the samples after deproteination with perchloric acid and subsequent neutralizing. Primidone was used as internal standard. Chromatography was performed on a C(18) column (250 mm x 4.6 mm, 5 microm) under isocratic elution with 50 mM aqueous sodium dihydrogen phosphate-acetonitrile-triethylamine (100:25:0.5, v/v), pH 5.9. Detection was made at 240 nm and analyses were run at a flow-rate of 1.5 ml/min at a temperature of 35 degrees C. The recovery was 83.4, 88.5 and 98.2% for TMP, SMX and internal standard, respectively. The precision of the method was 2.6-9.8% over the concentration range of 0.125-2 microg/ml for TMP and 0.39-50 microg/ml for SMX. The limit of quantification (LOQ) in plasma was 0.125 and 0.39 microg/ml for TMP and SMX, respectively. The method was used for a bioequivalence study.
A model of spatiotemporal signal processing by the cone-horizontal cell circuit in the primate outer retina is developed and validated using measurements on the H1 horizontal cell from the literature. The model extends an earlier temporal model that mainly addressed the regulation of sensitivity by the cones. Three elements are added to the earlier model to describe the full spatiotemporal processing by horizontal cells. First, the feedback gain from horizontal cells to cones is made adaptive, depending on field size. Second, the spatial filtering by the horizontal dendritic tree is modeled as a two-component spatial filter. Third, an adaptive temporal low-pass filter is added, also depending on field size. The resulting model adequately describes all available measurements on spatiotemporal processing in macaque H1 cells. The adaptive feedback gain is argued to contribute to negative afterimages and chromatic adaptation in human vision.
During preoperative evaluation for anesthesia in the Down patient, it is important to focus attention on the functional conditions of the patient and systems that frequently show anomalies. One of the challenges of evaluating pre-operative conditions and potential risks in the Down patient is the lack of a gold-standard evaluation score; cervical spine abnormalities, reduced dimensions and malformations of the airways, neurological changes, respiratory and cardiac disease, as well as endocrinological and metabolic alterations. We suggest, as a possible method of evaluation for patients with mental retardation and possible malformations, a new scale which takes the functional and mental conditions into account: the Sensorial, Psychological, Anatomical, Biological, Operational and Surgical (SPABOS) Compliance Score.
Recent data suggest that the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor subtype plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of effective disorders and in the action of antidepressant drugs. After chronic treatment with the antidepressants desipramine or paroxetine, we measured by immunoprecipitation and Western blotting, the changes in the interaction of AMPA receptor subunits with proteins involved in trafficking and/or stabilization of the subunits into synaptic membranes of the hippocampus. Both antidepressants increased the interaction of GluR1 subunit with stargazin and of GluR2/3 with NSF. Paroxetine increased the interaction of GluR1 with Rab4A, and desipramine markedly increased the interaction of GluR1 with SAP97. Paroxetine, but not desipramine, also increased membrane levels of CaMKII, autophosphorylated CaMKII and GluR1 phosphorylated at the CaMKII site. Interactions of GluR1 and GluR2/3 with proteins implicated in AMPA receptor trafficking and with scaffolding proteins appear to account for the enhanced membrane expression of AMPA receptors in the hippocampus after antidepressant treatment.
A subset of Alzheimer disease cases is caused by autosomal dominant mutations in genes encoding the amyloid beta-protein precursor or presenilins. Whereas some amyloid beta-protein precursor mutations alter its metabolism through effects on Abeta production, the pathogenic effects of those that alter amino acid residues within the Abeta sequence are not fully understood. Here we examined the biophysical effects of two recently described intra-Abeta mutations linked to early-onset familial Alzheimer disease, the D7N Tottori-Japanese and H6R English mutations. Although these mutations do not affect Abeta production, synthetic Abeta(1-42) peptides carrying D7N or H6R substitutions show enhanced fibril formation. In vitro analysis using Abeta(1-40)-based mutant peptides reveal that D7N or H6R mutations do not accelerate the nucleation phase but selectively promote the elongation phase of amyloid fibril formation. Notably, the levels of protofibrils generated from D7N or H6R Abeta were markedly inhibited despite enhanced fibril formation. These N-terminal Abeta mutations may accelerate amyloid fibril formation by a unique mechanism causing structural changes of Abeta peptides, specifically promoting the elongation process of amyloid fibrils without increasing metastable intermediates.
Ca(v)2.3 calcium channels play an important role in pain transmission in peripheral sensory neurons. Six Ca(v)2.3 isoforms resulting from different combinations of three inserts (inserts I and II in the II-III loop and insert III in the carboxyl-terminal region) have been identified in different mammalian tissues. To date, however, Ca(v)2.3 isoforms unique to primary sensory neurons have not been identified. In this study, we determined Ca(v)2.3 isoforms expressed in the rat trigeminal ganglion neurons. Whole tissue reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analyses revealed that only two isoforms, Ca(v)2.3a and Ca(v)2.3e, are present in TG neurons. Using single cell RT-PCR, we found that Ca(v)2.3e is the major isoform, whereas Ca(v)2.3e expression is highly restricted to small (&lt;16 mum) isolectin B4-negative and tyrosine kinase A-positive neurons. Ca(v)2.3e was also preferentially detected in neurons expressing the nociceptive marker, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1. Single cell RT-PCR following calcium imaging and whole-cell patch clamp recordings provided evidence of an association between an R-type calcium channel component and Ca(v)2.3e expression. Our results suggest that Ca(v)2.3e in sensory neurons may be a potential target for the treatment of pain.


Improved understanding of how brain function is altered in neurodegenerative disease states, pain and conditions, such as schizophrenia and attention deficit disorder, has highlighted the role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in these conditions and identified them as promising therapeutic targets. nAChRs are widely expressed throughout the peripheral and central nervous system, and this widespread nature underlines the need for new ligands with different selectivities and pharmacological profiles if we are to avoid the adverse side effects associated with many of the nAChR modulators currently identified. Partial agonists have the unique property of being able to act both as agonists or antagonists depending on the concentration of endogenous neurotransmitter. Moreover, the agonist action of partial agonists has a 'ceiling' effect, giving them a large safety margin and making them an attractive proposition for therapeutic molecules. Partial agonists of nAChRs are currently being developed as a nicotine replacement therapy for smoking cessation and for the treatment of a number of neurological diseases associated with a loss of cholinergic function. This commentary will discuss the pharmacological properties of partial agonists and review recent research developments in the field of partial agonists acting at nicotinic receptors.

A series of non-nucleoside adenosine kinase (AK) inhibitors is reported. These inhibitors originated from the modification of 5-(3-bromophenyl)-7-(6-morpholin-4-ylpyridin-3-yl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-ylamine (ABT-702). The identification of a linker that would approximate the spatial arrangement found between the pyrimidine ring and the aryl group at C(7) in ABT-702 was a key element in this modification. A search of potential linkers led to the discovery of an acetylene moiety as a suitable scaffold. It was hypothesized that the aryl acetylenes, ABT-702, and adenosine bound to the active site of AK (closed form) in a similar manner with respect to the orientation of the heterocyclic base. Although potent acetylene analogs were discovered based on this assumption, an X-ray crystal structure of 5-(4-dimethylaminophenyl)-6-(6-morpholin-4-ylpyridin-3-ylethynyl)pyrimidin-4-ylamine (16a) revealed a binding orientation contrary to adenosine. In addition, this compound bound tightly to a unique open conformation of AK. The structure-activity relationships and unique ligand orientation and protein conformation are discussed.
Maternal smoking results in low birth weight. Using a neonatal gastric intubation model corresponding to the third trimester in humans, nicotine, the major psychoactive ingredient in tobacco, causes growth retardation in rat pups. Here, we wanted to determine the underlying mechanisms of nicotine's anorexic effects. In adults, body weight and energy expenditure are regulated by the adiposity hormone leptin and the orexigenic peptides neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and anorexic peptides proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) expressed in the hypothalamic arcuate (Arc) nucleus. Activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) could regulate leptin release and/or peptide expression in the Arc. Neonatal rat pups were treated twice daily with nicotine (0.25, 1.5, and 3 mg/kg) from postnatal day 1 to 8 (P1-8). This resulted in an upregulation of heteromeric nAChR binding sites in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and Arc. Nicotine at all three doses significantly reduced body weight gain and increased mRNA expression of NPY, AgRP, and POMC effects, which were blocked by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), an alpha4beta2* nAChR antagonist, but CART expression was unaffected. In contrast, serum leptin levels were significantly increased only by 3 and 1.5 mg/kg, and the increase was only partially blocked by DHbetaE. These data suggest that in neonates chronic nicotine regulates body weight gain independent from serum leptin levels by a central mechanism involving alpha4beta2* heteromeric nAChRs and stimulated increased expression of the anorexic peptide POMC. Whereas, increased NPY and AgRP expression could be a secondary response to reduction in weight gain.
Vertebrate eye development has been an excellent model system to investigate basic concepts of developmental biology ranging from mechanisms of tissue induction to the complex patterning and bidimensional orientation of the highly specialized retina. Recent advances have shed light on the interplay between numerous transcriptional networks and growth factors that are involved in the specific stages of retinogenesis, optic nerve formation, and topographic mapping. In this review, we summarize this recent progress on the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of the eye, visual system, and embryonic tumors that arise in the optic system.
The cdk5/p35 complex has been implicated in a variety of functions related to brain development, including axonal outgrown and neuronal migration. In this study, by co-immunoprecipitation and pull-down experiments, we have shown that the cdk5/p35 complex associates with and phosphorylates the neuronal delta-catenin. Immunocytochemical studies of delta-catenin and the cdk5-activator p35 in primary cortical neurons indicated that these proteins co-localize in the cell body of neuronal cells. In addition, cdk5 co-localized with beta-catenin in the cell-cell contacts and plasma membrane of undifferentiated and differentiated N2A cells. In this context, we identified Ser(191) and Ser(246) on beta-catenin structure as specific phosphorylation sites for cdk5/p35 complex. Moreover, Pin1, a peptidyl-prolyl isomerase (PPIase) directly bound to both, beta- and delta-catenin, once they have been phosphorylated by the cdk5/p35 complex. Studies indicate that the cdk5/p35 protein kinase system is directly involved in the regulatory mechanisms of neuronal beta- and delta-catenin.
The Integrative Action of the Nervous System by the British physiologist Charles Sherrington was published 100 years ago. Its goal was to explain how the nervous system welds a collection of disparate body parts and organs into a unified individual. Sherrington postulated that the reflex is the simplest unit of nervous integration. He introduced the concept of the synapse as the site where elementary reflexes interact to enable more complex and unified behavior and argued that a synaptic nervous system facilitated the evolution of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The concept of the synapse as a physiological entity provided a theoretical schema into which the richly varied phenomenology of nineteenth century reflex physiology could be assimilated. Sherrington's book also provided the conceptual framework for a century of research into the mechanisms of synaptic transmission and the neuronal discharges associated with perception and action.
Sjogren's syndrome (SS) is a systemic autoimmune disorder, and neurological involvement may frequently occur. Here we describe a 79-year-old woman who came to our attention for a sudden right incomplete 3rd cranial nerve palsy. Following extensive investigations, a diagnosis of primary SS was reached, and the patient recovered after treatment with ev Ig and steroids. Therefore, we suggest that SS should be considered in apparently idiopathic 3rd cranial nerve palsies, since, with the appropriate treatment, they might be transient and reversible.
One of the major barriers to the provision of quality care for patients with neurological disorders in developing countries is a low ratio of neurologists per inhabitants, the World Health Organization recommends one neurologist per 100,000. In 1998 Honduras had one neurologist per 325,000 inhabitants and all the neurologists were trained outside the country. The Education Committee of the World Federation of Neurology (WFN), in collaboration with the Postgraduate Direction of the National Autonomous University of Honduras, the Honduran Neurological Association, and the Honduran Secretary of Health helped establish the country's first Neurology Training Program in 1998. This program was established using a problem- and epidemiological-oriented methodology with oversight by an external WFN review board. By 2006 the program has resulted in a 31% increase in the national neurologist ratio per inhabitant, significantly improved the quality of patient care and promoted research in the neurosciences. The Honduras Neurology Training Program has provided a valuable model for other developing countries with similar needs for neurological care. Based on this Honduras experience, members of the Education Committee of the WFN have established guidelines for neurology training programs in developing countries.
Implantation of multi-electrode arrays is becoming increasingly more prevalent within the neuroscience research community and has become important for clinical applications. Many of these studies have been directed towards the development of sensory and motor prosthesis. Here, we present a multi-electrode system made from biocompatible material that is electrically and mechanically stable, and employs design features allowing flexibility in the geometric layout and length of the individual electrodes within the array. We also employ recent advances in laser machining of thin ceramic substrates, application of ultra-fine line gold conductors to ceramic, fabrication of extremely flexible cables, and fine wire management techniques associated with juxtaposing metal microelectrodes within a few hundred microns of each other in the development of a floating multi-electrode array (FMA). We implanted the FMA in rats and show that the FMA is capable of recording both spikes and local field potentials.
Spatial organization of the nerve fibers in the peripheral nerves may be important for the studies of axonal regeneration, the degenerative nerve diseases and the construction of interfaces with peripheral nerves, such as nerve prostheses. Functional topography of motor axons related to the gastrocnemius muscle was revealed in the ventral spinal roots by retrograde tracing. Gastrocnemius muscles of adult rats were injected with the tracer Fluoro-Gold. After 3 days of survival the animals were sacrificed and their ventral roots were harvested, sectioned, and imaged on a fluorescence microscope. Maps of the traced fibers were automatically analyzed using a novel approach, local spatial clustering statistics, that tested for occurrences of clusters of motor fibers and visualized them. Thresholds indicating the presence of clustering at various scales of observation were computed based on series of Monte Carlo simulations of random spatial point patterns. Clusters were visualized by kernel interpolation. The approach was tested on simulated data and subsequently applied to the motor fiber maps in the ventral roots. Results revealed clustering of the motor fibers innervating the gastrocnemius muscle at the level of the L6 ventral spinal root. The analysis was validated using Voronoi tessellation and nearest neighbor analysis.
So far, the double-magnetic induction (DMI) method has been successfully applied to record eye movements from head-restrained humans, monkeys and cats. An advantage of the DMI method, compared to the more widely used scleral search coil technique, is the absence of vulnerable lead wires on the eye. A disadvantage, however, is that the relationship between the eye-in-head orientation and the secondary induction signal is highly non-linear and non-monotonic. This limits the effective measuring range to maximum eye orientations of about +/-30 degrees . Here, we analyze and test two extensions required to record the full eye-head orienting range, well exceeding 90 degrees from straight-ahead in all directions. (1) The use of mutually perpendicular magnetic fields allows for the disambiguation of the non-monotonic signal from the ring. (2) The application of an artificial neural network for offline calibration of the signals. The theoretical predictions are tested for horizontal rotations with a gimbal system. Our results show that the method is a promising alternative to the search coil technique.
We report on a new microdrive design, which enables the construction of multi-electrode arrays capable of chronically recording the multi-unit neural activity of waking animals. Our principal motivation for inventing this device was to simplify the task of positioning electrodes, which consumes a considerable amount of time and requires a high level of skill. With the new microdrives, each electrode is independently and automatically driven into place. A hydraulic drive system is adopted to reduce the size, weight, and cost of the structure. The hydraulic fluid is also used as a part of the electrical circuit, and facilitates the wiring of the electrodes. A routing system has been attached to reduce the number of tube connections. The microdrive is cylindrical, has a diameter of 23.5 mm, a height of 37 mm, and a weight of 15 g. It allows for up to 22 electrodes, which are arranged on a 0.35 mm grid. Each electrode can be positioned at any depth up to approximately 4mm. The microdrive was evaluated under acute and chronic recording experiments, and is shown to be capable of automatically positioning each electrode and successfully recording the neural signals of waking rats.
Chondroitin sulfate increases around a lesion site after central nervous system injury and is believed to be an impediment to axonal regeneration, because administration of chondroitinase ABC, a chondroitin sulfate-degrading enzyme, promotes axonal regeneration of central neurons. To examine the physiological role of chondroitin sulfate up-regulation after injury, the nigrostriatal dopaminergic axons were unilaterally transected in mice, and chondroitinase ABC was then injected into the lesion site. In mice transected only, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons did not extend across the lesion at 1 or 2 weeks after the transection. Immunoreactivities of chondroitin sulfate side chains and core protein of NG2 proteoglycan increased in and around the lesion site, and a fibrotic scar containing type IV collagen deposits developed in the lesion center. In contrast, in mice transected and treated with chondroitinase ABC, numerous tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons were regenerated across the lesion at 1 and 2 weeks after the transection. In these animals, chondroitin sulfate immunoreactivity remarkably decreased, and immunoreactivity of 2B6 antibody, which recognizes the stub of degraded chondroitin sulfate side chains, was enhanced. Furthermore, the formation of a fibrotic scar and a glia limitans that surrounds the former was completely prevented, although type IV collagen immunoreactivity remained in newly formed blood capillaries around the lesion site. We discuss the question of whether the chondroitin sulfate is acting as a direct inhibitor of axonal regeneration or whether the observed changes are due to a prevention of the fibrotic scar formation and a rearrangement of astrocytic membranes.
Maternal alcohol consumption during pregnancy can cause serious birth defects, of which fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the most devastating. Recognized by characteristic craniofacial abnormalities and growth deficiency, this condition produces severe alcohol-induced damage in the developing brain. FAS children experience ataxia; deficits in intellectual functioning; and difficulties in learning, memory, problem solving, and attention. Multiple aspects of central nervous system development can be affected by alcohol exposure, but the most striking abnormalities are neuronal and glial migration. Little is known about cellular mechanisms by which alcohol affects the migration of immature neurons. Recently, it has been found that Ca(2+) signaling and cyclic nucleotide signaling are the central targets of the action of alcohol in neuronal cell migration. Most importantly, the aberrant migration of immature neurons caused by alcohol exposure is significantly ameliorated by controlling the activity of these second-messenger pathways. In this Mini-Review, we first describe how alcohol exposure impairs the migration of cerebellar granule cells and then discuss the signaling mechanisms involved.
In rods and visible cone photoreceptors, multiple measurements cannot be made of intracellular Ca2+ concentration from the same cell using fluorescent dyes, because a single exposure of the measuring light bleaches too large a fraction of the rod or cone photopigment. We have therefore identified and characterized UV-sensitive cones of the zebrafish, whose wavelength of maximum sensitivity is at 360 nm which is far enough from the wavelength of our measuring light (514.5 nm) so that it has been possible to make multiple determinations of photocurrent and Ca2+ concentration from the same cells. We show that for a limited number of measurements, for which the bleaching of the cone photopigment is too small to affect flash kinetics, the outer segment Ca2+ concentration closely follows the wave form of the flash response convolved with the dominant time constant for Ca2+ removal by Na+-Ca2+-K+ exchange. For a larger number of measurements, significant acceleration of the response kinetics by pigment bleaching inevitably occurs, but the Ca2+ concentration nevertheless rises and falls in approximate agreement with the flash wave form. During exposure to steady background light, the Ca2+ concentration falls in proportion to the steady-state current for dim backgrounds at all times and for bright backgrounds at steady state. At early times following the onset of bright backgrounds, however, the Ca2+ concentration is markedly higher than expected from the current of the cone. We show this to be the result of light-dependent Ca2+ release by bright background light, which can be abolished by pre-exposure of the cone to the membrane-permeant acetoxymethyl ester of the Ca2+ chelator BAPTA. Our results therefore demonstrate that the cone outer segment Ca2+ concentration is predominantly a function of the rate of influx and efflux of Ca2+ across the plasma membrane, but that a release of Ca2+ in bright light most probably from buffer sites within the cell can transiently elevate the Ca2+ concentration above the level expected from the open probability of the light-dependent channels.
This study concerns the properties of neurons carrying signals for colour vision in primates. We investigated the variability of responses of individual parvocellular lateral geniculate neurons of dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets to drifting sinusoidal luminance and chromatic gratings. Response variability was quantified by the cycle-to-cycle variation in Fourier components of the response. Averaged across the population, the variability at low contrasts was greater than predicted by a Poisson process, and at high contrasts the responses were approximately 40% more variable than responses at low contrasts. The contrast-dependent increase in variability was nevertheless below that expected from the increase in firing rate. Variability falls below the Poisson prediction at high contrast, and intrinsic variability of the spike train decreases as contrast increases. Thus, while deeply modulated responses in parvocellular cells have a larger absolute variability than weakly modulated ones, they have a more favourable signal: noise ratio than predicted by a Poisson process. Similar results were obtained from a small sample of magnocellular and koniocellular ('blue-on') neurons. For parvocellular neurons with pronounced colour opponency, chromatic responses were, on average, less variable (10-15%, p&lt;0.01) than luminance responses of equal magnitude. Conversely, non-opponent parvocellular neurons showed the opposite tendency. This is consistent with a supra-additive noise source prior to combination of cone signals. In summary, though variability of parvocellular neurons is largely independent of the way in which they combine cone signals, the noise characteristics of retinal circuitry may augment specialization of parvocellular neurons to signal luminance or chromatic contrast.
We performed a detailed evaluation of pulmonary function in 53 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) who did not have symptoms of pulmonary or cardiac dysfunction. There was a significant pulmonary dysfunction of restrictive type which partially responded to levodopa. Compared to men, women were more severely affected. Pulmonary function assessment is recommended in PD, irrespective of severity of disease.
The objective of this study was to assess quality of life (QoL) in a community-based sample of people with various forms of dystonia and to identify the factors that predict QoL in dystonia. QoL was assessed using two generic questionnaires: the Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form 36 (SF36) and the EuroQol questionnaire. A host of demographic, clinical, and psychosocial variables were measured to identify the best predictors of QoL in dystonia. A comparison of EuroQol and SF36 scores with the norms for the general UK population of similar age showed that people with dystonia had scores indicative of worse QoL on all domains, particularly those related to physical and social functioning. The impairment of QoL was seen in all age groups and was similar for men and women. Compared to the focal dystonia group, participants with generalized dystonia scored significantly worse on all QoL measures. Participants who were unemployed also scored significantly worse. There was also a trend for younger and separated/divorced participants to score worse on QoL measures. A stepwise regression analysis revealed that functional disability, body concept, and depression were important predictors of QoL in dystonia. Dystonia influences various aspects of QoL, particularly those related to physical and social functioning. The impairment of QoL was greater for participants with generalized dystonia, those who were unemployed, younger, and separated/divorced. Functional disability, body concept, and depression were the best predictors of QoL in dystonia. Efforts to improve health care for people with dystonia should not only focus on management of the movement disorder but also consider modifying functional disability and negative body concept and depression that contribute to poor QoL in this disorder.
An increasing number of nonsynonymous LRRK2 variants are being reported as putative pathogenic mutations. We identified one large kindred harboring the Lrrk2 R1514Q substitution; however, the variant did not segregate fully with disease. Combined analyses of three case-control series demonstrate that the R1514Q substitution is not associated with increased risk of disease (OR: 1.3; 95% CI: 0.6-2.8; P = 0.45). These findings highlight the importance of using family-based studies and multiple population screenings when examining the association of these polymorphic LRRK2 gene variants with Parkinson's disease.
We evaluated the prevalence of the SCA2 mutation among 224 Italian patients affected by typical Parkinsonism, including 145 sporadic and 79 familial forms. Pink1, Parkin, and LRRK2 gene mutations had been excluded previously. Molecular testing for the CAG expansion at the SCA 2 locus was performed on leukocyte DNA. Cloning and sequencing of the expanded allele was performed in patients positive for the SCA2 expansion. A 38 CAG expansion was detected in 1 of 79 families studied. The proband, a male age 67, and his sister, age 69, were both affected by a benign form of L-dopa-responsive Parkinsonism not associated with cerebellar signs. The inheritance was autosomal dominant. The CAG expansion was stable through meiotic transmission: sequence analysis showed that the CAG stretch was interrupted by 3 CAA. Our study shows that CAG expansion at the SCA 2 locus may represent a genetic cause of familial L-dopa-responsive Parkinsonism among Italian patients. The stability of the pathological CAG expansion detected in this family was related to the presence of CAA interruptions. These findings, together with literature data, suggest that the molecular intrinsic structure of the expanded allele may modulate the phenotypic expression of the SCA2 mutation.
Visuomotor transformation processes are essential when accurate reaching movements towards a visual target have to be performed. In contrast, those transformations are not needed for similar, but non-visually guided, arm movements. According to previous studies, these transformations are carried out by neuronal populations located in the parietal and frontal cortical areas (the so-called &quot;dorsal visual stream&quot;). However, it is still debated whether these processes are mediated by the sequential and/or parallel activation of the frontoparietal areas. To investigate this issue, we designed a task where the same visual cue could represent either the target of a reaching/pointing movement or the go-signal for a similar but non-targeting arm movement. By subtracting the event-related potentials (ERPs) recorded from healthy subjects performing the two conditions, we identified the brain processes underlying the visuomotor transformations needed for accurate reaching/pointing movements. We then localized the generators by means of cortical current density (CCD) reconstruction and studied their dynamics from visual cue presentation to movement onset. The results showed simultaneous activation of the parietal and frontal areas from 140 to 260 ms. The results are interpreted as neural correlates of two critical phases of visuomotor integration, namely target selection and movement selection. Our findings suggest that the visuomotor transformation processes required for correct reaching/pointing movements do not rely on a purely sequential activation of the frontoparietal areas, but mainly on a parallel information processing system, where feedback circuits play an important role before movement onset.
Face inversion hinders face processing in adults, while not affecting children in the same way. This fMRI study examines the neural underpinnings of the behavioral face inversion effect (FIE) from childhood to adulthood, and how face-selective regions in the brain may change with development. Adults, children, and teens performed a facial expression decision on upright and inverted face stimuli. In the right hemisphere (RH) all age groups showed similar profiles of neural activation for upright faces, but important developmental differences occured for inverted faces. For inverted faces, adults, and to a lesser degree teens, exhibited decreased levels of activity in the face-selective, right lateral fusiform gyrus (LFG). However, children exhibited greater activation for inverted than for upright faces in the same region. We found similar, but less robust, developmental trends in the right superior temporal sulcus (STS) and medial fusiform gyrus (MFG). Furthermore, the present study identifies the right LFG as the primary neural correlate of the behavioral FIE, and therefore of face processing expertise, by showing a significant correlation between the behavioral FIE and the neural FIE only in this region. Finally, the present findings shed some light on at least one of the possible mechanisms underlying the development of face processing expertise, by suggesting a progressive tuning of face-selective regions in the right hemisphere to the upright orientation, that extends well into adolescence.
Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) provides a noninvasive tool to probe tissue microstructure. We propose a simplified model of neural cytoarchitecture intended to capture the essential features important for water diffusion as measured by NMR. Two components contribute to the NMR signal in this model: (i) the dendrites and axons, which are modeled as long cylinders with two diffusion coefficients, parallel (D(L)) and perpendicular (D(T)) to the cylindrical axis, and (ii) an isotropic monoexponential diffusion component describing water diffusion within and across all other structures, i.e., in extracellular space and glia cells. The model parameters are estimated from 153 diffusion-weighted images acquired from a formalin-fixed baboon brain. A close correspondence between the data and the signal model is found, with the model parameters consistent with literature values. The model provides an estimate of dendrite density from noninvasive MR diffusion measurements, a parameter likely to be of value for understanding normal as well as abnormal brain development and function.
A new approach for analysis of event-related fMRI (BOLD) signals is proposed. The technique is based on measures from information theory and is used both for spatial localization of task-related activity, as well as for extracting temporal information regarding the task-dependent propagation of activation across different brain regions. This approach enables whole brain visualization of voxels (areas) most involved in coding of a specific task condition, the time at which they are most informative about the condition, as well as their average amplitude at that preferred time. The approach does not require prior assumptions about the shape of the hemodynamic response function (HRF) nor about linear relations between BOLD response and presented stimuli (or task conditions). We show that relative delays between different brain regions can also be computed without prior knowledge of the experimental design, suggesting a general method that could be applied for analysis of differential time delays that occur during natural, uncontrolled conditions. Here we analyze BOLD signals recorded during performance of a motor learning task. We show that, during motor learning, the BOLD response of unimodal motor cortical areas precedes the response in higher-order multimodal association areas, including posterior parietal cortex. Brain areas found to be associated with reduced activity during motor learning, predominantly in prefrontal brain regions, are informative about the task typically at significantly later times.
Together with a detailed behavioral analysis, simultaneous measurement of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) permits a better elucidation of cortical pain processing. We applied painful electrical stimulation to 6 healthy subjects and acquired fMRI simultaneously with an EEG measurement. The subjects rated various stimulus properties and the individual affective state. Stimulus-correlated BOLD effects were found in the primary and secondary somatosensory areas (SI and SII), the operculum, the insula, the supplementary motor area (SMA proper), the cerebellum, and posterior parts of the anterior cingulate gyrus (ACC). Perceived pain intensity was positively correlated with activation in these areas. Higher unpleasantness rating was associated with suppression of activity in areas known to be involved in stimulus categorization and representation (ventral premotor cortex, PCC, parietal operculum, insula) and enhanced activation in areas initiating, propagating, and executing motor reactions (ACC, SMA proper, cerebellum, primary motor cortex). Concordant dipole localizations in SI and ACC were modeled. Using the dipole strength in SI, the network was restricted to SI. The BOLD signal change in ACC was positively correlated to the individual dipole strength of the source in ACC thus revealing a close relationship of BOLD signal and possibly underlying neuronal electrical activity in SI and the ACC. The BOLD signal change decreased in SI over time. Dipole strength of the ACC source decreased over the experiment and increased during the stimulation block suggesting sensitization and habituation effects in these areas.
Dynamic causal modeling (DCM) of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data allows one to make inferences about the architecture of distributed networks in the brain, in terms of effective connectivity. fMRI data are usually acquired using echo planar imaging (EPI). EPI sequences typically acquire slices at different times over a few seconds. DCM, in its original inception, was not informed about these slice timings and assumed that all slices were acquired simultaneously. It has been shown that DCM can cope with slice timing differences of up to 1 s. However, many fMRI studies employ a repetition time (TR) of 3 to 5 s, which precludes a straightforward DCM of these data. We show that this limitation can be overcome easily by including slice timing in the DCM. Using synthetic data we show that the extended DCM furnishes veridical posterior means, even if there are large slice-timing differences. Model comparisons show that, in general, the extended DCM out-performs the original model. We contrast the modeling of slice timing, in the context of DCM, with the less effective approach of 'slice-timing correction', prior to modeling. We apply our procedure to real data and show that slice timings are important parameters. We conclude that, generally, one should use DCM with slice timing.
NMDA receptors promote neuronal survival but also cause cell degeneration and neuron loss. The mechanisms underlying these opposite effects on neuronal fate are unknown. Whole-genome expression profiling revealed that NMDA receptor signaling is decoded at the genomic level through activation of two distinct, largely nonoverlapping gene-expression programs. The location of the NMDA receptor activated specifies the transcriptional response: synaptic NMDA receptors induce a coordinate upregulation of newly identified pro-survival genes and downregulation of pro-death genes. Extrasynaptic NMDA receptors fail to activate this neuroprotective program, but instead induce expression of Clca1, a putative calcium-activated chloride channel that kills neurons. These results help explain the opposing roles of synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptors on neuronal fate. They also demonstrate that the survival function is implemented in neurons through a multicomponent system of functionally related genes, whose coordinate expression is controlled by specific calcium signal initiation sites.
Light deprivation lowers the threshold for long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP) in visual cortex by a process termed metaplasticity, but the mechanism is unknown. The decreased LTD/P threshold correlates with a decrease in the ratio of NR2A to NR2B subunits of cortical NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and a slowing of NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). However, whether and how changes in NR2 subunit expression contribute to LTD and LTP have been controversial. In the present study, we used an NR2A knockout (KO) mouse to examine the role of this subunit in the experience-dependent modulation of NMDAR properties, LTD, and LTP. We found that deletion of NR2A abrogates the effects of visual experience on NMDAR EPSCs and prevents metaplasticity of LTP and LTD. These data support the hypothesis that experience-dependent changes in NR2A/B are functionally significant and yield a mechanism for an adjustable synaptic modification threshold in visual cortex.
Several neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, are characterized neuropathologically by accumulation of misfolded proteins such as alpha-synuclein that disrupts scaffold molecules in the caveolae. A new study by Ihara et al. in this issue of Neuron shows that a novel scaffold protein, Sept4, may be an important player in modulating the pathological alterations of alpha-synuclein in models of Parkinson's disease, suggesting that gene therapies targeting scaffold proteins might be effective in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Stroke is one of the most frequent causes of death and disability. 14,000 to 15,000 individuals are hit by stroke in Norway annually, and the incidence is expected to rise. Optimal organization of rehabilitation for stroke patients has been extensively documented during the last 10 years. It is established that a larger reduction of disability and mortality for stroke patients is obtained by treatment and rehabilitation in stroke units than in general medical wards. WHO Region Europe recommends that all stroke patients are treated in stroke units in the acute phase. Additional reduction in mortality and disability is achieved through home-based rehabilitation, coordination by a multidisciplinary ambulatory team and by emphasizing cooperation between different levels of healthcare. Strategies for organising rehabilitation for different stroke patients must be based on scientific evidence; more knowledge is needed and much research is currently ongoing. The field of neuroscience has developed quickly during the last years, and evidence of brain plasticity gives reason to believe that an increase in the amount and intensity of training is important for an optimal effect. There is a need for more systematized knowledge, and further research will hopefully define a more specific and optimal strategy for stroke rehabilitation within a few years.
Trophic factors control cellular physiology by activating specific receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). While the over activation of RTK signaling pathways is associated with cell growth and cancer, recent findings support the concept that impaired down-regulation or deactivation of RTKs may also be a mechanism involved in tumor formation. Under this perspective, the molecular determinants of RTK signaling inhibition may act as tumor-suppressor genes and have a potential role as tumor markers to monitor and predict disease progression. Here, we review the current understanding of the physiological mechanisms that attenuate RTK signaling and discuss evidence that implicates deregulation of these events in cancer.
Despite advances and options available in gene therapy for HIV-1 infection, its application in the clinical setting has been challenging. Although published data from HIV-1 clinical trials show safety and proof of principle for gene therapy, positive clinical outcomes for infected patients have yet to be demonstrated. The cause for this slow progress may arise from the fact that HIV is a complex multi-organ system infection. There is uncertainty regarding the types of cells to target by gene therapy and there are issues regarding insufficient transduction of cells and long-term expression. This paper discusses state-of-the-art molecular approaches against HIV-1 and the application of these treatments in current and ongoing clinical trials.
Spontaneous retinal waves during development are thought to provide an instructive signal for precise retinotopic mapping by correlating the activity of neighboring retinal ganglion cells. In mutant mice (beta2-/-) that lack correlated waves, retinocollicular map refinement is impaired. In vivo recordings reveal that neurons in the superior colliculus of beta2-/- mice have large receptive fields and low peak visual responses, resulting in a conservation of total integrated response. We find that this &quot;response homeostasis&quot; is maintained on a cell-by-cell basis, and argue that it does not depend on regulation from the visual cortex during adulthood. Instead, in vitro recordings show that homeostasis arises from the conservation of total synaptic input from the retina, and that it is maintained via different mechanisms over development. In the absence of correlated retinal waves, beta2-/- neurons sample a larger number of weaker retinal inputs relative to controls after the first postnatal week. Once retinal waves are restored, developmental learning rules and homeostasis drive refinement so that fewer, stronger synapses are retained, as in wild-type mice, but from a larger retinal area. Homeostasis in neurons has been shown previously to regulate the gain of synaptic transmission in response to perturbations of activity. Our results suggest that during the development of sensory maps, a unique consequence of homeostatic mechanisms is the precise shaping of neuronal receptive fields in conjunction with activity-dependent competition.
The actin-modulating protein Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein verprolin homologous-1 (WAVE1) and a novel CNS-specific protein, pancortin, are highly enriched in adult cerebral cortex, but their functions are unknown. Here we show that WAVE1 and pancortin-2 interact in a novel cell death cascade in adult, but not embryonic, cerebral cortical neurons. Focal ischemic stroke induces the formation of a protein complex that includes pancortin-2, WAVE1, and the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL. The three-protein complex is associated with mitochondria resulting in increased association of Bax with mitochondria, cytochrome c release, and neuronal apoptosis. In pancortin null mice generated using a Cre-loxP system, ischemia-induced WAVE1-Bcl-xL interaction is diminished, and cortical neurons in these mice are protected against ischemic injury. Thus, pancortin-2 is a mediator of ischemia-induced apoptosis of neurons in the adult cerebral cortex and functions in a novel mitochondrial/actin-associated protein complex that sequesters Bcl-xL.
Inhibition of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) protects the adult brain after cerebral ischemia. However, the role of MMP-9 in the immature brain after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is unknown. We exposed MMP-9(-/-) [MMP-9 knock-out (KO)] and wild-type (WT) mice to HI on postnatal day 9. HI was induced by unilateral ligation of the left carotid artery followed by hypoxia (10% O2; 36 degrees C). Gelatin zymography showed that MMP-9 activity was transiently increased at 24 h after HI in the ipsilateral hemisphere and MMP-9-positive cells were colocalized with activated microglia. Seven days after 50 min of HI, cerebral tissue volume loss was reduced in MMP-9 KO (21.8 +/- 1.7 mm3; n = 22) compared with WT (32.3 +/- 2.1 mm3; n = 22; p &lt; 0.001) pups, and loss of white-matter components was reduced in MMP-9 KO compared with WT pups (neurofilament: WT, 50.9 +/- 5.4%; KO, 18.4 +/- 3.1%; p &lt; 0.0001; myelin basic protein: WT, 57.5 +/- 5.8%; KO, 23.2 +/- 3.5%; p = 0.0001). The neuropathological changes were associated with a delayed and diminished leakage of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and a decrease in inflammation in MMP-9-deficient animals. In contrast, the neuroprotective effects after HI in MMP-9-deficient animals were not linked to either caspase-dependent (caspase-3 and cytochrome c) or caspase-independent (apoptosis-inducing factor) processes. This study demonstrates that excessive activation of MMP-9 is deleterious to the immature brain, which is associated with the degree of BBB leakage and inflammation. In contrast, apoptosis does not appear to be a major contributing factor.
The loss of nerve growth factor (NGF) and its high affinity receptor TrkA has been implicated in the loss of cholinergic tone and function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and normal aging. We employed an animal model of aging, the aged rat, which also exhibits memory loss and NGF alterations. Basal forebrain TrkA levels increased after injection of NGF in the hippocampus within 1h in young rats, but this response was diminished in aged animals as determined by Western blot analysis. Further, NGF activated MAPK pathways without changing total ERK levels and the activation of these pathways was also diminished in aged animals. The exogenous NGF injection did not appear to activate the PI-3K pathway or alter total levels of Akt significantly. These data shed light on mechanisms of NGF signaling in the CNS, and alterations in this signaling cascade associated with age and memory loss. These findings might lead to development of novel treatment therapies for the memory loss associated with AD and other age-associated neurodegenerative diseases.
The pituitary gland plays a central role in sexual development and brain function. Therefore, we examined the effect of age and gender on pituitary volume in a large sample of healthy children and adults. Volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was conducted in one hundred and fifty four (77 males and 77 females) healthy participants. Males were between the ages of 7 to 35 years (16.91+/-5.89 years) and females were 7 to 35 years of age (16.75+/-5.75 years). Subjects were divided into subgroups of age (7 to 9, 10 to 13, 14 to 17, 18 to 21, 22 and older) and sex (male/female). Pituitary gland volume differed between sexes when comparing the age groups (F=3.55, df=2, 143, p=0.03). Females demonstrated larger pituitary glands than males in the age 14 to 17 year old groups (p=0.04). Young (19 years and under) and old (20 years and older) females demonstrated a correlation between pituitary volume and age. Males did not show this relationship. These findings provide additional evidence for gender differences in the normative anatomy of the pituitary and may have relevance for the study of various childhood onset neuropsychiatric disorders in which pituitary dysfunction has been implicated.


Fragile X syndrome is a common heritable form of mental retardation in humans. Recent neuroanatomical studies indicate an apparent immature appearance of neurons in fragile X syndrome patients and fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP)-knockout mice, an animal model of this condition. In this work, we investigated possible alterations in synaptic plasticity in the neocortex of FMRP-knockout mice. Extracellular field potentials were recorded from the deep-layer visual neocortex. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was severely attenuated in brain slices from knockout mice relative to that observed in slices from wild-type mice. Considering that neocortical LTP can involve both NMDA receptor-dependent and -independent mechanisms, we attempted to distinguish the nature of LTP attenuated in the knockout condition. In slices from wild-type mice, LTP was partially attenuated by the NMDA receptor antagonist 3-[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphate (CPP); however, the general metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG) strongly attenuated LTP, resulting in a response indistinguishable from that observed in slices from knockout mice. The selective mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) attenuated LTP to a similar degree as did MCPG in wild-type slices, but MPEP did not alter the reduced potentiation in knockout slices. Our results suggest that LTP in layer V visual neocortex depends primarily on mGluR5 activation. Our data also indicate that mGluR5-mediated synaptic plasticity is absent in the neocortex of FMRP-knockout mice. Such an alteration may contribute to the cognitive and learning deficits exhibited in these mice as well as in fragile X syndrome.
CASK is an evolutionarily conserved multidomain protein composed of an N-terminal Ca2+/calmodulin-kinase domain, central PDZ and SH3 domains, and a C-terminal guanylate kinase domain. Many potential activities for CASK have been suggested, including functions in scaffolding the synapse, in organizing ion channels, and in regulating neuronal gene transcription. To better define the physiological importance of CASK, we have now analyzed CASK &quot;knockdown&quot; mice in which CASK expression was suppressed by approximately 70%, and CASK knockout (KO) mice, in which CASK expression was abolished. CASK knockdown mice are viable but smaller than WT mice, whereas CASK KO mice die at first day after birth. CASK KO mice exhibit no major developmental abnormalities apart from a partially penetrant cleft palate syndrome. In CASK-deficient neurons, the levels of the CASK-interacting proteins Mints, Veli/Mals, and neurexins are decreased, whereas the level of neuroligin 1 (which binds to neurexins that in turn bind to CASK) is increased. Neurons lacking CASK display overall normal electrical properties and form ultrastructurally normal synapses. However, glutamatergic spontaneous synaptic release events are increased, and GABAergic synaptic release events are decreased in CASK-deficient neurons. In contrast to spontaneous neurotransmitter release, evoked release exhibited no major changes. Our data suggest that CASK, the only member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase protein family that contains a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase domain, is required for mouse survival and performs a selectively essential function without being in itself required for core activities of neurons, such as membrane excitability, Ca2+-triggered presynaptic release, or postsynaptic receptor functions.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine administration has been used, in various mammalian species, as an experimental model of Parkinson's disease. The pathogenesis for such pharmacologically induced Parkinson's disease involves 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), the active metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. This metabolite produces rapid degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, which causes the parkinsonian syndrome. In this work, we show that injection of MPP+ into the presynaptic terminal of the squid giant synapse blocks synaptic transmission without affecting the presynaptic action potential or the presynaptic calcium currents. These effects of MPP+ were mimicked by the injection of an active form of caspase-3 and prevented by inhibitors of caspase-3 and protein kinase C delta. Ultrastructurally, MPP+-injected synapses showed a dramatic reduction in the number of neurotransmitter vesicles at the presynaptic active zone, as compared with control synapses. Otherwise, normal docking and clathrin-coated vesicles were observed, albeit at much reduced numbers. These results indicate that MPP+ acutely reduces presynaptic vesicular availability, not release, and that MPP+-induced pathogenesis results from presynaptic dysfunction that leads, secondarily, to dying-back neuropathy in affected neurons.
Wnt and Shh signaling pathways are critical for the development and maturation of many epithelial tissues. Both pathways have roles in stem cell maintenance, tissue development, and tumorigenesis. However, linkage between these pathways in mammalian systems had not been well established. Here, we report that Shh expression in fungiform papillae and formation of normal mature fungiform papillae depend on signaling through Wnt and beta-catenin. We observed that during fungiform papilla formation in mice, Shh and components of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway are expressed together in the developing placode. The elimination of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in either Lef1 or Wnt10b knockout mice resulted in down-regulation of Shh expression. In addition, the size and number of fungiform papillae were greatly reduced in Lef1 knockout mice. By examining embryonic mouse tongues in culture we determined that activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling up-regulates Shh expression. We observed that blocking Shh signaling in cultured tongue explants enhanced papillae formation and was accompanied by an up-regulation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, indicating that Shh inhibits the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Exogenously added Shh suppressed expression of endogenous Shh and inhibited Wnt/beta-catenin signaling (assessed in TOPGAL mice), further implicating Shh as an inhibitor of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Our observations indicate that Wnt/beta-catenin signaling and interactions between the Wnt and Shh pathways play essential roles in the development of fungiform papillae.
Chicks searching for food grains against a background of unfamiliar pebbles usually peck pebbles less when using the right eye (RE), or both eyes, than when using the left eye (LE), provided that the embryo's RE has been exposed to light (Li), as is normal. When pecking is fast this right/left difference is mainly due to a heightened ability of RE chicks to inhibit premature pecks (and inappropriate responses in general). Dark incubation (Da) abolishes this ability in RE chicks, and RE and LE chicks show similar frequent pebble pecks. We show now that, under conditions that cause cautious pecking, both Li and Da chicks show a new effect: in both cases LE chicks peck pebbles more than RE chicks, probably because of the novelty of pebbles. Interest in novelty in LE chicks is known to be unaffected by light in incubation. Age-dependent effects are also important. RE and LE chicks, which had either the LE or RE exposed to light before hatching, were tested on days 3, 5, 8 or 12 post-hatching, under conditions giving normal fast pecking. Artificial exposure of the embryo's LE to light reversed the lateralization: in general, chicks using the light-exposed eye performed well at all ages. Irrespective of which eye system had heightened ability to inhibit pebble pecks, RE performance differed from usual on 2 days, whereas LE chicks showed no age-dependent changes. Changes confined to the RE system, therefore, affect behaviour independently of lateralization of the ability to inhibit inappropriate response.
Studies on heterozygous (HZ) reeler mice suggest a relationship between reelin (a protein of extra cellular matrix) haploinsufficiency and the presence of altered neural networks and behaviour. Neonatal adverse and/or stimulating experiences might interfere with the emergence of this genetic-dependent phenotype. Repeated episodes of maternal separation early in ontogeny result in enduring neuroendocrine, neurochemical and behavioural alterations in the offspring. Therefore, in order to investigate whether developmental indexes of neurobehavioural disorders can be studied in the infant reeler mouse model, and whether ontogenetic adverse experiences may question or improve its suitability, homozygous reeler (RL), heterozygous (HZ) and wild-type (WT) mouse pups underwent maternal separation (SEP, 5h/day) or handling (H, 3min/day) on PND 2-6. As expected, a sex difference appeared, for measure of emotional and communicative behaviour in infant mice. On PND 7, compared to other genotypes, RL mouse pups from the H control group, showed reduced levels of ultrasound (USV) production and of locomotion. Surprisingly, this deficit in RL mice was fully reverted by maternal separation. Maternal separation per se reduced social motivation in the homing test at PND 9 in WT mice, with no effects on HZ and RL ones. Additionally, female pups emitted much lower levels of ultrasound production than males within the H control group. Such a baseline sex difference, however, disappeared in the SEP group. The present results provide evidence that unusual stress and related hormonal stimulation early in development may (i) independently shape individual phenotype and (ii) interact with a genetic make-up to substantially modify its &quot;natural&quot; developmental trajectories.
F1 and F2 mouse hybrids derived from different parental strains are becoming a useful tool in behavioral research, underlining the importance of their in-depth behavioral phenotyping. 129S1/SvImJ (S1), C57BL/6 (B6), NMRI (N) and BALB/c (BC) mice are commonly used in behavioral neuroscience, demonstrating marked behavioral differences. Here, we assess behavioral phenotypes of male mice of S1 and several hybrid strains (S1B6, S1N, S1BC) in a battery of behavioral tests, including the open field, novel odor exposure, novelty-induced grooming, horizontal rod (Suok) and the elevated plus maze tests. In addition, we assessed aggression and social barbering in these strains. Overall, the substantial differences observed here between these strains allow us to determine the influence of different genetic backgrounds on mouse behaviors, and more fully understand how different strain-specific behaviors overlap in the F1 progeny. Our results imply complex interplay between parental genotypes in anxiety, activity, grooming, aggression and barbering of their F1 progeny, further confirming the utility of F1 hybrids in behavioral neurogenetics.
High densities of ion channels at axon initial segments (AISs) and nodes of Ranvier are required for initiation, propagation, and modulation of action potentials in axons. The organization of these membrane domains depends on a specialized cytoskeleton consisting of two submembranous cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins, ankyrinG (ankG) and betaIV spectrin. However, it is not known which of these proteins is the principal organizer, or if the mechanisms governing formation of the cytoskeleton at the AIS also apply to nodes. We identify a distinct protein domain in betaIV spectrin required for its localization to the AIS, and show that this domain mediates betaIV spectrin's interaction with ankG. Dominant-negative ankG disrupts betaIV spectrin localization, but does not alter endogenous ankG or Na(+) channel clustering at the AIS. Finally, using adenovirus for transgene delivery into myelinated neurons, we demonstrate that betaIV spectrin recruitment to nodes of Ranvier also depends on binding to ankG.
Micro-RNAs constitute a family of small noncoding ribonucleic acids that are posttranscriptional regulators of messenger RNA activity. Although micro-RNAs are known to be dynamically regulated during neural development, the role of micro-RNAs in brain aging and neurodegeneration is not known. This study examined micro-RNA abundance in the hippocampal region of fetal, adult and Alzheimer's disease brain. The data indicate that micro-RNAs encoding miR-9, miR-124a, miR-125b, miR-128, miR-132 and miR-219 are abundantly represented in fetal hippocampus, are differentially regulated in aged brain, and an alteration in specific micro-RNA complexity occurs in Alzheimer hippocampus. These data are consistent with the idea that altered micro-RNA-mediated processing of messenger RNA populations may contribute to atypical mRNA abundance and neural dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease brain.
Prior transcranial magnetic stimulation studies showed that resting motor threshold is elevated in abstinent cocaine-dependent patients, suggesting a decrease in axonal excitability. In contrast, the increased incidence of seizures and psychosis in this group suggests increased excitability or decreased inhibition. Here, we studied long-interval intracortical facilitation and long-interval intracortical inhibition, paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation measures that are more directly linked to glutamatergic cortical facilitation and GABAergic inhibition, respectively. Ten cocaine-dependent and 10 healthy controls were examined. Resting motor threshold, long-interval intracortical facilitation and long-interval intracortical inhibition were tested from the left motor cortex. The cocaine group showed an elevated resting motor threshold and an increased long-interval intracortical facilitation, whereas long-interval intracortical inhibition was normal. Although the increase in long-interval intracortical facilitation suggests exaggerated cortical glutamatergic excitability, the increase in resting motor threshold may signify a protective mechanism against seizures and psychosis.
Using transcranial magnetic stimulation and skin conductance responses, we sought to clarify if, and to what extent, emotional experiences of different valences and intensity activate the hand-motor system and the associated corticospinal tract. For that purpose, we applied a newly developed method to evoke strong emotional experiences by the simultaneous presentation of musical and pictorial stimuli of congruent emotional valence. We uncovered enhanced motor-evoked potentials, irrespective of valence, during the simultaneous presentation of emotional music and picture stimuli (Combined conditions) compared with the single presentation of the two modalities (Picture/Music conditions). In contrast, vegetative arousal was enhanced during both the Combined and Music conditions, compared with the Picture conditions, again irrespective of emotional valence. These findings strongly indicate that arousal is a necessary, but not sufficient, prerequisite for triggering the motor system of the brain. We offer a potential explanation for this discrepant, but intriguing, finding in the paper.
Although subtypes of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder have been recognized for some time, few studies have investigated neurophysiological differences that may reflect these. Here, adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-inattentive type, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-combined type and controls performed a simple reaction time laterality task (the Poffenberger) during 128-channel electroencephalography recording. Visual-evoked potentials were used to calculate interhemispheric transfer times. As expected for controls, mean right-to-left transfer time was faster than mean left-to-right transfer. No significant asymmetry was, however, found for clinical groups. Compared with controls, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-combined participants demonstrated significantly faster left-to-right transfer, whereas attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-inattentive participants had significantly slower right-to-left transfer. These findings support the existence of functional differences between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder subtypes, and suggest that the right hemisphere dysfunction theory of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder may only be applicable to those without hyperactive symptoms.
Rapid eye movement sleep decreases dramatically during development. We tested the hypothesis that some of this decrease may be due to GABAergic inhibition of reticular activating system neurons. Recordings of pedunculopontine neurons in vitro showed that the gamma-amino-butyric acid, receptor agonist muscimol depolarized noncholinergic cells early in the developmental decrease in rapid eye movement sleep, and hyperpolarized them later. Most cholinergic cells were hyperpolarized throughout the period tested. The gamma-amino-butyric acid b receptor agonist baclofen hyperpolarized both cholinergic and noncholinergic cells, although the degree of polarization decreased with age. Part of the gradual decrement in rapid eye movement sleep during development may be due in part to the increasing inhibition mediated by gamma-amino-butyric acid, a receptor on pedunculopontine neurons. This influence, however, appears to be mainly on noncholinergic cells.
Certain discrete areas of the CNS exhibit enhanced sensitivity towards MeHg. To determine whether GSH is responsible for this particular sensitivity, we investigated its role in MeHg-induced oxidative insult in primary neuronal and astroglial cell cultures of both cerebellar and cortical origins. For this purpose, ROS and GSH were measured with the fluorescent indicators, CMH(2)DCFDA and MCB. Cell associated-MeHg was measured with (14)C-radiolabeled MeHg. The intracellular GSH content was modified by pretreatment with NAC or DEM. For each of the dependent variables (ROS, GSH, and MTT), there was an overall significant effect of cellular origin, MeHg and pretreatment in all the cell cultures. A trend towards significant interaction between originxMeHgxpretreatment was observed only for the dependent variable, ROS (astrocytes p=0.056; neurons p=0.000). For GSH, a significant interaction between originxMeHg was observed only in astrocytes (p=0.030). The cerebellar cell cultures were more vulnerable (astrocytes(mean)=223.77; neurons(mean)=138.06) to ROS than the cortical cell cultures (astrocytes(mean)=125.18; neurons(mean)=107.91) for each of the tested treatments. The cell associated-MeHg increased when treated with DEM, and the cerebellar cultures varied significantly from the cortical cultures. Non-significant interactions between originxMeHgxpretreatment for GSH did not explain the significant interactions responsible for the increased amount of ROS produced in these cultures. In summary, although GSH modulation influences MeHg-induced toxicity, the difference in the content of GSH in cortical and cerebellar cultures fails to account for the increased ROS production in cerebellar cultures. Hence, different approaches for the future studies regarding the mechanisms behind selectivity of MeHg have been discussed.
Calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM), which represents a major component of kidney stones, is an end metabolite of ethylene glycol. COM accumulation has been linked with acute renal toxicity in ethylene glycol poisoning. COM injures the kidney either by directly producing cytotoxicity to the kidney cells or by aggregating in the kidney lumen leading to the blockage of urine flow. The present studies were designed to examine whether aluminum citrate could reduce the toxicity of COM. Toxicity was determined in human proximal tubule cells by leakage of lactate dehydrogenase or uptake of ethidium homodimer and in erythrocytes by degree of hemolysis. Aluminum citrate significantly inhibited the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase from human proximal tubule cells and protected against cell death from COM. The inhibitory effect of aluminum citrate was greater than that of other citrate or aluminum salts such as sodium citrate, aluminum chloride, calcium citrate, ammonium citrate or potassium citrate. Aluminum citrate significantly inhibited the aggregation of COM crystals in vitro and decreased red cell membrane damage from COM. Aluminum citrate appeared to directly interact with COM, but not with the cell membrane. As such, aluminum citrate reduced the cytotoxicity by a physico-chemical interaction with the COM surface, and not by dissolving the COM crystals. These studies suggest that aluminum citrate may protect against tissue damage that occurs with high levels of oxalate accumulation, especially in ethylene glycol poisoning and possibly in hyperoxaluric states.
Progranulin (PGRN) is a pleiotropic protein that has gained the attention of the neuroscience community with recent discoveries of mutations in the gene for PGRN that cause frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Pathogenic mutations in PGRN result in null alleles, and the disease is likely the result of haploinsufficiency. Little is known about the normal function of PGRN in the central nervous system apart from a role in brain development. It is expressed by microglia and neurons. In the periphery, PGRN is involved in wound repair and inflammation. High PGRN expression has been associated with more aggressive growth of various tumors. The properties of full length PGRN are distinct from those of proteolytically derived peptides, referred to as granulins (GRNs). While PGRN has trophic properties, GRNs are more akin to inflammatory mediators such as cytokines. Loss of the neurotrophic properties of PGRN may play a role in selective neuronal degeneration in FTLD, but neuroinflammation may also be important. Gene expression studies suggest that PGRN is up-regulated in a variety of neuroinflammatory conditions, and increased PGRN expression by microglia may play a pivotal role in the response to brain injury, neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration.
The nervous system is the most complex object we know of. It is a spatially distributed, functionally differentiated network formed by axonal connections between defined neuron populations and effector cells. Computer science provides exciting new tools for archiving, analyzing, synthesizing, and modeling on the Web vast amounts of frequently conflicting and incomplete qualitative and quantitative data about the organization and molecular mechanisms of neural networks. To optimize conceptual advances in systems neuroscience, it is important for the research and publishing communities to embrace three exercises: using defined nomenclatures; populating databases; and providing feedback to developers about improved design, performance, and functionality of knowledge management systems and associated visualization tools.
Evidence for the existence of different populations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic neurons in the substantia nigra comes partially from anatomical studies, which have shown there to be little if any overlap between the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin and calretinin in individual neurons, suggesting that these may represent neuronal subtypes with distinct electrophysiological and/or anatomical properties. We obtained whole-cell recordings from neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata in rat brain slices and labeled them with biocytin, followed by immunocytochemical staining for parvalbumin and calretinin. In other cases, neurons were retrogradely labeled from the thalamus or tectum and immunocytochemically identified to determine their projection sites. Intracellularly stained neurons were found to have a variety of somatic sizes and shapes. Reconstructions revealed that all parvalbumin- and calretinin-positive neurons issued at least one axon collateral, which ramified within the substantia nigra pars reticulata and/or pars compacta. Local collaterals were of medium caliber and branched modestly, expressing many long, smooth segments that then issued numerous en passant or terminal boutons, consistent with previous in vivo studies. There were no clear differences in the electrophysiological or morphological properties of neurons expressing parvalbumin or calretinin. Retrograde tracing experiments revealed that both parvalbumin- and calretinin-containing neurons project nonpreferentially to the thalamus or tectum. In sum, the parvalbumin- and calretinin-containing GABAergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars reticulata cannot be differentiated on the basis of their electrophysiological properties, morphological properties, or target nuclei, and both parvalbumin- and calretinin-containing projection neurons issue local axon collaterals that arborize within the substantia nigra.
OX1 orexin receptors (OX1R) have been shown to activate receptor-operated Ca2+ influx pathways as their primary signalling pathway; however, investigations are hampered by the fact that orexin receptors also couple to phospholipase C, and therewith inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-dependent Ca2+ release. We have here devised a method to block the latter signalling in order to focus on the mechanism of Ca2+ influx activation by OX1R in recombinant systems. Transient expression of the IP3-metabolising enzymes IP3-3-kinase-A (inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate--&gt;inositol-1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate) and type I IP3-5-phosphatase (inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate--&gt;inositol-1,4-bisphosphate) almost completely attenuated the OX1R-stimulated IP3 elevation and Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Upon attenuation of the IP3-dependent signalling, the receptor-operated Ca2+ influx pathway became the only source for Ca2+ elevation, enabling mechanistic studies on the receptor-channel coupling. Attenuation of the IP3 elevation did not affect the OX1R-mediated ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) activation in CHO cells, which supports our previous finding of the major importance of receptor-operated Ca2+ influx for this response.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) has a central role in neuroprotective responses to hypoxia in the brain. Hydroxylation of HIF-1alpha by prolyl-hydroxylase PHD and aspargynyl-hydroxylase FIH (factor inhibiting HIF-1alpha) causes proteasomal degradation and transcriptional inhibition of HIF-1alpha. Siah ubiquitin ligases regulate the abundance of PHD via targeting for proteasomal degradation. The present study identified Siah-1 as a binding partner for another hydroxylase FIH. Siah-1 and FIH coimmunoprecipitated each other in mammalian cells. Siah-1 was found both to interact with the JmjC domain of FIH through its substrate-binding domain and to specifically ubiquitinate FIH via its RING finger domain. Siah-1 facilitated FIH degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway under hypoxic conditions. Such findings suggest that Siah ubiquitin ligases might play a role as up-stream regulators of both hydroxylases for HIF-1alpha, i.e., PHD and FIH, by targeting them for proteasomal degradation, leading to increased HIF-1alpha abundance, and transcriptional activity in hypoxia.

Oxidative stress, resulting from excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), is a pathological state that causes profound cellular damage and eventual death resulting from the overactivation of glutamate receptors, and the generation of nitric oxide, superoxide and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). As such, H(2)O(2) represents an important model for studying the neuropathology of oxidative stress in a variety of CNS disorders. The effects of H(2)O(2) on the viability of post-natal cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs), the nature of the cell death involved and the potential protection by adenosine receptors against the damage were examined in the current study. Hydrogen peroxide (10-400 microM) reduced CGN viability in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The addition of catalase (100 U/ml) prevented this effect, and the non-specific COX inhibitor aspirin (1 mM) also alleviated the damage. A combination of H(2)O(2) (5 microM) and Cu(2+) (0.5 mM) resulted in a significant damage that was not prevented by the hydroxyl radical scavenger mannitol (50 mM). The permeability transition pore blocker cyclosporin A, the caspase-3 inhibitor Z-DEVD-fmk (40 microM) and the PARP-1 inhibitor DPQ (10 microM) each significantly protected against peroxide damage. While the A(1) adenosine receptor agonist CPA and the A(2A) receptor antagonist ZM241385 (each at 100 nM) elicited protection, the A(1) adenosine receptor blocker DPCPX and the A(2A) receptor agonist CGS21680 (each at 100 nM) showed no effect. The data demonstrate that H(2)O(2) induced oxidative stress in CGNs, involving both apoptotic and necrotic death, and this can be ameliorated by A(1) receptor activation or A(2A) receptor blockade.
Real-time PCR is frequently used for gene expression quantification due to its methodological sensitivity and reproducibility. The gene expression is quantified by normalization to one or more reference genes, usually beta-actin (ACTB), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) or to ribosomal RNA (18S). However, different environmental or pathological conditions might also influence the expression of normalizing genes, which could severely skew the interpretation of quantitative results. This study evaluates whether 16 genes frequently used as endogenous controls in expression studies, can serve as such for comparison of human brain tissues of chronic alcoholics and control subjects. The prefrontal and motor cortices that are affected differently by chronic alcohol consumption were analyzed. The reference genes that have no or small differences in expression in alcoholics and control subjects, were found to be specific for each region: beta-actin (ACTB) and ribosomal large P0 (RPLP0) for the prefrontal cortex while importin 8 (IPO8) and RNA polymerase II (POLR2A) for the motor cortex. Four out of sixteen analyzed genes demonstrated significant differences in expression between alcoholics and controls: phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK1), hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT1) and peptidylprolyl isomerase A (PPIA) in the motor cortex and beta-2-microglobulin (B2M) in the prefrontal cortex. Our study demonstrates the importance of validation of endogenous control genes prior to real-time PCR analysis of human brain tissues. Prescribed and non-prescribed drugs, pathological or environmental conditions along with alcohol abuse may differentially influence expression of reference genes.
Anxiety has been associated with a bias for interpreting threatening information. Faces expressing anger seem to be more easily detected by socially anxious individuals than by non-anxious individuals. Similarly, disgust on a face may also reflect a negative social judgment. We tested the hypothesis that individuals displaying non-clinical social anxiety would be as sensitive to disgust as to anger interpretation by comparing individuals scoring high or low on the fear of social evaluation scale (FNE, Watson and Friend, 1969). Event-related potentials (ERP) were recorded in response to repetitions of a particular facial expression (e.g. anger) and in response to two deviating (rare) stimuli obtained by a morphing procedure, where one depicted the same emotion as the frequent stimulus, while the other depicted a different facial expression (e.g. disgust). The classic effect of categorical perception was reproduced: at a behavioral level, people detected more easily rare faces depicting a different emotion than faces depicting the same emotion. ERP results suggest that deviant faces depicting a different emotion evoked an earlier attentional N2b/P3a wave complex, together with an earlier and enhanced P3b. More interestingly, participants with non-clinical social anxiety manifested a reduced N2b wave when they had to detect a change in intensity of anger presentation. However, these individuals did not show facilitation to disengage from disgust when they have to detect angry faces, which was displayed by control participants. Implications and suggestions for further research about the role played by anger and disgust in psychopathology are outlined.
Neurons of the pigeon's diencephalic n. rotundus were demonstrated to show visual responses of short and long latency representing ascending signals of the retino-tecto-rotundal system and descending signals from telencephalo-tecto-rotundal fibers. Pigeons thus provide an ideal model to investigate the convergence of ascending and descending visual processing streams at single cell level. Although it is known that rotundal responses of long latency show distinct response characteristics, dependent on the stimulus being presented monocularly or binocularly, the mechanisms underlying these response differences are still unclear. While it is possible that the simultaneity of eye stimulation produces a change of processing, it is also possible that the relative timing and order between ipsilateral and contralateral signals are the decisive variable. To test between both possibilities, we recorded from cells in the pigeon's n. rotundus while providing monocular or binocular visual stimulation and varying the delay and order of eye presentations. We revealed that the precise temporal interaction and order of ascending and descending inputs to the tectum decide about late responses with burst or tonic characteristics. When descending signals reached the tectum before the ascending signals, rotundal cells showed late responses that were characterized by burst activity patterns. When ascending input reached the tectum first, responses with tonic characteristic were observed. These effects might become mediated by intratectal mechanisms, the nucleus ventrolateralis thalami, or the bed nuclei of the tectothalamic tract and might constitute the neural basis of a bihemispheric gating function.
Oxidative stress is implicated in neurodegenerative diseases including stroke, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, and has been extensively studied as a potential target for therapeutic intervention. Pyruvate, a natural metabolic intermediate and energy substrate, exerts antioxidant effects in brain and other tissues susceptible to oxidative stress. We tested the protective effects of pyruvate on hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) toxicity in human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells and the mechanisms underlying its protection. Hydrogen peroxide insult resulted in 85% cell death, but co-treatment with pyruvate dose-dependently attenuated cell death. At concentrations of &gt;or=1 mM, pyruvate totally blocked the cytotoxic effects of H(2)O(2). Pyruvate exerted its protective effects even when its administration was delayed up to 2 h after H(2)O(2) insult. As a scavenger of reactive oxygen species (ROS), pyruvate dose-dependently attenuated H(2)O(2)-induced ROS formation, assessed from 2,7-dichlorofluorescein diacetate fluorescence. Furthermore, pyruvate suppressed superoxide production by submitochondrial particles, and attenuated oxidative stress-induced collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential. Collectively, these results suggest that pyruvate protects neuronal cells through its antioxidant actions on mitochondria.

Damage to the leech or mammalian CNS increases nitric oxide (NO) production and causes accumulation of phagocytic microglial cells at the injury site. Opioids have been postulated to modulate various parameters of the immune response. Morphine and leech morphine-like substance are shown to release NO and suppress microglial activation. Regarding the known immuno-modulatory effects of selective mu and kappa ligands, we have assessed the effect of these agents on accumulation of microglia at the site of injury in leech CNS. Leech nerve cords were dissected, crushed with fine forceps and maintained in different concentrations of opiates in culture medium for 3 h and then fixed and double stained with Hoechst 33258 and monoclonal antibody to endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Morphine and naloxone (&gt; or =10(-3) M) but not selective mu agonist, DAMGO [d-Ala2, N-Me-Phe-Gly5(ol)-enkephalin] and antagonist, CTAP [D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2] inhibited the microglial accumulation. The effect of morphine was abrogated by pre-treatment with naloxone and also non-selective NOS inhibitor, l-NAME [N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine-methyl-ester; 10(-3) M] implying an NO-dependent and mu-mediated mechanism. These results are similar to properties of recently found mu-3 receptor in leech, which is sensitive to alkaloids but not peptides. Both selective kappa agonist, U50,488 [3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl)-benzeneacetamide; &gt; or =10(-3) M], and antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI; &gt; or =10(-3) M), inhibited the accumulation. The effect of nor-BNI was reversed by l-NAME. Immunohistochemistry showed decreased endothelial NOS expression in naloxone and U50,488-treated cords. Since, NO production at the injury site is hypothesized to act as a stop signal for microglias, opioid agents may exert their effect via changing of NO gradient along the cord resulting in disruption of accumulation. These results suggest an immuno-modulatory role for mu and kappa opioid receptors on injury-induced microglial accumulation which may be mediated via NO.
The proinflammatory and potential neurotoxic cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is produced by activated CNS resident microglia and infiltrating blood-borne macrophages in infarct and peri-infarct areas following induction of focal cerebral ischemia. Here, we investigated the expression of the TNF receptors, TNF-p55R and TNF-p75R, from 1 to 10 days following permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in mice. Using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), we observed that the relative level of TNF-p55R mRNA was significantly increased at 1-2 days and TNF-p75R mRNA was significantly increased at 1-10 days following arterial occlusion, reaching peak values at 5 days, when microglial-macrophage CD11b mRNA expression was also increased. In comparison, the relative level of TNF mRNA was significantly increased from 1 to 5 days, with peak levels 1 day after arterial occlusion. In situ hybridization revealed mRNA expression of both receptors in predominantly microglial- and macrophage-like cells in the peri-infarct and subsequently in the infarct, and being most marked from 1 to 5 days. Using green fluorescent protein-bone marrow chimeric mice, we confirmed that TNF-p75R was expressed in resident microglia and blood-borne macrophages located in the peri-infarct and infarct 1 and 5 days after arterial occlusion, which was supported by Western blotting. The data show that increased expression of the TNF-p75 receptor following induction of focal cerebral ischemia in mice can be attributed to expression in activated microglial cells and blood-borne macrophages.
We found that a single week of exercise enhanced cognitive function on the Morris water maze (MWM), such that exercise animals were significantly better than sedentary controls at learning and recalling the location of the platform. In order to elucidate the role that calcium calmodulin protein kinase II (CAMKII) holds in mediating the exercise-induced enhancement in learning and memory, a specific antagonist of CAMKII, KN-62, was used to block CAMKII in the rat hippocampus during a 1-week voluntary exercise period. Following, a two-trial-per-day MWM was performed for five consecutive days, succeeded by a probe trial 2 days later. Inhibiting CAMKII action during exercise blocked the ability of exercise to enhance memory retention on the MWM; the recall abilities of exercise animals receiving the CAMKII blocker were significantly worse than those of both sedentary and exercise controls. Conversely, CAMKII may not play a significant role in mediating the effects of exercise on learning acquisition as inhibiting CAMKII failed to block the exercise-induced enhancement in learning acquisition. Our results also show that CAMKII activation early during MWM learning may be counterproductive to learning acquisition, as exercising animals given the CAMKII inhibitor performed significantly (P&lt;0.001) better than exercising control animals and sedentary controls only on day 2 of the MWM. Inhibiting CAMKII also blocked the exercise-induced upregulation of molecules critical for learning and memory, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the transcription activator cAMP response-element-binding protein, which is regulated by and downstream to BDNF action. These findings indicate that hippocampal CAMKII may have a refined role in mediating the effects of exercise on cognition, selectively functioning to regulate memory retention.
Rats raised in an enriched environment (enriched rats) have been reported to show less motor dysfunction following brain lesions, but the neuronal correlates of this improvement have not been well clarified. The present study aimed to elucidate the effect of chemical brain lesions and environmental enrichment on motor function and lesion-induced neurogenesis. Three week-old, recently weaned rats were divided into two groups: one group was raised in an enriched environment and the other group was raised in a standard cage for 5 weeks. Striatal damage was induced at an age of 8 weeks by injection of the neuro-toxins 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or quinolinic acid (QA) into the striatum, or by injection of 6-OHDA into the substantia nigra (SN), which depleted nigrostriatal dopaminergic innervation. Enriched rats showed better performance on beam walking compared with those raised in standard conditions, but both groups showed similar forelimb use asymmetry in a cylinder test. The number of bromodeoxyuridine-labeled proliferating cells in the subventricular zone was increased by a severe striatal lesion induced by QA injection 1 week after the lesion, but decreased by injection of 6-OHDA into the SN. Following induction of lesions by striatal injection of 6-OHDA or QA, the number of cells positive for doublecortin (DCX) was strongly increased in the striatum; however, there was no change in the number of DCX-positive cells following 6-OHDA injection into the SN. Environmental enrichment enhanced the increase of DCX-positive cells with migrating morphology in the dorsal striatum. In enriched rats, DCX-positive cells traversed the striatal parenchyma far from the corpus callosum and lateral ventricle. DCX-positive cells co-expressed an immature neuronal marker, polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule, but were negative for a glial marker. These data suggest that environmental enrichment improves motor performance on beam walking and enhances neuronal migration toward a lesion area in the striatum.
Sensory information in the retina is transferred from rod and cone photoreceptors to higher visual centers via numerous parallel circuits that sample the photoreceptor mosaic independently. Each circuit consists of a unique combination of ganglion cell, bipolar and amacrine cell types. The morphology and physiological responses of many amacrine cells have been characterized. However, the synaptic connections and retinal circuits in which they participate are only rarely understood. A major problem that has prevented fuller characterization of retinal circuitry is the need for specific cellular markers for the more than 50 inner retinal cell types. One potential strategy for labeling cells is to use transgenic expression of a reporter gene in a specific cell type. In a recent study of cluster of differentiation 44 (CD44)-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgenic mice, we observed that the green fluorescent protein (GFP) was expressed in a population of amacrine and ganglion cells in the inner nuclear layer (INL) and the GCL. To characterize the morphology of the GFP-labeled cells, whole mount preparations of the retina were used for targeted iontophoretic injections of Lucifer Yellow and Neurobiotin. Furthermore, immunocytochemistry was used to characterize the antigenic properties of the cells. We found that many GFP-expressing cells were GABAergic and also expressed calretinin. In addition to the somatic staining, there was a strong GFP(+)-band located about 50-60% depth in the inner plexiform layer (IPL). Double labeling with an antibody to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) revealed that the GFP-band was located at strata 3 inner retina. The best-labeled GFP-expressing cell type in the INL was a wide-field amacrine cell that ramified in stratum 3. The GFP-expressing cells in the GCL resemble the type B1, or possibly A2 ganglion cells. The CD44-EGFP mice should provide a valuable resource for electrophysiological and connectivity studies of amacrine cells in the mouse retina.
The binding of integrins to the extracellular matrix results in focal organization of the cytoskeleton and the genesis of intracellular signals that regulate vital neuronal functions. Recent evidence suggests that integrins modulate G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling in hippocampal neurons. In this study we evaluated the hypothesis that integrins regulate the mu opioid receptor in rat trigeminal ganglion neurons. For these studies, primary cultures of adult rat trigeminal ganglion neurons were used to demonstrate the colocalization of beta1 and beta3 integrins with mu opioid receptor in caveolin-1-rich membrane fractions, and at focal adhesions sites generated by integrin ligand binding. Furthermore, we show that the mu opioid receptor agonist, DAMGO ([D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin), inhibits cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation in response to prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2)) stimulation in bradykinin-primed, but not unprimed, cultured trigeminal ganglia neurons. Application of soluble GRGDS (Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser) peptides that bind specific integrins (i.e. RGD-binding integrins) completely abolished the DAMGO effect in bradykinin-primed trigeminal ganglia neurons, but did not alter bradykinin-mediated hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol. Likewise, monospecific anti-beta1 and anti-beta3 integrin subunit antibodies blocked this DAMGO effect in bradykinin-primed trigeminal ganglia neurons. Indeed, application of anti-beta1 integrin subunit actually reversed DAMGO signaling, resulting in increased cAMP accumulation in these cells. This suggests that the relative amounts of specific activated integrins at focal adhesions may govern signaling by the mu opioid receptor, perhaps by altering interactions with G proteins (e.g. Galphai vs. Galphas). Collectively, these data provide the first evidence that specific integrins regulate opioid receptor signaling in sensory neurons.
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play a crucial role in the regulation of neuronal development during embryogenesis and they also regulate the rate of neurogenesis and proliferation in the adult dentate gyrus. However, the mechanism by which they influence these processes is not fully understood. NMDA receptors seem to be functional in hippocampal precursor cells and recently generated granule neurons, although there is no anatomical correlate of these physiological observations. We have analyzed the expression of the NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2B in precursor cells and recently generated granule neurons of the adult rat dentate gyrus, using 5'bromodeoxyuridine, green fluorescent protein-retrovirus and immunohistochemistry. Our results indicate that NR1 and NR2B are expressed in some proliferating cells of the adult subgranular zone. These receptors are absent from transiently amplifying progenitors (type 2-3 cells) but they are found in glial fibrillar acidic protein expressing cells in the subgranular zone, suggesting its presence in bipotential (type-1) precursor cells. NR1 and NR2B are rarely found in granule cells younger than 60 h. By contrast, many granule cells generated 14 days before killing express both NMDA receptor subunits. These results demonstrate that adult hippocampal neurogenesis may be regulated by NMDA receptors present in precursor cells and in differentiating granule neurons, although these receptors are probably not located on synapses. However, an indirect effect through NMDA receptors located in other cell types should not be excluded.
Forced use of the forelimb contralateral to a unilateral injection of the dopaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine can promote recovery of motor function in that limb and can significantly decrease damage to dopamine terminals. The present study was conducted to determine (1) whether a form of voluntary exercise, wheel running, would improve motor performance in rats with such lesions, and (2) whether any beneficial effects of wheel running are attributable to ameliorating the dopaminergic damage. In experiment 1, rats were allowed to run in exercise wheels or kept in home cages for 2 1/2 weeks, then given stereotaxic infusions of 6-hydroxydopamine into the left striatum. The rats were replaced into their original environments (wheels or home cages) for four additional weeks, and asymmetries in forelimb use were quantified at 3, 10, 17, and 24 days postoperatively. After killing, dopaminergic damage was assessed by both quantifying 3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropan-2 beta-carboxylic acid methyl ester ([(125)I]RTI-55) binding to striatal dopamine transporters and counting tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the substantia nigra. Exercised 6-hydroxydopamine-infused rats showed improved motor outcomes relative to sedentary lesioned controls, effects that were most apparent at postoperative days 17 and 24. Despite this behavioral improvement, 6-hydroxydopamine-induced loss of striatal dopamine transporters and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive nigral cells in exercised and sedentary groups did not differ. Since prior studies suggested that forced limb use improves motor performance by sparing nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons from 6-hydroxydopamine damage, experiment 2 used a combined regimen of forced plus voluntary wheel running. Again, we found that the motor performance of exercised rats improved more rapidly than that of sedentary controls, but that there were no differences between these groups in the damage produced by 6-hydroxydopamine. It appears that voluntary exercise can facilitate recovery from partial nigrostriatal injury, but it does so without evident sparing of dopamine nerve terminals.
Multiple nerve repair by means of a Y-shaped nerve guide represents a good model for studying the specificity of peripheral nerve fiber regeneration. Here we have used it for investigating the specificity of axonal regeneration in mixed nerves of the rat forelimb model. The left median and ulnar nerves, in adult female rats, were transected and repaired with a 14-mm Y-shaped conduit. The proximal end of the Y-shaped conduit was sutured to the proximal stump of either the median nerve or the ulnar nerve. Ten months after surgery, rats were tested for functional recovery of each median and ulnar nerve. Quantitative morphology of regenerated myelinated nerve fibers was then carried out by the two-dimensional disector technique. Results showed that partial recovery of both median and ulnar nerve motor function was regained in all experimental groups. Performance in the grasping test was significantly lower when the ulnar nerve was used as the proximal stump. Ulnar test assessment showed no significant difference between the two Y-shaped repair groups. The number of regenerated nerve fibers was significantly higher in the median nerve irrespectively of the donor nerve, maintaining the same proportion of myelinated fibers between the two nerves (about 60% median and 40% ulnar). On the other hand, nerve fiber size and myelin thickness were significantly larger in both distal nerves when the median nerve was used as the proximal donor nerve stump. G-ratio and myelin thickness/axon diameter ratio returned to normal values in all experimental groups. These results demonstrate that combined Y-shaped-tubulization repair of median and ulnar nerves permits the functional recovery of both nerves, independently from the proximal donor nerve employed, and that tissue, and not topographic, specificity guides nerve fiber regeneration in major forelimb mixed nerves of rats.
Optic nerve section in mammals induces apoptotic death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). However, a small population of RGCs survives for a relatively long time. These cells experience significant morphological changes due to the apoptotic process, but some of these changes are not clearly differentiated from those experienced in necrotic cells. In the present work, rabbit RGCs were studied 1 month after optic nerve section using light microscopy after neurobiotin injection, transmission electron microscopy (EM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Apoptosis was identified by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling and characteristic signs of apoptosis were observed in the EM images. Ultrastructural analyses showed vacuolar degeneration in the cytoplasm and normal cellular structure loss. Signs of membrane changes were observed in axotomized RGCs by SEM. Early changes seen in the cell membrane suggest that axotomy may cause important changes in the cytoskeleton. We conclude that characteristic signs of apoptosis at the cell membrane level are clearly observed in rabbit RGCs after axotomy and they may be responsible for the cellular death.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is a psychostimulant drug used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children. To explore the central effects of chronic MPH, we investigated the expression of an effector immediate early gene, activity regulated cytoskeletal associated (arc), and the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) in the brain of immature and adult rats following repeated MPH. Prepubertal (postnatal day (PD) 25-38) and adult (PD 53-66) male rats were injected once daily for: a) 14 days with saline or MPH (2 or 10 mg/kg; s.c.) or b) 13 days with saline followed by a single dose of MPH (2 or 10 mg/kg; s.c.). To determine possible long-term effects of MPH, prepubertal rats were allowed a drug-free period of 4 weeks following the 14 days of treatment, and then were given a challenge dose of MPH. We demonstrated, for the first time, that an acute injection of MPH increased levels of activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein (ARC) and arc mRNA in the prepubertal rat striatum and cingulate/frontal cortex. This response was significantly attenuated by chronic MPH. The desensitization in arc expression observed in prepubertal rats persisted in the adult striatum following a later MPH challenge. In contrast to these data we observed little effect of MPH on bdnf expression. We also developed an effective, non-stressful technique to treat freely moving immature rats with oral MPH. Consistent with the results described above, we observed that oral MPH (7.5 and 10 mg/kg) also increased arc expression in the prepubertal rat striatum. However, unlike the effects of injected MPH, repeated oral MPH (7.5 mg/kg) did not alter the normal arc response. This result raises the important possibility that oral doses of MPH that reproduce clinically relevant blood levels of MPH may not down-regulate gene expression, at least in the short term (14 days). We confirmed, using mass spectrometry, that the oral doses of MPH used in our experiments yielded blood levels within the clinical range observed in children. The novel oral administration paradigm that we describe thus provides a clinically relevant animal model to further explore the effects of chronic drug exposure on central gene expression in the developing rat brain.
To determine how norepinephrine affects the basic physiological properties of catecholaminergic neurons, brain slices containing the substantia nigra pars compacta and locus coeruleus were studied with cell-attached and whole-cell recordings in control and dopamine beta-hydroxylase knockout (Dbh -/-) mice that lack norepinephrine. In the cell-attached configuration, the spontaneous firing rate and pattern of locus coeruleus neurons recorded from Dbh -/- mice were the same as the firing rate and pattern recorded from heterozygous littermates (Dbh +/-). During whole-cell recordings, synaptic stimulation produced an alpha-2 receptor-mediated outward current in the locus coeruleus of control mice that was absent in Dbh -/- mice. Normal alpha-2 mediated outward currents were restored in Dbh -/- slices after pre-incubation with norepinephrine. Locus coeruleus neurons also displayed similar changes in holding current in response to bath application of norepinephrine, UK 14304, and methionine-enkephalin. Dopamine neurons recorded in the substantia nigra pars compacta similarly showed no differences between slices harvested from Dbh -/- and control mice. These results indicate that endogenous norepinephrine is not necessary for the expression of catecholaminergic neuron firing properties or responses to direct agonists, but is necessary for auto-inhibition mediated by indirect alpha-2 receptor stimulation.
Somatostatin (SRIF), as a neuroactive peptide in the CNS, exerts its actions via five subtypes of specific receptors (ssts). In this work, the localization of sst(5) was studied immunocytochemically in rat retinal amacrine cells (ACs). Labeling for sst(5) was diffusely distributed throughout the full thickness of the inner plexiform layer (IPL) and formed two distinct fluorescence bands in the distal part of the IPL. Double labeling experiments showed that sst(5) was expressed in GABAergic ACs. It was further shown that labeling for sst(5) was observed in both dopaminergic and cholinergic ACs, stained by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), respectively. The immunostaining appeared mainly on the cell membranes and somatodendritic compartments of these ACs. For the cholinergic ACs, weak sst(5)-immunoreactivity was also observed in the processes terminating in the IPL. In contrast, no sst(5)-immunoreactivity was found in glycinergic AII ACs, stained by parvalbumin (PV). Furthermore, labeling for SRIF was co-localized with sst(5) in both dopaminergic and cholinergic ACs. These results suggest that sst(5) may serve as an autoreceptor or conventional receptor in retinal ACs.
Chronic ethanol consumption produces a painful peripheral neuropathy. The aim of this study was then to investigate the mechanism underlying the neuropathic pain-like state induced by chronic ethanol treatment in rats. Mechanical hyperalgesia was clearly observed during ethanol consumption and even after ethanol withdrawal, and it lasted for, at least, 14 weeks. At 24 days after ethanol withdrawal, antinociception of morphine was significantly suppressed and the increased guanosine-5'-o-(3-thio) triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding to membranes of the spinal cord induced by the selective mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist, [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO), was significantly decreased under the ethanol-dependent neuropathic pain-like state, whereas the increased [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding to membranes of the spinal cord induced by either the selective delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonist or kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) agonist was not changed under the ethanol-dependent neuropathic pain-like state. Furthermore, total-MOR immunoreactivity was not changed in the spinal cord of ethanol-fed rats. Under these conditions, immunoblotting showed a robust increase in phosphorylated-cPKC immunoreactivity (p-cPKC-IR) in the spinal cord from chronic ethanol fed-rats, whereas phosphorylated-protein kinase A (PKA), dynamin II and G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) were not affected in the spinal cord of ethanol-fed rats. These findings suggest that the dysfunction of MOR, but not DOR and KOR, linked to cPKC activation in the spinal cord may be, at least in part, involved in the reduced sensitivity to antinociception induced by morphine under the ethanol-dependent neuropathic pain-like state.
We previously showed that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and pro-inflammatory cytokines utilized different mechanisms for the production of nitric oxide (NO) by inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in cultured rat astrocytes. To further characterize these regulatory pathways, we tested the effects of inhibitory factors (anti-inflammatory cytokines, cellular cAMP, and glucocorticoid) on aspects of iNOS expression (from transcription to enzyme activity) during LPS- and cytokine-induced astrocyte NO production. Anti-inflammatory cytokines (transforming growth factor-beta and interleukin-4) suppressed both LPS- and cytokine-induced NO production by reducing iNOS protein expression without affecting mRNA levels. Increased cellular cAMP levels, induced by noradrenaline or forskolin, suppressed LPS-induced, but not cytokine-induced, NO production without affecting iNOS protein expression. The glucocorticoid analog, dexamethasone, suppressed LPS-induced, but not cytokine-induced, NO production by reducing iNOS promoter activity. These different mechanisms would allow the fine control of NO concentration in the brain, as well as accounting for the multiple roles of NO in brain physiology and pathology. Moreover, these mechanisms provide useful therapeutic targets for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Glomeruli are functional units of the olfactory bulb responsible for early processing of odor information encoded by single olfactory receptor genes. Glomerular neural circuitry includes numerous external tufted (ET) cells whose rhythmic burst firing may mediate synchronization of bulbar activity with the inhalation cycle. Bursting is entrained by glutamatergic input from olfactory nerve terminals, so specific properties of ionotropic glutamate receptors on ET cells are likely to be important determinants of olfactory processing. Particularly intriguing is recent evidence that AMPA receptors of juxta-glomerular neurons may permeate calcium. This could provide a novel pathway for regulating ET cell signaling. We tested the hypothesis that ET cells express functional calcium-permeable AMPA receptors. In rat olfactory bulb slices, excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in ET cells were evoked by olfactory nerve shock, and by uncaging glutamate. We found attenuation of AMPA/kainate EPSCs by 1-naphthyl acetyl-spermine (NAS), an open-channel blocker specific for calcium permeable AMPA receptors. Cyclothiazide strongly potentiated EPSCs, indicating a major contribution from AMPA receptors. The current-voltage (I-V) relation of uncaging EPSCs showed weak inward rectification which was lost after &gt; approximately 10 min of whole-cell dialysis, and was absent in NAS. In kainate-stimulated slices, Co(2+) ions permeated cells of the glomerular layer. Large AMPA EPSCs were accompanied by fluorescence signals in fluo-4 loaded cells, suggesting calcium permeation. Depolarizing pulses evoked slow tail currents with pharmacology consistent with involvement of calcium permeable AMPA autoreceptors. Tail currents were abolished by Cd(2+) and (+/-)-4-(4-aminophenyl)-2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX), and were sensitive to NAS block. Glutamate autoreceptors were confirmed by uncaging intracellular calcium to evoke a large inward current. Our results provide evidence that calcium permeable AMPA receptors reside on ET cells, and are divided into at least two functionally distinct pools: postsynaptic receptors at olfactory nerve synaptic terminals, and autoreceptors sensitive to glutamate released from dendrodendritic synapses.
In the retina of many lower vertebrates, the arrangement of cells, in particular of cone photoreceptors, is highly regular. The data presented in this report show that in the retina of a cichlid fish (Astatotilapia burtoni) the regular arrangement is not restricted to cone photoreceptors and their synaptic terminals but can be found in elements of the inner retina as well. A variety of immunocytochemical and other markers was used in combination with confocal microscopy on whole-mount preparations and tangential sections. Nearest neighbor analysis was performed and density recovery profiles as auto- and cross-correlograms were generated. Cells displaying a regular arrangement of their synaptic processes in matching radial register to each other were identified for each major retinal neuronal cell type except ganglion cells (i.e. photoreceptors, horizontal cells, bipolar cells, and amacrine cells). The precise location of some of the corresponding cell bodies was not as regular but still non-random, however there was no spatial cross-correlation between cell bodies of different types. The radial processes of Mller glial cells displayed a distribution correlating to the arrangement of photoreceptors and neurons. Thus, for one Mller glial cell I found two PKC-positive cone bipolar cells, a spatially corresponding grid of parvalbumin-positive amacrine cell processes, one H1 horizontal cell, and two pairs of double cones. There was no evidence among ganglion cells matching this pattern, possibly due to the lack of suitable markers. Although many other cell types do not follow this matching regular mosaic arrangement, a basic columnar building block can be postulated for the retina at least in cichlid fish. This suggests a functional radial unit from photoreceptors to the inner plexiform layer.
When viral infection occurs, this information is transmitted to the brain, and symptoms such as fever and tiredness are induced. One of the causes of these symptoms is the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines in blood and the brain. In this study, the i.p. administration of polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C), a synthetic double-stranded RNA, to rats was used as an infection model. Poly I:C decreased spontaneous motor activity (SMA) 2 h after i.p. administration, and this decrease was maintained thereafter. The concentration of active transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) increased 1 h after the administration. This increase occurred earlier than those in the concentrations of other proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), in serum. The intracisternal administration of an anti-TGF-beta antibody partially inhibited fever induced by poly I:C administration; however, this treatment did not affect the decrease in SMA. Furthermore, intracisternal administration of TGF-beta raised the body temperature. These results indicate that TGF-beta in the brain, which was increased by poly I:C administration, is associated with fever but not with a decrease in SMA.
The amygdalar basolateral nuclear complex (BLC) has very high levels of the 5-HT type 3 receptor (5-HT(3)R). Previous studies have reported that 5-HT(3)R protein in the BLC is expressed in interneurons and that 5-HT(3)R mRNA is coexpressed with GABA and certain neuropeptides or calcium-binding proteins in these cells. However, there have been no detailed descriptions of the distribution of 5-HT(3)R+ neurons in the rat amygdala, and no quantitative studies of overlap of neurons expressing 5-HT(3)R protein with distinct interneuronal subpopulations in the BLC. The present investigation employed dual-labeling immunohistochemistry using antibodies to the 5-HT-3A receptor subunit (5-HT(3A)R) and specific interneuronal markers to address these questions. These studies revealed that there was a moderate density of nonpyramidal 5-HT(3A)R+ neurons in the BLC at all levels of the amygdala. In addition, immunostained cells were also seen in anterior portions of the cortical and medial nuclei. Although virtually all 5-HT(3A)R+ neurons in the BLC were GABA+, very few expressed neuropeptide or calcium-binding protein markers for individual subpopulations. The main interneuronal marker expressed by 5-HT(3A)R+ neurons was cholecystokinin (CCK), but only 8-16% of 5-HT(3)R+ neurons in the BLC, depending on the nucleus, were CCK+. Most of these CCK+/5-HT(3A)R+ double-labeled neurons appeared to belong to the subpopulation of large type L CCK+ interneurons. Very few 5-HT(3A)R+ neurons expressed calretinin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, or parvalbumin, and none expressed somatostatin or calbindin. Thus, the great majority of neurons expressing 5-HT(3A)R protein appear to constitute a previously unrecognized subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons in the BLC.
In an earlier study, we found that the encoding of limb position in the sagittal plane across the population of spinocerebellar Purkinje cells was anisotropic with a preferential gradient along horizontal direction. The aim of this study was to extend to a three-dimensional (3D) workspace the analysis of the relationships between Purkinje cells activity and rat's forelimb spatial position. In anesthetized animals, the extracellular activity of 121 neurons was recorded while a robot passively placed the limb in 18 positions within a cubic workspace (3x3x3 cm). In order to characterize the relationship between spatial locations and Purkinje cell activity we performed a backward stepwise regression starting from a model with three independent variables representing the antero-posterior, the medial-lateral and the vertical axes of workspace. Regression analysis showed that the firing of most cells was modulated exclusively along the antero-posterior (25%) or the medial-lateral (38%) axis, while a small portion was related only to the vertical axis (8%), indicating a generalized nonuniform sensitivity of Purkinje cells to limb displacement in 3D space.
The mechanism of selective and age-dependent motor neuron degeneration in human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has not been defined and the role of glutathione (GSH) in association with motor neuron death remains largely unknown. A motor neuron-like cell culture system and a transgenic mouse model were used to study the effect of cellular GSH alteration on motor neuron cell death. Exposure of NSC34 motor neuron-like cells to ethacrynic acid (EA) or l-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) dramatically reduced the cellular GSH levels, and was accompanied by increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) measured by the dichlorofluorescin (DCF) fluorescent oxidation assay. In addition, GSH depletion enhanced oxidative stress markers, AP-1 transcriptional activation, c-Jun, c-Fos and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression in NSC34 cells analyzed by a luciferase reporter, Western blotting and quantitative PCR assays respectively. Furthermore, depletion of GSH decreased mitochondrial function, facilitated apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) translocation, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation, and consequently led to motor neuron-like cell apoptosis. In an ALS-like transgenic mouse model overexpressing mutant G93A-Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene, we showed that the reduction of GSH in the spinal cord and motor neuron cells is correlated with AIF translocation, caspase 3 activation, and motor neuron degeneration during ALS-like disease onset and progression. Taken together, the in vitro and in vivo data presented in the current report demonstrated that decreased GSH promotes multiple apoptotic pathways contributing, at least partially, to motor neuron degeneration in ALS.
We investigated the effect of a single administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) on the preservation of the ventral white matter of rats at 4 weeks after contusive spinal cord injury (SCI), a time at which functional recovery is significantly improved in comparison to the controls [Gorio A, Necati Gokmen N, Erbayraktar S, Yilmaz O, Madaschi L, Cichetti C, Di Giulio AM, Enver Vardar E, Cerami A, Brines M (2002) Recombinant human erythropoietin counteracts secondary injury and markedly enhances neurological recovery from experimental spinal cord trauma. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99:9450-9455; Gorio A, Madaschi L, Di Stefano B, Carelli S, Di Giulio AM, De Biasi S, Coleman T, Cerami A, Brines M (2005) Methylprednisolone neutralizes the beneficial effects of erythropoietin in experimental spinal cord injury. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 102:16379-16384]. Specifically, we examined, by morphological and cytochemical methods combined with light, confocal and electron microscopy, i) myelin preservation, ii) activation of adult oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPCs) identified for the expression of NG2 transmembrane proteoglycan, iii) changes in the amount of the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans neurocan, versican and phosphacan and of their glycosaminoglycan component labeled with Wisteria floribunda lectin, and iv) ventral horn density of the serotonergic plexus as a marker of descending motor control axons. Injured rats received either saline or a single dose of rhEPO within 30 min after SCI. The results showed that the significant improvement of functional outcome observed in rhEPO-treated rats was associated with a better preservation of myelin in the ventral white matter. Moreover, the significant increase of both the number of NG2-positive OPCs and the labeling for Nogo-A, a marker of differentiated oligodendrocytes, suggested that rhEPO treatment could result in the generation of new myelinating oligodendrocytes. Sparing of fiber tracts in the ventral white matter was confirmed by the increased density of the serotonergic plexus around motor neurons. As for chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, only phosphacan, increased in saline-treated rats, returned to normal levels in rhEPO group, probably reflecting a better maintenance of glial-axolemmal relationships along nerve fibers. In conclusion, this investigation expands previous studies supporting the pleiotropic neuroprotective effect of rhEPO on secondary degenerative response and its therapeutic potential for the treatment of SCI and confirms that the preservation of the ventral white matter, which contains descending motor pathways, may be critical for limiting functional deficit.
Subiculum receives output of hippocampal CA1 neurons and projects glutamatergic synapses onto nucleus accumbens (NAc), the subicular-NAc pathway linking memory and reward system. It is unknown whether morphine withdrawal influences synaptic plasticity in the subicular-NAc pathway. Here, we recorded the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) within the shell of NAc by stimulating ventral subiculum in anesthetized adult rats. We found that high frequency stimulation (HFS, 200 Hz) induced long-term potentiation (LTP) but low frequency stimulation (LFS, 1 Hz) failed to induce long-term depression (LTD) in control animals. However, behavioral stress enabled LFS to induce a reliable LTD (sLTD) that was dependent on the glucocorticoid receptors. Both LTP and sLTD were prevented by the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist AP-5. After repeated morphine treatment for 12 days, acute withdrawal (12 h) impaired LTP but had no effect on sLTD; prolonged withdrawal (4 days) restored the LTP but impaired the sLTD. Remarkably, basal synaptic efficacy reflected by baseline EPSP amplitude was potentiated in acute withdrawal but was depressed in prolonged withdrawal. Thus, acute and prolonged opiate withdrawal may cause endogenous LTP and LTD in the subicular-NAc pathway that occludes the subsequent induction of synaptic plasticity, demonstrating adaptive changes of the NAc functions during opiate withdrawal.
Nerve cell injury by unconjugated bilirubin (UCB) has been implicated in brain damage during neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, particularly in the preterm newborn. Recently, it was shown that UCB is a substrate for the multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (Mrp1), an ATP-dependent efflux pump, which may decrease UCB intracellular levels. To obtain a further insight into the role of Mrp1 in the increased vulnerability of immature cells to UCB, we evaluated the mRNA and the protein levels of Mrp1 throughout differentiation in primary cultures of rat neurons and astrocytes. Furthermore, in order to provide supportive evidence for the role of Mrp1 in the protection of nerve cells from UCB-induced effects, we evaluated cell susceptibility to UCB when Mrp1 was inhibited with MK571 ((E)-3-[[[3-[2-(7-chloro-2-quinolinyl) ethenyl]phenyl]-[[3-dimethylamino)-3-oxopropyl]thio]methyl]thio]-propanoic acid). The results are the first to demonstrate that Mrp1 is expressed in neurons and that both mRNA and protein levels of Mrp1 increase with cell differentiation. Additionally, inhibition of Mrp1 was associated with an increase in UCB toxic effects, namely cell death, cell dysfunction, and secretion of interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, as well as of glutamate. These results point to a novel role of Mrp1 in the susceptibility of premature babies to UCB encephalopathy, and provide a startup point for the development of a new therapeutic strategy.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) has been implicated in regulating synaptic plasticity mechanisms as well as memory consolidation processes. Attachment of polysialic acid to NCAM (PSA-NCAM) has been reported to down-regulate its adhesive forces, a process hypothesized to be implicated in synapse selection after learning experiences. PSA-NCAM has been critically implicated in hippocampus-related synaptic plasticity and memory storage, but information about its functional role in other brain areas remains scarce. Here, we studied mice deficient for polysialyltransferase-1 (ST8SialV/PST-1), an enzyme which attaches PSA to NCAM during postnatal development and adulthood, and whose deficiency results in a drastic reduction of PSA-NCAM expression throughout the brain in adulthood. Mice were tested for their performance in the water maze and auditory fear conditioning (AFC). We report that ST8SiaIV knockout mice were impaired in spatial as well as reversal learning in the water maze. On the other hand, AFC was intact and ST8SiaIV mice exhibited no impairments in the acquisition or retention of cued fear memories. Spatial orientation learning and reversal learning require complex integration of spatial information and response selection involving the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, whereas cued fear conditioning is an associative type of emotional memory that highly depends on amygdala function. Therefore, our results indicate that PSA-NCAM contributes differentially to learning processes that differ in the nature of the neural computations involved, which probably reflects a differential role of this molecule in different brain regions.
Kindling is a model in which an initially subconvulsive electrical stimulation of certain brain areas eventually develops a generalized seizure that produces behavioral and long term neuronal changes. In the present study we evaluated if kindling can modify conditioning taste aversion (CTA). In this paradigm animals acquire aversion to saccharin when it is presented as the conditioned stimulus (CS) followed by an injection of lithium chloride (LiCl) that induces a gastric irritation as the unconditioned stimulus (US). Male Wistar rats were implanted with bipolar electrodes aimed at the right amygdala (AMG) or at the right insular cortex (IC). The animals were stimulated daily until they reached stages 2-4 (intermediate) or until kindling was fully established (three consecutive stage 5 seizures). At least two weeks after kindling stimulation had ceased the animals were deprived of water for 24 h and given 10-min drinking sessions twice a day for 4 days. On day 5 (morning session) tap water was replaced by saccharin solution (0.1%), 20 min later the animals were injected with LiCl (7.5 ml/kg i.p., 0.2 M) to induce gastric malaise or taste aversion. After three more days of baseline consumption, water was substituted by a fresh 0.1% saccharin solution to test the aversion. AMG-kindling delayed the extinction of CTA. Animals with kindling in the IC had a higher retention than the sham kindling group; that is, they drank significantly less saccharin solution than the other groups. The results of the present experiment show that local modification of brain function induced by kindling stimulation can prolong the aversive effects of CTA.
Neuroimaging studies have established that there are losses in the volume of gray matter in certain cortical regions between adolescence and adulthood, with changes in the prefrontal cortex being particularly dramatic. Previous work from our laboratory has demonstrated that cell death can occur as late as the fourth postnatal week in the rat cerebral cortex. The present study examined the possibility that neuronal loss may occur between adolescence and adulthood in the rat prefrontal cortex. Rats of both sexes were examined during adolescence (at day 35) and young adulthood (at day 90). The volume, neuronal number, and glial number of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were quantified using unbiased stereological techniques. Neurons were lost from the ventral, but not dorsal, mPFC between adolescence and adulthood, suggesting a late wave of apoptosis that was region-specific. This was accompanied by a decrease in the volume of the female ventral mPFC. In contrast to neuron number, the number of glial cells was stable in the ventral mPFC and increased between adolescence and adulthood in the dorsal mPFC. Sex-specific developmental changes in neuron number, glial number, and volume resulted in sex differences in adults that were not seen during adolescence. The loss of neurons at this time may make the peri-adolescent prefrontal cortex particularly susceptible to the influence of environmental factors.
The role of hypothalamic ATP-sensitive potassium channels in the maintenance of energy homeostasis has been extensively explored. However, how these channels are incorporated into the neuronal networks of the arcuate nucleus remains unclear. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from rat arcuate nucleus neurons in hypothalamic slice preparations revealed widespread expression of functional ATP-sensitive potassium channels within the nucleus. ATP-sensitive potassium channels were expressed in orexigenic neuropeptide Y/agouti-related protein (NPY/AgRP) and ghrelin-sensitive neurons and in anorexigenic cocaine-and-amphetamine regulated transcript (CART) neurons. In 70% of the arcuate nucleus neurons recorded, exposure to glucose-free bathing medium induced inhibition of electrical excitability, the response being characterized by membrane hyperpolarization, a reduction in neuronal input resistance and a reversal potential consistent with opening of potassium channels. These effects were reversible upon re-introduction of glucose to the bathing medium or upon exposure to the ATP-sensitive potassium channel blockers tolbutamide or glibenclamide. The potassium channel opener diazoxide, but not pinacidil, also induced a tolbutamide and glibenclamide-sensitive inhibition of electrical excitability. Single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed expression of mRNA for sulfonylurea receptor 1 but not sulfonylurea receptor 2 subunits of ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Thus, rat arcuate nucleus neurons, including those involved in functionally antagonistic orexigenic and anorexigenic pathways express functional ATP-sensitive potassium channels which include sulfonylurea receptor 1 subunits. These data indicate a crucial role for these ion channels in central sensing of metabolic and energy status. However, further studies are needed to clarify the differential roles of these channels, the organization of signaling pathways that regulate them and how they operate in functionally opposing cell types.
Exercise and antidepressants used independently have been shown to increase hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurogenesis. Despite the fact that patients with depression are often prescribed both, the effects of the exercise and fluoxetine antidepressant treatment used in combination are unknown. Using C57Bl/10 female mice, BDNF protein, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) protein and neurogenesis were measured in the hippocampus after 21 days of wheel running, 21 days of fluoxetine antidepressant therapy (daily i.p. injections of 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 25 mg/kg) and the combination of the two. BDNF protein and cytogenesis/neurogenesis increased in the hippocampus with fluoxetine (high dose), but not wheel running. Hippocampal IGF-1 protein did not change with either treatment. There were no synergistic effects of combining exercise and fluoxetine treatment. Recent reports have also shown that exercise induces molecular mechanisms that benefit the spinal cord and can improve recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI); therefore, we repeated the assays in the spinal cord. Results showed that BDNF, IGF-1 and neurogenesis behave independently in the hippocampus and spinal cord. BDNF protein did not change in the spinal cord with either wheel running or fluoxetine treatment. Spinal cord IGF-1 protein did not change with wheel running, but it decreased with fluoxetine (high dose). Furthermore, spinal cord cytogenesis decreased with fluoxetine treatment. The combined wheel running and fluoxetine groups did not show synergistic results. Thus, the hippocampus and the spinal cord respond in distinct ways to wheel running and fluoxetine, and a prior induction of BDNF, IGF-1 or cytogenesis is unlikely to be the mechanism for wheel running providing a margin of protection against SCI.
Vaccination with Abeta(1-42) and treatment with NCX-2216, a novel nitric oxide releasing flurbiprofen derivative, have each been shown separately to reduce amyloid deposition in transgenic mice and have been suggested as potential therapies for Alzheimer's disease. In the current study we treated doubly transgenic amyloid precursor protein and presenilin-1 (APP+PS1) mice with Abeta(1-42) vaccination, NCX-2216 or both drugs simultaneously for 9 months. We found that all treatments reduced amyloid deposition, both compact and diffuse, to the same extent while only vaccinated animals, with or without nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment, showed increased microglial activation associated with the remaining amyloid deposits. We also found that active Abeta vaccination resulted in significantly increased cerebral amyloid angiopathy and associated microhemorrhages, while NCX-2216 did not, in spite of similar reductions in parenchymal amyloid. Co-administration of NCX-2216 did not attenuate this effect of the vaccine. This is the first report showing that active immunization can result in increased vascular amyloid and microhemorrhage, as has been observed with passive immunization. Co-administration of an NSAID agent with Abeta vaccination does not substantially modify the effects of Abeta immunotherapy. The difference between these treatments with respect to vascular amyloid development may reflect the clearance-promoting actions of the vaccine as opposed to the production-modifying effects proposed for flurbiprofen.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency (TD) causes region selective neuronal loss in the brain; it has been used to model neurodegeneration that accompanies mild impairment of oxidative metabolism. The mechanisms for TD-induced neurodegeneration remain incompletely elucidated. Inhibition of protein glycosylation, perturbation of calcium homeostasis and reduction of disulfide bonds provoke the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and cause ER stress. Recently, ER stress has been implicated in a number of neurodegenerative models. We demonstrated here that TD up-regulated several markers of ER stress, such as glucose-regulated protein (GRP) 78, growth arrest and DNA-damage inducible protein or C/EBP-homologus protein (GADD153/Chop), phosphorylation of eIF2alpha and cleavage of caspase-12 in the cerebellum and the thalamus of mice. Furthermore, ultrastructural analysis by electron microscopic study revealed an abnormality in ER structure. To establish an in vitro model of TD in neurons, we treated cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) with amprolium, a potent inhibitor of thiamine transport. Exposure to amprolium caused apoptosis and the generation of reactive oxygen species in CGNs. Similar to the observation in vivo, TD up-regulated markers for ER stress. Treatment of a selective inhibitor of caspase-12 significantly alleviated amprolium-induced death of CGNs. Thus, ER stress may play a role in TD-induced brain damage.
In vertebrates, locomotion is associated with changes in respiratory activity, but the neural mechanisms by which this occurs remain unknown. We began examining this in lampreys using a semi-intact preparation of young adult Petromyzon marinus, in which respiratory and locomotor behaviors can be recorded simultaneously with the activity of the underlying neural control systems. Spontaneous fictive respiration was recorded with suction electrodes positioned over the glossopharyngeal or the rostral vagal motor nucleus. In this preparation, locomotor activity, characterized by symmetrical tail movements (electromyogram recordings), was evoked by mechanical stimulation of the skin. During locomotion, the mean respiratory frequency and the mean area of the motor bursts were significantly increased (81.6+/-28.6% and 62.8+/-25.4%, respectively; P&lt;0.05). The frequency returned to normal 92+/-51 s after the end of locomotion. There were fluctuations in the instantaneous respiratory and locomotor frequencies that were rhythmical but antiphasic for the two rhythmic activities. The changes in respiratory activity were also examined during bouts of locomotion occurring spontaneously, and it was found that a modification in respiratory activity preceded the onset of spontaneous locomotion by 3.5+/-2.6 s. This suggests that the early respiratory changes are anticipatory and are not caused by feedback generated by locomotion. The increase in respiratory frequency during locomotion induced by sensory stimulation persisted after removal of the mesencephalon. When both the mesencephalon and spinal cord were removed, resulting in the isolation of the rhombencephalon, changes in the respiratory activity were also present following skin stimulations that would have normally induced locomotion. Altogether, the results suggest that respiratory changes are programmed to adjust ventilation prior to motor activity, and that a central rhombencephalic mechanism is involved.
Dopamine in the prefrontal cortex plays a critical role in normal cognition throughout the lifespan and has been implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and attention deficit disorder. Little is known, however, about the postnatal development of the dopaminergic system in the human prefrontal cortex. In this study, we examined pre- and post-synaptic markers of the dopaminergic system in postmortem tissue specimens from 37 individuals ranging in age from 2 months to 86 years. We measured the levels of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in dopamine biosynthesis, using Western immunoblotting. We also examined the gene expression of the three most abundant dopamine receptors (DARs) in the human prefrontal cortex: DAR1, DAR2 and DAR4, by in situ hybridization. We found that tyrosine hydroxylase concentrations and DAR2 mRNA levels were highest in the cortex of neonates. In contrast, the gene expression of DAR1 was highest in adolescents and young adults. No significant changes across age groups were detected in mRNA levels of DAR4. Both DAR1 and DAR2 mRNA were significantly lower in the aged cortex. Taken together, our data suggest dynamic changes in markers of the dopamine system in the human frontal cortex during postnatal development at both pre-and post-synaptic sites. The peak in DAR1 mRNA levels around adolescence/early adulthood may be of particular relevance to neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia in which symptoms manifest during the same developmental period.
The amygdala is critically important for fear learning, and specific kinases have been implicated as contributors to the mechanisms that underlie learning. We examined levels of protein kinase C betaII (PKC betaII) in the left and right lateral and basolateral nuclei (LA/BLA) of the amygdala from animals that were classically fear conditioned with tones as cues and footshocks. Groups consisted of animals that received neither tones nor shocks, paired tones and shocks, or unpaired tones and shocks. At 1 h after conditioning, some animals from each group were used for biochemical measurements of PKC betaII levels and other animals were given probe trials to assess freezing behavior to cue and context. The levels of PKC betaII were greater in the left hemisphere in animals receiving neither tones nor shocks and animals receiving paired tones and shocks. PKC betaII levels were greater in the right hemisphere of animals receiving randomly presented tones and shocks. Freezing times to cue were long (&gt;80% of probe trial time) in both the paired tone/shock and randomly unpaired tone/shock groups. Freezing times to context were long in the unpaired tone/shock group, but not the paired tone/shock group. Correlational analyses showed that freezing times to context, but not cue, precisely predicted the right/left relation of PKC betaII levels in the LA/BLA: the greater the time spent freezing to context, the greater the increase in right hemisphere PKC betaII levels. We conclude that fear conditioning causes hemisphere and input specific increases in PKC betaII in the rat LA/BLA.
Reelin (RELN) is a key molecule for the regulation of neuronal migration in the developing CNS. The reeler mice, which have spontaneous autosomal recessive mutation in the RELN gene, reveal multiple defects in brain development. Morphological, neurochemical and behavioral alterations have been detected in heterozygous reeler (HR) mice, suggesting that not only the presence, but also the level of RELN influences brain development. Several studies implicate an involvement of RELN in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders in which an alteration of the cholinergic cortical pathways is implicated as well. Thus, we decided to investigate whether the basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic system is altered in HR mice by examining cholinergic markers at the level of both cell body and nerve terminals. In septal and rostral, but not caudal, basal forebrain region, HR mice exhibited a significant reduction in the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactive (ir) cell bodies compared with control mice. Instead, an increase in ChAT ir neurons was detected in lateral striatum. This suggests that an alteration in ChAT ir cell migration which leads to a redistribution of cholinergic neurons in subcortical forebrain regions occurs in HR mice. The reduction of ChAT ir neurons in the BF was paralleled by an alteration of cortical cholinergic nerve terminals. In particular, the HR mice presented a marked reduction of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining accompanied by a small reduction of cortical thickness in the rostral dorsomedial cortex, while the density of AChE staining was not altered in the lateral and ventral cortices. Present results show that the cholinergic basalo-cortical system is markedly, though selectively, impaired in HR mice. Rostral sub-regions of the BF and rostro-medial cortical areas show significant decreases of cholinergic neurons and innervation, respectively.
Although the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) is unknown, a common element of most theories is the involvement of oxidative stress, either as a cause or effect of the disease. There have been relatively few studies that have characterized oxidative stress in animal models of PD. In the present study a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rodent model of PD was used to investigate the in vivo production of oxidative stress after administration of the neurotoxin. 6-OHDA was injected into the striatum of young adult rats and the production of protein carbonyls and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) was measured at 1, 3, 7, and 14 days after administration. A significant increase in both markers was found in the striatum 1 day after neurotoxin administration, and this increase declined to basal levels by day 7. There was no significant increase found in the substantia nigra at any of the time points investigated. This same lesion paradigm produced dopamine depletions of 90-95% in the striatum and 63-80% in the substantia nigra by 14-28 days post-6-OHDA. Protein carbonyl and HNE levels were also measured in middle-aged and aged animals 1 day after striatal 6-OHDA. Both protein carbonyl and HNE levels were increased in the striatum of middle-aged and aged animals treated with 6-OHDA, but the increases were not as great as those observed in the young adult animals. Similar to the young animals, there were no increases in either marker in the substantia nigra of the middle-aged and aged animals. There was a trend for an age-dependent increase in basal amounts of oxidative stress markers when comparing the non-lesioned side of the brains of the three age groups. These results support that an early event in the course of dopamine depletion following intrastriatal 6-OHDA administration is the generation of oxidative stress.


A dysfunction in copper homeostasis seems to occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We previously evidenced that an excess of non-ceruloplasmin-copper (NCC) correlated with the main functional, anatomical as well as cerebrospinal markers of the disease. Aim of our study was to investigate ceruloplasmin isoforms as potential actors in this AD copper dysfunction. Our data show that AD patients have ceruloplasmin fragments of low molecular weight (&lt;50 kDa) both in their serum and brain, contrary to healthy controls. Ceruloplasmin isoforms of higher molecular weight (115 and 135 kDa in serum and 135 kDa in brain), as well as copper levels in the brain, instead, do not seem to mark a difference between AD and healthy subjects. These data suggest a ceruloplasmin fragmentation in the serum of AD patients. Some clues in this direction have been found also in the AD brain.
Neurotransmitters have emerged as important players in the control of programmed cell death in the cerebral cortex. We report that genetic depletion of serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine in mice lacking the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2 KO mice) causes an increase in cell death in the superficial layers of the cingulate and retrosplenial cortices during early postnatal life (postnatal days 0-4). Electron microscopy and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling indicated that this represents a form of apoptosis. Caspase-3 and -9 are over activated in the VMAT2 KO cortex and Bcl-X(L) is downregulated, whereas the apoptosis-inducing factor caspase-8 and FasL/FasR pathway are not involved. Partial inhibition of serotonin or/and catecholamine synthesis by pharmacological treatments or genetic reduction of serotonin neuron number in mice lacking the transcription factor Pet-1 (pheochromocytoma 12 E26 transformation-specific) did not modify the cell death ratios in the cerebral cortex. However, when monoamine oxidase type A was invalidated in the VMAT2 KO background (VMAT2-MAOA DKO mice), increases in 5-HT levels coincided with a reduction of cell death and a normalization of Bcl-X(L) expression. trkB signaling is not implicated in the anti-apoptotic effects of MAOA inhibition because BDNF mRNA levels were unchanged in VMAT2-MAOA DKO mice and because the massive cell death in the cerebral cortex of trkB KO mice is also reverted by genetic invalidation of the MAOA gene. Finally the broad 5-HT2 receptor agonist (-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride prevented the increase in cell death of VMAT2 KO mice. Altogether, these results suggest that high levels of serotonin, acting through 5-HT2 receptors, have neuroprotective action on cortical neurons by controlling Bcl-X(L) mRNA levels and that this action is independent of trkB signaling.
By using a battery of behavioral tests, we showed that nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor (NOP receptor) antagonists attenuated parkinsonian-like symptoms in 6-hydroxydopamine hemilesioned rats (Marti et al., 2005). We now present evidence that coadministration of the NOP receptor antagonist 1-[(3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H benzimidazol-2-one (J-113397) and L-DOPA to 6-hydroxydopamine hemilesioned rats produced an additive attenuation of parkinsonism. To investigate the neurobiological substrates underlying this interaction, in vivo microdialysis was used in combination with behavioral measurements (bar test). J-113397 and L-DOPA alone reduced the time on bars (i.e., attenuated akinesia) and elevated GABA release selectively in the lesioned substantia nigra reticulata. J-113397 also reduced nigral glutamate levels, whereas L-DOPA was ineffective. J-113397 and L-DOPA coadministration produced additive antiakinetic effect, which was associated with additive increase in nigral GABA release but no additional reductions in glutamate levels. To investigate whether the increase in nigral GABA release could translate to changes in nigrothalamic transmission, GABA release was monitored in the ventromedial thalamus (one of the main target areas of the nigrothalamic projections). J-113397 and L-DOPA decreased thalamic GABA release and attenuated akinesia, their combination resulting in a more profound effect. These actions were prevented by perfusing the voltage-dependent Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin or the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline in the substantia nigra reticulata. These data demonstrate that J-113397 and L-DOPA exert their antiparkinsonian action through overinhibition of nigrothalamic transmission and suggest that NOP receptor antagonists may be useful as an adjunct to L-DOPA therapy for Parkinson's disease.
Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) is a computationally powerful form of plasticity in which synapses are strengthened or weakened according to the temporal order and precise millisecond-scale delay between presynaptic and postsynaptic spiking activity. STDP is readily observed in vitro, but evidence for STDP in vivo is scarce. Here, we studied spike timing-dependent synaptic depression in single putative pyramidal neurons of the rat primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in vivo, using two techniques. First, we recorded extracellularly from layer 2/3 (L2/3) and L5 neurons, and paired spontaneous action potentials (postsynaptic spikes) with subsequent subthreshold deflection of one whisker (to drive presynaptic afferents to the recorded neuron) to produce &quot;post-leading-pre&quot; spike pairings at known delays. Short delay pairings (&lt;17 ms) resulted in a significant decrease of the extracellular spiking response specific to the paired whisker, consistent with spike timing-dependent synaptic depression. Second, in whole-cell recordings from neurons in L2/3, we paired postsynaptic spikes elicited by direct-current injection with subthreshold whisker deflection to drive presynaptic afferents to the recorded neuron at precise temporal delays. Post-leading-pre pairing (&lt;33 ms delay) decreased the slope and amplitude of the PSP evoked by the paired whisker, whereas &quot;pre-leading-post&quot; delays failed to produce depression, and sometimes produced potentiation of whisker-evoked PSPs. These results demonstrate that spike timing-dependent synaptic depression occurs in S1 in vivo, and is therefore a plausible plasticity mechanism in the sensory cortex.
Rodents use chemosignals to alter endocrine balance in conspecifics. Although responses to human sweat suggest a similar mechanism in humans, no particular component of human sweat capable of altering endocrine balance in conspecifics has yet been isolated and identified. Here, we measured salivary levels of the hormone cortisol in women after smelling pure androstadienone (4,16-androstadien-3-one), a molecule present in the sweat of men that has been suggested as a chemosignal in humans. We found that merely smelling androstadienone maintained significantly higher levels of the hormone cortisol in women. These results suggest that, like rodents, humans can influence the hormonal balance of conspecifics through chemosignals. Critically, this study identified a single component of sweat, androstadienone, as capable of exerting such influence. This result points to a potential role for synthetic human chemosignals in clinical applications.
The representation of navigational optic flow across the inferior parietal lobule was assessed using optical imaging of intrinsic signals in behaving monkeys. The exposed cortex, corresponding to the dorsal-most portion of areas 7a and dorsal prelunate (DP), was imaged in two hemispheres of two rhesus monkeys. The monkeys actively attended to changes in motion stimuli while fixating. Radial expansion and contraction, and rotation clockwise and counter-clockwise optic flow stimuli were presented concentric to the fixation point at two angles of gaze to assess the interrelationship between the eye position and optic flow signal. The cortical response depended upon the type of flow and was modulated by eye position. The optic flow selectivity was embedded in a patchy architecture within the gain field architecture. All four optic flow stimuli tested were represented in areas 7a and DP. The location of the patches varied across days. However the spatial periodicity of the patches remained constant across days at approximately 950 and 1100 microm for the two animals examined. These optical recordings agree with previous electrophysiological studies of area 7a, and provide new evidence for flow selectivity in DP and a fine scale description of its cortical topography. That the functional architectures for optic flow can change over time was unexpected. These and earlier results also from inferior parietal lobule support the inclusion of both static and dynamic functional architectures that define association cortical areas and ultimately support complex cognitive function.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), a product of a causative gene for the autosomal-dominant form of familial Parkinson's disease (PARK8), harbors a Ras-like small GTP binding protein-like (ROC) domain besides the kinase domain, although the relationship between these two functional domains remains elusive. Here we show by thin-layer chromatographic analysis that LRRK2 stably binds GTP but lacks a GTPase activity in HEK293 and Neuro-2a cells. A ROC domain mutation that converts LRRK2 to a guanine nucleotide-free form (T1348N) abolishes the kinase activity of LRRK2 as well as its phosphate incorporation upon metabolic labeling. The phosphorylation of LRRK2 was inhibited by potential inhibitors for cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. These data suggest that binding of GTP to the ROC domain regulates the kinase activity of LRRK2 as well as its phosphorylation by other kinase(s).
The competitive antagonist d-tubocurarine (curare) has greater potency at mouse than at human 5-hydroxytryptamine 3A (5-HT3A) receptors, despite 84% amino acid sequence identity between the receptors. Within the ligand binding domain of this receptor are six loops (A-F). A previous report demonstrated that loop C of the 5-HT3A receptor contributed to differential potency between the receptors [Hope, A. G. et al. (1999) Mol. Pharmacol. 55, 1037-1043]. The present study tested the hypothesis that loop F plays a significant role in conferring interspecies curare potency differences. Wild-type, chimeric, and point mutant 5-HT3A receptors were expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and two-electrode voltage clamp electrophysiological recordings were performed. Our data suggest that loops C and F contribute to curare potency, given that the curare IC50's (concentration of drug that produces 50% inhibition of the response) for chimeric human receptors with substitutions of mouse residues in loop C (40.07 +/- 2.52 nM) or loop F (131.8 +/- 5.95 nM) were intermediate between those for the mouse (12.99 +/- 0.77 nM) and human (1817 +/- 92.36 nM) wild-type receptors. Two human point mutant receptors containing mouse receptor substitutions in loop F (H-K195E or H-V202I) had significantly lower curare IC50's than that of the human receptor. The human double mutant receptor, H-K195E,V202I, had the same curare IC50 (133.8 +/- 6.38 nM) as that of the human receptor containing all six loop F mouse substitutions. These results demonstrate that two loop F residues make a significant contribution in determining curare potency at the 5-HT3A receptor.
Proper information processing in neural circuits requires establishment of specific connections between pre- and postsynaptic neurons. Targeting specificity of neurons is instructed by cell-surface receptors on the growth cones of axons and dendrites, which confer responses to external guidance cues. Expression of cell-surface receptors is in turn regulated by neuron-intrinsic transcriptional programs. In the Drosophila olfactory system, each projection neuron (PN) achieves precise dendritic targeting to one of 50 glomeruli in the antennal lobe. PN dendritic targeting is specified by lineage and birth order , and their initial targeting occurs prior to contact with axons of their presynaptic partners, olfactory receptor neurons. We search for transcription factors (TFs) that control PN-intrinsic mechanisms of dendritic targeting. We previously identified two POU-domain TFs, acj6 and drifter, as essential players. After testing 13 additional candidates, we identified four TFs (LIM-homeodomain TFs islet and lim1, the homeodomain TF cut, and the zinc-finger TF squeeze) and the LIM cofactor Chip that are required for PN dendritic targeting. These results begin to provide insights into the global strategy of how an ensemble of TFs regulates wiring specificity of a large number of neurons constituting a neural circuit.

Heterotrimeric G proteins are molecular switches that relay information intracellularly in response to various extracellular signals. How ligand-activated G protein-coupled receptors act at a distance to exert exchange activity on the Galpha nucleotide binding pocket is poorly understood. Here we describe the synergistic action of two peptides: one from the third intracellular loop of the D2 dopamine receptor (D2N), and a second, Galpha.GDP-binding peptide (KB-752) that mimics the proposed role of Gbetagamma in receptor-promoted nucleotide exchange. The structure of both peptides in complex with Galpha(i1) suggests that conformational changes in the beta3/alpha2 loop and beta6 strand act in concert for efficient nucleotide exchange. Two key residues in the alpha4 helix were found to define a receptor/Galpha(i) coupling specificity determinant.
Nuclei of the mammalian thalamus are aggregations of neurons with unique architectures and input-output connections, yet the molecular determinants of their organizational specificity remain unknown. By comparing expression profiles of thalamus and cerebral cortex in adult rhesus monkeys, we identified transcripts that are unique to dorsal thalamus or to individual nuclei within it. Real-time quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization analyses confirmed the findings. Expression profiling of individual nuclei microdissected from the dorsal thalamus revealed additional subsets of nucleus-specific genes. Functional annotation using Gene Ontology (GO) vocabulary and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis revealed overrepresentation of GO categories related to development, morphogenesis, cell-cell interactions, and extracellular matrix within the thalamus- and nucleus-specific genes, many involved in the Wnt signaling pathway. Examples included the transcription factor TCF7L2, localized exclusively to excitatory neurons; a calmodulin-binding protein PCP4; the bone extracellular matrix molecules SPP1 and SPARC; and other genes involved in axon outgrowth and cell matrix interactions. Other nucleus-specific genes such as CBLN1 are involved in synaptogenesis. The genes identified likely underlie nuclear specification, cell phenotype, and connectivity during development and their maintenance in the adult thalamus.
Although metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) is essential for cocaine self-administration and drug-seeking behavior, there is limited knowledge of the cellular actions of this receptor in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Although mGluR5 has the potential to regulate neurons directly, recent studies have shown the importance of mGluR5 in regulating Ca(2+) signaling in astrocytes and, as a consequence, the Ca(2+)-dependent release of excitatory transmitters from these glia. In this study, we demonstrate that activation of mGluR5 induces Ca(2+) oscillations in NAc astrocytes with the correlated appearance of NMDA receptor-dependent slow inward currents detected in medium spiny neurons (MSNs). Photolysis of caged Ca(2+) loaded specifically into astrocytes evoked slow inward currents demonstrating that Ca(2+) elevations in astrocytes are responsible for these excitatory events. Pharmacological evaluation of these glial-evoked NMDA currents shows that they are mediated by NR2B-containing NMDA receptors, whereas synaptic NMDA receptors rely on NR2A-containing receptors. Stimulation of glutamatergic afferents activates mGluR5-dependent astrocytic Ca(2+) oscillations and gliotransmission that is sustained for minutes beyond the initial stimulus. Because gliotransmission is mediated by NMDA receptors, depolarized membrane potentials exhibited during up-states augment excitation provided by gliotransmission, which drives bursts of MSN action potentials. Because the predominant mGluR5-dependent action of glutamatergic afferents is to cause the sustained activation of astrocytes, which in turn excite MSNs through extrasynaptic NMDA receptors, our results raise the potential for gliotransmission being involved in prolonged mGluR5-dependent adaptation in the NAc.

Unilateral injection of interleukin-1 beta (IL1beta) into the somatosensory cortex enhances EEG slow wave activity ipsilaterally during non-rapid eye movement sleep [Yasuda, T., Yoshida, H., Garcia-Garcia, F., Kay, D., Krueger, J.M., 2005. Interleukin-1beta has a role in cerebral cortical state-dependent electroencephalographic slow-wave activity. Sleep 28, 177-184]. We show that a similar unilateral microinjection of IL1beta (10 ng) into layer VI or onto the surface of the primary somatosensory cortex induced increases in the neuronal activity marker, Fos, relative to the contralateral side that received saline or heat-inactivated IL1beta. When IL1beta was microinjected into layer VI, increases in Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were evident in layers II, III and VI of the somatosensory cortex and connected cortical regions, such as the endopiriform, secondary somatosensory, piriform and prefrontal cortex. Asymmetrical increases in Fos were also observed in subcortical regions, such as the reticular thalamus, which receives a main cortical projection, and hypothalamic regions implicated in sleep regulation, such as the ventrolateral preoptic area and dorsal median preoptic nucleus. Fos activation was not observed in many other brain regions. In the reticular thalamus and somatosensory cortex, the number of IL1beta-immunoreactive glial cells increased. Further, the number of NGF-immunoreactive cells in the primary somatosensory cortex and magnocellular preoptic nucleus increased on the IL1beta-injected side. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that sleep is initiated within the cortex after the local activation of specific cytokines and that whole organism sleep is coordinated via cortical connections with the subcortical sites.
Reelin is an extracellular matrix protein, secreted by GABAergic interneurons, that provides a signal for neural plasticity. A downregulation of reelin may be a factor to be considered in the study of major psychiatric disorders. The heterozygous reeler mouse model, thus, may be important to reveal those alterations in behavioral phenotype produced by reduced neural plasticity. Heterozygous (HZ) and wild-type (WT) mice were tested for anxiety-related behavior, motor impulsivity, and morphine-induced analgesia. Heterozygous mice showed significantly lower levels of anxiety- and risk-assessment-related behaviors in the elevated plus-maze during adolescence, in the absence of basal changes in general locomotion. Adult mice were assessed for profiles of impulsive behavior in operant chambers, and HZ mice exhibited elevated levels of motor impulsivity. When mice were assessed in nociception tests, a genotype difference in morphine-induced analgesia was found, and these results were confirmed by measurement of mu-receptors in the midbrain. The basal behavioral profile of the HZ genotype reveals important differences, consistent with decreased behavioral inhibition and emotionality, which can be revealed as early as in adolescence, together with slight increment of impulsive behavior and altered pain threshold and at the adult age. The HZ genotype can thus represent a useful animal model for the study of behavioral disorders consequent to reduced neural plasticity.
We examined the influence of prenatal stress on alcohol preference in adult female rats exposed to an intense stress. To take into account interindividual variability, the study was conducted in animals categorized as low or high alcohol preferring. After footshock, control high-preferring rats strongly reduced their alcohol consumption; in contrast, alcohol consumption was not changed in high-preferring rats that were prenatally stressed.
Transmission in spinal reflex pathways from the toes to the ankle flexor tibialis anterior (TA) and to the knee flexor semitendinosus (ST), and from the heel to the ankle extensor medial gastrocnemius (MG), has been studied during antigen-induced inflammation due to subcutaneous injection of ovalbumin at the heel or at the toes in pre-immunized, pentobarbitone-anesthetized rabbits. The ovalbumin challenge induced a mild swelling at the injection site that developed over 6 h. Inflammation at the toes facilitated both flexor reflexes evoked from the toes and inhibited MG extensor responses to stimulation at the heel, with effects usually developing within 75 min of the initial injection and persisting to the end of the 6 h post-injection recording period. When inflammation was induced at the heel, the heel-MG and toes-ST reflexes were enhanced, whereas the toes-TA reflex was inhibited. The findings support the view that long-lasting changes in reflexes evoked by noxious stimuli have evolved to enhance reflex protection of an injured site.
Cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) by alpha-secretase releases a secreted form of APP (sAPP) from cells. sAPP is released from neurons in an activity-dependent manner and is believed to play roles in synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection. We determined whether sAPP modulates electrophysiological and cerebrovascular processes in vivo. The effects of recombinant sAPP, applied by intracerebroventricular infusion, on hippocampal and cortical electroencephalographic (EEG) activity and hippocampal blood flow in young adult and middle-aged Long-Evans rats were measured. sAPP increased the power spectrum density of low frequency EEG bands in the hippocampus and cortex of middle-aged rats without affecting hippocampal blood flow. The neurophysiological effects of sAPP were observed in middle-aged, but not in young rats. The results of this study indicate that hippocampal and cortical electrophysiological processes are sensitive to sAPP, whereas the cerebral vasculature may not be regulated by sAPP. The age-dependent change in the sensitivity of neuronal activity to sAPP suggests the possibility of an important role for this APP product in brain functioning in mid life.
Although schizophrenia is primarily considered to be a neurodevelopmental disorder, there is a growing consensus that the disorder may also involve neurodegeneration. Recent research using non-invasive neuroimaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance imaging, suggests that some patients with schizophrenia show progressive losses of gray matter in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain. The cellular mechanisms responsible for such gray matter losses are unknown, but have been hypothesized to involve abnormal increases in apoptosis.



The major determinant of functional recovery after lesions in the peripheral nervous system is the accurate regeneration of axons to their original target end-organs. Unfortunately, regenerating motor axons are often misrouted to sensory target end-organs, and sensory axons formerly innervating skin are often misrouted to muscle. As such regeneration is robust, but often inaccurate, a better understanding of how regenerating axons reinnervate terminal pathways would be of fundamental interest to basic and clinical neuroscience. This review will consider the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms that influence the accuracy of peripheral nerve regeneration, within the context of 'preferential motor reinnervation' (PMR). Much previous work with PMR has utilized the rodent femoral nerve and has shown that regenerating motor axons preferentially, albeit incompletely, reinnervate a distal terminal nerve branch to muscle (quadriceps) vs. skin (saphenous). One interpretation of this body of work has been that Schwann cell tubes have a specific identity that can be recognized by regenerating motor axons and that influences their subsequent behaviour. We disagree with that interpretation, and suggest motor and cutaneous pathways are not inherently different in terms of their ability to support regeneration of motor axons. In fact, recent experiments indicate under certain conditions motor axons will preferentially reinnervate the inappropriate terminal cutaneous pathway instead of the appropriate pathway to muscle. We suggest that it is the relative level of trophic support provided by each nerve branch that determines whether motor axons will remain in that particular branch. Within the context of the femoral nerve model, our results suggest a hierarchy of trophic support for regenerating motor axons with muscle contact being the highest, followed by the length of the terminal nerve branch and/or contact with skin.

The present experiment was planned to check whether the extraction of apparent age is affected by face identity (familiarity) or not. According to the traditional view, age estimation should be carried out independently of face identity, because it is one of the visually derived semantic codes (like gender and ethnicity). However, little is known about its underlying mechanisms. Moreover, some recent studies have cast doubt on the parallel thesis regarding facial expression, facial speech, ethnicity, and gender. Given the promising results of a pilot experiment (n=24), 16 Caucasian participants were enrolled in an &quot;age decision&quot; task on morphed faces derived from one old and one young source-face, in the proportion 70:30. The respondents had previously been familiarised with half the source faces by a learning procedure (associating the face, surname, occupation and city of residence of the person displayed), while the remaining half were unfamiliar. The results showed that age decision was affected by face familiarity, at least when the task was perceptually difficult enough. This adds support to the thesis that the identification of identity and the extraction of visually derived semantic codes are not made independently from each other. The status of age, within the visually derived semantic codes, is also discussed.



The purpose of the present study was to characterize cue-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats trained to lever press for ethanol in 30-min self-administration sessions. Four responses on an &quot;active&quot; lever led to presentation of 0.1 ml of 15% (vol/vol) ethanol by a liquid dipper and concurrent activation of a set of discrete light and auditory cues. In a 70-min extinction/reinstatement session, responding was first extinguished for 60 min. Subsequently, different stimuli were delivered in a noncontingent manner and reinstatement of nonreinforced responding was assessed. Fifteen presentations of the ethanol-predictive stimulus complex, including the dipper cup containing 5 or 15% ethanol, potently reinstated responding on the previously active lever. The magnitude of reinstatement increased with the number of stimulus presentations and concentration of ethanol presented by the dipper cup. Fifteen presentations of the ethanol-predictive stimulus complex, including the dipper cup filled with water (0% ethanol), did not produce any reinstatement. These results indicate that (1) noncontingent presentations of the ethanol-predictive stimulus complex may reinstate ethanol seeking in sP rats and (2) the orosensory properties of ethanol may play an important role in reinstatement of ethanol seeking in sP rats. The latter finding concurs with clinical observations that odor and taste of alcoholic beverages elicit immediate craving responses in abstinent alcoholics.
Ethanol reinforcement should ideally be evaluated in animals that are not food deprived to ensure that the motivation behind its consumption is pharmacological, and not caloric, in nature. The objective of this work was to assess the influence of reinforcement schedule on ethanol intake in nondeprived mice. Male C57BL/6J mice were trained to respond on an ethanol-reinforced lever on a fixed ratio 4 reinforcement schedule for 10% ethanol (10E). The appetitive and consummatory phases were then procedurally separated by changing the response requirement (RR), so that mice were permitted 30-min continuous 10E access after completion of either four (RR4) or eight (RR8) responses. Phase separation yielded a heightened appetitive drive to acquire 10E access (as indexed by a significant decrease in the latency to first active lever and a trend toward a decrease in the latency to first sipper contact) and an augmented level of drinking (twofold elevation in the ethanol dose consumed). Robust extinction responding on the ethanol-appropriate lever indicated that ethanol was effective as a behavioral reinforcer. These results suggest that the separation of appetitive and consummatory phases of ethanol self-administration may prove useful in future evaluations of the pharmacological and genetic bases of ethanol reinforcement in mice.
Several studies support an association between electroencephalogram (EEG) voltage and alcohol dependence. However, the distribution of EEG variants also appears to differ depending on an individual's ethnic heritage, suggesting significant genetic stratification of this EEG phenotype. The present study's aims were to investigate the incidence of EEG alpha variants and spectral power in the alpha frequency range in Mexican American young adults based on gender, and personal and family history of alcohol dependence. Clinical ratings (high-, medium-, and low alpha voltage variants) and spectral characteristics of the EEG in the alpha frequency range (7.5-12 Hz) were investigated in young adult (age 18-25 years) Mexican American men (n=98) and women (n=138) who were recruited from the community. Nineteen percent (n=45) of the participants had a low-voltage alpha EEG variant, 18% had a high-voltage variant, and 63% had a medium-voltage variant. There were no significant differences in the distribution of the EEG variants based on family history of alcohol dependence. There was a significant relationship between gender and the three alpha variants (chi2=9.7; df=2; P&lt;.008), and there were no male participants with alcohol dependence with high alpha variants (chi2=5.8; df=2; P&lt;.056). Alcohol dependence, but not a family history of alcohol dependence, was associated with lower spectral power in the alpha frequency range in the right (F=4.4; df=1,96; P&lt;.04) and left (F=5.3; df=1.96; P&lt;.02) occipital areas in the men but not in the women. In conclusion, in this select population of Mexican American young adults, male gender and alcohol dependence are associated with an absence of high-voltage alpha variants and lower alpha power in the EEG. These data suggest that EEG low voltage, a highly heritable trait, may represent an important endophenotype in male Mexican Americans that may aid in linking brain function with genetic factors underlying alcohol dependence in this ethnic group.



The authors performed a prospective, unbiased analysis of a cohort of young patients assessed consecutively with the question of dementia. The onset of patients' cognitive symptoms was prior to the age of 65 years. A study group of 226 patients was followed for a mean duration of 4.59 +/- 2.23 years (1 SD; range, 0.04-7.86 years). The diagnoses were established using published diagnostic criteria. A diagnosis of dementia was made in 112 patients (49.56%). Psychiatric disease was the most common diagnosis in those who did not have dementia (24.3%) followed by frontotemporal lobar degeneration (19.0%), Alzheimer's disease (11.9%), patients with cognitive symptoms who obtained normal neuropsychometric profiles (10.6%), nonneurological disorders (eg, obstructive sleep apnea [8.4%]), neurological disorders (eg, Parkinson's disease [4.9%]), and mild cognitive impairment (4.9%). The frequencies of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and psychiatric disease were higher than Alzheimer's disease, unlike in older populations.


Reactive astrocytes and microglia in Alzheimer's disease surround amyloid plaques and secrete proinflammatory cytokines that affect neuronal function. Relationship between cytokine signaling and amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) accumulation is poorly understood. Thus, we generated a novel Swedish beta-amyloid precursor protein mutant (APP) transgenic mouse in which the interferon (IFN)-gamma receptor type I was knocked out (APP/GRKO). IFN-gamma signaling loss in the APP/GRKO mice reduced gliosis and amyloid plaques at 14 months of age. Aggregated Abeta induced IFN-gamma production from co-culture of astrocytes and microglia, and IFN-gamma elicited tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha secretion in wild type (WT) but not GRKO microglia co-cultured with astrocytes. Both IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha enhanced Abeta production from APP-expressing astrocytes and cortical neurons. TNF-alpha directly stimulated beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme (BACE1) expression and enhanced beta-processing of APP in astrocytes. The numbers of reactive astrocytes expressing BACE1 were increased in APP compared with APP/GRKO mice in both cortex and hippocampus. IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha activation of WT microglia suppressed Abeta degradation, whereas GRKO microglia had no changes. These results support the idea that glial IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha enhance Abeta deposition through BACE1 expression and suppression of Abeta clearance. Taken together, these observations suggest that proinflammatory cytokines are directly linked to Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.
We examine here the outcome of viral encephalomyelitis [mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) A59, Theiler's encephalomyelitis virus, and Coxsackievirus B3] in mice with autoantibodies to a central nervous system (CNS)-specific antigen, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, that usually develop no clinical disease. Morbidity and mortality of the acute viral CNS disease was augmented by the presence of the autoantibodies in all three viral infections. Transfer of serum containing the autoantibodies at the time of infection with MHV was sufficient to reproduce the exacerbated disease. The presence of the autoantibodies was found to result in increased infiltration of mononuclear cells into the brain. Early demyelination was severely augmented in brains and spinal cords of MHV-infected mice with CNS-specific autoantibodies. The antibody-mediated exacerbation was shown to be independent of the complement system but to require expression of Fc receptors, because it was observed in C'-3-deficient but not in Fc receptor-deficient mice. Our study illustrates the possibility that infections can lead to much more profound immunopathology in the presence of an otherwise latent autoimmune condition.
Female mice lacking AR display alterations in ovarian and uterine function. However, the biology of AR in the fallopian tube is not fully understood. To gain an insight into potential roles of AR in this tissue, we demonstrated that eCG treatment increased AR expression in a time-dependent manner and subsequent treatment with hCG decreased AR expression in mouse fallopian tubes. This expression pattern was positively associated with 17beta-estradiol and testosterone levels in vivo. Immunohistochemical analysis of fallopian tube epithelial cells revealed that nuclear localization of AR increased in parallel with decreased AR in the cytoplasm following eCG treatment. Moreover, we found that treatment with flutamide upregulated AR expression in immature mice in association with a decrease in serum testosterone levels, whereas the same treatment resulted in downregulation of AR expression in gonadotropin-stimulated mice with concomitant decreases in serum 17beta-estradiol concentrations, suggesting that androgen differs from estrogen in the regulation of AR expression. Furthermore, we demonstrated that DES increased both AR protein expression and nuclear location over a 48-h time course. DHT had rapid effects, with induction of AR expression and translocation at 6 h after injection, but unlike DES it had prolonged efficacy. In addition, we provided direct in vivo evidence that nuclear protein interaction between AR and p21(Cip1), a previously reported AR-regulated gene, was enhanced by gonadotropin stimulation. To our knowledge, this study provides the first demonstration to illustrate that estrogen as a principal regulator may contribute to regulate and activate AR in the fallopian tubes in vivo.

Recombinant human EPO (r-Hu-EPO) protects cultured motor neurons from kainate- and serum deprivation-induced toxicity and readily enters the CNS after systemic injection. We examined the effect of rHuEPO in transgenic mice expressing the human Cu/Zn dependent-superoxide dismutase with G93A mutation (SOD1G93A), a model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. rHuEPO (4 unit/g BW s.c. three times/week), increased the haematocrit and induced a slight delay in impairment of motor function as measured by the rotating bar test. However, it did not prolong life span or reduce motor neuron loss in lumbar spinal cord. The effect on motor function may be due to the improvement of skeletal muscle oxygenation induced by chronic EPO administration.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease causing the progressive loss of brain and spinal cord motor neurons. The exact etiology of ALS is still uncertain, but males have consistently been shown to be at a higher risk for the disease than females. Recently, transgenic rats overexpressing mutant forms of the human SOD1 (hSOD1) gene have been established as a valuable disease model of ALS. Here we show that sexual dimorphism in disease onset is also observed in hSOD1G93A transgenic rats. Disease onset was consistently earlier in male than in female hSOD1G93A rats. We also found that hSOD1G93A male rats lost weight more rapidly following disease onset compared to hSOD1G93A females. Furthermore, we tested locomotor function using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) rating scale and a beam walking test. We found that motor dysfunction started earlier in males than in females but progressed similarly in the two sexes. These results have important implications for future experimentation and therapeutic development using the rat model of ALS.
Intracellular Ca(2+) signaling involves Ca(2+) liberation through both inositol triphosphate and ryanodine receptors (IP(3)R and RyR). However, little is known of the functional interactions between these Ca(2+) sources in either neuronal physiology, or during Ca(2+) disruptions associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). By the use of whole-cell recordings and 2-photon Ca(2+) imaging in cortical slices we distinguished between IP(3)R- and RyR-mediated Ca(2+) components in nontransgenic (non-Tg) and AD mouse models and demonstrate powerful signaling interactions between these channels. Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) through RyR contributed modestly to Ca(2+) signals evoked by photoreleased IP(3) in cortical neurons from non-Tg mice. In contrast, the exaggerated signals in 3xTg-AD and PS1(KI) mice resulted primarily from enhanced CICR through RyR, rather than through IP(3)R, and were associated with increased RyR expression levels. Moreover, membrane hyperpolarizations evoked by IP(3) in neurons from AD mouse models were even greater than expected simply from the exaggerated Ca(2+) signals, pointing to an increased coupling efficiency between cytosolic [Ca(2+)] and K(+) channel regulation. Our results highlight the critical roles of RyR-mediated Ca(2+) signaling in both neuronal physiology and pathophysiology, and point to presenilin-linked disruptions in RyR signaling as an important genetic factor in AD.
Population-based brain mapping provides great insight into the trajectory of aging and dementia, as well as brain changes that normally occur over the human life span. We describe three novel brain mapping techniques, cortical thickness mapping, tensor-based morphometry (TBM), and hippocampal surface modeling, which offer enormous power for measuring disease progression in drug trials, and shed light on the neuroscience of brain degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We report the first time-lapse maps of cortical atrophy spreading dynamically in the living brain, based on averaging data from populations of subjects with Alzheimer's disease and normal subjects imaged longitudinally with MRI. These dynamic sequences show a rapidly advancing wave of cortical atrophy sweeping from limbic and temporal cortices into higher-order association and ultimately primary sensorimotor areas, in a pattern that correlates with cognitive decline. A complementary technique, TBM, reveals the 3D profile of atrophic rates, at each point in the brain. A third technique, hippocampal surface modeling, plots the profile of shape alterations across the hippocampal surface. The three techniques provide moderate to highly automated analyses of images, have been validated on hundreds of scans, and are sensitive to clinically relevant changes in individual patients and groups undergoing different drug treatments. We compare time-lapse maps of AD, MCI, and other dementias, correlate these changes with cognition, and relate them to similar time-lapse maps of childhood development, schizophrenia, and HIV-associated brain degeneration. Strengths and weaknesses of these different imaging measures for basic neuroscience and drug trials are discussed.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to compare cortical nociceptive responses to painful contact heat in healthy young (ages 22-30, n = 7) and older (ages 56-75, n = 7) subjects. Compared to young subjects, older subjects had significantly smaller pain-related fMRI responses in anterior insula (aINS) (P &lt; 0.04), primary somatosensory cortex (S1) (P = 0.03), and supplementary motor area (P = 0.02). Gray matter volumes in S1 and aINS were significantly smaller for the older group (P = 0.02 and 0.0001, respectively), suggesting reduced processing capacity in these regions that might account for smaller pain-related fMRI responses.
Normal aging is characterized by cognitive deficits that cross multiple domains and impair the ability of some older individuals to lead productive, high-quality lives. One of the primary goals of research in our laboratories is to study age-related alterations in neural mechanisms that underlie a wide range of cognitive processes so that we may generate a unifying principle of cognitive aging. Top-down modulation is the mechanism by which we enhance neural activity associated with relevant information and suppress activity for irrelevant information, thus establishing a foundation for both attention and memory processes. We use three converging technologies of human neurophysiology to study top-down modulation in aging: functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), electroencephalography (EEG), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Using these tools we have discovered that healthy older adults exhibit a selective inability to effectively suppress neural activity associated with distracting information and that this top-down suppression deficit is correlated with their memory impairment. We are now further characterizing the basis of these age-related alterations in top-down modulation and investigating interventions to remedy them.
Dystrophic neurites are associated with fibrillar amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the frequency and types of changes in synaptic structures near amyloid deposits have not been well characterized. Using high-resolution confocal microscopy to image lipophilic dye-labeled dendrites and thioflavin-S-labeled amyloid plaques, we systematically analyzed the structural changes of dendrites associated with amyloid deposition in both a transgenic mouse model of AD (PSAPP) and in human postmortem brain. We found that in PSAPP mice, dendritic branches passing through or within 40 mum from amyloid deposits displayed various dendritic abnormalities such as loss of dendritic spines, shaft atrophy, bending, abrupt branch endings, varicosity formation, and sprouting. Similar structural alterations of dendrites were seen in postmortem human AD tissue, with spine loss as the most common abnormality in both PSAPP mice and human AD brains. These results demonstrate that fibrillar amyloid deposits and their surrounding microenvironment are toxic to dendrites and likely contribute to significant disruption of neuronal circuits in AD.

The role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) as signaling agents is increasingly appreciated. Studies of ROS functions in the central nervous system, however, are only in their infancy. Using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry and fluorescence imaging in brain slices, the authors discovered that hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is an endogenous regulator of dopamine release in the dorsal striatum. Given the key role of dopamine in motor, reward, and cognitive pathways, regulation by H2O2 has implications for normal dopamine function, as well as for dysfunction of dopamine transmission. In this review, data are summarized to show that H2O2 is a diffusible messenger in the striatum, generated downstream from glutamate receptor activation, and an intracellular signal in dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra, generated during normal pacemaker activity. The mechanism by which H2O2 inhibits dopamine release and dopamine cell activity is activation of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels. Characteristics of the neuronal and glial antioxidant networks required to permit H2O2 signaling, yet prevent oxidative damage, are also considered. Lastly, estimates of physiological H2O2 levels are discussed, and strengths and limitations of currently available methods for H2O2 detection, including fluorescence imaging using dichlorofluorescein (DCF) and the next generation of fluorescent probes, are considered.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) enhances the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and induces calcium waves in astrocytes. Based on these observations, H2S has been proposed to be a synaptic modulator in the brain. Here we show that differentiated astrocytes acquire sensitivity to H2S that is diminished by their transformation into reactive astrocytes. Although sodium hydrosulfide hydrate (NaHS), a donor of H2S, did not increase the intracellular concentration of Ca2+ in progenitors, exposure of progenitors to leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), which induces differentiation into glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes, greatly increased the sensitivity to NaHS. In contrast, epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), dibutyryl cyclic AMP (db cAMP) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) induced the conversion to reactive astrocytes with diminished sensitivity to NaHS. This suppressive effect of EGF on the sensitivity to NaHS was inhibited by cycloheximide, indicating that de novo protein synthesis was required for the suppression of H2S sensitivity.
Increasing evidence suggests that reactive oxygen species (ROS), such as superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, act as necessary signaling molecules in processes underlying cognition. Moreover, ROS have been shown to be necessary in molecular process underlying signal transduction, synaptic plasticity, and memory formation. Research from several laboratories suggests that NADPH oxidase is an important source of superoxide in the brain. Evidence is presented here to show that ROS are in fact important signaling molecules involved in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Moreover, evidence that the NADPH oxidase complex is a key regulator of ROS generation in synaptic plasticity and memory formation is discussed. Understanding redox signaling in the brain, including the sources and molecular targets of ROS, are important for a full understanding of the signaling pathways that underlie synaptic plasticity and memory. Knowledge of ROS function in the brain also is critical for understanding aging and neurodegenerative diseases of the brain given that several of these disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson disease, may be exacerbated by the unregulated generation of ROS.
The aim of this review is to discuss some of the neurological diseases that present mainly in the adolescent period. The article focuses on the usual presentation and course of the more common, and some uncommon, epilepsies, neuromuscular disorders, neurodegenerative disorders, inflammatory disorders of the central nervous system and some other, miscellaneous conditions. The article ends with a very brief and general discussion about management issues in this age group.

In a previous report, we found that a 5-min. delay in alcohol access increases ethanol intake in rats trained to self-administer 5% ethanol. To assess the effects of this delay on the motivation to self-administer ethanol, Wistar rats were trained on a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement and presented with the 5-min. delay. There was no change in break point (6 presses/delivery), active (125 presses/30 min.) or inactive (10 presses/30 min.) lever presses after the 5-min. delay compared to baseline. However, response cessation occurred 10 min. earlier in this delay session compared to baseline indicating that consumption was accelerated by delayed access to alcohol.
A broad range of evidence regarding the functional organization of the vertebrate brain - spanning from comparative neurology to experimental psychology and neurophysiology to clinical data - is reviewed for its bearing on conceptions of the neural organization of consciousness. A novel principle relating target selection, action selection, and motivation to one another, as a means to optimize integration for action in real time, is introduced. With its help, the principal macrosystems of the vertebrate brain can be seen to form a centralized functional design in which an upper brain stem system organized for conscious function performs a penultimate step in action control. This upper brain stem system retained a key role throughout the evolutionary process by which an expanding forebrain - culminating in the cerebral cortex of mammals - came to serve as a medium for the elaboration of conscious contents. This highly conserved upper brainstem system, which extends from the roof of the midbrain to the basal diencephalon, integrates the massively parallel and distributed information capacity of the cerebral hemispheres into the limited-capacity, sequential mode of operation required for coherent behavior. It maintains special connective relations with cortical territories implicated in attentional and conscious functions, but is not rendered nonfunctional in the absence of cortical input. This helps explain the purposive, goal-directed behavior exhibited by mammals after experimental decortication, as well as the evidence that children born without a cortex are conscious. Taken together these circumstances suggest that brainstem mechanisms are integral to the constitution of the conscious state, and that an adequate account of neural mechanisms of conscious function cannot be confined to the thalamocortical complex alone.
The ability to survive in the world depends critically on the brain's capacity to detect earlier and earlier predictors of reward or punishment. The dominant theoretical perspective for understanding this capacity has been the temporal difference (TD) algorithm for reinforcement learning. In this issue of Behavioral Neuroscience, R. C. O'Reilly, M. J. Frank, T. E. Hazy, and B. Watz (2007) propose a new model dubbed primary value and learned value (PVLV) that is simpler than TD, and they claimed that it is biologically more realistic. In this commentary, the author suggests some slight modifications of a previous biological implementation of TD instead of adopting the new PVLV algorithm.
Environmental changes that occur in daily life or, in particular, in situations like actual or simulated microgravity require neuronal adaptation of sensory and motor functions. Such conditions can exert long-lasting disturbances on an individual's adaptive ability. Additionally, prenatal stress also leads to behavioral and physiological abnormalities in adulthood. Therefore, the aims of the present study were (a) to evaluate in adult rats the behavioral motor adaptation that follows 14 days of exposure to simulated microgravity (hindlimb unloading) and (b) to determine whether restraint prenatal stress influences this motor adaptation. For this purpose, the authors assessed rats' motor reactivity to novelty, their skilled walking on a ladder, and their swimming performance. Results showed that unloading severely impaired motor activity and skilled walking. By contrast, it had no effect on swimming performance. Moreover, results demonstrated for the first time that restraint prenatal stress exacerbates the effects of unloading. These results are consistent with the role of a steady prenatal environment in allowing an adequate development and maturation of sensorimotor systems to generate adapted responses to environmental challenges during adulthood.
The cortex is not necessary for rats to engage in play fighting, but it is necessary for them to modify their pattern of play fighting in different contexts. Two experiments were conducted to determine the role of the motor cortex (MC). Rats with bilateral ablations of the MC performed on Postnatal Day 10 failed to show the normally present age-related modulation in defense but were able to modulate defense with different social partners. This latter finding was confirmed in rats given ablations as adults, in which responses to social status could be monitored before and after brain damage. It appears that different forms of cortical modulation of play fighting involve different cortical circuits.
In experiments examining the potential reconsolidation of drug-associated contextual memories, rats were given a single pairing of cocaine with a specific context, and the ability of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin administered following a context-only memory retrieval trial to impair conditioned locomotor sensitization was tested. Rats receiving 150 mg/kg anisomycin immediately following a 5-min reexposure to the cocaine-conditioned context showed decreased activity compared with the vehicle control group in response to a low-dose cocaine challenge during a subsequent test for conditioned sensitization. This effect was not seen when anisomycin was administered following a 30-min reexposure to the context or when anisomycin was administered 25 min after a 5-min reexposure. These results are consistent with a growing literature suggesting that following retrieval, associative contextual memories may undergo a transient protein synthesis-dependent reconsolidation phase that normally serves to maintain memory.
Alcoholism is a complex disorder influenced by interactions between genetic and environmental risk factors. This study examined the influence of isolate housing on ethanol intake in alcohol-preferring (P) and non-alcohol-preferring (NP) rats. Rats were isolate-housed or pair-housed for 8 weeks when between 45 and 96 days old. Ethanol drinking was assessed using a 24-hr preference test (10% ethanol vs. water) and 20-min limited access tests. A behavioral test battery was used to assess anxiety-like, depressive-like, acoustic startle, and motor behavior. Isolate housing increased home cage drinking in both lines and increased limited access drinking selectively in P rats. Isolation also reduced swim test immobility and prepulse inhibition in P rats and increased locomotor stereotypies in NP rats. Taken together, these data demonstrate that LinexEnvironment interactions influence the effects of isolation. Furthermore, isolation selectively increased ethanol intake in high drinking P rats. This effect was not correlated with changes in other behaviors. Selective enhancement of limited access ethanol drinking in P rats may represent a model whereby genetic liability to excessive drinking is enhanced by specific environmental exposures.
Many similarities exist between the overconsumption of food, which results in obesity, and drug addiction. The present study investigated the effects of anorectic drugs on responding maintained by high incentive, but nutritionally unnecessary, food reinforcers using an FI15(fixed-ratio 10:S) schedule of reinforcement, similar to that used in studies on the incentive properties of drugs of abuse. Rats were trained to respond on a lever to gain access to two high incentive foods--chocolate chip cookies and cheese. Under the FI15(FR10:S) schedule, every 10th response (fixed-ratio 10) delivered a tone and light conditioned stimulus. The first ratio completed 15 min after the start of the session produced the conditioned stimulus and opened a door to give access to a piece of cookie. After 5 min to consume the high incentive food, a second 15-min interval was started, terminating in access to a second reinforcer, cheese. Once trained, the rats were given free access to laboratory chow in the home cage. They continued to work for the high incentive foods for a period of over 1 year, showing a pattern of responding appropriate to an FI(fixed-ratio) schedule. Naloxone (1.0 mg/kg), fenfluramine (1 and 2 mg/kg), D-amphetamine (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg), and rimonabant (3 mg/kg) significantly reduced responding, especially in the second interval. In contrast, complete removal of the high incentive food from the test procedure did not immediately reduce the rate of responding, tending to increase it in the second of the intervals. Apparently, the drugs did not reduce responding by reducing the experienced magnitude of the high incentive food, but more probably by reducing the animals' motivation.
The renewal of Pavlovian-conditioned responses may provide a model for the relapse of fear following extinction-based treatments for anxiety disorders. Renewal can be observed if conditional stimulus (CS) and unconditional stimulus (US) pairings are given in one context, extinction trials of CS presentations in a second context, prior to test trials of CS presentations in the original acquisition context (ABA renewal). We examined ABA renewal in humans by using a fear-conditioning procedure with an unpleasant shock US. A renewal of rated shock expectancy was demonstrated with this procedure. Conducting extinction treatment in multiple contexts was expected to attenuate the renewal effect. However, the renewal of shock expectancy persisted when extinction treatment was given across three or five different contexts. With the current renewal design, learning task, and measure of conditioned behaviour, extinction treatment does not appear to readily generalise to the test context. The use of multiple extinction treatments in a clinical setting may not necessarily reduce the likelihood of relapse via a renewal effect.
The aim of this article was to summarise the existing evidence concerning interventions for non-specific neck pain. Neck-and-shoulder pain is commonly experienced by both adolescents and adults. Although the prevalence appears to vary among different nations, the situation is essentially the same, at least in the industrialised nations. Explanations for the wide variation in incidence and prevalence include various methodological issues. Back and neck disorders represent one of the most common causes for both short- and long-term sick leave and disability pension. Evidenced risk factors for the onset and maintenance of non-specific neck and back pain include both individual and work-related psychosocial factors. Based on the existing evidence different forms of exercise can be strongly recommended for at-risk populations, as well as for the acute and chronic non-specific neck pain patient. Furthermore, for symptom relief this condition can be treated with transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation, low level laser therapy, pulse electromagnetic treatment or radiofrequency denervation.
TRP (transient receptor potential) cationic channels are key molecules that are involved in a variety of diverse biological processes ranging from fertility to osmosensation and nociception. Increasing our knowledge of these channels will help us to understand a range of physiological and pathogenic processes, as well as highlighting potential therapeutic drug targets. The founding members of the TRP family, Drosophila TRP and TRPL (TRP-like) proteins, were identified within the last two decades and there has been a subsequent explosion in the number and type of TRP channel described. Although information is accumulating as to the function of some of the TRP channels, the activation and inactivation mechanisms, structure, and interacting proteins of many, if not most, are awaiting elucidation. The Cell and Molecular Biology of TRP Channels Meeting held at the University of Bath included speakers working on a number of the different subfamilies of TRP channels and provided a basis for highlighting both similarities and differences between these groups. As the TRP channels mediate diverse functions, this meeting also brought together an audience with wide-ranging research interests, including biochemistry, cell biology, physiology and neuroscience, and inspired lively discussion on the issues reviewed herein.
In order to elucidate the biological role of sulfatide it is important to define the cellular and subcellular distribution of its various molecular species (e.g. fatty acid chain length and hydroxylation). We determined sulfatide species distribution in the rat cerebellum using time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS). TOF-SIMS detects ions up to m/z 10000 and enables simultaneous imaging of the lateral distribution of substances on an exposed surface, in this case a section through cerebellum. In addition to TOF-SIMS we analyzed sulfatide distribution in rat cerebellum using a sulfatide monoclonal antibody and confocal laser scanning microscopy. In the white matter, TOF-SIMS showed a uniform distribution of sulfatide with short chain fatty acids and a patchy distribution of sulfatide with C24 fatty acids. These patches had a low cholesterol signal. The granular layer showed a more uniform distribution of the sulfatide species, with the highest signal of C24. The molecular layer and Purkinje cells were devoid of sulfatide signals. Immunofluorescence showed the highest intensity in the white matter, lower intensity in the granular layer and absence of fluorescence in the molecular layer and Purkinje cells. The results are discussed in relation to previously published data and possible functional roles.
The tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) plays a dual role in producing either neurodegeneration or neuroprotection in the central nervous system. Despite that TNFalpha was initially described as a cell death inductor, neuroprotective effects against cell death induced by several neurotoxic insults have been reported. Tau hyperphosphorylation and neuronal death found in Alzheimer disease is mediated by deregulation of the cdk5/p35 complex induced by Abeta treatments. Since TNFalpha affects cdk5 activity, we investigated its possible protective role against the Abeta-induced neurodegeneration, as mediated by cdk5. TNFalpha pretreatments significantly reduced the hippocampal neuronal cell death induced by the effects of Abeta(42) peptide. In addition, this pretreatment reduced the increase in the activity of cdk5 induced by Abeta(42) in primary neurons. Next, we investigated the Alzheimer type phosphorylation of tau protein induced by Abeta(42). We observed that the pretreatment of neurons with TNFalpha reduces tau hyperphosphorylation. Taken together, these results define a novel neuroprotective effect of TNFalpha in preventing neuronal cell death and cdk5-dependent tau hyperphosphorylation. This phenomenon, taken together with other previous findings, suggests that the inflammatory response due to Abeta peptide plays a key role in the development of Alzheimer etiopathogenesis.
Limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A results from mutations in the gene encoding the calpain 3 protease. Mutations in this disease are inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and result in progressive proximal skeletal muscle wasting but no cardiac abnormalities. Calpain 3 has been shown to proteolytically cleave a wide variety of cytoskeletal and myofibrillar proteins and to act upstream of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. In this review, we summarize the known biochemical and physiological features of calpain 3 and hypothesize why mutations result in disease.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is the most-abundant neurotrophin in the brain. In mammals, it is synthesized as a precursor called proBDNF, which is proteolytically cleaved to generate mature BDNF. The BDNF gene is located on chromosome 11p13, and a functional single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of this gene has been shown to produce a valine (Val)-to-methionine (Met) substitution in the proBDNF protein at codon 66 (Val66Met). Several papers suggest that this SNP is related to decreased hippocampal volume and hippocampus-mediated memory performance in humans. Recently, Chen et al. generated a variant BDNF mouse (BDNF(Met/Met)) that reproduces the phenotypic hallmarks in humans with a variant Met allele. In the behavioral analysis, BDNF(Met/Met) mice show increased anxiety-related behaviors. This mini-review examines the impact of Met substitution of proBDNF on anxiety-related behaviors.
Alterations of cellular structures often found in ageing cells is mainly the result of production of reactive oxygen species and a consequence of aerobic life. Both oxidative stress and decreased degradative capacity of lysosomal system cause accumulation of intralysosomal age-related pigment called lipofuscin. To investigate the influence of lipofuscin on cell function, we compared survival of lipofuscin-loaded and control human fibroblasts following complete starvation induced by exposure to phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Starving of control fibroblasts resulted in lysosomal alkalinisation, relocation of cathepsin D to the cytosol, caspase-3 activation and, finally, cell death, which became evident 72 h after the start of exposure to PBS. Increase of lysosomal pH was significantly less prominent in lipofuscin-loaded cells than in controls and was accompanied neither by leakage of cathepsin D nor by caspase-3 activation even 96 h after the initiation of starvation. Suppression of autophagy by 3-methyladenine (3-MA) accelerated cell death, while inhibition of cathepsin D delayed it, implying an important role of autophagy in cell survival during starvation and showing the involvement of lysosomes in starvation-induced cell death. Disturbed apoptotic response found in lipofuscin-loaded cells can be interpreted as an example of hormesis--an adaptation to low doses of otherwise harmful agents, in this case of lipofuscin, which has a protective effect at moderate amounts but becomes toxic at large quantities.
This review is the result of a joint reflection carried out by researchers in the fields of robotics and automatic control on the one hand and neuroscience on the other, both trying to answer the same question: what are the functional bases of bipedal locomotion and how can they be controlled? The originality of this work is to synthesize the two approaches in order to take advantage of the knowledge concerning the adaptability and reactivity performances of humans and of the rich tools and formal concepts available in biped robotics. Indeed, we claim that the theoretical framework of robotics can enhance our understanding of human postural control by formally expressing the experimental concepts used in neuroscience. Conversely, biological knowledge of human posture and gait can inspire biped robot design and control. Therefore, both neuroscientists and roboticists should find useful information in this paper.


We investigated the ability of cadmium and mercury ions to cause endothelial dysfunction in bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell monolayers. Exposure of monolayers for 48 h to metal concentrations greater than 3-5 microM produced profound cytotoxicity (increased lactate dehydrogenase leakage), a permeability barrier failure, depletion of glutathione and ATP and almost complete inhibition of the activity of key thiol enzymes, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). In contrast, metal concentrations less than 1-2 microM induced increases in glutathione and thiol-enzyme activities with minimal changes in LDH leakage, barrier function and ATP content. At shorter incubation times (24 h or less), high concentrations of cadmium caused glutathione induction rather than depletion. Thus, oxidative stress and cytotoxicity induced by lower concentrations of the metal ions stimulate compensatory responses, including increased synthesis of glutathione, which presumably preserved the activity of key thiol enzymes, however these responses were not sustainable at higher metal ion concentrations. We conclude, while high concentrations of heavy metals are cytotoxic, lower concentration induce a compensatory protective response, which may explain threshold effects in metal-ion toxicity.






Delay in transfer of patients with acute extradural (EDH) or subdural (SDH) haematoma to definitive neurosurgical evacuation has a detrimental effect on outcome. From July 2003 to December 2005 we undertook a prospective analysis of patients admitted to our unit for neurosurgical evacuation of their haematoma, who were transferred from non-neurosurgical hospitals. Data was collected for: 1) overall transfer time, 2) time taken from injury or deterioration to CT scan, 3) time from CT scan to arrival at our unit, and 4) time from arrival at our unit to surgery. Overall 81 patients were eligible, of which 39 had an EDH and 42 a SDH. The median transfer times for EDH and SDH were 5.25 hours and 6.0 hours respectively. This paper discusses the factors that may prolong delays in the transfer of patients between hospitals and the way in which our unit is trying to improve the local service for the population of Greater Manchester.

Recently published data from the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial (ISAT) shows that for patients enrolled in the trial there is a 7.4% reduction in the incidence of death or dependency at 1 year if they undergo coiling, rather than clipping. Furthermore, extrapolation of longer-term follow-up data for patient mortality appears to suggest that this advantage will be maintained in the longer term. Based on a reassessment of the published data, the authors note: (1) the incidence of rebleeding following treatment is approximately three times higher in the coiled group (p&lt;0.001); (2) the need for aneurysm retreatment is likely to be higher in the coiled group; (3) trends in longer-term mortality data are not a reliable basis for predicting future outcomes of the trial; (4) trends in longer-term morbidity data are more reliable and suggest that the advantage of coiling diminishes with time; (5) The absence of up-to-date published rates of aneurysm retreatment and of longer-term rates of death or dependence makes ISAT extremely hard to interpret. It is far from clear that the early advantage of coiling will be maintained in the future and, hence, longer follow-up is required. Treatment of aneurysms is a continually evolving field and there is currently no other major source of information concerning management of aneurysms. For these reasons the authors recommend the instigation of a national aneurysm registry to prospectively collect data.

Treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease with levodopa has profound effects on both movement and the pattern of movement-related reactivity in the subthalamic nucleus (STN), as reflected in the local field potential (LFP). The most striking change is the promotion of reactivity in the gamma frequency band, but it remains unclear whether the latter is itself a pathological feature, possibly associated with levodopa induced dyskinesias, or is primarily physiological. Gamma band reactivity in the cerebral cortex of humans without Parkinson's disease occurs contralateral to movement, so we posited that lateralization of subcortical gamma reactivity should occur following levodopa if the latter restores a more physiological pattern in patients with Parkinson's disease. Accordingly, we studied movement-related changes in STN LFP activity in 11 Parkinson's disease patients (age 59 +/- 2.7 years, three females) while they performed ipsi- and contralateral self-paced joystick movements ON and OFF levodopa. A bilaterally symmetrical gamma band power increase occurred around movement onset in the OFF state. Following levodopa this feature became significantly more pronounced in the subthalamic region contralateral to movement. The physiological nature of this asymmetric pattern of gamma reactivity was confirmed in the STN of two tremor patients without Parkinson's disease. Although levodopa treatment in the Parkinson's disease patients did not lead to lateralization of power suppression at lower frequencies (8-30 Hz), it did increase the degree of power suppression. These findings suggest that dopaminergic therapy restores a more physiological pattern of reactivity in the STN of patients with Parkinson's disease.
Assessment of long-term outcomes is essential in brain surgery for epilepsy. Little information exists on long-term non-seizure outcomes after epilepsy surgery. We perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the evidence on this topic. Our aim was to provide evidence-based estimates of antiepileptic drug, psychosocial, neuropsychological and mortality long-term outcomes following epilepsy surgery, and to identify sources of variation in published results. We searched Medline, Index Medicus, the Cochrane database, bibliographies of reviews, original articles, and book chapters, to identify articles published from 1991 to 2005, containing &gt; or =20 patients of any age, undergoing resective or non-resective epilepsy surgery, and followed for a mean/median of &gt; or =5 years. Two reviewers independently assessed study eligibility and extracted data, resolving disagreements through discussion. Standard meta-analytical techniques were used to pool data. Of the 159 potentially eligible articles reviewed in full-text, 35 (22%) fulfilled eligibility criteria; 6 (17%) were controlled studies; 15 (36%) explored antiepileptic drug outcome; 6 (17%) explored mortality; 11 (31%) reported psychosocial outcomes; and 7 (20%) explored neuropsychological outcomes. On an average, 14% [95% confidence interval (CI(95)) = 11-17] of the patients with temporal lobe surgery achieved long-term antiepileptic drug (AED) discontinuation, 50% (CI(95) = 45-55) achieved monotherapy, and 33% remained on polytherapy (CI(95 =) 29-38). In analyses including all types of surgery, on average, 20% (CI(95) = 18-23) achieved long-term AED discontinuation, while 41% (CI(95) = 37-45) were on monotherapy and 31% (CI(95) = 27-35) remained on polytherapy. Children achieved better AED outcomes than adults. Seizure freedom after surgery was associated with lower mortality, but inconsistent mortality outcomes precluded making strong inferences. Non-controlled studies consistently reported improved long-term psychosocial outcomes, but the effect was less clear in controlled studies. Intelligence was unchanged by surgery, but long-term memory outcomes were associated with seizure freedom and side of temporal lobe resection. Few long-term, controlled studies exist. Longer follow-up was associated with lower rates of AED discontinuation, reflecting lower seizure-free rates over time. Cognitive and psychosocial outcomes were similar to those of short-term studies, and the results were influenced by the presence of controls.
Within the past decade, there has been increasing recognition that glia are far more than simply &quot;housekeepers&quot; for neurons. This review explores two recently recognized roles of glia (microglia and astrocytes) in: (a) creating and maintaining enhanced pain states such as neuropathic pain, and (b) compromising the efficacy of morphine and other opioids for pain control. While glia have little-to-no role in pain under basal conditions, pain is amplified when glia become activated, inducing the release of proinflammatory products, especially proinflammatory cytokines. How glia are triggered to become activated is a key issue, and appears to involve a number of neuron-to-glia signals including neuronal chemokines, neurotransmitters, and substances released by damaged, dying and dead neurons. In addition, glia become increasingly activated in response to repeated administration of opioids. Products of activated glia increase neuronal excitability via numerous mechanisms, including direct receptor-mediated actions, upregulation of excitatory amino acid receptor function, downregulation of GABA receptor function, and so on. These downstream effects of glial activation amplify pain, suppress acute opioid analgesia, contribute to the apparent loss of opioid analgesia upon repeated opioid administration (tolerance), and contribute to the development of opioid dependence. The potential implications of such glial regulation of pain and opioid actions are vast, suggestive that targeting glia and their proinflammatory products may provide a novel and effective therapy for controlling clinical pain syndromes and increasing the clinical utility of analgesic drugs.
Impaired appetite and weight changes are commonly seen in patients with depression, but the pathophysiology behind this imbalance between energy intake and energy expenditure remains largely unknown. The aim of this paper is to review the literature regarding a possible role for cytokines in the regulation of appetite and body weight, with special emphasis on depression. There now exists a substantial amount of evidence that depressed patients show signs of immune activation including increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines. Cytokines, which by themselves have anorectic properties, stimulate the release of the cytokine-like anorexogenic peptide leptin. In addition to their anorectic properties, both proinflammatory cytokines and leptin interact with the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and the immune system. In turn, these systems regulate energy balance as well as they are dysfunctional in depression. Furthermore, both proinflammatory cytokines and leptin can induce anhedonia, one of the cardinal symptoms of depression. In view of the different effects on appetite and/or body weight observed in melancholic versus atypical depression, we suggest that cytokines are differentially altered in these subtypes of depression, and that this may explain some of the inconsistency in the reported findings of cytokine as well as leptin levels in depressed patients. Finally, we propose that the immune system uses the interoceptive pathway projecting to the insular cortex, a brain region where cytokine-induced changes in appetite could be partly mediated, and that this pathway is activated in depression.
Two divided visual field priming experiments examined cerebral asymmetries for understanding metaphors varying in sentence constraint. Experiment 1 investigated ambiguous words (e.g., SWEET and BRIGHT) with literal and metaphoric meanings in ambiguous and unambiguous sentence contexts, while Experiment 2 involved standard metaphors (e.g., The drink you gave me was a meteor) with sententially consistent and inconsistent targets (i.e., POTENT vs COMET). Similar literal and metaphor priming effects were found in both visual fields across most experimental conditions. However, RH processes also maintained activation of sententially inconsistent literal meanings following metaphoric expressions. These results do not strongly support the RH as the preferred substrate for metaphor comprehension (e.g., ), and suggest that processes in both hemispheres can support metaphor comprehension, although not via identical mechanisms. The LH may utilize sentence constraint to select and integrate only contextually relevant literal and metaphoric meanings, whereas the RH may be less sensitive to sentence context and can maintain the activation of some alternative interpretations. This may be potentially useful in situations where an initial understanding must be revised.
Exploration is a key animal and human behavior. Kay C. Montgomery (1921-1956) has made an important contribution to behavioral neuroscience of exploration, as well as motivation and learning. His works have many important applications to current experimental models of stress, fear and memory, continuing to influence research in this field. This paper, dedicated to the 85th anniversary of Montgomery's birth, and 50 years since his tragic death, summarizes Montgomery's contribution to behavioral neuroscience, and discusses its current importance for further progress in this field. It is aimed at neuroscientists with strong interests in both theory of animal exploration and motivation, and the history of behavioral neuroscience.
Disruption to brain development at an early stage can potentially alter chemically coded neural networks and can affect behavior in later life. During early brain development antagonism of glutamate NMDA receptors, which play an important role in neuronal outgrowth and survival, leads to neuronal damage in several brain regions and causes behavioral alterations in rodents that mimic schizophrenia symptoms and endophenotypes. There are several lines of evidence implicating involvement of a dysfunctional glutamate system in schizophrenia. In normal subjects, NMDA receptor antagonists produce behavioral and neurochemical changes that mimic schizophrenia symptoms better than any other psychotomimetic drug. Moreover, these drugs worsen symptoms in schizophrenia patients and can trigger a recrudescence of the acute psychotic state in patients with stable chronic schizophrenia. In addition, genes consistently reported as being altered in schizophrenia play roles in development, neuroplasticity and glutamate/GABAergic neurotransmission. Perinatal NMDA receptor antagonist treatment is a useful model for studying the neurodevelopmental and NMDA receptor hypofunction hypotheses of schizophrenia because neurochemical and behavioral changes, reminiscent of those seen in schizophrenia, are present long after cessation of drug administration, which suggests that a permanent change in brain structure and organization has occurred during brain development.
Dopamine (DA) receptors, which are heavily expressed in the caudate/putamen of the brain, represent the molecular target of several drugs used in the treatment of various neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease. Although most of the drugs are very effective in alleviating the symptoms associated with these conditions, their long-term utilization could lead to the development of severe side-effects. In addition to uncovering novel mediators of physiological DA receptor functions, recent research advances are suggesting a role of these receptors in toxic effects on neurons. For instance, accumulating evidence indicates that DA receptors, particularly D1 receptors, are central in the neuronal toxicity induced by elevated synaptic levels of DA. In this review, we will discuss recent findings on DA receptors as regulators of long term neuronal dysfunction and neurodegenerative processes.

Here, we report a novel role for the cysteine protease calpain in store-operated calcium entry. Several structurally and mechanistically unrelated inhibitors of calpain inhibited Ca2+ entry activated in human platelets by thapsigargin-evoked Ca2+ store depletion or the physiological agonist thrombin, whereas inhibitors of other cysteine proteases were without effect. The use of the cell-permeable fluorogenic calpain substrate 7-amino-4-chloromethylcoumarin, t-BOC-l-leucyl-l-methionine amide revealed rapid activation of calpain which was closely temporally correlated with Ca2+ store depletion even in the absence of a rise in cytosolic [Ca2+]. Calpain inhibition prevented the tyrosine phosphorylation of several proteins upon Ca2+ store depletion, suggesting that calpain may lie upstream of protein tyrosine phosphorylation that is known to be required for the activation of store-operated Ca2+ entry in human platelets. Earlier studies using calpain inhibitors may need reinterpretation in the light of this finding that calpain plays a role in the activation of physiological Ca2+ entry pathways.
The chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4 serve, in addition to CD4, as coreceptors for human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), and infection with HIV-1 can cause dementia. In brain-derived cells, HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 initiates a signaling cascade that involves p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and leads to neuronal cell death. Using mixed neuronal/glial cultures from rats and mice genetically deficient in one or both HIV coreceptors, we show here that CCR5, CXCR4 or both can mediate HIV/gp120 neurotoxicity depending on the viral strain. Paradoxically, we also found evidence for a CCR5-mediated neuroprotective pathway. We identify protein kinase Akt/PKB as an essential component of this pathway, which can be triggered by the CCR5 agonists macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta and regulated-and-normal-T-cell-expressed-and-secreted. Moreover, these CCR5 ligands prevent neuronal cell death induced by stromal cell-derived factor-1, a CXCR4 agonist. Both neurons and glia coexpress CXCR4 and CCR5. Ca2+ imaging experiments demonstrate that engagement of CCR5 prevents CXCR4-triggered increases in intracellular free Ca2+. This finding suggests that CCR5 ligands can protect neurons at least, in part, by modulating CXCR4-mediated toxicity through heterologous desensitization.
Expanded polyglutamine 72 repeat (polyQ72) aggregates induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-mediated cell death with caspase-12 activation and vesicular formation (autophagy). We examined this relationship and the molecular mechanism of autophagy formation. Rapamycin, a stimulator of autophagy, inhibited the polyQ72-induced cell death with caspase-12 activation. PolyQ72, but not polyQ11, stimulated Atg5-Atg12-Atg16 complex-dependent microtubule-associated protein 1 (MAP1) light chain 3 (LC3) conversion from LC3-I to -II, which plays a key role in autophagy. The eucaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha (eIF2alpha) A/A mutation, a knock-in to replace a phosphorylatable Ser51 with Ala51, and dominant-negative PERK inhibited polyQ72-induced LC3 conversion. PolyQ72 as well as ER stress stimulators upregulated Atg12 mRNA and proteins via eIF2alpha phosphorylation. Furthermore, Atg5 deficiency as well as the eIF2alpha A/A mutation increased the number of cells showing polyQ72 aggregates and polyQ72-induced caspase-12 activation. Thus, autophagy formation is a cellular defense mechanism against polyQ72-induced ER-stress-mediated cell death by degrading polyQ72 aggregates, with PERK/eIF2alpha phosphorylation being involved in polyQ72-induced LC3 conversion.
Excitotoxic insults induce c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, which leads to neuronal death and contributes to many neurological conditions such as cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative disorders. The action of JNK can be inhibited by the D-retro-inverso form of JNK inhibitor peptide (D-JNKI1), which totally prevents death induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in vitro and strongly protects against different in vivo paradigms of excitotoxicity. To obtain optimal neuroprotection, it is imperative to elucidate the prosurvival action of D-JNKI1 and the death pathways that it inhibits. In cortical neuronal cultures, we first investigate the pathways by which NMDA induces JNK activation and show a rapid and selective phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 7 (MKK7), whereas the only other known JNK activator, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4 (MKK4), was unaffected. We then analyze the action of D-JNKI1 on four JNK targets containing a JNK-binding domain: MAPK-activating death domain-containing protein/differentially expressed in normal and neoplastic cells (MADD/DENN), MKK7, MKK4 and JNK-interacting protein-1 (IB1/JIP-1).
Although its operations are not limited to the spatial domain, there is a near consensus that the hippocampus plays a critical role in memory for place. This review aims to explore this role, with a particular emphasis on the functions performed by distinct hippocampal subregions. The use of innovative lesioning techniques, localized pharmacological treatments, and molecular genetic interventions is offering increasingly precise brain-regional specificity and temporal control. Together with the electrophysiological recording of neuronal activity, these techniques are beginning to shed light on the functioning of specific components of the hippocampal circuitry in the different phases of memory - encoding, storage, consolidation, and retrieval. In view of these developments, we examine the involvement of the hippocampus in the encoding versus retrieval of spatial memory, before turning to the issue of long-term information storage and the role of 'cellular' and 'systems' consolidation processes in the formation of lasting memories.
The green tea flavonoid epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) is one of several compounds that have been reported to have insulin-like glucose-lowering properties in mammals. EGCG is understood to act at least in part by repression of gluconeogenic genes such as phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase but the transcription factors that are targeted to achieve this are unknown. We show here that EGCG induces phosphorylation of insulin-sensitive residues on the transcription factor FOXO1a. Like insulin, EGCG induced FOXO1a phosphorylation is abolished by the PtdIns 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 but not by PD98059 (an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade) or by rapamycin (an inhibitor of signalling to p70 S6 kinase). EGCG differs from insulin and IGF-1 however, in that its induction of FOXO1a phosphorylation is sensitive to scavengers of reactive oxygen species (ROS). These results indicate that EGCG exerts its insulin mimetic effects at least in part by phosphorylation of the FOXOs through a mechanism that is similar but not identical to insulin and IGF-1 induced FOXO phosphorylation. Our results suggest that agents acting in the manner of EGCG may be useful antidiabetic agents.
Neuropeptides are a diverse widespread class of signaling substances in the nervous system. As a basis for the analysis of peptidergic neurotransmission in the insect olfactory system, we have studied the distribution of neuropeptides in the antennal lobe of the moth Heliothis virescens. Immunocytochemical experiments with antisera recognizing A-type allatostatins (AST-As), Manduca sexta allatotropin (Mas-AT), FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs), and tachykinin-related peptides (TKRPs) have shown that members of all four peptide families are present in local interneurons of the antennal lobe. Whereas antisera against AST-As, Mas-AT, and FaRPs give similar staining patterns characterized by dense meshworks of processes confined to the core of all antennal-lobe glomeruli, TKRPs are present only in neurons with blebby processes distributed throughout each glomerulus. In addition to local neurons, a pair of centrifugal neurons with cell bodies in the lateral subesophageal ganglion, arborizations in the antennal lobe, and projections in the inner antenno-cerebral tracts exhibits tachykinin immunostaining. Double-label immunofluorescence has detected the co-localization of AST-As, Mas-AT, and FaRPs in certain local interneurons, whereas TKRPs occurs in a distinct population. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry has revealed nearly 50 mass peaks in the antennal lobe. Seven of these masses (four AST-As, two N-terminally extended FLRFamides, and Mas-AT) match known moth neuropeptides. The data thus show that local interneurons of the moth antennal lobe are highly differentiated with respect to their neuropeptide content. The antennal lobe therefore represents an ideal preparation for the future analysis of peptide signaling in insect brain.
It has been previously shown from our laboratory that abnormal functioning of Na/K ATPase can cause spreading depression, the likely mechanism of migraine aura. We used lymphocytes to investigate whether or not membrane Na/K ATPase is altered in migraine with aura patients. Lymphocytes were prepared from such patients, aged 20-45 years, and from age-matched healthy volunteers (controls). The binding of 3H- ouabain was studied using increasing concentrations (0.5-25 nm) of this radioligand, specific for Na/K-ATPase. We studied 19 migraine with aura patients and 22 healthy volunteers, matched for age and sex. B(max) (fmol/mg protein) and K(D) (nM) were not different between patients and controls. However, their ratio (B(max)/K(D)) was higher in patients than in controls. B(max) was (mean +/- SD) 270 +/- 110 fmol/mg protein in controls, and 360 +/- 230 in migraine with aura patients (P = 0.10, t-test). K(D) was (mean +/- SD) 2.8 +/- 1.5 nm in controls, and 2.9 +/- 3.2 nm in migraine with aura patients (P = 0.88, t-test). B(max)/K(D) was (mean +/- SD) 120 +/- 78 in controls, and 210 +/- 190 in migraine patients (P = 0.046, t-test). Moreover, no control patient had a B(max)/K(D) ratio greater than 398, while three migraine patients had ratios of 417, 572 and 722, respectively. Ouabain binding is affected by Na/K ATPase structure (K(D)) and expression (B(max)). While these parameters were not altered in migraine with aura patients, the difference in their ratio suggests an imbalance between the enzyme's ouabain affinity and its expression, with higher-affinity subtypes being more expressed than normal. Moreover, single patients had values quite different from the control population. Our data suggest that (i) ouabain binding to lymphocyte membranes may be a useful tool in the diagnosis of migraine with aura and (ii) Na/K ATPase abnormalities may be involved in migraine aura.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multisystem syndrome classically associated with the occurrence of focal brain dysplasias. We used structural magnetic resonance imaging to test for neuroradiological abnormalities in TSC (tubers, white matter lesions, and subependymal nodules) and to explore the relationships between these lesions and computational morphometric abnormalities of gray and white matter distribution. We tested memory function in TSC and investigated the relationship between memory function and both morphometric variation and lesion load. Patients demonstrated deficits bilaterally in volume of subcortical gray matter regions including thalamus, basal ganglia, insula, and cerebellum, as well as white matter deficits bilaterally in intrahemispheric tracts. Morphometric deficits could not be explained as local effects of lesions. Patients demonstrated deficits in executive working memory and recall memory, sparing recognition. Structure-function mapping showed long-term and working memory function was positively correlated with gray matter density (in thalamus, caudate nucleus, and frontal cortex) but not with lesion load. The neuroanatomical endophenotype of TSC is more extensive than previously recognized and comprises abnormalities in the distribution of gray and white matter in addition to classical lesions. Normal intelligence quotient patients with TSC show a profile of long-term and working memory impairment that is related to gray matter deficits in thalamus and basal ganglia components of fronto-striatal circuits.
Intrinsic optical imaging has revealed a representation of eye position smoothly mapped across the surface of the inferior parietal lobule in behaving monkeys. We demonstrate here that blood vessels imaged along with the cortex have large signals tuned sometimes, but not always, to match the surrounding tissue. The relationship between the vessels and surrounding tissue in both space and time was explored using independent component analysis (ICA). Working only with single-trial data, ICA discovered a sequence of regions corresponding to the vascular propagation of activated signals from remote loci into the blood vessels. The vascular signals form a novel map of cortical function--the functional angioarchitecture--superimposed upon the cortical functional architecture. Furthermore, the incorporation of temporal aspects in optical data permitted the tuning of the inferior parietal lobule to be tracked in time through the task, demonstrating the expression of unusual tuning properties that might be exploited for higher cognitive functions.
The involvement of right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (rDLPFC) in explicit temporal processing is well documented. Conversely, the role of this area in implicit temporal processing (e.g., foreperiod [FP] effect) is still poorly understood. The FP effect, usually observed when a range of variable FPs occur randomly and equiprobably, consists of reaction times (RTs) decreasing as the FP increases. Moreover, in such paradigms, RTs increase as a function of the preceding FP (i.e., sequential effects). Patients with lesions of the rDLPFC do not show the typical FP effect. The present study aimed to replicate these results in healthy adults using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and to further investigate whether any change of sequential effects follows a reduction of the FP effect. The results of 2 experiments (with simple and choice RT tasks, respectively) indicate that the FP effect was significantly reduced after TMS over the rDLPFC, whereas no effect was observed after stimulation of a left contralateral site and the right angular gyrus. Conversely, sequential effects were not influenced by TMS. A dual-process model of the FP phenomena is proposed to interpret the dissociation found between the 2 effects.
Long-term depression (LTD) is one of the most widely investigated models of the synaptic mechanisms underlying learning and memory. Previous research has shown that induction of LTD in the neocortex decreases measures of pyramidal cell dendritic morphology in both layers III and V. Here, we investigated the effects of LTD induction on 1) the time course of recovery of synaptic efficacy, 2) movement representations, 3) cortical thickness and layer V neuron density, and 4) the density of excitatory and inhibitory synapses in layer V of sensorimotor neocortex. Rats carried a stimulating electrode in the midline corpus callosum and a recording electrode in the right sensorimotor neocortex. Each rat received either low-frequency stimulation composed of 900 pulses at 1 Hz or handling daily for a total of 20-25 days. Callosal-neocortical evoked potentials were recorded in the right hemisphere before and after stimulation or handling. Our results show that LTD induction lasts for 3 weeks and results in smaller motor maps of the caudal forelimb area. We did not observe any reduction in neocortical thickness or neuron density. There was a reduction in the density of excitatory perforated synapses and an increase in the density of inhibitory synapses in layer V of the sensorimotor neocortex, thereby providing a general mechanism for the reduction in motor map size. This study sheds light on the interaction between an artificial model of learning, receptive field characteristics, and synaptic number in the sensorimotor cortex.
Visual navigation in familiar and unfamiliar surroundings is an essential ingredient of adaptive daily life behavior. Recent brain imaging work helps to recognize that establishing connectivity between brain regions is of importance for successful navigation. Here, we ask whether the ability to navigate is impaired in adolescents who were born premature and suffer congenital bilateral periventricular brain damage that might affect the pathways interconnecting subcortical structures with cortex. Performance on a set of visual labyrinth tasks was significantly worse in patients with periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) as compared with premature-born controls without lesions and term-born adolescents. The ability for visual navigation inversely relates to the severity of motor disability, leg-dominated bilateral spastic cerebral palsy. This agrees with the view that navigation ability substantially improves with practice and might be compromised in individuals with restrictions in active spatial exploration. Visual navigation is negatively linked to the volumetric extent of lesions over the right parietal and frontal periventricular regions. Whereas impairments of visual processing of point-light biological motion are associated in patients with PVL with bilateral parietal periventricular lesions, navigation ability is specifically linked to the frontal lesions in the right hemisphere. We suggest that more anterior periventricular lesions impair the interrelations between the right hippocampus and cortical areas leading to disintegration of neural networks engaged in visual navigation. For the first time, we show that the severity of right frontal periventricular damage and leg-dominated motor disorders can serve as independent predictors of the visual navigation disability.
In this report, inhibitors of the gamma-secretase enzyme have been exploited to characterize the antiproliferative relationship between target inhibition and cellular responses in Notch-dependent human T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell lines. Inhibition of gamma-secretase led to decreased Notch signaling, measured by endogenous NOTCH intracellular domain (NICD) formation, and was associated with decreased cell viability. Flow cytometry revealed that decreased cell viability resulted from a G(0)/G(1) cell cycle block, which correlated strongly to the induction of apoptosis. These effects associated with inhibitor treatment were rescued by exogenous expression of NICD and were not mirrored when a markedly less active enantiomer was used, demonstrating the gamma-secretase dependency and specificity of these responses. Together, these data strengthen the rationale for using gamma-secretase inhibitors therapeutically and suggest that programmed cell death may contribute to reduction of tumor burden in the clinic.
Inosine monophosphate (IMP) and guanosine monophosphate (GMP) elicit an umami taste in humans and synergistically increase the intensity of the umami taste of monosodium glutamate (MSG). Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) studies in rodents indicate that these nucleotides and MSG elicit quite similar tastes, but recent physiological evidence suggests that these nucleotides and MSG may not activate the same population of taste receptors and therefore may not elicit identical taste qualities. This study reports the findings of several behavioral experiments with rats that compared the taste properties of IMP and GMP with each other and with those of MSG. Well-trained rats were able to detect both nucleotides at nanomolar concentrations, but they did not respond to either nucleotide in two-bottle preference tests or brief-access CTA tests at concentrations less than 0.5 mM. Discrimination experiments found that the tastes of these nucleotides could not be discriminated from each other, but both could be discriminated from MSG, even when the taste of Na(+) was controlled. Overall, these experiments indicate the taste properties of the two 5'-ribonucleotides are quite similar to each other, and even though they may elicit an umami sensation, these sensations are not identical to the taste of MSG.



Although it is well-established that children with Specific Language Impairment characteristically optionally inflect forms that require tense and agreement marking, their abilities with regards to derivational suffixation are less well understood. In this paper we provide evidence from children with Grammatical-Specific Language Impairment (G-SLI) that derivational suffixes, unlike tense and agreement suffixes, are not omitted in elicitation tasks. We investigate two types of derivation - comparative/superlative formation and adjective-from-noun formation - and reveal that G-SLI children supply these suffixes at high rates, equivalent to their language matched peers. Moreover, increasing the phonological or morphological complexity of the stimulus does not trigger suffix omission, although it results in non-target forms that are not characteristic of typically developing children. We discuss what these results reveal about the nature of the deficit in G-SLI within the context of three hypotheses of SLI: the Extended Optional Infinitive, Implicit Rule and Computational Grammatical Complexity Hypotheses.
The author describes a rare case of trigeminal neuralgia where four major named vessels of the posterior circulation were detected to be in close approximation to the trigeminal nerve. The quadruple vessel compression included a tortuous dilated basilar trunk, ipsilateral anterior inferior cerebellar artery, a superior cerebellar artery and superior petrosal vein. All vessels were related to the root entry zone of the nerve. Significance of such a multiple vessel neuovascular conflict at the root entry zone is discussed, highlighting technical implications during surgical management and its prognostic relevance.
A 33-year-old woman, with a 7-year clinical history of invasive thymoma treated at ages 26 and 30 years by thymectomy and radiation, presented with a generalized convulsion and loss of consciousness. Following the seizure there was no neurological deficit and normal tendon reflexes. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain without gadolinium enhancement revealed multiple small lesions of high signal intensity on T2 and diffusion weighted images located in the cortical area beyond the temporal lobes. Brain biopsy demonstrated encephalitis with activated microglias and activated T-cell infiltration. Within 4 months of treatment with nothing other than anticonvulsant therapy, the lesions visible on the original MRI had completely disappeared and the patient was discharged with no neurological symptoms. The patient subsequently had two more episodes with a variety of symptoms such as incontinence, confusion, aphasia, apallial syndrome, and motor paresis. MRI following these episodes again revealed multiple lesions of similar appearance to those of the first episode, although in different locations, and much larger and more numerous. The patient had steroid pulse therapy after both episodes and the lesions noted on brain MRI disappeared within a few months with minimal neurological complications.
We report a patient with genetically confirmed Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) who developed a previously unreported feature of a mixed sleep apnea. Initial mutation analysis, by PCR, of the parental frataxin alleles showed an apparent de novo mutation in the maternal germline. Further investigation using Southern blot analysis showed that the mother did carry an expanded mutant frataxin allele. Based upon published data, FRDA resulting from at least one allelic spontaneous expansion mutation is rare with a frequency of less than 1/1,000,000. The presence of such a mutation should be confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Our patient expands the neurological features of FRDA to include sleep apnea. The genetic analysis of the family demonstrates the importance of Southern blot analysis for accurate genotyping which, in turn, has implications for genetic counseling.
Clinical evaluation of language function and basic neuroscience research into the neurophysiology of language are tied together. Whole-head MEG systems readily facilitate detailed spatiotemporal characterization of language processes. A fair amount of information is available about the cortical sequence of word perception and comprehension in the auditory and visual domain, which can be applied for clinical use. Language production remains, at present, somewhat less well charted. In clinical practice, the most obvious needs are noninvasive evaluation of the language-dominant hemisphere and mapping of areas involved in language performance to assist surgery. Multiple experimental designs and analysis approaches have been proposed for estimation of language lateralization. Some of them have been compared with the invasive Wada test and need to be tested further. Development of approaches for more comprehensive pre-surgical characterization of language cortex should build on basic neuroscience research, making use of parametric designs that allow functional mapping. Studies of the neural basis of developmental and acquired language disorders, such as dyslexia, stuttering, and aphasia can currently be regarded more as clinical or basic neuroscience research rather than as clinical routine. Such investigations may eventually provide tools for development of individually targeted training procedures and their objective evaluation.
The role of histaminergic neurotransmission in the promotion of waking has been extensively studied in preclinical species. Appreciation for the role of histamine continues to expand with increasing understanding of the interaction of histamine within the broad network of neuromodulators that regulate sleep and wake. The effects of histamine on waking are transduced through the H(1) and the H(3) receptors in the central nervous system. Brain penetrant over-the-counter antihistamines comprised of antagonist actions at H(1) receptors as well as varying degrees of antimuscarinic properties are marketed as sleep aids, based on their well-known daytime drowsiness side effects. The data supporting their use as sedatives, however, are not consistent. H(3) receptors are presynaptic receptors that limit histamine release as well as that of monoamine neurotransmitters thought to participate in the maintenance of waking. In this review, we discuss the existing studies on various antihistamines and antagonists of the H(1) receptor in the regulation of sleep in preclinical studies, normal subjects and in subjects with sleep disorders. In addition, we review the current data available on the use of ligands at H(3) receptors for the modulation of sleep and wake.
The evidence for the involvement of the serotonergic system in the pathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is circumstantial at best, despite being the focus for most pathophysiological research over the last 2 decades. This hypothesis was initially motivated by the observed differential efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in alleviating OCD symptoms. Direct evidence that serotonergic perturbations are implicated in the pathophysiology of OCD is still sparse. There is growing evidence, from both preclinical and clinical studies, that the dopamine system may also be involved in the pathogenesis of OCD, and that dopaminergic and serotonergic pathways play a role in the genesis and maintenance of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. The complex interactions between both systems, the phenotypic heterogeneity of the disorder, and the limitations of the available tests to probe both systems, make it as yet impossible to draw firm conclusions as to how these systems are implicated. Further studies with more selective pharmacologic agents and neurocognitive probes in humans, studies using deep brain stimulation in combination with neuroimaging, and the development of better animal models for OCD may further our understanding of this disabling condition.

When an observed action (e.g., kicking) is compatible to a to be produced action (e.g., a foot-key response as compared to a finger-key response), then the self-produced action is more fluent, that is, it is more accurate and faster. A series of experiments explore the notion that vision-action compatibility effects can influence personal-trait judgments. It is demonstrated that when an observed individual carries out an action that is compatible with the participants' response, (1) this individual is identified more fluently, and (2) the observed individual's personality is attributed with the properties of the observed action. For example, if it is easier to identify one individual with a foot-response when he is seen kicking a ball, as compared to typing, he is perceived to be more 'sporty'. In contrast, if it is easier to identify one individual with a finger response when he is seen typing as compared to kicking a ball, he is associated with the 'academic' trait. These personal-trait judgment effects can be observed with explicit measures, where participants are asked to rate the sporty/academic nature of the person on a scale. They are also obtained when implicit measures are taken in a priming task, where participants are never explicitly asked to rate the personalities of the individuals. A control experiment rules out that these personal-trait effects are merely due to an association of motor responses (foot, finger) to individuals while identifying them, but that these effects depend on a prior manipulation of vision-action fluency.
We previously showed that a multifaceted intervention designed to contain costs of prescribing selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) at a Veterans Affairs hospital resulted in substantial projected savings. Intervention components included clinician education and pharmacy and computer information process changes. We now report on effects of altering the intervention to promote prescribing of generic fluoxetine. Over 30 months, fluoxetine's market-share increased from 12 to 32% of all SSRIs prescribed. A total of $2,500,000 in cost avoidance resulted from substituting generic for brand fluoxetine, and $600,000 resulted from increases in market-share of fluoxetine. The results highlight the robustness and flexibility of the intervention approach.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a ubiquitous human gammaherpesvirus (GHV) that causes acute infection and establishes life-long latency. EBV is associated with the development of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, several malignant cancers, the syndrome of infectious mononucleosis, and chronic interstitial lung disease. Although the molecular biology of EBV has been characterized extensively, the associated disease conditions and their pathogenesis are difficult to study in human populations because of variation in human environments and genetics, the well-documented effect of stressors on pathogenesis, and the chronic and latent properties of the virus. GHV are highly species-specific, and suitable animal models for EBV are not available. However, in 1980, a murine gammaherpesvirus (MuGHV, also known as MHV68 and gammaHV68) was identified as a natural pathogen of bank voles and wood mice. Experimental MuGHV infections in laboratory mice share many features of EBV infections in humans, including facets of the clinical human syndrome known as infectious mononucleosis. These features make MuGHV a valuable experimental model for studying the pathophysiology of a GHV in a natural host.

The manipulation of transmembrane signaling by G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitutes perhaps the single most important therapeutic target in medicine. Therapeutics acting on GPCRs have traditionally been classified as agonists, partial agonists, or antagonists based on a two state model of receptor function embodied in the ternary complex model. Over the past decade, however, many lines of investigation have shown that GPCR signaling exhibits greater diversity and 'texture' than previously appreciated. Signal diversity arises from numerous factors, among them the ability of receptors to adopt multiple 'active' states with different effector coupling profiles, the formation of receptor dimers that exhibit unique pharmacology, signaling, and trafficking, the dissociation of receptor 'activation' from desensitization and internalization, and the discovery that non-G protein effectors mediate some aspects of GPCR signaling. At the same time, clustering of GPCRs with their downstream effectors in membrane microdomains, and interactions between receptors and a plethora of multidomain scaffolding proteins and accessory/chaperone molecules confers signal preorganization, efficiency, and specificity. More importantly it is likely that alteration in the interactions of these proteins with GPCRs may occur in aging or neurodegenerative disorders, thus defining a distinct 'pharmacology' from that seen in young organisms or normal physiology. In this context, the concept of agonist selective trafficking of receptor signaling, which recognizes that a bound ligand may select between a menu of 'active' receptor conformations and induce only a subset of the possible response profile, presents the opportunity to develop drugs that change the quality as well as the quantity of efficacy and enhance these qualities for specific disorders or other paradigms. As a more comprehensive understanding of the complexity of GPCR signaling is developed, the rational design of ligands possessing increased specific efficacy and attenuated side effects may become the standard mode of drug development.

Ocular neovascularization is a major cause of blindness and visual disability in developed countries. There has been considerable recent progress identifying molecular signals that participate in ocular neovascularization and it appears that imbalances between stimulatory and inhibitory proteins contribute. Re-establishing balance by ocular gene transfer to block stimulators or increase expression of endogenous inhibitors is an appealing therapeutic approach, because it provides a potential means to achieve sustained intraocular effects with little impact on the rest of the body. Proof-of-concept has been provided in animal models using several vector systems and several transgenes and completion of a phase I study testing intraocular injection of an adenoviral vector expressing pigment epithelium-derived factor is an important milestone that will help to accelerate future progress. It is likely that additional vectors and transgenes will enter clinical trials in the near future. This report discusses the rationale and experimental evidence regarding several candidate transgenes.

The ability to connect to the actin cytoskeleton is a key part of the adhesive function of integrins. This linkage between integrins and the cytoskeleton involves a large complex of integrin-associated proteins that function in both the assembly and disassembly of the link. Genetic evidence has helped to clarify the relative contributions of different components of this link. In different contexts integrins can either stimulate or suppress actin based structures, indicating the variety of pathways leading from integrins to the cytoskeleton. The cytoskeleton also contributes to the extent of the integrin junction, allowing an adhesive contact to attain sufficient strength to resist contractile forces involved in cellular movement and function.
The direct analysis of tissues using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) enables both endogenous and exogenous compounds present in tissues to be detected with molecular specificity while maintaining their spatial orientation. This unique combination, coupled with excellent sensitivity and rapid analysis time, presents many potential advantages to a wide range of applications in diverse biological fields. Recent advances have shown how the technique can be applied to cancer research, neuroscience and pharmaceutical development. Examples include the use of unique protein profiles to classify human tumor tissues and predict patient outcomes, the discovery of protein changes in mouse cerebellum as a function of development, and the two-dimensional visualization of the distribution of a drug and first-pass metabolites in rat whole-body sections.

Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are the principal inhibitory component of glial scars, which form after damage to the adult central nervous system and act as a barrier to regenerating axons. Recent findings have furthered our understanding of the mechanisms that result in a failure of regeneration after spinal cord injury and suggest that a multipartite approach will be required to facilitate long-distance regeneration and functional recovery.
A major challenge in understanding the relationship between neural activity and development, and ultimately behavior, is to control simultaneously the activity of either many neurons belonging to specific subsets or specific regions within individual neurons. Optimally, such a technique should be capable of both switching nerve cells on and off within milliseconds in a non-invasive manner, and inducing depolarizations or hyperpolarizations for periods lasting from milliseconds to many seconds. Specific ion conductances in subcellular compartments must also be controlled to bypass signaling cascades in order to regulate precisely cellular events such as synaptic transmission. Light-activated G-protein-coupled receptors and ion channels, which can be genetically manipulated and targeted to neuronal circuits, have the greatest potential to fulfill these requirements.

p11 (S100A10) is a member of the S100 protein family and forms a heterotetrameric complex with annexin 2. p11 has also been found to interact with a diverse set of proteins that includes several ion channels and the serotonin 5-HT1B receptor. Several factors such as dexamethasone, growth factors, nitric oxide and antidepressant therapies regulate the expression of p11. Furthermore, studies using mutant mouse models, RNA interference and antisense constructs have implicated p11 in several biological processes; in particular, there is evidence that p11 is involved in the pathophysiology underlying nociception and depression-like states.
Major depression is associated with reduced volumes in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, whereas antidepressant treatments promote several forms of neuronal plasticity, including neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and neuronal maturation, in the hippocampus. Several neurotrophic factors are associated with depression or antidepressant action. Stress suppresses brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) synthesis in the hippocampus, at least partially through a sustained modification of chromatin structure. Essentially all antidepressant treatments increase BDNF synthesis and signaling in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. This signaling is required for the behavioral effects of antidepressant drugs in rodents, and increased BDNF levels in the hippocampus mimic the behavioral effects of antidepressants. However, injection of BDNF into the mesolimbic dopamine pathway produces an opposing depression-like response. One hypothesis emerging from these data proposes that mood disorders reflect failed function of critical neuronal networks, whereas a gradual network recovery through activity-dependent neuronal plasticity induces the antidepressant effect. Neurotrophic factors themselves do not control mood, but they act as necessary tools in the activity-dependent modulation of networks, the physiological function of which determines how a plastic change influences mood.
Many cerebral cortical neurons and glia are produced by apical progenitors dividing at the ventricular surface of the embryonic dorsal telencephalon. Other neurons are produced by basal progenitor cells, which are derived from apical progenitors, dividing away from the ventricular surface. The transcription factor Pax6 is expressed in apical progenitors and is downregulated in basal progenitors, which upregulate the transcription factor Tbr2. Here we show that Pax6(-/-) cells are under-represented in the cortex of Pax6(+/+)&lt;--&gt;Pax6(-/-) chimeras early in corticogenesis, indicating that Pax6 is required for the production of normal numbers of cortical cells. We provide evidence that this underproduction is attributable to an early depletion of the progenitor pool caused by greater than normal proportions of newly divided cells exiting the cell cycle. We show that most progenitor cells dividing away from the ventricular surface in Pax6(-/-) embryos fail to express the transcription factor Tbr2 and that Pax6 is required cell autonomously for Tbr2 expression in the developing cortex of Pax6(+/+)&lt;--&gt;Pax6(-/-) chimeras. Transcription factors normally expressed ventrally in the telencephalic ganglionic eminences (Mash1, Dlx2 and Gsh2) are upregulated cell autonomously in mutant cells in the developing cortex of Pax6(+/+)&lt;--&gt;Pax6(-/-) chimeras; Nkx2.1, which is expressed only in the medial ganglionic eminence, is not. These data indicate that early functions of Pax6 in developing cortical cells are to repress expression of transcription factors normally found in the lateral ganglionic eminence, to prevent precocious differentiation and depletion of the progenitor pool, and to induce normal development of cortical basal progenitor cells.
Mammalians have a low potency for limb regeneration compared to that of amphibians. One explanation for the low potency is the deficiency of cells for regenerating amputated limbs in mammals. Amphibians can form a blastema with dedifferentiated cells, but mammals have few such cells. In this paper, we report limb formation, especially bone/cartilage formation in amputated limbs, because bone/cartilage formation is a basic step in limb pattern regeneration. After the amputation of limbs of a neonatal mouse, hypertrophy of the stump bone was observed at the amputation site, which was preceded by cell proliferation and cartilage formation. However, no new elements of bone/cartilage were formed. Thus, we grafted limb buds of mouse embryo into amputated limbs of neonatal mice. When the intact limb bud of a transgenic green fluorescent protein (GFP) mouse was grafted to the limb stump after amputation at the digit joint level, the grafted limb bud grew and differentiated into bone, cartilage and soft tissues, and it formed a segmented pattern that was constituted by bone and cartilage. The skeletal pattern was more complicated when limb buds at advanced stages were used. To examine if the grafted limb bud autonomously develops a limb or interacts with stump tissue to form a limb, the limb bud was dissociated into single cells and reaggregated before grafting. The reaggregated limb bud cells formed similar digit-like bone/cartilage structures. The reaggregated grafts also formed segmented cartilage. When the reaggregates of bone marrow mesenchymal cells were grafted into the stump, these cells formed cartilage, as do limb bud cells. Finally, to examine the potency of new bone formation in the stump tissue without exogenously supplied cells, we grafted gelatin gel containing BMP-7. BMP induced formation of several new bone elements, which was preceded by cartilage formation. The results suggest that the environmental tissues of the stump allow the formation of cartilage and bone at least partially, and that limb formation will be possible by supplying competent cells endogenously or exogenously in the future.
Infantile spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 (SCA7) is phenotypically different from the child-onset and adult-onset cases, presenting as a multisystem disorder associated with pathologically large CAG trinucleotide repeat sequences. We describe a case study of a male who presented at 5 months of age with marked motor delay, failure to thrive, and a patent ductus arteriosus. He later developed renal failure of uncertain aetiology. The infant became progressively hypotonic, and cardiac and renal function deteriorated further; he died at the age of 11 months of multisystem failure. Family history revealed a diagnosis of SCA7 in the infant's father, paternal grandfather, and aunt. DNA analysis confirmed an expanded trinucleotide repeat in the SCA7 locus of about 240 repeats, suggesting a diagnosis of infantile SCA7. Striking anticipation is seen in SCA7, particularly with paternal transmission. The underlying pathophysiological processes seem to involve alteration in transcriptional regulation and a selective neuronal vulnerability to the widely distributed abnormal protein product. This case report reviews the current literature relating to infantile SCA7 and raises awareness of this rare but important phenotype.
This paper investigated the use of prospective control in catching and how the results can be used as a sensitive tool to detect diffuse signs of brain dysfunction. A detailed analysis of 286 catching movements of eight adolescents (two males, six females [four very-low-birth weight {VLBW}, one small for gestational age {SGA}, and three appropriate for gestational age]; mean age 14 y 5 mo [SD 6 mo]; range 14-15 y) was performed blind for this purpose. The moving target approached the participants from the side at three different, non-constant accelerations. The results showed that three adolescents used less advanced timing strategies that involved the lower-order variables of distance or velocity to govern movement initiation of at least one of their hands. Two of these were preterm VLBW and one was term SGA. The remaining adolescents, on the other hand, all relied on the higher-order variable of time-to-contact to initiate their hand movements, and were, therefore, considered low-risk. These results were compared with the cerebral magnetic resonance imaging results of the adolescents. The findings show that timing strategy pinpoints successfully those adolescents at risk of neurological problems. It was, therefore, concluded that the skill of using prospective information for catching can be used as a tool to detect diffuse signs of motor dysfunction, which are not readily detected by standard behavioural tests alone.
Insects, like other animals, require sodium chloride (NaCl) as part of their normal diet and detect it with contact chemoreceptors on the body surface. By adjusting the responsiveness of the chemosensory neurons within these receptors insects can modify the intake of salt and other nutrients, and it has been hypothesized that the responsiveness of chemosensory neurons is regulated by nitric oxide (NO). To identify potential sources of NO in the periphery, the authors applied the NO-sensitive fluorescent probe 4,5-diaminofluorescein and the universal NO synthase antibody, and found that in locusts NO is synthesized within one particular class of cells of the epidermis, the glandular cells, from where it may diffuse to neighboring chemosensory neurons. The effects of NO on chemosensory neurons were investigated by recording from contact chemoreceptors on the leg while perfusing it with drugs that interfere with NO signaling. Results showed that both endogenous and exogenous NO decreased the frequency of action potentials in chemosensory neurons in response to stimulation with NaCl by acting via a cyclic guanosine monophosphate-independent pathway. Variation of the NaCl concentration in the perfusion solution demonstrated that the synthesis of NO in glandular cells depends on the NaCl concentration in the hemolymph. By contrast NO increased the frequency of action potentials in chemosensory neurons in response to sucrose stimulation. The authors suggest that NO released from glandular cells modulates the responsiveness of chemosensory neurons to regulate NaCl intake, and hypothesize that NO may play a key role in the signaling of salt and sugars.
The songs of adult male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) arise by an integration of activity from two neural pathways that emanate from the telencephalic nucleus HVC (proper name). One pathway descends directly from HVC to the vocal premotor nucleus RA (the robust nucleus of the arcopallium) whereas a second pathway descends from HVC into a basal ganglia circuit (the anterior forebrain pathway, AFP) that also terminates in RA. Although HVC neurons that project directly to RA outnumber those that contribute to the AFP, both populations are distributed throughout HVC. Thus, partial ablation (microlesion) of HVC should damage both pathways in a proportional manner. We report here that bilateral HVC microlesions in adult male zebra finches produce an immediate loss of song stereotypy from which birds recover, in some cases within 3 days. The contribution of the AFP to the onset of song destabilization was tested by ablating the output nucleus of this circuit (LMAN, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium) prior to bilateral HVC microlesions. Song stereotypy was largely unaffected. Together, our findings suggest that adult vocal production involves nonproportional integration of two streams of neural activity with opposing effects on song--HVC's direct projection to RA underlies production of stereotyped song whereas the AFP seems to facilitate vocal variation. However, the rapid recovery of song in birds with HVC microlesions alone suggests the presence of dynamic corrective mechanisms that favor vocal stereotypy.
In larval lamprey, descending brain neurons, which regenerate their axons following spinal cord injury, were isolated and examined in cell culture to identify some of the factors that regulate neurite outgrowth. Focal application of 5 mM or 25 mM L-glutamate to single growth cones inhibited outgrowth of the treated neurite, but other neurites from the same neuron were not inhibited, an effect that has not been well studied for neurons in other systems. Glutamate-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth was abolished by 10 mM kynurenic acid. Application of high potassium media to growth cones inhibited neurite outgrowth, an effect that was blocked by 2 mM cobalt or 100 microM cadmium, suggesting that calcium influx via voltage-gated channels contributes to glutamate-induced regulation of neurite outgrowth. Application of glutamate to growth cones in the presence of 2 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC (CTX) still inhibited neurite outgrowth, while CTX blocked high potassium-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Thus, CTX blocked virtually all of the calcium influx resulting from depolarization. To our knowledge, this is the first direct demonstration that calcium influx via ligand-gated ion channels can contribute to regulation of neurite outgrowth. Finally, focal application of glutamate to the cell bodies of descending brain neurons inhibited outgrowth of multiple neurites from the same neuron, and this is the first demonstration that multiple neurites can be regulated in this fashion. Signaling mechanisms involving intracellular calcium, similar to those shown here, may be important for regulating axonal regeneration following spinal cord injury in the lamprey.
The authors present a novel paradigm for studying visual responses in Drosophila. An eight-level choice maze was found to reliably segregate fly populations according to their responses to moving stripes displayed on a computer screen. Visual responsiveness was robust in wild-type flies, and performance depended on salience effects such as stimulus color and speed. Analysis of individual fly choices in the maze revealed that stereotypy, or choice persistence, contributed significantly to a strain's performance. On the basis of these observations, the authors bred wild-type flies for divergent visual phenotypes by selecting individual flies displaying extreme stereotypy. Selected flies alternated less often in the sequential choice maze than unselected flies, showing that stereotypy could evolve across generations. The authors found that selection for increased stereotypy impaired flies' responsiveness to competing stimuli in tests for attention-like behavior in the maze. Visual selective attention was further investigated by electrophysiology, and it was found that increased stereotypy also impaired responsiveness to competing stimuli at the level of brain activity. Combined results present a comprehensive approach to studying visual responses in Drosophila, and show that behavioral performance involves attention-like processes that are variable among individuals and thus sensitive to artificial selection.
The polyadic synapse, where a single presynaptic active zone associates with two or more postsynaptic cells, exists in both mammals and invertebrates. An important but unresolved question is whether synaptic transmission occurs between the presynaptic site and its various postsynaptic partners. Using the dual whole-cell voltage clamp technique, we analyzed miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs or minis) at the C. elegans neuromuscular junction (NMJ), which is a polyadic synapse. We found that neighboring muscle cells at the same position along the body axis had high frequencies of concurrent mPSCs, which could not be explained by pure chance. Although body-wall muscle cells are electrically coupled, the high frequency of concurrent mPSCs was not due to electrical coupling because there was no correlation between the frequency of concurrent mPSCs and the degree of electrical coupling; the rise time of concurrent mPSCs was identical to that of nonconcurrent mPSCs but distinct from that of junctional currents (I(j)); and a mutant defective in electrical coupling showed normal frequency of concurrent mPSCs. Our analyses suggest that a single quantum of neurotransmitter may cause mPSCs in multiple postsynaptic cells at polyadic synapses, and that high-fidelity synaptic transmission occurs between the presynaptic site and its various postsynaptic partners. Thus, polyadic synapses could be a distinct mechanism for synaptic divergence and for synchronizing activities of postsynaptic cells.
Levels of expression of the transcription factor Pax6 vary throughout corticogenesis in a rostro-lateral(high) to caudo-medial(low) gradient across the cortical proliferative zone. Previous loss-of-function studies have indicated that Pax6 is required for normal cortical progenitor proliferation, neuronal differentiation, cortical lamination and cortical arealization, but whether and how its level of expression affects its function is unclear. We studied the developing cortex of PAX77 YAC transgenic mice carrying several copies of the human PAX6 locus with its full complement of regulatory regions. We found that PAX77 embryos express Pax6 in a normal spatial pattern, with levels up to three times higher than wild type. By crossing PAX77 mice with a new YAC transgenic line that reports Pax6 expression (DTy54), we showed that increased expression is limited by negative autoregulation. Increased expression reduces proliferation of late cortical progenitors specifically, and analysis of PAX77&lt;----&gt;wild-type chimeras indicates that the defect is cell autonomous. We analyzed cortical arealization in PAX77 mice and found that, whereas the loss of Pax6 shifts caudal cortical areas rostrally, Pax6 overexpression at levels predicted to shift rostral areas caudally has very little effect. These findings indicate that Pax6 levels are stabilized by autoregulation, that the proliferation of cortical progenitors is sensitive to altered Pax6 levels and that cortical arealization is not.



Hormonal ligands for the nuclear receptor superfamily have at least two interacting mechanisms of action: 1) classical transcriptional regulation of target genes (genomic mechanisms); and 2) nongenomic actions that are initiated at the cell membrane, which could impact transcription. Although transcriptional mechanisms are increasingly well understood, membrane-initiated actions of these ligands are incompletely understood. Historically, this has led to a considerable divergence of thought in the molecular endocrine field. We have attempted to uncover principles of hormone action that are relevant to membrane-initiated actions of estrogens. There is evidence that the membrane-limited actions of hormones, particularly estrogens, involve the rapid activation of kinases and the release of calcium. Membrane actions of estrogens, which activate these rapid signaling cascades, can also potentiate nuclear transcription. These signaling cascades may occur in parallel or in series but subsequently converge at the level of modification of transcriptionally relevant molecules such as nuclear receptors and/or coactivators. In addition, other hormones or neurotransmitters may also activate cascades to crosstalk with estrogen receptor-mediated transcription. The idea of synergistic coupling between membrane-initiated and genomic actions of hormones fundamentally revises the paradigms of cell signaling in neuroendocrinology.
The role of arginine vasopressin (Avp) as an ACTH secretagogue is mediated by the Avp 1b receptor (Avpr1b) found on anterior pituitary corticotropes. Avp also potentiates the actions of CRH (Crh) and appears to be an important mediator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response to chronic stress. To investigate the role of Avp in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response to stress, we measured plasma ACTH and corticosterone (CORT) levels in Avpr1b knockout (KO) mice and wild-type controls in response to two acute (restraint and insulin administration) and one form of chronic (daily restraint for 14 d) stress. No significant difference was found in the basal plasma levels of ACTH and CORT between the two genotypes. Acute restraint (30 min) increased plasma ACTH and CORT to a similar level in both the Avpr1b mutant and wild-type mice. In contrast, plasma ACTH and CORT levels induced by hypoglycemia were significantly decreased in the Avpr1b KO mice when compared with wild-type littermates. There was no difference in the ACTH response to acute and chronic restraint in wild-type mice. In the Avpr1b KO group subjected to 14 sessions of daily restraint, plasma ACTH was decreased when compared with wild-type mice. On the other hand, the CORT elevations induced by restraint did not adapt in the Avpr1b KO or wild-type mice. The data suggest that the Avpr1b is required for the normal pituitary and adrenal response to some acute stressful stimuli and is necessary only for a normal ACTH response during chronic stress.
Clinically, treatment of pregnant women at risk of preterm delivery with synthetic glucocorticoids accelerates fetal maturation. This study investigated the effect of maternal dexamethasone treatment, in clinically relevant doses, on plasma thyroid hormone concentrations and tissue deiodinase activities (D1, D2, and D3) in ewes and their fetuses. From 125 d of gestation (term 145 +/- 2 d), pregnant ewes were injected twice im with either saline (2 ml of 0.9% NaCl, n = 11) or dexamethasone (2 x 12 mg in 2 ml of saline, n = 10) at 24-h intervals. Maternal dexamethasone treatment increased plasma T(3) and reverse T(3) (rT(3)), but not T(4), concentrations in the fetuses. In the dexamethasone-exposed fetuses, hepatic D1 activity was higher, and renal and placental D3 activities were lower, than in the saline-exposed fetuses. In the ewes, plasma concentrations of T(3) and T(4) were reduced, and rT(3) increased, by dexamethasone treatment without any change in tissue deiodinase activity. Therefore, maternal dexamethasone treatment has different effects on the thyroid hormone axis of the pregnant ewe and fetus. In the fetus, the dexamethasone-induced rise in circulating T(3) may be due to both increased hepatic production of T(3) from T(4), and reduced clearance of T(3) by the kidney and placenta. Changes in T(3) bioavailability may mediate some of the maturational effects of antenatal glucocorticoid treatment in the preterm fetus.
Magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) release vasopressin (VP) systemically and locally during osmotic challenge. Although both central VP and nitric oxide (NO) release appear to reduce osmotically stimulated systemic VP release, it is unknown whether they interact locally in the SON to enhance somatodendritic release of VP, a phenomenon believed to regulate systemic VP release. In this study, we examined the contribution of VP receptor subtypes and NO to local VP release from the rat SON elicited by systemic injection of 3.5 m saline. Treatment of SON punches with VP receptor antagonists decreased osmotically stimulated intranuclear VP release. Similarly, blockade of NO production, or addition of NO scavengers, reduced stimulated VP, glutamate, and aspartate release, suggesting that local NO production and activity are critical for osmotically induced intranuclear VP and excitatory amino acid release. An increase in endogenous NO release from SON punches in response to hyperosmolality was confirmed by enzymatic NO assay. Consistent with enhanced glutamate and VP release from stimulated rat SON punches, the ionotropic glutamate receptor blocker kynurenate decreased stimulated local VP release without affecting NO release. These data suggest that NO enhances local VP release in part by facilitating local release of glutamate/aspartate and that glutamate receptor activity is required for the stimulation of local VP release by osmotic challenge. Collectively, these results suggest that local VP receptors, NO, and glutamatergic signaling mediate the amplification of intranuclear VP release during hyperosmolality and may contribute to efficient, but not exhaustive, systemic release of VP during osmoregulatory challenge.

The purpose of this paper is to update the state of knowledge with respect to long-term monitoring (LTM) in epilepsy and to formulate recommendations regarding the application of LTM in clinical practice. LTM is an established technique in use both in a hospital setting and, increasingly, in an ambulatory and more recently in a community-based setting. There has been sufficient evidence to substantiate the claim that LTM is of crucial importance in documenting electroclinical correlations both in epilepsy and in paroxysmally occurring behavioral changes often mistaken for epilepsy. Internationally recognized neurophysiological equipment standards, data acquisition and data transfer protocols and widely accepted safety standards have made widespread access to LTM facilities in epilepsy possible. Recommendations on efficient and effective use of resources as well as regarding training and competencies for personnel involved in LTM in epilepsy have been formulated. The DMC Neurophysiology Subcommittee of the ILAE recommends use of hospital-based LTM in the documentation of seizures including its application for assessing seizure type and frequency, in the evaluation of status epilepticus, in noninvasive and invasive video/EEG investigations for epilepsy surgery and for the differential diagnosis between epilepsy and paroxysmally occurring nonepileptic conditions, in children and in adults. Ambulatory outpatient and community-based LTM may be used as a substitute for inpatient LTM in cases where the latter is not cost-effective or feasible or when activation procedures aimed at increasing seizure yield are not indicated. However, outpatient ambulatory monitoring may be less informative than is inpatient monitoring in some cases because: (1) reduction of medication to provoke seizures may not be safe as an outpatient; (2) faulty electrode contacts cannot quickly be noticed and repaired; (3) the patient may move out of video surveillance; and (4) duration of ambulatory monitoring can be limited by technical constraints.
We report the case of a patient with complex partial seizures who developed a nonfluent aphasia when topiramate was added to his therapy. This emergent adverse effect appeared to be reversible, as language performance improved after discontinuation of topiramate. Interictal SPECT performed when the patient was aphasic revealed a focal perfusion reduction in the left lateral and mesial frontal cortex, which was no longer evident at a follow-up study after language recovery.

Neuronal death and dysfunction occur after status epilepticus (SE), and is associated with mitochondrial enzyme damage. We previously showed, using the rat perforant pathway stimulation model, that levetiracetam administration (LEV; 1000 mg/kg intraperitoneal) during established SE reduces seizure severity and prevents mitochondrial dysfunction. We now show that administration of the same dose of LEV after 5h SE, does not protect from mitochondrial dysfunction.
The study investigated the natural work-pause pattern of computer users and the possible effects of imposing pause regimes on this pattern. Hereto, the precise timing of computer events was recorded across a large number of days. It was found that the distribution of the pause durations was extremely skewed and that pauses with twice the duration are twice less likely to occur. The effects of imposing pause regimes were studied by performing a simulation of commercially available pause software. It was found that depending on the duration of the introduced pause, the software added 25-57% of the pauses taken naturally. Analysis of the timing of the introduced pauses revealed that a large number of spontaneous pauses were taken close to the inserted pause. Considering the disappointing results of studies investigating the effects of introducing (active) pauses during computer work, this study has cast doubt on the usefulness of introducing short duration pauses.
Progressive myoclonus epilepsy of Unverricht-Lundborg type (EPM1) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutations in the cystatin B gene (CSTB) that encodes an inhibitor of several lysosomal cathepsins. An unstable expansion of a dodecamer repeat in the CSTB promoter accounts for the majority of EPM1 disease alleles worldwide. We here describe a novel PCR protocol for detection of the dodecamer repeat expansion. We describe two novel EPM1-associated mutations, c.149G &gt; A leading to the p.G50E missense change and an intronic 18-bp deletion (c.168+1_18del), which affects splicing of CSTB. The p.G50E mutation that affects the conserved QVVAG amino acid sequence critical for cathepsin binding fails to associate with lysosomes. This further supports the previously implicated physiological importance of the CSTB-lysosome association. Expression of CSTB mRNA and protein was markedly reduced in lymphoblastoid cells of the patients irrespective of the mutation type. Patients homozygous for the dodecamer expansion mutation showed 5-10% expression compared to controls. By combining database searches with RT-PCR we identified several alternatively spliced CSTB isoforms. One of these, CSTB2, was also present in mouse and was analyzed in more detail. In real-time PCR quantification, CSTB2 expression was less than 5% of total CSTB expression in all human adult and fetal tissues analyzed. In patients homozygous for the minisatellite mutation, the level of CSTB2 was reduced similarly to that of CSTB implicating regulation from the same promoter. The physiological significance of CSTB2 remains to be determined.
Several analyses of the neurological features of Behet's disease (BD) have concluded that there are significant racial differences in its clinical expression. Other series, however, failed to elicit such differences. We aimed to describe in this retrospective survey the frequency, nature and relationship to systemic disease of the neurological features in a cohort of BD patients of Caucasian origin. We searched hospital records from nine District General or Regional Centre hospitals in south-west Great Britain and identified 22 individuals of Caucasian ethnic origin with neuro-BD, with a mean of 10 years follow-up per patient - the largest 'western' case series with the longest period of follow-up reported. We found that presentation with neurological features was commoner in our patients (23%) than Middle Eastern series (3-10%). Seizures (27%) were likewise commoner (0-5%), as was optic neuritis (9% compared with 1-2%). Two patients developed movement disorders (chorea and parkinsonism), which have only been rarely reported. Of further clinical significance, we noted that non-neuropsychiatric features: oral ulceration, intraocular inflammation and skin lesions - were virtually always present or exacerbated during neurological complications. Ethnicity--or conceivably environment--may play a significant role in the manifestation of neurological BD.
The mechanisms that control chloride conductance (gCl) in the rat sympathetic neuron have been studied by the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique in mature, intact superior cervical ganglia in vitro. In addition to voltage dependence in the membrane potential range -120/-50 mV, gCl displays time- and activity-dependent regulation (sensitization). The resting membrane potential is governed by voltage-dependent gK and gCl, which determine values of cell input conductance ranging from 7 to 18 nS (full deactivation) to an upper value of about 130 nS (full activation and maximal gCl sensitization). The quiescent neuron, held at constant membrane potential, spontaneously and gradually moved from a low- to a high-conductance status. An increase (about 40 nS) in gCl accounted for this phenomenon, which could be prevented by imposing intermittent hyperpolarizing episodes. Following spike firing, gCl increased by 20-33 nS, independent of the cell conductance value preceding tetanization, and thereafter decayed to the pre-stimulus level within 5 min. Intracellular sodium depletion and its successive ionophoretic restoration moved the neuron from a stable low-conductance state to maximum gCl sensitization, pointing to a link between gCl sensitization and [Na+]i. The dependence of gCl build-up on [Na+]i and the time-course of such Na+-related modulation have been examined: gCl sensitization was absent at 0 [Na+]i, was well developed (20 nS) at 15 mM and tended towards a saturating value of 60 nS for higher [Na+]i. Sensitization was transient in response to neuron activity. In the silent neuron, sensitization of gCl shifted membrane potential over a range of about 15 mV.
The cell adhesion molecule L1 (L1-CAM) plays important functional roles in the developing and adult nervous systems. Here we show that peripheral nerve injury induced dynamic post-transcriptional alteration of L1-CAM in the rat dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and spinal cord. Sciatic nerve transection (SCNT) changed the expression of L1-CAM protein but not L1-CAM mRNA. In DRGs, SCNT induced accumulation of the L1-CAM into the surface of somata, which resulted in the formation of immunoreactive ring structures in a number of unmyelinated C-fiber neurons. These neurons with L1-CAM-immunoreactive ring structures were heavily colocalized with phosphorylated p38 MAPK. Western blot analysis revealed the increase of full-length L1-CAM and decrease of fragments of L1-CAM after SCNT in DRGs. Following SCNT, L1-CAM-immunoreactive profiles in the dorsal horn showed an increase mainly in pre-synaptic areas of laminae I-II with a delayed onset and colocalized with growth-associated protein 43. In contrast to DRGs, SCNT increased the proteolytic 80-kDa fragment of L1-CAM and decreased full-length L1-CAM in the spinal cord. The intrathecal injection of L1-CAM antibody for the extracellular domain of L1-CAM inhibited activation of p38 MAPK and emergence of ring structures of L1-CAM immunoreactivity in injured DRG neurons. Moreover, inhibition of extracellular L1-CAM binding by intrathecal administration of antibody suppressed the mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia induced by partial SCNT. Collectively, these data suggest that the modification of L1-CAM in nociceptive pathways might be an important pathomechanism of neuropathic pain.
Peripheral nerve injury-induced structural and chemical modifications of the sensory circuits in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord contribute to the mechanism of neuropathic pain. In contrast to the topographic projection of primary afferents in laminae I-IV in the rat spinal cord, the primary afferents of Macaca mulatta monkeys almost exclusively project into laminae I-II of the spinal cord. After peripheral nerve injury, up-regulation of galanin has been found in sensory neurons in both monkey and rat dorsal root ganglia. However, the nerve injury-induced ultrastructural modification of galanin-containing afferents in the monkey spinal cord remains unknown. Using immunoelectron microscopy, we found that 3 weeks after unilateral sciatic nerve transection, the number of galanin-containing afferents was increased in ipsilateral lamina II of monkey spinal cord. Branching of these galanin-positive afferents was often observed. The afferent terminals contained a large number of synaptic vesicles, peptidergic vesicles and mitochondria, whereas the number of synapses was markedly reduced. Some of the afferents-enriched microtubules were often packed into bundles. Moreover, galanin-labeling could be associated with endosomal structures in many dendrites and axonal terminals of dorsal horn neurons. These results suggest that peripheral nerve injury induces an expansion of the central projection of galanin-containing afferents in lamina II of the monkey spinal cord, not only by increasing galanin levels in primary afferents but also by triggering afferent branching.
The dentate gyrus continues to produce new neurons in adult rodents. The possibility of differential regulation of neurogenesis within regions of the dentate gyrus is largely unexplored, despite several other aspects of this phenomenon being well characterized in a large number of studies. In this report, we describe an area located at the anterior pole of the dentate gyrus that consistently lacks neurogenesis. This neurogenically quiescent zone invariably lacks expression of the neuroblast marker doublecortin (DCX), bromodeoxyuridine and Ki-67, though DCX expression can be elicited in response to a combined paradigm of environmental enrichment and wheel running. We propose that this region may provide a valuable model system to discern the factors that regulate the process of neurogenesis.
Hair cell losses can produce severe hearing and balance deficits in mammals and nonmammals alike, but nonmammals recover after epithelial supporting cells divide and give rise to replacement hair cells. Here, we describe cellular changes that appear to underlie the permanence of hair cell deficits in mammalian vestibular organs. In sensory epithelia isolated from the utricles of embryonic day 18 (E18) mice, supporting cells readily spread and proliferated, but spreading and proliferation were infrequent in supporting cells from postnatal day 6 (P6) mice. Cellular spreading and proliferation were dependent on alpha6 integrin, which disappeared from lateral cell membranes by P6 and colocalized with beta4 integrin near the basement membrane at both ages. In the many well-spread, proliferating E18 supporting cells, beta4 was localized at cell borders, but it was localized to hemidesmosome-like structures in the columnar, nondividing supporting cells that were prevalent in P6 cultures. We treated cultures with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) to activate protein kinase C (PKC) in an initial test of the possibility that maturational changes in supporting cell cytoskeletons or their anchorage might restrict the proliferation of these progenitor cells in the developing mammalian inner ear. That treatment triggered the disassembly of the hemidesmosome-like beta4 structures and resulted in significantly increased cellular spreading and S-phase entry in the P6 epithelia. The results suggest that maturational changes in cytoskeletal organization and anchorage restrict proliferation of mammalian supporting cells whose counterparts are the progenitors of replacement hair cells in nonmammals, thereby leaving mammals vulnerable to persistent sensory deficits caused by hair cell loss.
Efficient executive control frequently requires the timely activation or re-activation of a task-goal to enable purposeful behaviour. Additionally, more generalized factors such as alertness or neurological health will influence the efficiency with which control can be implemented. Goal-directed processes have been investigated by examining event-related potentials (ERPs), but much less is known about the involvement of background or 'tonic' processes reflected in the ongoing electroencephalogram (EEG), and how these affect the phasic processes expressed in the broad-band ERP. Here, we investigate the relationship between a key attention-sensitive tonic process--the alpha rhythm--and relevant phasic processes observed during a sustained attention paradigm in neurologically healthy subjects. We report that subjects with relatively higher tonic alpha power (approximately 10 Hz) show a larger-amplitude late positive ERP component that is thought to index goal activation and has been found to predict good sustained attention performance as defined by correct response patterns. Source localization results suggest that the neural generators responsible for oscillatory alpha activity, which are found primarily in the parietal and occipital lobes, are distinct from those giving rise to the late positive component. The results are discussed in terms of increased alpha synchrony facilitating goal-directed behaviour.
The corticospinal system (CS) is well known to be of major importance for controlling the thumb-index grip, in particular for force grading. However, for a given force level, the way in which the involvement of this system could vary with increasing demands on precise force control is not well-known. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation and functional magnetic resonance imagery, the present experiments investigated whether increasing the precision demands while keeping the averaged force level similar during an isometric dynamic low-force control task, involving the thumb-index grip, does affect the corticospinal excitability to the thumb-index muscles and the activation of the motor cortices, primary and non-primary (supplementary motor area, dorsal and ventral premotor and in the contralateral area), at the origin of the CS. With transcranial magnetic stimulation, we showed that, when precision demands increased, the CS excitability increased to either the first dorsal interosseus or the opponens pollicis, and never to both, for similar ongoing electromyographic activation patterns of these muscles. With functional magnetic resonance imagery, we demonstrated that, for the same averaged force level, the amplitude of blood oxygen level-dependent signal increased in relation to the precision demands in the hand area of the contralateral primary motor cortex in the contralateral supplementary motor area, ventral and dorsal premotor area. Together these results show that, during the course of force generation, the CS integrates online top-down information to precisely fit the motor output to the task's constraints and that its multiple cortical origins are involved in this process, with the ventral premotor area appearing to have a special role.
Repeated exposure to psychostimulant drugs produces long-lasting changes in dendritic structure, presumably reflecting a reorganization in patterns of synaptic connectivity, in brain regions that mediate the psychomotor activating and incentive motivational effects of these drugs, including the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex. However, repeated exposure to psychostimulant drugs also facilitates a transition in the control of some behaviors from action-outcome associations to behavior controlled by stimulus-response (S-R) habits. This latter effect is thought to be due to increasing engagement and control over behavior by the dorsolateral (but not dorsomedial) striatum. We hypothesized therefore that repeated exposure to methamphetamine would differentially alter the density of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the dorsolateral vs. dorsomedial striatum. Rats were treated with repeated injections of methamphetamine, and 3 months later dendrites were visualized using Sindbis virus-mediated green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression in vivo. We report that prior exposure to methamphetamine produced a significant increase in mushroom and thin spines on MSNs in the dorsolateral striatum, but a significant decrease in mushroom spines in the dorsomedial striatum. This may be due to changes in the glutamatergic innervation of these two subregions of the dorsal striatum. Thus, we speculate that exposure to psychostimulant drugs may facilitate the development of S-R habits because this reorganizes patterns of synaptic connectivity in the dorsal striatum in a way that increases control over behavior by the dorsolateral striatum.
Rodent studies have revealed that the early rearing environment plays an important role in the development of stress vulnerability, memory and cognition. Although early lighting conditions (ELC) are involved in these neuronal developments through both maternal and offspring behavior, their influence has not been fully elucidated. Thus, by using Sprague-Dawley rats, we examined whether ELC affected maternal care by the dam and the subsequent neurodevelopment of the offspring. Prolonged dark phase conditions (PDC) (light/dark, 6/18 h) and prolonged light phase conditions (light/dark, 18/6 h) were administered from postnatal day 2 to postnatal day 14. Throughout this period, maternal care and the circadian rhythmicity of dams were investigated. In adolescence and adulthood of the offspring, we measured anxiety-like behavior, social interaction, object recognition memory, activity rhythm and corticosterone response to stress with hippocampal expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate and glucocorticoid receptor mRNAs. PDC altered maternal care and circadian rhythmicity in the dam compared with normal lighting conditions and prolonged light phase conditions. PDC markedly increased anxiety-like behavior, decreased social interaction and object recognition memory, and inhibited corticosterone feedback in offspring later in life. Furthermore, hippocampal levels of glucocorticoid receptor mRNA and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2B mRNA in rats subjected to PDC were significantly lower than in animals subjected to normal lighting conditions. In the adult offspring, the circadian rhythm of locomotor activity was not affected. These findings suggested that ELC affect mother-infant interactions and subsequently at least partially alter the neurobehavioral development of offspring.
The introduction of forward genetic screens in the mouse asks for techniques that make rapid screening of visual function possible. Transcranial imaging of intrinsic signal is suitable for this purpose and could detect the effects of retinal degeneration, and the increased predominance of the contralateral eye in albino animals. We quantified visual response properties of the cortex by introducing a normalization method to reduce the impact of biological noise. In addition, the presentation of a 'reset'-stimulus shortly after the probing stimulus at a different visual location could reduce the interstimulus time necessary for the decay of the response. Applying these novel methods, we found that acuity of C57Bl/6J mice rises from 0.35 cycles per degree (cpd) at postnatal day 25 to 0.56 cpd in adults. Temporal resolution was lower in adults than in juvenile animals. There was no patchy organization of spatial or temporal frequency preference at the intrinsic signal resolution. Monocular deprivation, a model for amblyopia and critical period plasticity, led to a loss in acuity and a shift towards the nondeprived eye in juvenile animals. Short deprivation did not lead to increased acuity of the nondeprived eye. In adults, a small ocular dominance shift was detectable with urethane anaesthesia. This was not observed when the combination of the opiate fentanyl, fluanisone with a benzodiazepine was used, adding evidence to the hypothesis that enhancing GABA(A)-receptor function masks an adult shift. Together, these novel applications confirm that noninvasive screening of many functional properties of the visual cortex is possible.
Because rats learn to lever-press for brief electrical stimulation of the median and dorsal raphe nuclei (MRN and DRN, respectively), these brain sites have long been implicated in reward processes. However, it is not clear whether the MRN and DRN integrate reward-related signals or merely contain fibers of passage involved in reward processes. To shed light on this issue, the present study employed chemicals that selectively modulate neurotransmission, in particular the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol. Rats quickly learned to lever-press for muscimol infusions (50 and 100 microM) into the MRN or DRN. Muscimol was not self-administered when cannulae were placed just outside these nuclei. The reinforcing effects of muscimol appeared to be greater when the drug was administered into the MRN than into the DRN, as demonstrated by higher infusion rates and better response discrimination. These observations are consistent with the additional finding that muscimol administration into the MRN, but not the DRN, induced conditioned place preference. The reinforcing effects of muscimol administration into the MRN were blocked by coadministration of the GABA(A) antagonist picrotoxin (100 microM) and by pretreatment with the dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.025 mg/kg, i.p.). The present results suggest that median and dorsal raphe neurons presumably inhibited by muscimol via GABA(A) receptors are involved in integration of primary reinforcement, and that median raphe neurons exert tonic inhibition over dopamine-dependent reward circuitry. The midbrain raphe nuclei may be involved in a variety of reward-related phenomena including drug addiction.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) proliferate and differentiate depending on their intrinsic properties and local environment. It has been recognized that astrocytes promote neurogenic differentiation of NSPCs, suggesting the importance of cell-cell interactions between glial cells and NSPCs. Recent studies have demonstrated that microglia, one type of glial cells, play an important role in neurogenesis. However, little is known about how activated microglia control the proliferation and differentiation of NSPCs. In this study, we investigated the possibility that microglia-derived soluble factors regulate the behaviour of NSPCs. To this end, NSPCs and microglial cultures were obtained from rat embryonic day 16 subventricular zone (SVZ) and rat postnatal 1 day cortex, respectively, and the conditioned medium from microglia was prepared. Microglial-conditioned medium had no significant effect on the proliferation of NSPCs. In contrast, it increased the percentage of cells positive for a marker of astrocytes, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) during differentiation. The induction of astrocytic differentiation by microglial-conditioned medium was reduced by the inhibition of the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activation of transcription (JAK/STAT) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. Furthermore, microglia-derived interleukin (IL)-6 and leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) were identified as essential molecules for this astrocytic differentiation using neutralizing antibodies and recombinant cytokines. Our results suggest that microglia as well as astrocytes contribute to the integrity of the local environment of NSPCs, and at least IL-6 and LIF released by activated microglia promote astrocytic differentiation of NSPCs via the activation of the JAK/STAT and MAPK pathways.
Miniature GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in cortical pyramidal neurons have previously been categorized into two types: small amplitude mIPSCs with a mono-exponential deactivation (mono-mIPSCs) and relatively larger mIPSCs with bi-exponential deactivation (bi-mIPSCs). The aim of this study was to determine if the GABA(A) channels that underlie these mIPSCSs are molecularly distinct. We found, using non-stationary noise analysis, that the difference in their amplitude could be not accounted for by their single channel conductance (both were 40 pS). Next, using alpha subunit selective GABA(A) receptor modulators, we examined the identity of the alpha subunits that may be expressed in the synapses that give rise to these mIPSCs. Zolpidem (100 and 500 nM, alpha1 selective) affected the deactivation of a subset of the mono-mIPSCs, indicating that alpha1 subunits are not highly expressed in these synapses. However, zolpidem (100 nM) prolonged the deactivation of all bi-mIPSCs, indicating a high abundance of alpha1 subunits in these synapses. SB-205384 (alpha3 selective) had no effect on the mono-mIPSCs but the bi-mIPSCs were prolonged. Furosemide (alpha4 selective) reduced the amplitude of only the mono-mIPSCs. L655,708 (alpha5 selective) reduced the amplitude of both populations and shortened the duration of the mono-mIPSCs. Finally, we found that the neuroactive steroid pregesterone sulphate reduced the amplitude of both mIPSC types. These results provide pharmacological evidence that synapses on cortical pyramidal neurons are molecularly distinct. The purpose of these different types of synapses may be to provide different inhibitory timing patterns on these cells.
Apart from being increasingly implicated in higher motor control, Broca's area is considered to play an important role in action understanding by coding the motor goal of an action. Moreover, recent findings suggest that parts of Broca's area may be able to code action content in a more abstract fashion, independent of modality, specific movement parameters or effector used. We performed functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine whether in humans processing object-directed hand actions presented either visually as video clips or verbally as spoken sentences relies on the same neural substrates. To control for action specificity, we included videos and sentences depicting inanimate motion events. In order to induce conceptual processing, we asked participants to make judgements about the acceptability of the stimuli. Results show that processing object-directed hand actions presented both visually and verbally leads to common activation of areas in parietal and frontal regions, most prominently in the pars opercularis of Broca's region. We conclude that the pars opercularis of Broca's area is endowed with polymodal capabilities, allowing the processing of higher-level conceptual aspects of action understanding.
Numerous brain regions are enriched with insulin and insulin receptors, and several lines of evidence indicate that insulin is an important modulator of neuronal function. Indeed, recent studies have demonstrated that insulin inhibits hippocampal epileptiform-like activity, in part by activating large-conductance Ca2+-activated potassium (BK) channels. Moreover, the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling cascade has been found to couple insulin to BK channel activation. However, the cellular events downstream of MAPK that underlie this action of insulin are unknown. Here we demonstrate that in hippocampal neurons, BK channel activation by insulin is blocked by actin filament stabilization, suggesting that this process is dependent on the actin cytoskeleton. Stabilizing actin filaments also markedly attenuated the ability of insulin to inhibit the aberrant hippocampal synaptic activity evoked following Mg2+ removal. Insulin also promoted rapid reorganization of fluorescently labelled polymerized actin filaments; an action that was prevented by inhibitors of MAPK activation. Moreover, in parallel studies, insulin increased the level of phospho-MAPK immunostaining in hippocampal neurons. These data are consistent with BK channel activation by insulin involving MAPK-dependent alterations in actin dynamics. This process may have important implications for the role of insulin in regulating hippocampal excitability.

Stimulus-related oscillations are known to be closely linked to integrative processing in the brain. One research domain within which there has been tremendous interest in oscillatory mechanisms is in the integration of inputs across the widely separated sensory systems. Under the standard approach of assessing multisensory interactions in electrophysiological datasets, the event-related response to a multisensory stimulus is directly compared with the sum of the responses to its unisensory constituents when presented alone. When using methods like wavelet transformation or fast Fourier transformation to derive induced oscillatory signals, however, such linear operations are not appropriate. Here we introduce a simple bootstrapping procedure wherein the linear summation of single unisensory trials forms a distribution against which multisensory trials may be statistically compared, an approach that circumvents the issue of non-linearity when combining unisensory oscillatory responses. To test this approach we applied it to datasets from intracranial recordings in non-human primates and human scalp-recorded EEG, both derived from a simple audio-visual integration paradigm. Significant multisensory interactions were revealed in oscillatory activity centered at 15 and 20 Hz (the so-called beta band). Simulations of different levels of background noise further validated the results obtained by this method. By demonstrating super- and sub-additive effects, our analyses showed that this approach is a valuable metric for studying multisensory interactions reflected in induced oscillatory responses.
Oscillatory activity in the beta (beta)-frequency band (13-35 Hz) can be recorded over the sensorimotor cortex in humans. It is coherent with electromyographic activity (EMG) during tonic contraction, but whether the cortical beta-oscillations are primarily motor or sensorimotor in function remains unclear. We tested the hypothesis that cortical beta-activity is associated with an up-regulation of sensory inputs that may be relevant to the organization of the motor response. We recorded cortical somatosensory potentials (SEPs) elicited by electrical stimuli to the median nerve at the wrist triggered by increases of electroencephalographic (EEG) beta-activity in the contralateral fronto-central EEG and compared these to SEPs presented at random intervals. The involvement of motor cortex in the triggering EEG activity was confirmed by a simultaneous elevation of cortico-spinal synchrony in the beta-band. The negative cortical evoked potential peaking at 20 ms and the positive evoked potential peaking at 30 ms after median nerve shocks were increased in size when elicited after phasic increases in beta-activity. The functional coupling of sensory and motor cortices in the beta-band was confirmed in recordings of electrocorticographic activity in two patients with chronic pain syndromes, suggesting a means by which beta-activity may simultaneously influence cortical sensory processing, motor output and promote sensory-motor interaction.
The contribution of iris muscle steady state and dynamic response characteristics to the shaping of the pupil response to light in the hooded rat were studied using electrical stimulation of the parasympathetic fibers in the III nerve. The waveforms of pupillary contractions to single or brief trains of electrical impulses applied to the III nerve were virtually identical to those elicited with short duration light flashes. Individual contractions could be resolved at stimulation rates of 2 Hz and below, and the size of the contractions increased with the decrease in frequency. The pupil responded to long trains of stimuli above 2 Hz with smooth tonic contractions. Steady state contraction amplitude was linearly related to log stimulation frequency. The mean time constant of pupil constriction to stimulus trains was 1.41 s (SD +/- 0.71 s) and the shortest mean latency was 292 ms (SD +/- 30 ms). The fastest mean latency of pupil constriction to the brightest light flash used was 295 ms. In contrast, the time constant of pupillary dilation was 7 s (SD +/- 1.4 s) and the shortest latency was 485 ms (SD +/- 74 ms). Therefore, the sluggish dynamic properties of the iris musculature are responsible for the asymmetries in pupil contraction, dilation, and latencies as well as low flicker fusion frequency and constriction amplitude characteristics of pupil responses to light.
Synaptic plasticity can be induced easily throughout life in the rodent somatic sensory cortex. Trimming all but two whiskers on one side of an adult rat's face, called 'whisker pairing', causes the active (intact) whiskers to develop a stronger drive on cortical cells in their respective barrel columns, while inactive (trimmed) whisker efficacy is down-regulated. To date, this type of activity-dependent plasticity has been induced by trimming all but two whiskers, letting the rats explore their environment from 1 day to 1 month, after which cortical responses were analyzed physiologically under anesthesia. Such studies have enhanced our understanding of cortical plasticity, but the anesthesia complicates the examination of changes that occur in the first few hours after whisker trimming. Here we assayed the short-term changes that occur in alert, active animals over a period of hours after whisker trimming. The magnitude of barrel cortex evoked responses was measured in response to stimulation of the cut and paired whiskers of rats under several conditions: (a) whisking in air (control), (b) active whisking of an object by the rat, and (c) epochs of passive whisker stimulation to identify the onset of whisker pairing plasticity changes in cortex. The main difference between whisking in air without contact and passive whisker stimulation is that the former condition induces an increased response to stimulation of inactive cut whiskers, while the latter condition increases the responses to the stimulated whiskers. The results support the conclusion that whisker pairing plasticity in barrel cortex occurs within 4 h after whisker trimming in an awake, alert animal.
The effect of benzodiazepines on attention has been the object of few investigations. Studies using the spatial cueing paradigm (Posner's paradigm) have reported inconsistent results, which are likely due to methodological and/or dose differences but suggest impaired disengagement of attention from the cue to the target. The authors investigated the effect of a benzodiazepine (diazepam) on attentional shifting in the temporal domain. The attentional blink effect refers to difficulties in detecting a target if it follows the identification of a previous target occurring within a temporal window of 200-400 ms. The authors assessed whether the duration of the attentional blink was affected by diazepam. Streams of 15 real-world scenes displaying a road were presented for 50 ms each. A city name (target) appeared at Serial Positions 2, 3, or 4 of each stream. A vehicle (probe) appeared at different intervals following the city name. In a dual-task condition, participants were asked to report the city name and whether a vehicle was present. In a control condition, participants had to report only the presence of a vehicle and ignore the city name. Thirty-six healthy volunteers were assigned to 3 groups (placebo, diazepam 0.1 mg/kg, or 0.3 mg/kg). Diazepam increased both the magnitude and duration of the attentional blink effect. Participants treated with a high dose of diazepam needed more than 600 ms to detect a vehicle following identification of the name. Results suggest that diazepam at a therapeutic dosage affects attentional shifting in the temporal domain and impairs dual-task performance.
The influence of sex, phase of the estrous cycle, and age of drug onset on cocaine self-administration was examined. Adult male, adult female, and adolescent male rats (Rattus norvegicus) were evaluated using low fixed-ratio (FR) schedules of drug delivery with a single fixed cocaine unit dose or a range of cocaine unit doses with a single FR schedule. Sex differences in adults were observed for mg/kg consumption of the 3.0-mg/kg unit dose, with consumption being significantly less in estrus females than in males. Over the estrous cycle, mg/kg consumption of this unit dose was significantly less during estrus than during metestrus-diestrus. Differences due to age of drug onset were also observed, with mg/kg consumption of the 3.0-mg/kg unit dose being significantly less in adolescent males than adult males or adult females during metestrus-diestrus. In contrast, these various groups did not have significantly different mg/kg intakes of cocaine unit doses &lt;3.0 mg/kg, nor did they significantly differ in the rates and patterns of responding and number of infusions earned as a function of FR schedule or unit dose of cocaine available. The role of sex, estrus cycle, and drug-onset age on cocaine self-administration appears to be minimal under these experimental conditions. Experimental conditions that favor no sex or age differences in cocaine intake (1.0-mg/kg unit dose and low FR) may be useful for evaluating potential sex or age differences in the consequences of cocaine self-administration more reliably, as cocaine intake would not be an uncontrolled factor.
Glucocorticoid treatment can lead to the development of glaucomatous ocular hypertension and a secondary open-angle glaucoma due to increased aqueous humor outflow resistance that is associated with morphological and biochemical changes in the trabecular meshwork (TM). The cellular responses of glucocorticoids are achieved by binding to the glucocorticoid receptor alpha (GRalpha), a ligand-activated transcription factor. An alternatively spliced variant, glucocorticoid receptor beta (GRbeta), has dominant negative activity on GRalpha and has been implicated in a variety of steroid-resistant diseases. We previously showed that GRbeta can block dexamethasone (DEX) responsiveness in TM cells. TM cells are actively phagocytic and function in the removal of debris, pigment and other materials from the aqueous outflow drainage pathway. A decrease in phagocytic activity has been proposed in the pathogenesis of glaucoma and glucocorticoid-induced glaucoma. In this study, we investigated the effect of DEX and GRbeta on phagocytosis in normal and glaucomatous TM cells. Human transformed normal NTM-5 and primary normal NTM174-00 cells, which express relatively high amounts of GRbeta, and transformed glaucomatous GTM-3 and primary glaucomatous GTM520-05 cells, which have lower GRbeta expression, were treated with 100 nM DEX or vehicle control for 24h. NTM cells also were transfected with a control or GRbeta expression plasmid to examine the effect of GRbeta on phagocytic activity. The cells were incubated with Alexa 488 conjugated Staphylococcus aureus bioparticles opsonized with rabbit IgG for 1h, followed by fixation and incubation with Alexa 633 conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG to distinguish ingested from extracellular bioparticles. DAPI nuclear staining was used to quantify cell numbers. Cells and bioparticles were visualized by confocal microscopy. We found that NTM-5 cells ingested more bioparticles than GTM-3 cells. DEX treatment significantly decreased the phagocytosis of bioparticles in NTM-5 and GTM-3 cells, while GTM-3 cells were more responsive to DEX, compared to NTM-5 cells. In primary cell culture, NTM174-00 also engulfed more bioparticles than GTM520-05 cells. DEX treatment significantly decreased the phagocytic activity in GTM520-05, but not in NTM174-00 cells. Transient transfection of pCMX-hGRbeta plasmid increased the expression of GRbeta and consequently maintained the phagocytotic activity of NTM-5 cells in the presence of DEX. Our data demonstrated that the expression level of GRbeta in TM cells can regulate DEX-induced suppression of phagocytotic activity. The lower expression of GRbeta in glaucomatous TM cells may contribute to the altered phagocytic function of TM cells, and may lead to the increased aqueous humor outflow resistance mediated by glucocorticoids.
Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) intoxicated rodents develop a peripheral neuropathy characterized by sensory nerve conduction deficits associated with disturbances of nerve fiber geometry and axonal atrophy. To investigate the possibility that glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide (GLP-1) receptor agonism may influence axonal structure and function through neuroprotection neurotrophic support, effects of GLP-1 and its long acting analog, Exendin-4 (Ex4) treatment on pyridoxine-induced peripheral neuropathy were examined in rats using behavioral and morphometric techniques. GLP-1 is an endogenous insulinotropic peptide secreted from the gut in response to the presence of food. GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R) are coupled to the cAMP second messenger pathway, and are expressed widely throughout neural tissues of humans and rodents. Recent studies have established that GLP-1 and Ex4, have multiple synergistic effects on glucose-dependent insulin secretion pathways of pancreatic beta-cells and on neural plasticity. Data reported here suggest that clinically relevant doses of GLP-1 and Ex4 may offer some protection against the sensory peripheral neuropathy induced by pyridoxine. Our findings suggest a potential role for these peptides in the treatment of neuropathies, including that associated with type II diabetes mellitus.
The amplitude of the H-reflex increases chronically after incomplete SCI and is associated with the development of exaggerated hindlimb reflexes. Although the mechanism for this increased H-reflex is not clear, previous studies have shown that pharmacological activation of the 5-HT2 receptors (5-HT2R) can potentiate the monosynaptic reflex. This study tested the hypothesis that increased expression of 5-HT2R on motoneurons is involved in increased H-reflex amplitude after a standardized clinically relevant contusive SCI. Adult female rats were subjected to contusion, complete surgical transection, or a T8 laminectomy only. At 4 weeks after surgery, H-reflex recordings from the hindpaw plantar muscles of contused rats showed twice the amplitude of that in laminectomy controls or transected rats. To probe the role of 5-HT2R in this increased amplitude, dose-response studies were done with the selective antagonists mianserin or LY53857 and the 5-HT2R agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (DOI). The drugs were intrathecally infused into the lumbar cord while recording the H-reflex. Mianserin did not have any significant effects on the H-reflex after transection, consistent with the loss of distal serotonergic innervation. After contusion, both 5-HT2R antagonists reduced the H-reflex reflex amplitude with a significantly higher ID50 compared to the uninjured controls. The 5-HT2R agonist DOI significantly increased reflex amplitude in contused but not control rats. Furthermore, while 5-HT immunoreactivity was similar, contused rats displayed increased 5-HT2AR immunoreactivity in plantar muscle motoneurons compared to uninjured controls. We conclude that increased expression of 5-HT2R is likely to be involved in the enhanced H-reflex that develops after contusive SCI.
The aims of this work were to analyze the effects of a chronic (14 days) increase in the functional demand imposed on the triceps brachii and to evaluate the changes of the cortical representation of forelimb to this increased activity. The activation of triceps brachii was obtained by the hindlimb unloading (HU) model. Electromyographic activity changed from a phasic to a tonic pattern. Response amplitude increased during the first days of hyperactivity and then stabilized at an intermediate level. A transient decrease (-13% to -36% on day 2) in the mean frequency of motor units was observed. Content in myosin heavy chain of muscle fibers showed a reduction in IIb+IIx fibers in HU rats, whereas IIa+IIx fibers were more numerous. Thus, fibers tend to be more resistant to fatigue. Taken together, these observations reveal a dual plastic process. First, the nervous system reacts immediately to an environmental change, and second it reorganizes its motor command to impose a pattern of activity that is more adapted to a postural function. The extent of the cortical forelimb representation was delimited by oxidase histochemistry. No differences were detectable between control and HU animals for the period corresponding to enlarged receptive fields in the HU condition. Our observation lends support to our hypothesis that activation patterns contribute to the maintenance of neuronal properties in the somatosensory cortex. Moreover, the new tonic pattern resulting from the long contact of the paw with the floor may contribute to the adaptation of the central control of motoneuronal activity.
This study examined the effects of dehydration and rehydration with water on Fos and FosB staining in the brainstem of rats. Male rats were water deprived for 48 h (Dehyd, n=7) or 46 h followed by 2 h access to water (Rehyd, n=7). Controls had ad libitum access to water (Con, n=9). Brainstems were stained for Fos and FosB/DeltaFosB using commercially available antibodies. In the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the number of Fos stained neurons was significantly increased by dehydration and increased further following rehydration (Con 5+/-1; Dehyd 22+/-1; Rehyd 48+/-5). The average number of Fos-positive cells in the parabrachial nucleus (PBN) was significantly increased only by rehydration (Con 12+/-2; Dehyd 6+/-2; Rehyd 51+/-4). The area postrema (AP) showed significant increases in Fos staining after dehydration and rehydration (Fos: Con 4+/-1; Dehyd 28+/-3; Rehyd 24+/-3). In the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL), Fos staining significantly increased after dehydration and this effect was reduced by rehydration (Con 3+/-1; Dehyd 21+/-2; Rehyd 12+/-1). In contrast, Fos staining in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL) was not significantly influenced following either dehydration or rehydration with water (Con 4+/-1; Dehyd 4+/-1; Rehyd 5+/-1). FosB/DeltaFosB staining in the NTS, AP, and RVL was comparably increased by dehydration and rehydration. In the PBN and CVL, FosB/DeltaFosB staining was not affected by the treatments. Dehydration and rehydration have regionally specific effects on Fos and FosB/DeltaFosB staining in the brainstem.
Glutamate receptors are known to be densely distributed in the forebrain rewarding circuits, and glutamatergic transmission is actively involved in the regulation of rewarding and reinstating effects of drugs of abuse. Here we investigated the possible involvement of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the reinstatement of extinguished morphine conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. We found that previously extinguished morphine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) CPP was markedly reinstated by a priming injection of morphine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) or an acute environmental stressor (forced swim for 10 min), but not by the stress induced by a 24-h food deprivation. Parallel with this, protein levels of the NMDA receptor 2B subunit (NR2B) were elevated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the hippocampus, but not the prefrontal cortex, of reinstated rats. Systemic administration of an NR2B selective antagonist ifenprodil (1, 3, 10 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated the reinstatement induced by a priming morphine injection, although not by the forced swim. Ifenprodil (2.0 microg/rat) directly injected into the NAc shell or the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus produced a similar effect. These results indicate that the NR2B-containing NMDA receptors in the NAc and the dorsal hippocampus play a significant role in mediating the reinstatement of rewarding responses to morphine.
NF-kappaB is a transcription factor that regulates numerous physiological functions, and that is involved in the pathogenesis of various diseases. In the nervous system there is evidence supporting a dual role of NF-kappaB in neurodegenerative diseases; activation of NF-kappaB in neurons promotes their survival, whereas activation in glial and immune cells mediates pathological inflammatory processes. The reason for such a dichotomy lies in the complexity of the NF-kappaB system. Emerging research has begun to dissect the pathways leading to the activation of the different NF-kappaB proteins, and the gene targets of NF-kappaB, in cells of the nervous system. In this article the authors discuss recent findings concerning the roles of NF-kappaB in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders, and its potential as a pharmaceutical target for these disorders.
The primate GnRH receptor (GnRHR) is a GPCR (G-protein-coupled receptor) that transduces both amplitude- and frequency-modulated signals; each modality conveys information that regulates primate reproduction. Slower GnRH pulses favor release (and higher circulating levels) of pituitary FSH, while faster pulses favor LH release. We used radioligand binding and inositol phosphate production (a measure of G-protein coupling) in association with mutational analysis to identify the impact of evolved sequence specializations that regulate receptor concentration at the plasma membrane and Kd in primate GnRHRs. Our results show that mutations appear to provide a mechanism that allows independent adjustment of response sensitivity and squelching (suppression) of low-level signals (noise), both desirable features for recognition of frequency-modulated signals. We identify specific amino acid residues that appear to be involved in these processes. This investigation occurred in light of recent observations that restriction of GnRHR plasma membrane expression developed under strong convergent pressure and concurrently with the complex pattern of cyclicity associated with primate reproduction. The findings present an evolved means for increased effectiveness of detection of a frequency-modulated signal and provide a strategy to identify similar mechanisms in other receptors.
Alpha-synuclein is an abundant neuronal protein that has been linked to both normal synaptic function and neurodegeneration--in particular, Parkinson's disease (PD). Uncovering mechanisms that control alpha-synuclein transcription is therefore critical for PD pathogenesis and synaptic function. We previously reported that in PC12 cells and primary neurons, alpha-synuclein is transcriptionally up-regulated after application of growth factors. In the current work we have characterized the pathway involved in this regulation in PC12 cells. The MAP/ERK pathway, and in particular Ras, is both sufficient and necessary for the NGF and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) -mediated response. Significantly, response elements for this pathway, including a putative occult promoter, lie within intron 1, a hitherto unappreciated regulatory region of the gene that may be utilized in this or other settings. The PI3 kinase pathway is also involved in alpha-synuclein regulation, but response elements for this pathway appear to lie primarily outside of intron 1. These findings indicate that NGF- and bFGF-mediated signal transduction via the MAP/ERK and PI3 kinase pathways, and in part via regulatory regions within intron 1, may be involved in alpha-synuclein transcriptional regulation. Targeting of these pathways may serve to modulate alpha-synuclein so that it achieves desirable levels within neuronal cells.
In recent years, advances in neuroscience led to the development of new medications to treat alcohol dependence and especially to prevent alcohol relapse after detoxification. Whereas the earliest medications against alcohol dependence were fortuitously discovered, recently developed drugs are increasingly based on alcohol's neurobiological mechanisms of action. This review discusses the most recent developments in alcohol pharmacotherapy and emphasizes the neurobiological basis of anti-alcohol medications. There are currently three approved drugs for the treatment of alcohol dependence with quite different mechanisms of action. Disulfiram is an inhibitor of the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase and acts as an alcohol-deterrent drug. Naltrexone, an opiate antagonist, reduces alcohol craving and relapse in heavy drinking, probably via a modulation of the mesolimbic dopamine activity. Finally, acamprosate helps maintaining alcohol abstinence, probably through a normalization of the chronic alcohol-induced hyperglutamatergic state. In addition to these approved medications, many other drugs have been suggested for preventing alcohol consumption on the basis of preclinical studies. Some of these drugs remain promising, whereas others have produced disappointing results in preliminary clinical studies. These new drugs in the field of alcohol pharmacotherapy are also discussed, together with their mechanisms of action.
Maternal behavior is flexible and programs offspring development. Using a novel manipulation, we demonstrate that rat maternal behavior is sensitive to ecologically relevant stimuli. Long-Evans hooded rat dams (F0) and pups were exposed to a predator condition (cat odor) or a control condition (no odor) for 1 h on the day of parturition. Predator-exposed F0 dams displayed significantly more maternal behavior (licking/grooming, arched-back nursing) relative to control-exposed dams across five subsequent observation days. Female offspring (F1) were raised to adulthood, bred and maternal behavior was observed. F1 dams reared by a predator-exposed F0 dam displayed significantly higher maternal behavior relative to F1 dams reared by a control-exposed F0 dam across 5 days of observation. Increased levels of maternal behavior in predator-reared (PR) F1 dams were evident even in F1 females that had been cross-fostered (CF) from a control-exposed F0 dam, suggesting a non-genomic transmission of increased levels of maternal behavior. Lactating PR F1 dams had significantly elevated estrogen receptor alpha and beta mRNA in the medial preoptic area relative to control-reared (CR) F1 dams. Furthermore, among CR F1 dams, there was no significant difference between those dams that had been CF from predator-exposed F0 dams and those that had been sham CF. These results support the hypothesis that flexible rat maternal behavior can shape offspring development according to current environmental conditions. The results also suggest that estrogen signaling may be part of an epigenetic mechanism by which changes in maternal behavior are passed from F0 to F1 dams.
Very large G-protein coupled receptor (Vlgr1b) is the largest known G-protein coupled receptor. Its function is unknown, although mice with deletion of Vlgr1 (Vlgr1b together with other splicing variants, Vlgr1c, Vlgr1d and Vlgr1e) are known to exhibit audiogenic seizure susceptibility and VLGR1 is reported to be the gene responsible for Usher type 2C syndrome. We demonstrated here that Vlgr1-mutated mice suffered from a hearing defect because of inner ear dysfunction, as indicated by auditory brainstem response (ABR) and distortion product oto-acoustic emissions (DPOAE). The expression of Vlgr1 was identified in the developing hair cells perinatally, and the translated products were seen to be localized in the base of stereocilia on hair cells using confocal microscopy. This Vlgr1 localization was limited to the base of stereocilia within approximately 200-400 nm from the apical surface of hair cells, as shown by immunoelectron microscopy. The Vlgr1-mutated mice exhibited malformation of the stereocilia; the cochlear hair bundles were apparently normal at birth but then became disarranged at postnatal day 8. Furthermore, the stereocilia in the mutant mice became slanted and disarranged thereafter. These results indicate that loss of Vlgr1 resulted in abnormal development of stereocilia formation.
The Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) ligand/type 1 receptor (PAC1) system regulates neurogenesis and gliogenesis. It has been well established that the PACAP/PAC1 system induces differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) through the Gs-mediated cAMP-dependent signaling pathway. However, it is unknown whether this ligand/receptor system has a function in proliferation of NPCs. In this study, we identified that PACAP and PAC1 were highly expressed and co-localized in NPCs of mouse cortex at embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5) and found that the PACAP/PAC1 system potentiated growth factor-induced proliferation of mouse cortical NPCs at E14.5 via Gq-, but not Gs-, mediated PLC/IP3-dependent signaling pathway in an autocrine manner. Moreover, PAC1 activation induced elongation of cellular processes and a stellate morphology in astrocytes that had the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-incorporating ability of NPCs. Consistent with this notion, we determined that the most BrdU positive NPCs differentiated to astrocytes through PAC1 signaling. These results suggest that the PACAP/PAC1 system may play a dual role in neural/glial progenitor cells not only differentiation but also proliferation in the cortical astrocyte lineage via Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways through PAC1.
The goal of this study was to ascertain whether olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) were able to promote axonal regeneration and functional recovery when transplanted 45 days after complete transection of the thoracic spinal cord in adult rats. OECs promoted partial restitution of supraspinal pathways evaluated by motor evoked potentials and modest recovery of hindlimb movements. In addition, OEC grafts reduced lumbar reflex hyperexcitability from the first month after transplantation. Histological results revealed that OECs facilitated corticospinal and raphespinal axons regrowth through the injury site and into the caudal spinal cord segments. Interestingly, raphespinal but not corticospinal fibers regenerated long distances through the gray matter and reached the lower lumbar segments (L5) of the spinal cord. However, delayed OEC grafts failed to reduce posttraumatic astrogliosis. In conclusion, the beneficial effects found in the present study further support the use of OECs for treating chronic spinal cord injuries.
We have previously shown that intraspinal microinjection of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), a potent demyelinating agent, results in a rapid but brief influx of T cells (between 6 and 12 h). This is accompanied by a robust activation of macrophages/microglia that leads to demyelination by 48 h. In the present study, we examined whether this brief influx of T cells contributes to the activation of macrophages/microglia and demyelination by injecting LPC into the dorsal column white matter of athymic Nude mice that lack T cells. We show that there is a significant reduction in macrophage/microglial activation and myelin clearance after LPC injection in Nude mice as compared with wildtype controls. We also show that there is no difference in the recruitment of hematogenous macrophages into the spinal cord after LPC injection in the two mouse strains. Of the T cell cytokines assessed, there was a marked reduction in the mRNA expression of interleukin-2 (IL-2) in Nude mice compared with wildtype animals. Neutralizing IL-2 with function-blocking antibodies in wildtype animals resulted in a significant decrease in the number of phagocytic macrophages/microglia and a reduction in demyelination induced by LPC. While there may be other defects in Nude mice that might contribute to the effects shown here, these data suggest that the brief influx of T cells in this model of chemically-induced demyelination could play a role in macrophage/microglial activation and demyelination. These results may also have implications for remyelination in this and other types of CNS damage.
Impaired immune surveillance and constitutive immunosuppressive properties make the central nervous system (CNS) a particular challenge to immune defense, and require that CNS-resident cells be capable of rapidly recognizing and responding to infection. We have previously shown that astrocytes respond to treatment with a TLR3 ligand, poly I:C, with the upregulation of innate immune functions. In the current study, we examine the activation of innate immune functions of astrocytes by Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV), a picornavirus, which establishes a persistent infection in the CNS of susceptible strains of mice and leads to the development of an autoimmune demyelinating disease that resembles human multiple sclerosis. Astrocytes infected with TMEV are activated to produce type I interferons, the cytokine IL-6, and chemokines CCL2 and CXCL10. We further examined the mechanisms that are responsible for the activation of astrocytes in response to direct viral infection and treatment with poly I:C. We found that the cytoplasmic dsRNA-activated kinase PKR is important for innate immune responses to TMEV infection, but has no role in their induction by poly I:C delivered extracellularly. In contrast, we found that TLR3 has only a minor role in responses to TMEV infection, but is important for responses to poly I:C. These results highlight the differences between responses induced by direct, nonlytic virus infection and extracellular poly I:C. The activation of astrocytes through these different pathways has implications for the initiation and progression of viral encephalitis and demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
The aims of this study were to explore the correlation between DPOAE adaptation magnitude in three different guinea pig strains to examine if the genetic component affects the DPOAE adaptation magnitude. It was also to investigate the correlation between strains with certain characteristics i.e. reduced susceptibility to noise, and early onset of age-dependent hearing loss and the DPOAE adaptation magnitude. The animals were anaesthetized and the 2f1-f2 DPOAE (f1=8k Hz, and f2/f1=1.2) adaptation was established with a minimum of 144 combinations of f1; f2 where f1 was held fixed and f2 was varied in 1 dB or 0.4 dB steps. The DPOAE adaptation magnitude was defined as the difference between maximum positive level and the maximum negative level. ABRs were conducted at different age-groups (at 4, 6.3, and 12.5k Hz) to evaluate the progress of hearing thresholds by age. There was a significant difference between strains regarding the hearing loss at one year of age. There was no significant difference in DPOAE adaptation magnitude between strains included in this study and from this we conclude that the DPOAE adaptation magnitude is not a predictor for the susceptibility to noise trauma, or early onset of age-dependent hearing loss, using the methods described in this paper.
Frequency-modulated (FM) signals are an integral acoustic component of ecologically natural sounds and are analyzed effectively in the auditory systems of humans and animals. Linearly frequency-modulated tone sweeps were used here to evaluate two questions. First, how rapid a sweep can listeners accurately perceive? Second, is there an effect of native language insofar as the language (phonology) is differentially associated with processing of FM signals? Speakers of English and Mandarin Chinese were tested to evaluate whether being a speaker of a tone language altered the perceptual identification of non-speech tone sweeps. In two psychophysical studies, we demonstrate that Chinese subjects perform better than English subjects in FM direction identification, but not in an FM discrimination task, in which English and Chinese speakers show similar detection thresholds of approximately 20 ms duration. We suggest that the better FM direction identification in Chinese subjects is related to their experience with FM direction analysis in the tone-language environment, even though supra-segmental tonal variation occurs over a longer time scale. Furthermore, the observed common discrimination temporal threshold across two language groups supports the conjecture that processing auditory signals at durations of approximately 20 ms constitutes a fundamental auditory perceptual threshold.
As a member of the CIP/KIP family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs), p57Kip2 binds tightly to G1 cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase complexes to block cell cycle progression. CKIs play critical roles in regulating the transition from proliferation to differentiation in many tissues, including the nervous system. Conversely, CKI dys-regulation contributes to neoplasia and cancer progression. While the combined detection of CKI immunoreactivity and S phase entry using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation may be particularly informative, successful immunostaining may be limited due to &quot;masked&quot; antigen epitopes and acid-induced signal degradation. We now report an improved double immunofluorescent method for detecting p57Kip2 and BrdU in paraformaldehyde-fixed frozen sections of embryonic rat brain. We substituted deoxyribonuclease I (DNAse I) for HCl pre-treatment to expose antigenic sites in frozen sections, and employed a biotinylated tyramide-based system to enhance p57Kip2 visualization. We identified a time- and dose-dependent relationship between DNAse I treatment and double labeling of p57Kip2 and BrdU, increasing both the numbers and intensities of immunopositive nuclei. With excess DNAse I treatment, however, there was signal degradation for both BrdU and total DNA, as reflected by DAPI staining. The use of DNAse I pre-treatment significantly increases the reliability and sensitivity of immunodetection of CKI nuclear factors, and should be useful for both developmental neurobiology studies as well as cancer diagnostic applications.
